
ICICI Bank has adopted a 360° approach to meet Process Decongestion
evolving needs of its customers by decongesting its Improving operational efficiencies through digitised
processes, re-orienting its technologies and making processes and removing redundancies has helped
its HR practices more agile. Named ‘Customer 360°’, the Bank to reduce its response time for customers.
the objective of this multi-dimensional approach is We continue to focus on reimagining processes to
to bring the entire Bank to the customer and offer deliver customer delight and enhance advocacy.
solutions to them as well as their ecosystems as per We are leveraging the power of subtraction in our
their requirements. service delivery framework through simplification,
We have products and services to meet banking decongestion, abolition of non-value adding
requirements of an individual customer at every life processes, and digitisation of customer journeys and
stage. Likewise, we offer a complete suite of financial processes. ‘Less is more’ is our mantra.
products to the entire ecosystem of a corporate
Through initiatives such as iLens (end-to-end loan
or an institution comprising employees, dealers
journey platform), onboarding of digital current
and vendors. We strive to become the primary
account using Video KYC, single enterprise level
banking service provider to each of our customers –
CRM platform and Virtual Relationship Manager
individuals, institutions or corporates.
(VRM) platform among others, we have improved
We leverage our network of business centres, digital the servicing experience for customers. New-age
channels, partnerships and presence across various technologies and platforms such as TradeIntelli,
ecosystems to expand our customer base. Our Neo Remittance System, next-gen phone banking
ecosystem branches house multi-functional teams experience and digitisation of card life cycle are
required to nurture relationships and bring the entire empowering the Bank to serve customers with
bouquet of services of the Bank to the corporates and simplicity.
their ecosystems.
We have taken several initiatives like digitisation
The foundation of the Bank’s customer-centric and of the entire underwriting process with instant
service-oriented approach has been to develop loan approvals to provide better convenience and
a granular profiling of markets through analytics, smooth experience to our customers. Our growth in
market intelligence and creating an efficient the deposit franchise is supported by our continued
distribution and resource allocation to identify efforts to strengthen digital platforms and to simplify
opportunities across the country. various processes to provide a seamless banking
The three main pillars of ‘Customer 360°’ are Process experience to customers.
Decongestion, Bank to BankTech and HR Measures.
The Bank has empowered frontline teams to
identify and leverage local opportunities. We
have also reduced the layers of management. The
objective of the combined approach is to make the
operating teams more flexible and agile in order
to offer improved services to customers while
Process
operating within the guardrails of compliance
Decongestion
and risk.
Bank to BankTech
HR As the Bank is transforming itself from Bank to
Bank to
Measures BankTech BankTech, technology is assuming an integral role in
its business strategy. Our digital platforms – iMobile
Pay, iLens, InstaBIZ and Trade Online–provide
end-to-end seamless digital journeys, personalised
solutions and value-added services to customers
and enable more data-driven cross-sell and
FAIR TO CUSTOMER, FAIR TO BANK
Contents
up-sell. iMobile Pay and InstaBIZ also have open
architecture, enabling customers of other banks
INTEGRATED REPORT
to onboard seamlessly. We continue to enhance
our cybersecurity and invest in technology to
improve our offerings to customers. Bank at a Glance 2
Financial Highlights 4
We have enabled efficiency across business
and operational functions by adopting intelligent Message from the Chairman 6
automation platforms including robotic Board of Directors 8
processes. They have reduced our turnaround
Message from the Wholetime Directors 9
time, and increased our capacity for handling
Business Model 10
transaction volumes and customer requirements.
Our Business Strategy 14
Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank 30
HR Measures Our Values 34
We have taken steps to organise and structure Risk Governance Framework 36
teams in a way to facilitate Customer 360°.
Responding to Risks and Opportunities 42
We invest in our employees to prepare them
Materiality Assessment 44
to take up challenging assignments and
responsibilities early in their career, and not Human Capital 52
restrict themselves to specific areas. This helps Social and Relationship Capital 58
them to learn and develop expertise in different
Environment and Sustainability 66
domains through job rotations and moving
across roles. The Bank continues to invest in
capability building through in-house functional STATUTORY REPORTS
academies, industry academia initiatives as well
as specialised programmes.
Directors’ Report 71
We have created cross-functional teams to Auditors’ Certificate on Corporate
tap into key customer and market segments Governance 116
across ecosystems, enabling 360° coverage Management Discussion & Analysis 117
of customers. We enable ‘Customer 360°’ by
Key Financial Indicators: Last 10 Years 137
working as one team across various departments
of the Bank by bringing together the strength
and expertise of our employees. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We have placed strong emphasis on ethics and
Independent Auditors' Report –
integrity as core values. We live the trust – the
Financial Statements 138
most important currency – by giving the best
Financial Statements of
solutions to our customers. We expect all our
ICICI Bank Limited 150
employees to act in accordance with the highest
professional and ethical standards. Independent Auditors' Report –
Consolidated Financial Statements 240
Consolidated Financial Statements of
ICICI Bank Limited and its Subsidiaries 260
Statement Pursuant to Section 129
of Companies Act, 2013 316
Basel Pillar 3 Disclosures 318
Glossary of Terms 319
To view this report online, please visit
Investor Relations section on the ICICI Bank
website at www.icicibank.com
Annual Report 2022-23
BANK AT A GLANCE
`318.96 `15,842.07
billion billion
Profit After Tax* Standalone Total Assets
`424.73 `11,808.41
billion billion
Profit Before Tax Total Deposits
Excluding Treasury Gains*
`621.29 `10,196.38
billion billion
Net Interest Income* Total Advances
4.48% 18.34%
Net Interest Margin* Total Capital Adequacy Ratio
* During fiscal 2023; others at March 31, 2023
2
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
More than 28 million users on Trade Online transactions
`
iMobile Pay grew by 47%
iMobile Pay, ICICI Bank's mobile banking The value of transactions on the Trade Online
application, has more than 28 million users. The platform of the Bank grew by 47% in fiscal 2023.
total value of transactions done through this app
stood at close to `9,000 billion in fiscal 2023.
Over 1.5 million users Presence across the country
on InstaBIZ
ICICI Bank has a nationwide network of 5,900
ICICI Bank has over 1.5 million active users on its business centres (branches), 16,650 ATMs
business banking app, InstaBIZ. Around 225,000 and Cash Recycler Machines, and 1,102 Insta
non-ICICI Bank account holders registered on this Banking Kiosks, at March 31, 2023.
app. Value of financial transactions on InstaBIZ
grew by 22% in fiscal 2023.
Credit card spends grew by Over 51% business centres in
`
60% rural and semi-urban areas
Retail credit card spends grew by 60% in More than half of the Bank's business centres, and
fiscal 2023 compared to the previous year. one-fourth of ATMs and Cash Recycler Machines
are based in rural and semi-urban areas.
UPI P2M transactions doubled IGBC certification
Value of UPI Person to Merchant (P2M) One-third of the Bank’s premises spanning over
transactions grew more than 100% in fiscal 2023 4.42 million square feet was IGBC# certified as
on the back of a 55% growth in volume of these at March 31, 2023.
transactions.
Close to 29% market share in Financial assistance provided
` FASTag to 10 million rural women
ICICI Bank continues to be one of the leading bank The Bank provided credit to 10 million rural
in electronic toll collections through FASTag with women through over 785,000 SHG loans at
a market share of close to 29%. Our electronic toll March 31, 2023.
collections through FASTag increased by 28% in
fiscal 2023.
Supply Chain finance grew by Supporting over 400
56% hospitals
The outstanding book of supply chain finance ICICI Bank supported over 400 hospitals
business, including structured trade, grew 56% in benefitting 1.5 million people by strengthening
fiscal 2023. healthcare infrastructure and improving health
facilities till date.
#The Indian Green Building Council (IGBC), part of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), is the country’s premier body for green
building certification. The ratings are awarded based on assessment of energy efficiency, use of renewable energy, water conservation,
waste management, indoor air quality and sustainable sourcing of material.
3
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
TOTAL DEPOSITS TOTAL ADVANCES
11,808.41 10,196.38
10,645.72 6,395.79 3.3%
8,590.20
26.3%
5,461.35
9,325.22 7,337.29 4.8%
7,709.69 5,008.99 5,866.47 6,452.90 5.1% 27.2% 7.1%
8.4% 28.2% 8.6%
10.7%
6,529.20 4,231.51 28.4% 6.2% 54.7%
29.2% 8.9%
3,289.79 5.1%
9.8% 52.9%
3,797.76 4.1%
3,599.57
3.2% 8.8%
2,954.53 8.5% 50.3% 51.8%
2,276.71 2,455.91 48.4%
1,361.70 1,584.80 1,614.86
962.70 1,022.27
March March March March March March March March March March
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Current Account (` in billion) Term Deposit (` in billion) Retail Business Banking Overseas
Savings Account (` in billion) Total (` in billion) Rural Loans Domestic Corporate & SME Total (` in billion)
NET WORTH CAPITAL ADEQUACY
19.12% 19.16% 18.34%
2,007.16 16.89% 16.11% 1 1 . 8 0 . 6 0 % 6% 1 0 8 .8 .3 1 5 % % 1 0 7 .7 .6 4 0 % %
1,705.12 1.80% 1.39%
15.09%
14.72%
1,475.09
1,165.04
1,083.68
17.60% 17.12%
16.80%
13.63% 13.39%
March March March March March March March March March March
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Net Worth (Equity Share Capital, Reserves and Surplus) Tier I Common Equity Tier 1
(` in billion) Tier II Total
4
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
NII & NIM PROVISION COVERAGE RATIO
& NET NPA RATIO
621.29 82.8%
79.2%
474.66
77.7%
389.89 75.7%
332.67
4.48%
270.15
3.96%
3.73% 3.69% 70.6%
3.42%
2.1%
1.4%
1.1%
0.8% 0.5%
FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 March March March March March
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Net Interest Income (NII) (` in billion) P rovision coverage ratio (specific provisions as a percentage of gross NPAs)
Net Interest Margin (NIM) Net NPA Ratio (based on customer assets)
PROFIT BEFORE TAX STANDALONE NET PROFIT
EXCLUDING TREASURY GAINS
424.73 318.96
233.39
297.06
161.93
151.37
127.55
79.31
33.63
24.11
FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Profit Before Tax (` in billion) Standalone Net Profit (` in billion)
5
Annual Report 2022-23
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN
In fiscal 2023, the Indian economy continued to be
resilient despite slowdown in the global economy
impacted by commodity prices, lockdown in China, surge
in global inflation and resultant monetary tightening by
global central banks. India’s GDP grew with sustained
improvement in underlying economic activity across
sectors along with higher credit off-take, buoyant
tax collection and continuation of government-led
investments. The services sector, including services
exports, rebounded and witnessed growth momentum.
However, global and domestic inflationary pressures,
especially in the wake of the situation in Ukraine, and
sharp tightening of monetary policy by central banks
globally led to monetary tightening by the Reserve Bank
of India with a series of repo rate hikes and withdrawal
of excess liquidity. Overall, the Indian financial sector has
been stable and resilient, as reflected in the improved
performance of banks, lower non-performing assets and
adequate capital and liquidity buffers.
During fiscal 2023, the Bank continued to focus on
profitable growth in business while maintaining a strong
balance sheet and robust liquidity. The Bank delivered
a healthy growth in profit along with improvement in
asset quality parameters. The Bank strengthened its
balance sheet with prudent provisioning, healthy capital
and optimal asset-liability management. The growth in
business was underpinned by the strategy to increase
market share across key segments while focussing on
During fiscal 2023, the
micromarkets and ecosystems. The Bank aimed to grow
its franchise by leveraging its strong financial position
Bank continued to focus on
and well-recognised brand.
profitable growth in business
The focus on a 360º customer-centric approach with an
while maintaining a strong
objective to serve customers in a holistic manner has
underpinned the Bank’s operations. The principle of ‘Fair
balance sheet and robust
to Customer, Fair to Bank’ has further strengthened the
focus on customer-oriented initiatives and on long-term liquidity. The Bank delivered a
value creation. Fairness, transparency and ethics are
healthy growth in profit along
core values in our dealings with all our stakeholders and
employees are required to exhibit desired behaviours
with improvement in asset
aligned to these ethos. The principle of ‘One Bank, One
Team, One ROE’ has enabled growth in key business quality parameters.
segments and increase in the Bank’s market share. Our
continued belief in these value drivers reflected in the
improved return to shareholders during fiscal 2023.
6
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN
Continuing on the journey from Bank to BankTech, the Bank has been a priority for the Board. With a commitment
is constantly upgrading and strengthening the technology to the highest levels of corporate governance, the Board
infrastructure with a goal to make it secure, stable and continuously endeavours to strengthen various policies
resilient. The Bank has undertaken multiple projects and frameworks, and maintain oversight over risk
across digital engagement platforms, which will provide management, audit and compliances through various
a competitive edge across business and operational Committees. The Board ensures that the assurance
capabilities. The Bank seeks to be adaptable to digital functions have adequate independence and stature
developments, innovations and evolving cybersecurity to establish values and culture that are integral to
issues. The Bank has shown agility in adopting and sustainable banking.
adapting to new emerging trends and addressing risks
and opportunities. Looking ahead, global economic conditions continue to
remain uncertain, with monetary tightening by advanced
The Bank’s commitment towards Environmental, Social economies and unevenness in growth prospects in
and Governance (ESG) was evidenced during fiscal various markets. However, India is well poised to grow
2023, with several initiatives taken as part of the sustainably, benefitting from the results of reforms
journey to achieving its sustainability objectives. The undertaken and the vast potential of its economy. The
focussed approach overseen by the Risk Committee Bank will continue to focus on participating in profitable
of the Board ensured consistent progress being made opportunities and enhancing its franchise, underlined by
across various areas. An important step was taken by risk-calibrated growth and a focus on value creation for
developing the Framework for Sustainable Financing, all stakeholders.
which provides guidance on areas of sustainable and
sustainability-linked lending. Creating awareness and We would like to thank all our stakeholders and look
capability building among all stakeholders is an ongoing forward to your continued support.
priority for the Bank. The focus on enhancing practices
and disclosures on ESG-related aspects has led to
improvement in the Bank’s ESG ratings. With best wishes,
The Bank strongly believes in creating a positive impact Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
on society, through its business as well as through its Chairman
corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities. The reach
of efforts made through the ICICI Foundation for Inclusive
Growth, touching every state and union territory of India,
is remarkable. The efforts are in areas critical to the
country’s development, including healthcare, environment
& biodiversity, livelihoods and societal development.
The Bank is committed to continuing these initiatives that
have so far impacted about 10.9 million lives.
Governance and stability are top priorities for the
Board, underpinning the articulated objective of
growing within the guardrails of risk and compliance.
In this regard, the Board has focussed on ensuring
competency and independence to contribute objectively
and responsibly towards the Bank’s progress. Ensuring
quality discussions and information sharing at the Board
level, and transparency in the disclosures of the Bank,
7
Annual Report 2022-23
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
BOARD MEMBERS
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Hari L. Mundra S. Madhavan Neelam Dhawan
Non-Executive (part-time) Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director
Chairman
Radhakrishnan Nair B. Sriram Uday Chitale Vibha Paul Rishi
Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director
Sandeep Bakhshi Rakesh Jha Sandeep Batra
Managing Director & Executive Director Executive Director
CEO
Anindya Banerjee Prachiti Lalingkar
KEY PERSONNEL
Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
BOARD COMMITTEES
Audit Committee Board Governance, Remuneration & Corporate Social Responsibility
Nomination Committee Committee
Uday Chitale, Chairman
S. Madhavan Neelam Dhawan, Chairperson Girish Chandra Chaturvedi, Chairman
Radhakrishnan Nair Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Radhakrishnan Nair
B. Sriram Uday Chitale
Vibha Paul Rishi
Rakesh Jha
Credit Committee Customer Service Committee Fraud Monitoring Committee
Sandeep Bakhshi, Chairman Vibha Paul Rishi, Chairperson Radhakrishnan Nair, Chairman
Hari L. Mundra Hari L. Mundra S. Madhavan
B. Sriram Sandeep Bakhshi Neelam Dhawan
Rakesh Jha Rakesh Jha Sandeep Bakhshi
Rakesh Jha
Information Technology Strategy Risk Committee Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Committee S. Madhavan, Chairman Hari L. Mundra, Chairman
B. Sriram, Chairman Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Uday Chitale
Neelam Dhawan Vibha Paul Rishi Sandeep Batra
Rakesh Jha Sandeep Batra
Sandeep Batra
8
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MESSAGE FROM THE WHOLETIME
DIRECTORS
Our business strategy was led by a 360º customer-centric approach with an aspiration to
serve customers seamlessly across ecosystems, customer segments and micromarkets while
fostering a strong risk and compliance culture. We have further empowered our employees
with enablers for seamless engagement and better delivery of services to customers. The
Bank will continue to invest in process decongestion, digital capabilities, technology platforms,
distribution and security features to respond to the evolving opportunities and risks.
Our efforts will continue to be founded on the pillars of ‘One Bank, One Team, One ROE’,
‘Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank’ and paramountcy of return of capital. We strive to build a
culture of collaboration and teamwork wherein each employee upholds the ICICI values to
Sandeep Bakhshi enhance Customer 360º propositions. Our goal is to serve customers with transparency and
Managing Director & CEO integrity while creating value for our shareholders.
The Bank continues its strategy of 360° customer-centric approach through innovation
and adapting to the ever-evolving customer needs across segments and ecosystems. As
our business modes evolve digitally, trust, reliability and security remain the key anchors
that underpin our long-term profitable growth strategy. The principle of ‘One Bank, One
Team’ enhances the Customer 360° approach with key focus on execution. The Bank has
undertaken various initiatives to scale the franchise in terms of capacity, capability,
empowerment and deepening its presence in key micromarkets.
To enhance the corporate relationship including its stakeholders, the Bank focussed on
capturing opportunities across entire value chain by deep diving into the customer journeys
Rakesh Jha and providing integrated industry-specific solutions. The Bank offered new STACKS
Executive Director additions of real estate, GIFT City, capital markets and custody, and a one-stop platform
for trade transactions. The Bank continued its approach of choosing right counterparty,
multi-channel distribution and taking entire Bank to the customer with a transparent and
best-in-class banking experience.
The Indian economy continued to show resilience amidst a volatile global environment in
fiscal 2023. During the year, we remained focussed on our strategic objective of growing our
risk-calibrated core operating profit through the 360° customer-centric approach, which was
supported by our process, technology, and HR measures. We continued to operate within our
strategic framework and strengthened our franchise, enhanced our delivery and servicing
capabilities, and expanded our technology and digital offerings.
We enabled our Customer 360° approach by working as one team across various
departments of the Bank, and bringing together the strength and expertise of our employees.
In fiscal 2023, we continued to implement suitable initiatives to reduce the carbon footprint
Sandeep Batra of the Bank. Through our philanthropic arm, ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth, we aim to
Executive Director create an enduring impact on the society and environment. Our efforts on providing affordable
and accessible healthcare, creating rural livelihoods and supporting societal development
have made a difference to nearly 10.9 million lives till date.
9
Annual Report 2022-23
BUSINESS MODEL
VISION
To be the trusted financial services provider of choice for our customers,
thereby creating sustainable value for our stakeholders.
CAPITALS
Our ability to maintain a strong balance sheet and
enable business continuity, sustained growth, and
FINANCIAL CAPITAL shareholder returns.
For further details, please refer to the Management
Discussion and Analysis section on page 117
Our competent workforce with diverse skill sets and
valuable experience.
HUMAN CAPITAL
For further details, please refer to the section on
Human Capital on page 52
Our ability to stay innovative and develop products
and services that provide superior experiences to our
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL customers.
For further details, please refer to the section on
Our Business Strategy on page 14
Our technology architecture along with the network of
branches, ATMs, cash recycler machines and digital channels
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL facilitates seamless delivery of services to customers.
For further details, please refer to the section on Our
Business Strategy on page 14
Our commitment towards social empowerment and a
financial ecosystem accessible to all.
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
For further details, please refer to the section on
Social and Relationship Capital on page 58
Our focus on minimising the impact on natural resources
through our operations and business.
NATURAL CAPITAL
For further details, please refer to the section on
Environment and Sustainability on page 66
10
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
BUSINESS MODEL
MISSION
To grow our risk-calibrated core operating profit by:
• Delivering products and services that create value for customers
• Bringing together all our capabilities to seamlessly meet customer needs
• Conducting our business within well-defined risk tolerance levels
Fair
to
C
ati
o
n usto
m
I n n o v Co mpliance Credit e r, F a ir
to
B
a
n
ati o
n
C
o
m
R
p
i
l
s ia k n a c n e d Culture
Customer-Centricity
M
a
k
R
e p
ut
e
sti o
n rk
e t
g M
c o
n
Enable wealth Provide
ic
r o
e m
D creation and savings a
s s management products r k
e e
o c t s
r
P
Provide credit
Facilitate
L to support
la e v e payments and consumption qi L O E
g e L ra g in transactions and a e c c ti o v n it o y mic e m s y ti di u n e R
In
t e g
g
T e
c h n o financ
E
ia
n
l
a
i
b
n
l
c
e
l usion E c o
s y
st
e a
m,
O
r it y lo g y n e T
O
C y
b er
Partnerships Cr C os o s ll - a f b u o n r c a ti t o io n n
al
Oper
ati o n al O n e B a n
k,
Information
Technology
Return
of
Capital
11
Annual Report 2022-23
BUSINESS MODEL
VALUE DRIVERS
• Ensure a resilient balance sheet and strong capital levels
FINANCIAL • Maintain robust funding profile
CAPITAL • Continue to strengthen portfolio quality
• Create value for shareholders
• Guided by ‘One Bank, One Team, One ROE’
• Enabling cross-functional collaboration
HUMAN
• Job rotation
CAPITAL
• Continuous skill training and capability building
• Employee engagement
• Transforming Bank to BankTech
• Early adoption of emerging technologies enabling innovation
INTELLECTUAL
• Partnership with fintechs
CAPITAL
• Focus on cybersecurity and data privacy
• Decongesting processes and improving customer experience
• A combination of physical and digital channels enabling
seamless service delivery
MANUFACTURED • Strengthening digital capabilities for cost efficiency,
CAPITAL process efficiency and enhancing customer experience
• Core and supporting IT systems that are responsive and
scalable
• Engagement with customers, society and other stakeholders
• Participating in development efforts through the
SOCIAL AND
ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth
RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
• Empowering rural women entrepreneurs
• Financial inclusion
• Supporting environment-friendly projects, subject to
appropriate risk-return assessment
NATURAL
• Efficient energy management in the Bank’s operations
CAPITAL
• Use of renewable energy
• Environment-friendly initiatives
12
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
BUSINESS MODEL
OUTPUTS OUTCOMES
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
• Profit before tax excluding treasury gains grew by 43.0% and profit after tax by 36.7% on
y-o-y basis
Profit Before Tax
• Granular portfolio mix with 73.5% of corporate loans to entities internally rated A-
Excluding Treasury and above
Gains: • Net NPA ratio decreased from 0.76% at March 31, 2022 to 0.48% at March 31, 2023
• Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of 17.12% at March 31, 2023
`424.73
• Consolidated return on equity of 17.3% in fiscal 2023
billion
in fiscal 2023 HUMAN CAPITAL
• Frontline teams reorganised and empowered for enabling 360º customer engagement
and leveraging local opportunities
• Women comprised 32% of total employees at March 31, 2023
• Average person learning days of 12.2 days in fiscal 2023
• Diversity, equity and inclusion policy and human rights policy established to promote
a culture of no discrimination
• Strong industry-academia engagement to create a steady group of bankers with diverse skills
Profit After Tax:
`318.96 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
• Value propositions launched for ecosystem of start-ups, capital market participants and
billion students
• STACK for real estate sector launched in fiscal 2023; over 20 industry-specific STACKS
in fiscal 2023 developed providing bespoke solutions to customers
• Over four million Amazon Pay credit cards issued till March 31, 2023
• More than 2,000 APIs for retail banking and 180 APIs for corporate banking introduced;
over 100 million financial and non-financial transactions per day
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
• Transformed branches into business centres for enabling Customer 360º
• 482 business centres added during the year
Loans and Advances: • 13 exclusive business centres for ecosystem banking across Mumbai, National Capital
Region (NCR) and Kolkata
`10,196.38
• Several initiatives towards enhancing and decongesting the onboarding and servicing
experience of customers undertaken during the year
billion
at March 31, 2023
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
• The ‘Orange Book’ series introduced in English and Hindi for educating customers about
personal finance
• Improvement in Bank’s Net Promoter Score continued across products and services
• `4.63 billion spent towards corporate social responsibility initiatives; focussed on
healthcare, environment and ecology, sustainable livelihood and societal development
• Continuing support to self-help groups and promoting women entrepreneurship
Deposits:
`11,808.41
NATURAL CAPITAL
billion • Outstanding portfolio of `556 billion towards sustainable sector, of which 21.4% was
green financing to sectors like renewable energy, electric vehicles, green buildings and
water management at March 31, 2023
at March 31, 2023 • Framework for Sustainable Financing, Supplier Code of Conduct and Green procurement
standards developed to strengthen the focus on environment
• Green certification of Bank’s premises increased from 23% of total area in fiscal 2022 to
34% in fiscal 2023
13
Annual Report 2022-23
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
One of the leading private sector banks in India, ICICI Bank
continues to focus on reimagining banking and leveraging digital
capabilities, anchored to our commitment to be a trusted financial
partner for our customers.
Fiscal 2023 saw the Bank continue to achieve profitable Financial parameters of return of capital and
growth in its business, strengthen its franchise and containment of provisions within targeted levels are
invest in building capabilities for the future. The Bank boundary conditions in the pursuit of opportunities and
continued to grow its core operating profit less provisions growth. The Bank is also fostering a strong risk and
(i.e. profit before tax excluding treasury gains) led compliance culture to ensure a balance of risks and
by a 360º customer-centric approach and exploring rewards. Building trust with all stakeholders is critical to
opportunities across ecosystems and micromarkets, the Bank’s growth.
within the guardrails of compliance and risk
management. The Bank’s core operating profit less The Bank’s efforts towards building a sustainable
provisions grew by 43.0% during fiscal 2023 to business continued to be anchored by the principles of
`424.73 billion. The Bank continued to grow its 'Return of Capital', 'Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank' and
business with a focus on granularity and increased 'One Bank, One Team, One ROE'. The Bank lays strong
the domestic loan portfolio by 20.5% year-on-year to emphasis on serving customers with transparency and
`9,855.29 billion. The Bank focussed on further offering suitable banking solutions, while maintaining
enhancing the liability franchise, maintaining a stable stringency in counterparty selection. As the Bank
and healthy funding profile and a competitive advantage strengthens its digital capabilities and builds robust
in cost of funds. During fiscal 2023, the Bank continued technology platforms to support growth at scale, it
to maintain a strong balance sheet, with robust liquidity, also focusses on investing in technology resilience and
prudent provisioning and healthy capital adequacy. responsible practices.
The Bank’s capital adequacy ratios were significantly
above regulatory requirements as at March 31, 2023.
OUR APPROACH
360o Focus on Focus on Collaboration Bank to Process Risk and
Customer- Micromarkets Ecosystems and External BankTech Decongestion Compliance
centric Partnerships Leveraging and Culture
Approach Technology Operational
and Digital Flexibility
Return of Capital Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank One Bank, One Team, One ROE
Maximising Profit Before Tax1
1 Excluding treasury gains
14
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
BALANCED APPROACH WITH LONG-TERM COMMITMENT AND VALUE FOCUS
To identify micromarkets
which hold high potential
& increase market share by
Micromarket
serving customers with 360º
Approach
solutions of high relevance
To leverage digital platforms
Digital as to offer best-in-class
Force experience to our customers
Multiplier and to enable and empower
our teams
To tap vibrant ecosystems,
Ecosystem
engage with all key
Coverage
stakeholders and deliver
customised solutions; to be
preferred banking partner
Our investments in digital capabilities, enriched with Delivering on the Customer 360º approach also requires
efficient delivery, strong franchise and institutional strengthening and streamlining processes for better
knowledge have enabled the Bank to gain market outcomes. The Bank is continuously making efforts to
share, and create new markets through ecosystems. redesign processes and leverage tech-based solutions
Attracting new customers and deepening wallet share for more meaningful customer engagement. Underscored
among existing customers to capture profit pools across by strong governance, controls and risk management,
segments, sectors and ecosystems is an important the endeavour of the Bank is to deliver products and
focus. Creating end-to-end digital journeys on ‘Insta’ services to customers in an appropriate manner. As
products along with the open-architecture design of part of our Customer 360º approach, the Bank has
mobile applications and digital partnerships have enabled strengthened its branches in terms of enabling
the Bank to differentiate its franchise and achieve constructive customer engagement, decision-making
profitable growth. and accountability, thereby transforming branches into
business centres.
I. APPROACH TO CUSTOMERS
In the last three years, the Bank has made significant
a. Focus on Customer 360º
strides in developing digital customer journeys and
platforms offering comprehensive banking services.
Customer-centricity is a key element underpinning our ICICI STACK was one such initiative that was launched
strategy to grow our business. Our approach begins during the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic, enabling
with developing a deep understanding of customer customers to continue availing uninterrupted banking
needs, expectations and experiences. This understanding services. This has been enhanced over the years,
translates into products and solutions that offer a and using ICICI STACK, the Bank is offering solutions
holistic banking experience, and beyond. The approach on digital platforms ensuring uninterrupted banking
is to take the entire bank to the customer and offer experience for all types of customers. The Bank has
solutions that meet the current and future needs of the been creating intuitive customer journeys and offering
customers and their ecosystems. personalised solutions to suit their life stage and
business needs. Services offered include instant digital
account opening, loan solutions, payment solutions,
investments and insurance solutions.
15
Annual Report 2022-23
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
b. Focus on Micromarkets
At the core of ICICI Bank’s customer-centric and service- ICICI Bank's network at March 31, 2023
oriented approach lies the in-depth profiling of each
5,900 16,650
micromarket. Key anchors of the micromarket approach
are data analytics, focus on aligned distribution, digital-first
and relevant delivery model. The research and knowledge Business Centres ATMs and Cash
through analytics are used in conjunction with other factors (Branches) Recycler Machines
for planning, resourcing, channel and product alignment,
1,102
capability building and marketing and alliances. This helps
the frontline teams to understand the markets in which
they operate, and plan localised strategies with tailored Insta Banking Kiosks
propositions for customers. Through this approach, the
Bank aims to realise the full potential of opportunities
across segments and sectors in each micromarket.
c. Focus on Ecosystems
Micromarket insights have helped the Bank in
identifying optimal locations for opening new business In order to further strengthen Customer 360º solutions,
centres and realigning the ATM and distribution network during fiscal 2023 specific customer ecosystem
based on customer needs and market opportunity. The propositions were launched for start-ups, capital market
layouts, branding elements, staffing and capability participants and students.
building in these business centres are based on various
market affinities. This has also helped the Bank to The Bank launched start-up ecosystem banking to
launch focussed marketing campaigns targeted at cater to the banking needs of start-ups across their life
specific customer segments and establishing alliances stages through its domestic and international network,
with locally relevant partners who add value to and business centre at Gujarat International Finance
our customers. Tec-City (GIFT City). The Bank offers comprehensive
solutions in the areas of treasury, transaction banking,
The Bank has further sharpened its approach to lending, managing foreign direct investments and
enhance relationship management across markets regulatory compliances along with personal banking
using Virtual Relationship Management (VRM). VRM services for employees and founders.
is a cloud-based AI-powered platform providing a
one-stop ecosystem for robust relationship building The Bank launched an array of digital solutions for
with customers and thereby improving the efficiency capital market participants and clients of custody
of relationship managers. The platform helps in relevant services. The solutions enable various participants
and meaningful customer interaction with the help of including brokers, portfolio management service
service and solution-based engagement. providers, Foreign Portfolio Investors, Foreign Direct
Investors and Alternative Investment Funds to
In order to capture the growing markets in non-metro seamlessly meet all their banking requirements.
locations, the Bank has merged the retail and rural
business groups. The organisational structure has been The Bank launched Campus Power, an online platform
strengthened with ‘State Business Heads’ to capture the providing various banking solutions such as loans,
360° opportunity in these geographies. Cities with large bank accounts, foreign exchange remittances and value-
concentrated market opportunities have been organised added services to the student ecosystem for higher
under ‘City Business Heads’ covering the full spectrum of education in India and abroad.
the ecosystem. All functions other than credit have been
aligned with the state/city business head to enhance our The Bank has created over 20 industry-specific STACKS
on-field presence. Micromarket insights have also helped which provide bespoke solutions to meet specific needs
in setting up Credit Business Centres (CBC) closer to of these industries. The Bank aims to serve the entire
important markets for faster processing. value chain of corporates ranging from channel partners,
16
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
APPROACH TO ECOSYSTEM
Multiple Large Ecosystems Execution Lever Value Creation
Healthcare Omnichannel
Leveraging
Distribution
Trade Interlinkages in
Ecosystem
Merchant
Capital Market
Customer Organisational Lowering Cost
Education Journey Levers of Acquisition
Customer
E-Commerce
City
Capturing
Start-up Customer 360°
Technology
Others
and Data
dealers, vendors, employees and other stakeholders, clients to manage their payment obligations to vendors,
thereby taking the full bank to the customer. During fiscal employees, utility providers and statutory payments
2023, the Bank launched STACKs for export and real efficiently. Further, it helps builders to manage their digital
estate sectors. The export STACK, 'Digital solutions for collection, reconciliation, surplus distribution, custodial
Exporters', is a comprehensive set of banking and value- services, collect rent through lease income and distribute
added services on a single platform. It aims to digitise the the surplus to the investors.
entire export life cycle – from discovery of export markets,
export finance, foreign exchange services to receipt of The Bank’s strategy in the merchant ecosystem space
export incentives. The digital set of solutions include involves onboarding merchants through acquiring
services like Instant Export Packing Credit (InstaEPC), platforms or by providing them payment gateways and
trade accounts (Exchange Earners’ Foreign Currency then cross-selling other financial products and services
Account and One Globe Trade Account), paperless exports seamlessly. The Merchant STACK offers a bouquet of
solutions like e-Docs and e-Softex, foreign exchange banking services, digital store management and other
solutions, digital letter of credit facility (e-LC), electronic value-added services to customers. The number of
bill of lading (e-BL), value-added services and Trade APIs. active merchants grew by 43% year-on-year as at
March 31, 2023.
The Real Estate STACK provides 360° banking solutions
for builders, non-banking financial companies, buyers As at March 31, 2023, the Bank had 13 exclusive
and Alternative Investment Fund / Real Estate Investment business centres for ecosystem banking across Mumbai,
Trusts. It offers banking solutions such as digital opening National Capital Region (NCR) and Kolkata. These
of bank accounts and providing account number for ecosystem business centres are full service centres that
Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) registration, house multi-functional teams with expertise required to
construction finance, inventory funding and lease rental meet the needs of corporate customers and bringing the
discounting to cater to their financial needs, depending entire bouquet of services of the Bank to these corporates
on the life cycle stage of a project. In addition, it enables and their ecosystem.
17
Annual Report 2022-23
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
START-UP ENGAGEMENTS
Co-creating Innovative
Drivers for Growth
Products in Key Focus Areas
Payments Create New Business Opportunities
Lending
Increase Efficiency
Customer Experience Enhance Customer Experience
Enablers
Risk Mitigation
Risk Management
Enhance risk-taking
Build a culture of innovation
ability & experimentation
d. Collaborations and Partnerships
The growth in credit card transactions was driven by
Collaborating within the organisation and building higher activation rate through digital onboarding of
partnerships across the value chain is a key focus area. customers, acquiring progressive profile customers,
Partnerships with technology companies and platforms automated and effective portfolio management.
with large customer bases and operational excellence The Bank has not only pioneered the usage of FASTag
offer unique opportunities for growth and enhancing for payments at various national, state highway,
service delivery and customer experience. toll plazas but also expanded use cases to parking
payments at airports, malls, hospitals and tech parks
The Bank has key partnerships with Amazon, across the country. The Bank has also continued its
MakeMyTrip and Emirates to offer co-branded credit growth in value of UPI acquiring transactions by growing
cards. Amazon Pay credit cards continued to see faster than the ecosystem.
healthy traction with over four million credit cards
issued till March 31, 2023. The Bank aims to provide The Reserve Bank of India launched the first pilot for
360° solutions to the new-to-bank customers that retail digital rupee in December 2022, and ICICI Bank
have been acquired through Amazon Pay credit cards. was one of the banks to participate in this pilot.
• The value of credit card transactions in fiscal 2023 was 1.3 times the value in fiscal 2022
• A leader in FASTag with a market share of about 29% in fiscal 2023; collections through FASTag higher
by 28% year-on-year in fiscal 2023
18
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
The Bank collaborates with and invests in fintech out of the growing digital ecosystem. In this context,
start-ups and co-develops products aligned with the the Bank has adopted a technological approach that
Bank’s digital roadmap. The Bank’s Start-up Engagement enables it to respond to the changing dynamics in an
and Investment team has been at the forefront to leverage agile and responsive manner.
innovation in the start-up and technology ecosystem.
The engagements with the start-ups are focussed on II. APPROACH TO DIGITAL,
payments, digital lending, customer experience, risk
TECHNOLOGY AND PROCESSES
management and platforms. The Bank is also offering a
host of APIs and Software Developer Kits (SDKs) which
a. Digital Platforms and Solutions
facilitate third-party apps to offer payment solutions for
their retail customers. The Bank has endeavoured to help customers to
transact on digital platforms by launching many
With opportunities arising out of digital adoption, user-friendly payment solutions. The Bank continued on
government’s push and creation of large scale digital its journey to strengthen its position by designing
public infrastructure, the Bank envisions banking and seamless, simple and secure experiences for customers,
financial services becoming omnipresent and centrepiece facilitating higher volumes of transactions and prompting
of every transaction. Partnerships with start-ups help recurrent digital transactions. The open architecture
enable quicker adoption of new-age technologies at platforms have enabled the Bank to extend banking
scale such as Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, services to non-ICICI Bank account holders. Digital
blockchain, computer vision, cloud computing and more. channels continue to account for over 90% of financial
Additionally, new-age tools and solutions help mitigate and non-financial transactions.
risks such as cyber threats and social frauds, arising
iMobile Pay
InstaBIZ
Insta EPC
CUSTOMISED
SOLUTIONS FXOnline
Trade Emerge
OneSCF (Supply Chain)
API Banking
iLens
19
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
iMobile Pay: One App Strategy (KYC) process through video interaction within a few
minutes. Video KYC is live for 16 products, including
The Bank’s iMobile Pay open architecture based mobile re-KYC.
application provides seamless and end-to-end digital
journeys. It is centred on providing a comprehensive The features ‘Pay to Contact’ and ‘Scan to Pay’
and unified banking experience to customers through introduced in fiscal 2022 continued to drive payments
a single mobile application. This strategy entails growth in fiscal 2023. Other features introduced on
integrating various banking services, features and iMobile Pay include the personal finance management
functionalities into one cohesive app, allowing customers solution, a unique personal finance, expense and budget
to access and manage their accounts, perform management tool to engage with customers digitally
transactions, avail of financial products and services and help them manage their finances effectively. The app
and engage with the Bank seamlessly. The coverage also introduced a ‘One view card’, a dedicated card in
of iMobile Pay app has expanded to standalone asset the app, where customers can see all pre-approved
customers, credit card customers and non-ICICI Bank loans and card offers in one click. There are over 400+
account holders. Video KYC continued to empower services on the app, with a unique voice search that makes
retail customers to complete ‘Know Your Customer’ navigation across these services quick and convenient.
iMOBILE PAY – BUILT FOR ALL, BUILT FOR SCALE
secivreS
gniknaB
Savings Account
Demat
Loan
Cards
Payment
Services
Annual Report 2022-23
Pay to Contact
9 million+ Scan to Pay
Activations from
Bill Payment Non-ICICI Bank
account holders
Recharges
FASTag
• The volume of UPI Person to Merchant (P2M) transactions increased by 55.0% year-on-year in
fiscal 2023 and the value of these transactions was 2.1 times the value in fiscal 2022
• The Bank has increased its market share in value of UPI P2M transactions to 19.3% in March 2023
20
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
iLENS – DIGITAL LOAN MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Leveraging Digital Collaborations Access Through Mobile App Real-Time Loan Status Tracker
f c
ations Decis
io
n
ri in
e g
V
Robust Risk
Enhanced Customer
iLENS Management
Experience
Framework
O
n al
b s
o
a rding Dis b
ur
Operational Efficiency
iLens Mortgage is the first retail product which went live
on iLens platform and other retail products are in the
iLens is an industry-first end-to-end digital lending process of being onboarded. This is expected to further
platform covering all stages, starting from application enable the Bank to provide enhanced customer experience
to disbursement with the objective of providing superior and increase its ability to capture the entire Customer
transaction experience and enhanced operational 360° ecosystem in a frictionless and digital way, thereby
efficiency. It is built on the Bank’s philosophy of open creating value for customer and the Bank.
architecture. It is a future-ready solution which harnesses
digital collaborations from fintech ecosystem. It is a device InstaBIZ: Universal App for Small Businesses
responsive platform with flexibility to access from mobile/
tablet (Android and iOS both) and provide on-the-go InstaBIZ is a one-stop solution for all banking needs
retail lending solution with its mobile application. catering to small and medium enterprises (SME),
individuals, proprietors and merchants. The Bank has
It offers a wide range of digital solutions like instant seen an increase in the engagement level of customers
sanctions to existing as well as new-to-bank customers, on the InstaBIZ app.
digital disbursements (e-sign and e-stamp) and digital
KYC verifications. It is enabled with an in-house robust In line with evolving trends of shift towards open
rule engine facilitating efficient decisioning and standard architecture, the InstaBIZ app is interoperable and
implementation of various policy, process and regulatory is available to both ICICI Bank customers and non-
norms. customers for availing the multiple product offerings.
Any customer can now open current account instantly
iLens has an inbuilt customer interface 'TrackMyLoan' through video KYC via seamless paperless journey.
through which the customers can track real-time status The digital process uses the private lender’s APIs that
of their loan application, submit documents, respond auto fills the account opening form, instantly validates
to queries and access various communications and PAN/Aadhaar number and allows the opening of
documents like sanction letter, fees acknowledgement. account through Video KYC. Non-ICICI Bank customers
21
Annual Report 2022-23
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
InstaBIZ – BUSINESS BANKING SUPER APP
SME Exporters Individual/ Merchant New to Bank
Proprietors (EazyPay) (NTB)
• Over 1.5 million active users as of March 31, 2023
• About 225,000 registration by non-ICICI Bank account holders
using feature of InstaOD plus can get instant sanction more than 20 industry-specific STACKs which provide
of collateral-free loan up to `2.5 million, which can be bespoke and purpose-based digital solutions to corporate
availed post opening of current account. clients and their ecosystems. The four main pillars of
ICICI STACK for corporates includes digital banking
Customers can also access the digital platform, Trade solutions for companies; digital banking services for
Emerge which offers solutions beyond banking for cross- channel partners, dealers and vendors; digital banking
border trade. Through alliance partners, it provides services for employees; and curated services for senior
services like business incorporation, regulatory guidelines, client personnel.
partner discovery and logistics and cargo tracking. The
‘Manage and Grow your Business’ section within InstaBIZ During the year, ICICI Bank launched Instant Export
is powered by multiple banking partners for accounting, Packing Credit (Insta EPC) an industry-first product aimed
taxation, analytics and networking. Customers can enjoy at instantly and digitally meeting the export finance
the feature of auto-reconciliation with accounting partners, requirements of exporters and ensuring no disruptions in
which gives the customer a single click experience for all supply chain. The process automates the entire scrutiny
his business needs without having to manage between cycle through integrations with various internal and
different platforms. external applications. This ensures that disbursement
happens ‘@click’. Electronic Bank Guarantee (eBG) is an
Digital Platforms and Solutions for Corporate Application Programming Interface (API) based digital
Customers workflow, in partnership with National E-Governance
Services Limited, which eliminates physical issuance,
ICICI Bank offers digital products and services for large stamping, authentication and paper intensive record
corporates and their ecosystems including platforms for maintenance of bank guarantees. eBG will revolutionise
domestic and international trade and industry-specific the way bank guarantees are traditionally being issued
solutions across the value chain. The Bank has created and stored. The Bank’s Trade Online platform allows
22
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
customers to perform most of their trade finance and accounts. To give a one-stop solution for all statutory
foreign exchange transactions digitally. The value of requirements of the customer, the Bank facilitates
transactions on the Trade Online platform grew by various online solutions for central and state mandate
47% year-on-year in fiscal 2023. like direct tax, Goods and Services Tax (GST), custom
duty and various other tax payments.
Supply chain financing is a focus area towards
deepening the Bank's coverage of the corporate Digital Solutions for Non-Resident Indians
ecosystem. The wide range of supply chain and
structured trade products offer a one-stop solution to Non-Resident Indians (NRI) banking continues to
corporate clients and their supply chain partners, helping be a key growth driver for the Bank’s international
in optimising their working capital needs and increasing banking business. The Bank launched the NRI Program
efficiencies in their ecosystem. These supply chain Banking framework to renew the perspective from a
solutions are offered digitally through various platforms liabilities based approach only to a more comprehensive
namely OneSCF, FSCM, CorpConnect and DigitalLite, Customer 360° approach. The framework encompasses
wherein corporates can seamlessly manage their supply various aspects of financial and non-financial needs for
chain requirements of payments, collections, data the entire family.
reconciliation and customised dashboards in a paperless
environment thereby bringing in efficiencies in the The Bank introduced a new bouquet of credit cards
corporates supply chain management. for NRI customers to enable them with their international
and domestic spends while meeting their aspirations.
The Bank has a strong focus on integrating banking with Smart-Wire (for SWIFT based online transfers) has
corporate ERP system using API not only for financial been made live for customers on Retail Internet Banking
transactions but also for non-financial transactions. and iMobile Pay, enabling the customers to submit the
Few of these are fixed deposit creation, bank declarations digitally, book the foreign exchange deal
reconciliations, holding collections then validating with and track the remittance status.
ERP and confirming before crediting to corporate bank
Digital banking Banking solutions for
Exports solutions for entire Start-ups and Funds GIFT City
exports life cycle from GIFT City
Comprehensive set Set of digital banking
Real of banking solutions CORPORATE solutions for end-to- Software
Estate for Builders, NBFC, STACK end requirements of Services
Buyers, AIF/REITs IT/ITES companies
An array of digital Offering suite of digital
Capital
solutions for participants banking solutions for
Markets & Pharma
of the capital market and pharma companies
Custody
clients of custody services across value chain
20+ STACKs providing bespoke & purpose-based digital solutions to corporate clients in their ecosystem
23
Annual Report 2022-23
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
b. Transforming into BankTech
The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI)
enabled payment platform, Unified Payments Interface
(UPI) has been leveraged to enable cross-border In fiscal 2023, the Bank continued to progress on its
remittances for the India-Singapore corridor, with journey from Bank to BankTech with data serving as
ICICI Bank being one of the six banks identified by RBI the foundation for informed decision-making leading
for this pilot project. This enables seamless and instant to the creation of comprehensive value propositions
payment to and from Singapore for transactions up and enhanced experience for customers. ICICI Bank is
to SGD 1,000 in a day for family maintenance and gift. constantly upgrading and strengthening the technology
The Bank continued leveraging iMobile Pay channel infrastructure with a goal to make it secure, stable and
for outward remittances by focussing on existing and resilient. This encompasses expanding online banking
new-to-product customers with the initiative of sending services, leveraging data analytics to extract valuable
confirmation to the remitters for credit to beneficiaries insights and improve decision-making and embracing
making it easy for tracking the update on the outward emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence (AI) and
remittance transactions. Blockchain. The Bank’s wide range of digital offerings
including the rapidly growing digital transactions, the web
During fiscal 2023, the Bank launched a new of interconnected platforms, applications and databases
platform, Neo Remittance System (NRS) for outward requires a robust technology architecture, which revolves
remittances by business centres with advanced around the four pillars of scalability, availability, resiliency
functionalities like rate booking and smart repeat and security.
transactions for transfers by both, residents (including
non-account holders) and non-residents. The key priorities that dominate the Bank’s technology
requirements include its technology platforms, embedded
banking, cloud adoption and data platforms and analytics.
Direct & Embedded
Omnichannel Experience
Hyper-Personalised
Consistent UX
Engagement
Layer
API Gateway
Core System
Micro-Services
Enterprise Platforms
Workflows Federation Records
Portfolio Management
Rules & Logic Layer THE BANKtech Layer
'Hollow the Core'
ARCHITECTURE
Digital Engagement Hub
Payments
Enterprise Data Platform Document Intelligence
Master Data Management Data and Conversational Intelligence
Marketing Technology Intelligence Robotic Process Automation
Data Democratisation Generative Al
24
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
The Bank has over 2,000 APIs for retail banking and The Bank has a dedicated data science and analytics
nearly 200 APIs for corporate banking, with over team that works across business areas on projects
100 million financial and non-financial transactions relating to business analytics, decision strategies,
per day. forecasting models, machine learning, rule engines and
performance monitoring. We maintain a comprehensive
As a part of the Bank’s technology strategy, it is creating enterprise-wide data warehouse and employ statistical
an enterprise architecture framework across digital and modelling tools for leading-edge analytics.
platforms, data and analytics, micro services based
architecture, cloud computing, cognitive intelligence and
other emerging technologies. c. Building Efficiencies and Flexibility
Each facet of the architecture considers basic foundational Improving operational efficiencies through digitised
elements of scalability, modularity, agility, availability and processes and removing redundancies in serving
resilience besides being cloud native and digitally native. customers has been providing significant opportunities for
the Bank to strengthen the response time to customers. In
Technology advancements in cloud computing, data fiscal 2023, the Bank increasingly focussed on delivering
sciences and generative AI are redefining customer customer delight and enhancing advocacy by reimagining
engagement opportunities. Business process optimisation processes and customer experiences. The Bank aimed to
through adoption of intelligent automation platforms leverage the power of subtraction in its service delivery
including robotic processes have enabled efficiency framework through deletion of non-value adding
across business and operational functions. These have processes, simplification, decongestion and digitisation
brought about faster turnaround time besides enabling of customer journeys and processes. The onboarding and
increased capacity for handling transaction volumes and servicing experience has been enhanced through initiatives
customer requirements. such as iLens (end-to-end loan journey platform), digital
current account onboarding using video KYC, single
The changing technology landscape along with increased enterprise level CRM platform, Virtual Relationship
channels of interaction also mean increased focus on Manager (VRM) platform etc. In addition, new-age
information security across various aspects of technology technologies and platforms such as TradeIntelli, Neo
beginning from data centre to the cloud to the entire Remittance System, next-gen phone banking experience
technology supply chain. While speed and quality continue and digitisation of card life cycle are being harnessed to
to remain focus of technology delivery, DevSecOps has enable the Bank to serve customers with simplicity.
enabled integrate information security along the life cycle.
For more details refer to page 30
The integrated approach to security enables the Bank to
respond to changing dynamics in an agile and responsive
manner. III. APPROACH TO CULTURE
a. One Bank, One Team, One ROE
The principle of 'One Bank, One Team, One ROE',
2,000 180 emphasises the need to maximise the Bank’s share of
Over Over the target opportunity across all products and services.
The Bank has taken steps to organise and structure
APIs for Retail Banking APIs for Corporate Banking
teams in a way which facilitates the Bank’s approach to
Customer 360°. The Bank has also invested in aligning
100 million
the organisation around micromarkets and customer
Over
ecosystems by increasing the density of leadership
Financial and non-financial transactions per day in key markets. The cash component of variable pay
(performance bonus) is aligned to the philosophy of 'One
Bank One Team' as it is based on overall performance
of the Bank and reflects reward for team performance.
25
Annual Report 2022-23
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
The Bank’s focus on Customer 360° banking requires diversified and granular loan portfolio. The Bank’s retail
employees to have multi-product knowledge and portfolio grew by 22.7% year-on-year to `5,578.17 billion
skills. The Bank has invested in training its employees at March 31, 2023. Retail loans accounted for 53.9% of
and enhancing their ability to comprehensively serve total loans, and including non-fund based outstanding,
customers. The Bank has a capability building architecture the share was 45.7% in the total portfolio. The Bank has
spanning across functional training, leadership undertaken several initiatives to offer a convenient and
development, digital and industry-academia programmes frictionless experience to customers by digitising the entire
to equip employees with the required skillsets. underwriting process, with instant loan approvals.
Additionally, job rotation enables employees to seek a
wider perspective of banking products and services, and The Bank continued to maintain a robust funding profile
go beyond their defined roles to spot opportunities for with strong growth in the deposit base. Total deposits
360° customer experiences. The Bank continues to expand increased by 10.9% year-on-year to `11,808.41 billion
business opportunities across all customer segments at March 31, 2023. Savings account deposits, on a daily
within the guardrails of the Bank’s risk and compliance average basis, grew by 13.3% year-on-year in fiscal
framework. 2023. Current account deposits, on a daily average
basis, grew by 13.5% year-on-year in fiscal 2023.
For more details refer to page 52
Term deposits grew by 17.1% year-on-year to
`6,395.79 billion at March 31, 2023. The growth in the
b. Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank
deposit franchise was supported by ongoing efforts to
strengthen the Bank’s digital platforms and process
The principle of ‘Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank’ simplification to provide a seamless banking experience
emphasises the need to deliver fair value to customers to customers.
while creating value for shareholders, which would guide
the Bank’s operations. The Bank seeks to sell products
Rural and Inclusive Banking
and offer services which meet societal needs and are
in the interest of our customers. The Bank also strives
to enable its employees to keep delivering a seamless The Bank's strategy to serve the rural segment of
customer experience. economy is based on the integrated nature of the rural
ecosystem. The operational structure and offerings put
For more details refer to page 30
the Bank in a unique position to leverage opportunities
in different ecosystems within the rural markets.
c. Risk and Compliance Culture The Bank offers a diverse set of products catering to end-
to-end needs in the value chain. These products include
ICICI Bank recognises the importance of establishing an working capital loans for growing crops and financing
effective framework and supporting processes so that of post-harvest activities, term loans including farm
all employees seek to exhibit values aligned to the risk equipment loans, financing against warehouse receipts,
and compliance culture policy. The aim is to uphold a loans against gold jewellery, along with personal loans,
strong risk and compliance culture throughout the Bank. affordable housing finance and auto and two-wheeler
The Risk and Compliance Culture Policy establishes the loans. The Bank also provides consumption loans for
guiding principles and the framework for implementation low-income customers. Financial solutions are offered to
of the same. micro-finance institutions, self-help groups, co-operatives
constituted by farmers and corporations and Small
For more details refer to page 34
and Medium Enterprises engaged in agriculture-linked
businesses. The Bank’s rural portfolio grew by 13.8%
KEY AREAS OF BUSINESS year-on-year to `874.31 billion at March 31, 2023.
Retail The Bank has identified four main ecosystems in the rural
market, which include farmers, dealers, self-employed
The retail business continued to be a key driver of growth persons and micro-entrepreneurs with comprehensive
in fiscal 2023, as we pursued a strategy of building a banking solutions offered across these ecosystems.
26
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
The Bank’s reach in rural areas comprises a network The growth in the portfolio was driven by the Bank’s
of business centres, ATMs, field staff and business approach of catering to 360° needs of customers across
correspondents providing last-mile access in remote business life cycle ranging from onboarding, payment
areas. Of the Bank’s network of 5,900 business centres, & collection, cross-borders, account reconciliation
51% are in rural and semi-urban areas with 651 business besides working capital requirements. Envisaging these
centres in villages that were previously unbanked. customer requirements, the Bank devised comprehensive
There were 4,299 ATMs and cash recycler machines at digital solutions & platforms which are also fulfilled
semi-urban and rural centres at March 31, 2023 having through Do-it-Yourself and Do-It-for-Me through our
a proportion of 25.8% of pan India ATMs and cash business centres, InstaBIZ mobile apps and the Bank’s
recycler machines. website and also partner websites. In addition, a
dedicated Relationship Manager also provides the
For information on the Bank’s financial inclusion and rural
customers full 360° solutions.
development initiatives refer to page 58
The Bank’s focus in these businesses continues on
Small and Medium Enterprises and
parameterised and programme-based lending, which is
Business Banking granular and well-collateralised. The Bank has devised
an integrated underwriting approach which is scorecard
The Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) portfolio driven. Leveraging digital tools and data analytics, the
comprises exposures to companies with a turnover Bank has built various scorecards namely Unicore and
of up to `2.50 billion. The Bank’s business banking Infinity, which caters across customers, turn ranges
portfolio comprises small business customers with and loan ticket size. A combination of qualitative and
an average loan ticket size of `10.0-15.0 million. quantitative assessment tools are utilised to arrive at
The business banking portfolio grew by 34.9% to the final credit decision. Additionally to cater specifically
`721.12 billion and accounted for 7.0% of the overall to the micro segment, the Bank has a surrogate
portfolio at March 31, 2023. The Small and Medium programme-based underwriting which considers non-
Enterprises segment grew by 19.2% to `482.21 billion financial documents such as bank statement and Goods
and accounted for 4.7% of the overall portfolio. and Services Tax (GST) returns for credit assessment.
The Bank maintains a robust risk management
framework to manage the SME and business banking
portfolio. The Bank has established strong practices
to fuel growth by collateralised-lending and reduce
concentration risks by focussing on granular lending.
Using a combination of qualitative and quantitative
assessment tools, the Bank aims to arrive at a score
to determine the lending criteria. The Bank constantly
monitors and analyses cases to detect stress, thus
enabling the Bank to take early action and ensuring
a healthy portfolio quality. The Bank has further
strengthened its underwriting process by integrating
various digital tools like bank statement analyser,
automatic fetching of bureau reports and enhanced
business rule engine to generate probability of default
scores for score-based analysis into one single ecosystem
called 'Infinity'.
The growth in the SMEs portfolio is driven by the Bank’s
approach of catering to 360° need of customers across
business life cycle.
27
Annual Report 2022-23
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
Wholesale Banking
in deepening the Bank’s relations in high-value retail
accounts of senior client personnel and employees through
The Bank’s wholesale banking customers include large a suite of retail products like salary, private and wealth
private sector business houses and companies, financial banking, home loans, personal loans, vehicle loans, etc.
institutions and banks, public sector undertakings and
Central and State government entities. The Bank also has Supply chain financing is an integral part of the
a strong franchise among Multi-National Corporations corporate ecosystem and solutions like CorpConnect
(MNCs), real estate companies, IT & ITES and new-age and DigitalLite enable corporates to seamlessly manage
services companies, along with a strong franchise in the supply chain financing, payments, collection and
financial sponsors space with special focus on private reconciliation requirements of their dealers and vendors
equity funds and their investee companies. Additionally, in a convenient and paperless process. These solutions
the Bank also caters to the requirements of the capital also automatically assess the eligibility of the client’s
market and custody participants through unique digital dealers and vendors for credit through a business
solutions improving their operational efficiency. rule engine, Goods and Services Tax (GST) returns,
intelligent algorithm with automated bureau checks and
The Bank’s approach has been to deepen its partnership dedupe checks.
and provide support to clients through their entire life
cycle. The Bank caters to all needs of the clients across The Bank has extensively leveraged analytics to
trade, treasury, bonds and commercial papers through monitor transactions and portfolio quality. While
its comprehensive and technologically-advanced delivery new credit is extended in a granular manner to
platforms while also catering to the needs of their supply well-established and high-rated business groups,
chain network. data analytics is used for portfolio monitoring and
identification of early warning signals in the existing
The Bank aims to become a business partner to its portfolio. This has led to enhancement of the overall
clients instead of being merely a capital provider. With quality of the corporate portfolio.
the client at the centre, all the teams across the Bank
are well-aligned to offer the entire Bank’s offerings to
International Business
wholesale clients and their ecosystems. This has not
only made client servicing more effective, but also helped
ICICI Bank’s international presence consists of
business centres in six overseas locations and
representative offices in nine locations outside India. The
Bank has Offshore Banking Unit (OBU) in Mumbai and
IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) in GIFT City, and wholly-owned
subsidiaries in the United Kingdom (UK) and Canada.
ICICI Bank UK also has a business centre in Germany.
The Bank’s international franchise focusses on four
strategic pillars, namely the NRI ecosystem comprising
deposits, remittances, investments and asset products;
the MNC ecosystem comprising both foreign MNCs
investing in India and Indian MNCs for their foreign
currency and other India related requirements as well as
Global Capability Centres (GCC), which are back-offices
of MNCs created to serve the world; trade ecosystem,
comprising primarily India-linked trade transactions
Solutions like CorpConnect and DigitalLite enable corporates which are self-liquidating in nature; and funds ecosystem,
to seamlessly manage supply chain financing, payments,
to capture fund flows into India through the Foreign
collection and reconciliation requirements of their dealers and
Portfolio Investment (FPI) and Foreign Direct Investment
vendors in a convenient and paperless process.
(FDI) route.
28
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
The Bank continued to progress in its strategic
objective of reducing the non-India linked exposures in a
planned manner. The non-India linked corporate portfolio
reduced by 52.3% year-on-year or by USD 0.34 billion
during fiscal 2023.
The Bank’s IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) in GIFT City
attempts to capture global banking requirements of
ICICI Bank India's client base to enhance Customer
360° banking experience. IBU business centre
complements our domestic business by providing foreign
currency banking solutions across corporate banking,
funds, wealth management, global markets business and
start-up ecosystem. ICICI Bank is a settlement banker
to all three exchanges in GIFT City – NSE IFSC, India
INX & IIBX. The Bank has also obtained clearing, custody
and depository participant licence. On the Start-up
ecosystem front, GIFT City is focussing on onboarding
the overseas holding and subsidiaries of Indian start-ups.
Government Banking
Government is transitioning towards efficient financial
management and transparency in transactions through
digitisation and direct benefit transfer (DBT). ICICI Bank
has been providing a range of banking services to
government departments and their ecosystem through a
network of physical and digital channels.
The Bank offers its government customers integrated and
plug-n-play digital solutions, to assist them in effective
delivery of services to stakeholders including citizens.
The Bank is assisting state-level agencies and last-mile
implementing agencies for adoption of Single Nodal
Agency (SNA) payment model and DBT payments for
management of Government of India scheme funds.
ICICI Bank's digital platforms provide simple online tax
payment options to customers. The Bank is assisting
the government for collection of central taxes, state
taxes, customs duty, GST payments through authorised
business centres and digital platforms. The Bank has also
integrated its payment services with the e-governance
initiative of government like Government e-Marketplace
(GeM), e-tendering and e-treasury.
29
Annual Report 2022-23
FAIR TO CUSTOMER, FAIR TO BANK
As our customer engagement deepened, the Bank aimed to
further enhance digital delivery of products and services, offering
comprehensive banking solutions with a sharp focus on efficiency
and risks.
In fiscal 2023, the Bank increased its focus on delivering • TradeIntelli, an AI-ML-OCR1 led system, has
value and enhancing customer delight and advocacy been implemented to intelligently process trade
by continuously reimagining processes and customer finance transactions without human intervention.
experience. The power of subtraction was leveraged It significantly reduces processing time in trade
in our service delivery framework, by streamlining transactions with higher accuracy and delivers
processes and decongesting or digitising customer enhanced customer experience.
journeys. New-age technologies and platforms have
been harnessed to enable ease of serving customers. • Neo Remittance System, the new retail outward
The philosophy of ‘Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank’ remittance platform, has been created to make
underpinned the efforts to drive mutually beneficial the process of remitting funds outside India faster,
customer relationships and build trust in our brand, seamless and convenient. The platform harnesses
while creating value across the customer life cycle. capabilities such as instant SWIFT generation for
payment, providing real-time updates to customers,
The Bank continues to deepen its engagement with being volume agnostic and requires minimal
customers to understand their needs and expectations. processing time.
Based on the insights gathered from proactive product
and process walkthroughs, like the Net Promoter Score • Implementation of iCRM, a single customer
(NPS), Voice of Customer (VOCs), customer complaints relationship management system at an enterprise
and Root Cause Analysis (RCAs), key customer service level is underway for lead management, onboarding
initiatives are implemented on an ongoing basis. and servicing.
Some of the key initiatives towards enhancing and
1. AI: Artificial Intelligence, ML: Machine Learning,
decongesting the onboarding and servicing experience
OCR: Optical Character Recognition
of customers taken during fiscal 2023 included:
• A complete digital journey has been enabled for
faster current account onboarding for individuals
and proprietors using Video KYC. A similar digital
journey is being enabled for authorised signatory and
beneficial owner.
• Virtual Relationship Manager (VRM) platform has
been implemented to enable Relationship Managers
to receive analytics-driven nudges when engaging
with customers using a universal access number,
thus providing end-to-end servicing support and
enhancing the transaction experience of customers.
• Dedicated operations manpower have been
co-located at high footfall business centres for
ICICI Bank increased its focus on delivering value and enhancing
transaction processing through the Digi Serve
customer delight and advocacy by continuously reimagining
initiative. processes and customer experience.
30
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FAIR TO CUSTOMER, FAIR TO BANK
REIMAGINING END-TO-END
be received from customers. The objective of this initiative
CUSTOMER LIFE CYCLE was to assist business centres to handle such queries
and provide first-contact-resolution, thereby eliminating
Next-gen Phone Banking Experience repeated visits by customers. GIB Buddy has been
Various initiatives rooted in new-age technologies designed to respond to queries related to products and
were implemented for smoothening the customer solutions and process for government and institutional
interactions on the phone banking channel. This banking customers.
included introducing a single toll free number
(1800 1080) for servicing different products and customer The emphasis on Customer 360º and the leading
segments, 24x7 servicing for retail liabilities and credit digital capabilities have strengthened the Bank’s value
cards, voice bot processing calls to reduce the IVR wait proposition for customers and created a positive
time by ~60%, and voice biometric-based authentication. customer experience. Actively listening to our customers
by continuously engaging through various channels like
Digitisation of Cards Life Cycle surveys, social media, business centre touchpoints and
Enhancing credit card customer experience was query resolution, are also supplementing the Bank’s
another focus area, and an industry-first large-scale efforts to improve customer journeys and service
implementation of new-age technologies was undertaken response. During fiscal 2023, the Bank saw a sustained
like Document Intelligence, Conversational AI, NLP2, improvement in the Net Promoter Score (NPS) across
Text Intelligence, Intelligent RPA3, etc. in areas across products and services, reflecting customer value creation
onboarding and servicing. and advocacy.
NEW DIGITAL EXPERIENCES CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT
BEYOND BANKING
Various services were introduced and improvements
made across digital channels to enhance customer Recognising customers’ need to understand personal
experience. Features on iMobile Pay App were enhanced finance better, the Bank launched a unique digital initiative
to enable re-KYC through Video KYC process, UPI-related 'The Orange Book' in fiscal 2022. This is a monthly
features and enhancements, hyper-personalisation e-magazine that educates customers about personal
through Discover 2.0, PayLater feature, enhancements in
credit card reward points journey, among others. Features
on Retail Internet Banking were also enhanced. These JUNE 2023 | VOL. 25 NOVEMBER 2022 | VOL. 18
THE THE
included re-KYC through Video KYC process, option to ORANGE ORANGE
activate 3D secure for NRI customers, etc. BOOK BOOK
Leverage your FINANCIAL QUOTIENT Leverage your FINANCIAL QUOTIENT
SERVICE ENABLERS FOR
EMPLOYEES
Empowering employees for a seamless engagement with
customers is an ongoing endeavour at the Bank. During
fiscal 2023, V-Serv was launched as an enabler for
employees by providing assistance on processes across
products and services, and supporting quick resolution of Two years of simplifying personal finance! Starting Small for their Big Future
queries. Another initiative was iTrack, introduced in select Orange Book is a monthly e-magazine that educates
business centres, to handle uncommon queries that may customers about personal finance in a simple and easy-to-
understand manner.
2. NLP: Natural Language Processing
3. RPA: Robotic Process Automation
31
Annual Report 2022-23
FAIR TO CUSTOMER, FAIR TO BANK
finance in a simple, easy-to-understand manner using The Bank seeks to treat its customers fairly and provide
contextual examples and infographics and helps them to transparency in product and service offerings. Continuous
take better financial decisions. The Orange Book covers efforts are made to educate customers to enable them to
an array of financial topics from investment planning, make informed choices regarding banking products and
safe banking to tax savings, financial preparedness and services. The Bank also seeks to ensure that the products
much more. To improve the accessibility of the Book, the offered are based on an assessment of the customer’s
Bank has launched the book in English and Hindi. This financial needs.
initiative has been well-received by customers.
The Bank’s grievance redressal mechanism is well-
The Bank believes that a deeper and more meaningful defined and comprehensive, with clear turnaround times
connect with customers is possible particularly if the for providing resolution to customers. The Bank provides
engagement is in the areas of their interest such as their multiple channels to customers to complain including
hobbies or passions. With this belief, the Bank launched the business centres, call centre and digital channels.
a pan-India customer engagement programme called All complaints received by the Bank are recorded in
ICICI Bank iShine where customers and their immediate a Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system
families could showcase their talent across eight and tracked for end-to-end resolution. The Bank has an
categories namely art, body and mind, dancing, food, escalation matrix built in the CRM system to ensure that
performing arts, photography, singing and travel. The customer requirements are appropriately addressed within
programme saw an overwhelming response with stipulated timelines. The Bank also conducts detailed
1.8 million website visitors and 185,000 programme Root Cause Analysis (RCAs) of the issues highlighted in
registrations. While Customer 360° banking, service customer feedback, complaints, etc. and insights from
orientation and humility form the basic tenets for serving the same are implemented to improve the products and
our customers, engaging with our customers beyond processes and enhance the services of the Bank.
banking is helping us build a stronger and deeper connect
with them. Further, as recommended by the Reserve Bank of
India, the Bank has appointed senior retired bankers as
CUSTOMER SERVICE AND Internal Ombudsmen of the Bank. The Customer Service
Committee of the Board, the Standing Committee on
GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL
Customer Service and the business centre level Customer
Service Committees monitor customer service at different
The Bank has a well-defined framework to monitor key levels.
customer service metrics and complaints. The Customer
Service Committee of the Board and the Standing During fiscal 2023, the number of complaints received
Committee on Customer Service meet regularly to from customers declined.
deliberate on various facets of customer service and
the initiatives undertaken by the Bank for enhancing For details refer to page 236 on customer complaints
the same.
DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY
The Bank complies with the 'Customer Rights Policy' which
enshrines the basic rights of customers. These rights ICICI Bank is committed to protecting the privacy of
include Right to Fair Treatment; Right to Transparency, individuals whose personal data it holds, and processing
Fair and Honest Dealing; Right to Suitability; Right to such personal data in a way that is consistent with
Privacy; Right to Grievance Redress and Compensation. applicable laws. It is important for employees and
These policies can be accessed on the Bank’s website. businesses to protect customer data and follow the
32
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FAIR TO CUSTOMER, FAIR TO BANK
applicable privacy laws in India and overseas locations to Privacy regulations require the personal data of
ensure safety and security of data. We believe that the customers to be protected throughout its entire life
data privacy framework should be in line with the evolving cycle. Accordingly, the Bank has undertaken several
regulatory changes and digital transformation. comprehensive measures such as categorising all
personal data and sensitive personal data as ‘Confidential
The Bank has a global presence in several jurisdictions Information’, keeping record of all its processing
including Hong Kong, Singapore, United States, activities, entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality
United Kingdom, Canada, China, Dubai International agreements with employees and third parties who are
Financial Centre and Bahrain. The Bank is committed to privy to personal data of the customers and providing
ensuring compliance with applicable laws across these customers the option to exercise various rights which they
jurisdictions. It has an integrated and centralised enjoy under applicable data protection regulations and
strategy for achieving data privacy compliance across all incident handling procedures.
jurisdictions. A set of principles have been defined with
respect to handling customer data. There is a mechanism There are e-learning modules specifically on the concept
in place, which is accessible to all employees in the Bank, of personal data and its protection to build awareness
for reporting any form of personal data incident. The among employees. Periodic trainings are provided and
Personal Data Incident Handling Forum (PDIHF) comprises various data privacy awareness initiatives are taken up by
the Data Protection Officer (DPO) and senior members the Data Privacy team for employees to help them get an
from the Information Security Group, Operational Risk overview of data privacy and its importance in day-to-day
Management Group, Fraud Management Group, Human work. Periodic mailers are also sent to the employees to
Resources, Compliance and the Legal Team. Any kind create awareness about data privacy.
of personal data related incidents reported through the
service request undergoes detailed investigation and a The Bank has established a strong governance
report is presented to PDIHF on a monthly basis. framework for data privacy management. The Bank’s
Data Protection Officer (DPO) oversees all privacy related
As per the Personal Data Protection Standard of developments for the Bank as a data processor for
the Bank, it ensures that all personal data it processes is international banking business and as a data controller for
kept secure using appropriate technical and organisational NRI and remittance businesses. The Bank has designated
measures including necessary policies, processes data protection managers/representatives from each
and controls which includes physical access control, business function and at every overseas location to
encryption or pseudonymisation, stress testing, risk ensure the proper implementation of the privacy standard.
assessment, data protection impact assessment and
providing training to the Bank's employees. The Bank A Privacy Steering Committee meets every six months,
periodically updates the Personal Data Protection and oversees various privacy related initiatives. Further,
Standard to cover the personal data protection the Bank’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics covers
regulatory requirements as applicable to the Bank in India guidelines on customer privacy and confidentiality of data.
and its overseas offices to reflect the changes in data
protection laws and regulations. An external review of
the privacy maturity assessment was conducted in fiscal
2023, which placed the Bank’s data privacy practices to
be above industry benchmarks.
33
Annual Report 2022-23
OUR VALUES
The Bank lays strong emphasis on risk and compliance, and creating
awareness among employees on the core values and desired
behaviour. Employees are expected to act in accordance with the
highest professional and ethical standards.
ICICI Bank is committed to strengthening its culture and continuous communication of these principles in
and encouraging adoption of values and code of interactions with employees is considered an effective
conduct among employees and appropriate ways mechanism to establish these values that are core to
of doing business, where every action is in the the Bank. In addition, business compliance officers
interest of customers and the Bank. There is also a have been appointed within functional teams to
continuous endeavour to embed relevant principles and strengthen compliance practices. All employees are
communicate the organisations culture on an ongoing encouraged to align with the guiding principles while
basis. The Bank adopted the Risk and Compliance conducting their activities.
Culture Policy in fiscal 2022, as we recognise the
importance of establishing effective frameworks and The Bank is committed to act professionally and fairly
supporting processes that encourage employees to in all its dealings. The ICICI Group Code of Business
exhibit the desired ethos of the Bank. Conduct and Ethics provides the values, principles and
standards that should drive decisions and actions of
The Risk and Compliance Culture Policy articulates employees of the Bank. The Code is also the Bank’s
the guiding principles and aspects for effective commitment to its stakeholders for adhering to the highest
implementation of these principles. ethical standards and dealing with integrity. All new
employees are required to complete mandatory training/
The effective implementation of the policy includes a e-learning modules pertaining to Code of Conduct,
governance framework with roles and responsibilities Information Security, Anti-Money Laundering and other
of the Board, MD & CEO and Executive Directors and compliance-related areas that are critical and sensitive.
the Risk and Compliance Culture Council. Consistent
THE GUIDING PRINCIPLES
Fair to Return of Compliance
One Bank, Agile Risk
Customer, Capital is with
One Team Management
Fair to Bank Paramount Conscience
34
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR VALUES
Key Standards of the Group Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 2023
• Conflict of interest • Personal investment
• Privacy/confidentiality • Accuracy of company records and reporting
• Anti-bribery and anti-corruption/gifts • Know-your-customer/anti-money laundering
and entertainment • Workplace responsibilities & social media
As a global bank, the Bank is subjected to Prevention of avoiding proliferation financing/terrorism financing, the
Corruption Act, 1988 (POCA) in India, Foreign Corrupt Bank shall maintain lists of individuals or entities issued
Practices Act (FCPA) in the United States of America and by Reserve Bank of India, United Nations Security Council,
similar applicable anti-bribery regulations as amended other regulatory and enforcement agencies, legislation,
from time to time in other jurisdictions where the Bank internal lists as the Bank may decide from time to time.
does business and as may be applicable. The Bank has Further, while handling cross-border transactions,
a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. The the Bank carries out screening of names involved in a
Bank has a well-defined Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption transaction against sanctions lists and other negative
policy articulating the obligations of employees in these lists, as applicable.
matters. The Bank’s third-party vendors are also required
to adhere to the Bank’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption The Bank continuously focusses on effectiveness of
policy, including providing an annual self-declaration financial controls and assesses compliance with all
confirming their compliance. Apart from an annual review relevant regulatory requirements. All the key policies of
of the policy, the Bank also undertakes periodic external the Bank are regularly reviewed and enhanced to ensure
risk assessment of the policy at least once in three years. relevance, adherence to regulations and adoption of best
The last risk assessment was conducted in fiscal 2021, practices on an ongoing basis. The Board-approved Group
and no material gaps were identified. The Bank’s Vigilance Compliance Policy lays down the compliance framework
Committee reviews matters pertaining to bribery and with emphasis on ensuring that products, customer
corruption. offerings and activities conform to rules and regulations
and adheres to the Bank's ethos of 'Fair to Customer,
The Bank has a Board-approved Group Anti-Money Fair to Bank'.
Laundering (AML) and Combating Financing of Terrorism
(CFT) Policy. The policy specifies a risk-based approach The Bank undertakes periodic training sessions and
in implementing the AML framework. AML standards sends information mailers, as part of knowledge-
of the Bank are primarily based on two pillars, namely, enhancement and awareness, to employees. The frequency
Know-Your-Customer (KYC) and monitoring/reporting of of messages are high with regard to areas like fraud risk
suspicious transactions (MSTR). The policy also specifies management, data privacy, cybersecurity, compliance
monitoring of transactions on pre-defined rules as per policies, conflict of interest, sexual harassment, etc. The
the regulatory guidelines and any suspicious transactions Bank is committed to constantly reviewing its governance
found are required to be submitted to the concerned practices and frameworks, with a focus on staying
reporting authorities. The Bank through name screening updated and responsive to the dynamic and evolving
procedure ensures that the identity of the customer landscape, and acting in the best interest of all
does not match with any person with known criminal stakeholders.
background or with banned entities. For the purpose of
35
Annual Report 2022-23
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
With a focus on responsible and sustainable growth, the Bank
continuously endeavours to maintain effective governance, a strong
risk culture and robust enterprise risk management framework.
As a financial intermediary, the Bank is exposed to Information Technology Strategy Committee
various risks, primarily credit risk, market risk, liquidity Approve strategy for IT and policy documents, ensure
risk, operational risk, technology risk, cyber risk, that the IT strategy is aligned with business strategy,
compliance risk, legal risk and reputation risk. The Bank review IT risks, ensure proper balance of IT investments
is committed to managing material risks and participating for sustaining the Bank's growth, oversee the aggregate
in opportunities as part of the strategic approach funding of IT at Bank-level, ascertain if the management
of risk-calibrated growth in core operating profit has resources to ensure the proper management of IT
less provisions. risks, review contribution of IT to business, oversee the
activities of Digital Council, review technology from a
The Board of Directors of the Bank has oversight of future readiness perspective, overseeing key projects
all risks in the Bank with specific Committees of the progress and critical IT systems performance and the
Board constituted to facilitate focussed oversight. Most review of special IT initiatives.
Committees are chaired by Independent Directors
and there is adequate representation of Independent Risk Committee
Directors on each of these Committees. The Board Review risk management policies pertaining to credit,
has framed specific mandate for each of these market, liquidity, operational, outsourcing, reputation
Committees. The proceedings and the decision taken risks, business continuity plan and disaster recovery
by these Committees are reported to the Board. plan and approve Broker Empanelment Policy and any
The policies approved by the Board of Directors or amendments thereto. The functions of the Committee also
Committees of the Board, from time to time constitute include setting limits for industry or country exposures,
the governing framework within which business activities review the Bank's Enterprise Risk Management
are undertaken. Framework, Risk Appetite Framework, Stress Testing
Framework, Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
The roles of specific committees of the Board constituted Process and Framework for Capital Allocation; review the
to facilitate focussed oversight of various risks are: status of Basel implementation, risk dashboard covering
various risks, outsourcing activities and the activities of the
Credit Committee Asset Liability Management Committee. The Committee
Review of developments in key industrial sectors, major has oversight on risks of subsidiaries covered under the
credit portfolios and approval of credit proposals as per Group Risk Management Framework. The Committee
the authorisation approved by the Board. also reviews the cybersecurity risk assessment.
Audit Committee The Bank also has a Financial Crime Prevention Group
Provides direction to the audit function and monitors the (FCPG) to oversee/handle fraud prevention, detection,
quality of internal and statutory audit; responsibilities investigation, monitoring, reporting and creating
include examining the financial statements and auditors’ awareness about fraud risk management.
report and overseeing the financial reporting process to
ensure fairness, sufficiency and credibility of financial The Bank has put in place an Enterprise Risk
statements. Management (ERM) and Risk Appetite Framework (RAF)
that articulates the risk appetite and drills down the
36
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
same into a limit framework for various risk categories The Compliance Group, headed by the Group Chief
under which various business lines operate. In addition to Compliance Officer, oversees regulatory compliance of
the ERM and RAF, portfolio reviews are carried out and the Bank, both at the policy and procedures level and
presented to the Credit and Risk Committees as per the at the level of implementation by the respective groups.
approved calendar of reviews. As part of the reviews, the The Group has unrestricted access to information
prevalent trends across various economic indicators and within the Bank to assess compliance with the
their impact on the Bank’s portfolio are presented to the regulatory guidelines.
Risk Committee. Industry analysis are also carried out
and outcomes are presented to the Credit Committee for The Reputation Management Forum, comprising executive
review and guidance. director and leadership members, oversees reputation
risk assessment at the Bank. The Forum has adopted a
The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process framework for conducting periodic reviews and ensuring
(ICAAP) encompasses capital planning for a four- adequate processes and systems to identify, assess and
year time horizon, assessment of material risks and manage reputation related risks. This includes evaluating
the relationship between risk and capital. The capital key risk indicators and events like complaints, frauds,
management framework is complemented by the risk media news flow, legal matters, and others that could
management framework, which covers the policies, potentially pose a reputation risk. There are also response
processes, methodologies and frameworks established mechanisms in place for managing reputation related
for the management of material risks. Stress testing, issues. The risk and control assessment is presented to the
which is a key aspect of the ICAAP and the risk Board Risk Committee on a quarterly basis.
management framework, provides an insight on the
impact of extreme but plausible scenarios on the Bank’s The Internal Audit Group, being the third line of defence,
risk profile and capital position. provides independent assurance that the aforesaid
independent groups monitoring the risks in the Bank, are
Several groups and sub-groups have been constituted operating in line with policies, regulations and internal
to facilitate independent evaluation, monitoring and standards defined for management of the various risks
reporting of risks. These groups function independently of in the Bank.
the business groups.
The Compliance Group and the Internal Audit Group
The Risk Management Group is further organised into report to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
the Credit Risk Management Group, Market Risk The Risk Management, Compliance and Internal Audit
Management Group, Operational Risk Management Groups have administrative reporting to the Executive
Group and Information Security Group. The Group is Director responsible for Corporate Centre.
headed by the Chief Risk Officer who reports to the Risk
Committee of the Board of Directors.
INDEPENDENT GROUPS FOR MONITORING RISKS
Financial Crime
Risk Prevention and
Compliance Internal
Management Reputation Risk
Group Audit Group
Group Management
Group
37
Annual Report 2022-23
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
With increasing digitisation, ensuring effective The Bank has an information and cybersecurity
management and governance of data has become a governance framework consisting of leadership,
critical business enabler. To further strengthen data organisational structures and processes that help
quality, data standardisation and governance around us in mitigation of growing cybersecurity threats.
data, a Chief Data Officer (CDO) was appointed in Our cybersecurity governance encompasses management
fiscal 2023. The role of the CDO includes creating the oversight at various levels with the ultimate responsibility
governance and processes around data generation and assumed by the Board of Directors.
processing and compliance with regulations across all
aspects of its operations. The CDO is also responsible The Executive Committees have diverse cross-
for implementation of the Bank's Data Governance Policy. functional members and well-defined terms of reference.
Proceedings of these Committees are reported to the IT
CYBERSECURITY GOVERNANCE Strategy Committee. Additionally, the Bank has multiple
KRIs/dashboard to review system stability, continuity and
Cyber risks form an integral part of the Bank’s enterprise availability and network uptime. The Bank also has a
risk management framework. The Bank is committed well-defined Information Security Policy, Cyber
to work towards aligning itself with the changing Security Policy and Information Security Standards
threat landscape and has a dedicated team for cyber/ and Procedures. These policies have been designed by
information risk management. There is robust oversight drawing from several standards and regulations including
by the Board, and takes regular updates from the the RBI Cyber Security Framework, NCIIPC Guidelines
Information Security Group (ISG) of the Bank. A monthly for Protection, FFIEC Cybersecurity Assessment Tool, the
risk-based detailed CISO dashboard capturing the SEBI Cyber Security and Resilience Framework for Stock
various Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and Key Risk Brokers/Depository participants, IRDA Guidelines on
Indicators (KRIs) associated with SOC operations and Information and Cyber Security for insurers, Unusual
offences summary for the month is prepared which is Cyber Security Incidents framework. The Bank has also
reviewed by the CISO and the CRO. incorporated industry best practices such as the National
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
Board of Directors
Risk Committee
A
t r at e g m y it t e e u d it C o m
I T
S
C o
m
Board
m
it t
Sub-Committees e e
Executive Committees
Information & Business Continuity
Information Technology
Cybersecurity Management (BCM)
(IT) Steering Committee
Committee Steering Committee
38
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
CONTROLS FOR IT INFRASTRUCTURE
Preventive Control Detective Control Responsive Control
y Application Security y Security Operation Centre y Incident Response Plan
Life Cycle (ASLC), (SOC) Monitoring y Cyber Crisis Management
Vulnerability Assessment y Web Application Firewall Plan (CCMP)
and Penetration Testing y Network Operation y Forensic Agreements
(VAPT), Antivirus, Vendor Centre (NOC) Monitoring with partners
Risk
y RED teaming exercises
y Assessment, Firewall,
Intrusion Detection
System (IDS)
y Access Management
y Distributed Denial of
Service (DDoS) mitigation
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the PARTICIPATION IN EXTERNAL
regulatory requirements of some other jurisdictions in CYBERATTACK SIMULATIONS
which the Bank operates. Further, periodic internal and
external audits are undertaken and inputs from these The Bank conducts and participates in several
assessments are incorporated. The Bank’s Data Centre is cybersecurity attack simulation drills such as spear
ISO 270011 certified. phishing drills on employees, Distributed Denial of Service
(DDoS) attack drills for Internet Service Providers (ISPs),
The Bank has a Disaster Recovery plan to ensure social engineering-based attacks on data centre staff
continuity of critical services to customers and to gain physical access etc. Business continuity and
availability of identified critical systems during recovery drills are conducted to assess the Bank’s ability
significant disruptions. In the event of a disaster, the and readiness to combat disasters, to ensure continuity
Bank endeavours to resume business and operations of critical business processes at an acceptable level and
to an acceptable level as per the Recovery Time limit the impact of the disaster on people, processes
Objectives (RTOs) for the application. The efficacy of the and infrastructure. The Bank periodically conducts cyber
DR plan is established through periodic DR drills. maturity assessments through a third-party, which is
a comprehensive risk assessment of the cybersecurity
posture of the Bank. The last such assessment and
benchmarking with global banks was undertaken in
fiscal 2022, and the Bank’s cyber posture was at par with
global banks.
1 ISO 27001 is an international standard for information security management.
39
Annual Report 2022-23
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
The Bank believes in providing services to its customers initiatives at the Bank. The Board-approved ESG Policy
in the safest and in a secure manner keeping in mind that was reviewed and updated largely to reflect the progress
protection of data of its customers is as important as on ESG made by the Bank during fiscal 2023 and the
providing quality banking services across the spectrum. requirements under the SEBI-mandated Business
The Bank also undertakes campaigns to create awareness Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR).
among customers on security aspects while banking
through digital channels.
ESG RATINGS
There were no material incidents of security breaches or
data loss during fiscal 2023. The improvement in the Bank’s ESG ratings by external
agencies is evidence of the progress being made across
various areas. The ESG rating by MSCI improved from
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND
BBB to A and the ESG score by Sustainalytics improved
GOVERNANCE (ESG) from High Risk to Medium Risk category. During
fiscal 2023, the Bank responded to the climate change
The Risk Committee and the Board reviewed material questionnaire by CDP Worldwide for the first time. The
ESG matters during fiscal 2023, and were provided Bank received a rating of C, which was same as the Asian
updates on progress made on various ESG-related regional average.
ESG GOVERNANCE
Governance Structure
Overarching Environmental, Social and
Governance Policy
Board of Directors
• Broad focus areas
• Responsible financing
• Environmental sensitivity in the Bank’s operations
Risk Committee
• Customers
• Employees society
• Corporate governance
ESG Steering Committee
• Cybersecurity and data privacy governance
framework
• Stakeholder engagement and accountability
Dedicated Team within CFO’s Office
• Policy available on the Bank’s website
tracks ESG and CSR initiatives
40
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
ESG-Related Developments During Fiscal 2023
The Bank’s efforts in ESG were further strengthened during the year with setting up of a dedicated team
to lead the Bank's ESG-related actions and initiatives. The management-level ESG Steering Committee
provides regular oversight and guidance to the ESG team. Key actions and focus areas were:
• Continuous engagement with internal stakeholders to build awareness and create capabilities.
• Facilitate training sessions for Board members and senior personnel.
• Track key developments in India and global markets with objective to develop internal targets for
reduction in carbon footprint in the Bank’s own operations.
• A framework for Sustainable Financing was developed aimed at providing guidance on Green/Social
(Sustainable)/Sustainability-linked lending.
• Strengthen engagement with vendors on ESG and sustainability, develop a Suppliers’ Code of
Conduct, guidelines for green procurement and alignment of vendors' action plan with that of
the Bank.
• Adoption of green power, wherever available and feasible, is enabling the Bank manage its Scope 2
emissions. This is part of the internal two-year roadmap for bringing down the overall Scope 1 and
Scope 2 emission intensity.
• Initiate evaluation of Bank’s Scope 3 emissions in own operations and take up various pilot projects to
assess key data and information requirements for calculating carbon and GHG emissions in accordance
with established protocols.
• Improve water and waste management, and initiate monitoring and measurement of these aspects.
The Bank is committed to minimising the environmental impact of its operations and business. The Bank
is working towards setting a time-bound target for reduction in emissions/reduction in emissions intensity/
carbon neutrality.
More details are available in the Bank’s ESG Report, and Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) for fiscal 2023 on
the Bank's website.
41
Annual Report 2022-23
RESPONDING TO RISKS AND
OPPORTUNITIES
The Bank recognises the importance of adopting a rigorous approach
to understanding and responding to risks and opportunities that
enables long-term value creation for all stakeholders.
The Bank has a robust process to identify and monitor related risks. Apart from these traditional risks, the Bank
risks and respond appropriately. The Bank continuously is also cognisant of emerging new-age risks like climate
reviews and enhances the methods for identification and change. The Bank has initiated steps to embed climate
assessment of risks, and sets appropriate metrics and risk assessment and climate risk management as part
controls, and mitigants for managing significant risks. of the Bank’s risk management framework. A dedicated
This is further strengthened by investing in capability team within the Risk Management Group has been
building and using Artificial Intelligence (AI)/Machine set up to develop a framework to assess the physical
Learning (ML) techniques to enhance credit underwriting and transition risks of companies in the Bank’s portfolio,
and early warning capabilities. and manage these risks as part of the credit evaluation
process. The Bank has also been participating in
In fiscal 2023, the Bank continued to monitor the risks policy-making by providing inputs and supporting the
it is exposed to, including economic, credit, market, regulator in assessing impact of climate change risks on
liquidity, cyber, information technology and employee specific sectors.
RISKS IMPACTING THE BANK’S BUSINESS
Risk Type Key Risks Our Response
Economic Risk Volatile economic environment Continuously monitored developments in the
driven by rising inflation, global global and Indian economy, including country
monetary policy stance and risk and sector-specific risks and responded
geopolitical tensions. accordingly.
Volatile market conditions and Ensured effective risk management across
Credit Risk
rising interest rates posed business segments, strengthened by ongoing
challenges for customers. reviews for early identification and stress
testing; the Bank maintained strong capital
and liquidity positions, which were significantly
above regulatory requirements.
Challenges posed by tightening Robust policies, and periodic reviews at the
Market and
monetary policy, withdrawal of level of Board and sub committees; strategic
Liquidity Risk
liquidity by the central bank and priority towards asset liability management and
exchange rate movements. strengthening the Bank's liability franchise.
42
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
RESPONDING TO RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Risk Type Key Risks Our Response
Growing threat of cyberattacks Investing on building resilience and effectively
Cyber Risk
combined with increasing respond to cyberattacks; the Bank has laid
digitisation of banking products and significant focus on data privacy and data loss
services could expose the Bank prevention mechanisms. There were no material
to security risks. The Bank also incidents of security breaches or data loss
leverages partnerships with third during fiscal 2023.
parties and these could also be a
source for information security risks.
The growing customer dependence The Bank is proactively investing in technology
Technology Risk
on digital transactions and the and improving its response to changing
rising volumes of such transactions technological dynamics. The governance
requires banks to focus on the framework and Board-level oversight ensures
availability and scalability of our that information technology strategy is aligned
systems. Misalignment between with the business strategy with appropriate
business and IT strategies is a policies and control frameworks. The Bank’s IT
formidable risk. systems were stable and largely uninterrupted
during fiscal 2023.
Retention of employees and ability Provide opportunity for job rotation and
Employee Risk
to attract and motivate talented enhance career growth and development;
professionals is critical for the employee well-being and upskilling are
successful implementation of the key priorities.
Bank’s strategy and competing
effectively.
Compliance Risk As a systemically important bank in The Bank has established well-articulated
India, compliance with regulations policies and controls to ensure compliance with
and preparedness to evolving laws and regulations. Continuous evaluation
developments is a key priority for and updating the policies to remain relevant and
the Bank. adopt best practices is an ongoing effort.
A strong compliance culture driven by the
Bank’s leadership is enabling timely action.
43
Annual Report 2022-23
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
In fiscal 2022, the Bank conducted its first materiality assessment
exercise to identify key material topics for our stakeholders and
business.
Five-step approach for assessing material issues involved:
Stakeholder identification
Process for capturing internal and external perspectives by identifying key internal
and external stakeholders by mapping their interests and role for the organisation
Identifying the universe of relevant ESG topics
List of 23 topics identified based on discussions with internal stakeholders, peer
review and benchmarking, sector research, media reports and secondary sources
Stakeholder consultation
Developed a survey for capturing responses from diverse stakeholders
Data collection and analytics
Analysed the data and level of priority of every material topic for every stakeholder
Calibration of results
Developed a materiality matrix to prioritise the topics into high, medium and low
categories based on the order of preference listed by stakeholders
44
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
MATERIALITY MATRIX
3 1
2 5
8
10
9 6 4
7
11
13
12
Importance to Internal Stakeholders
Environmental Social Governance
sredlohekatS
lanretxE
ot
ecnatropmI
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
KEY MATERIAL ISSUES
1 C ompliance with regulations and other laws 8 Financial performance
2 Digital innovation/transformation 9 S tability of risk management and risk outcomes
3 D ata privacy and cybersecurity 10 L eadership development and succession
planning
4 C orporate governance and business ethics
11 P romoting environment-positive projects
5 T ransparency and disclosures (e.g. lending to 'green' sectors)
6 I mproving customer experience and 12 C arbon emissions & resource efficiency in the
satisfaction Bank's own operations
7 C ustomer fairness and right-selling 13 E xposure of the Bank to climate-related risks in
its loan portfolio
45
Annual Report 2022-23
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
The Bank recognises the importance of maintaining a strong focus on issues material to its stakeholders. The nature
and potential impact of these material issues may vary and change over time. The top 13 areas and the risks and
opportunities are as given below:
Compliance with Regulations and Other Laws
Risks How We Are Responding
Being a domestic systemically important bank in India, we We strive to be a responsible organisation
are exposed to various compliance requirements. The Bank with continued efforts at embedding a strong
has to ensure robust policies and processes, and there are no risk and compliance culture. The Bank remains
deficiencies in meeting evolving requirements on an ongoing vigilant of the evolving regulatory landscape,
basis. Any deficiency could lead to reputation risks and a breach while ensuring that operations follow
of trust. standards established by regulatory bodies.
Opportunities The Bank’s control functions ensure that
There is an opportunity to engage constructively with policy businesses and operations are aligned with
makers and advocate adoption of best practices for building best practices.
resilience in the financial sector and supporting a growing
economy.
For more details refer to page 34
Digital Innovation / Transformation
Risks How We Are Responding
The increasing volume of digital transactions requires us to We aspire to create digital innovations with
ensure availability and scalability of systems. A misalignment rich features and functionalities for customers.
between business and IT strategies is a risk. An elongated The Bank’s digital platforms have transformed
period of downtime in the Bank’s digital channels could lead to to provide seamless digital journeys. The open
operational and reputation risks for the Bank. architecture platforms have enabled us to
extend banking services to non-ICICI Bank
Opportunities account holders.
Digital innovations provide an opportunity to differentiate our
offerings, with seamless and secure customer experiences.
This can provide competitive advantage and gain customer
confidence.
For more details refer to page 19
46
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
Risks How We Are Responding
Lack of robust data governance practices could increase the Dealing with cyber risks form an integral part
risks of non-compliance, regulatory fines, financial losses and of the Bank’s enterprise risk management
reputation risk. The cybersecurity landscape is also highly framework. The Bank is committed to working
dynamic and exposes the Bank to significant challenges to ensure towards aligning itself with the changing
safety and security of customers’ money and personal identity. landscape and has a dedicated team for cyber/
information risk management.
Opportunities
Strong governance and a robust cybersecurity and data privacy
strategy can create confidence in the institution and also
differentiate us as a responsible organisation with customer
interest paramount.
For more details refer to page 32 and 38
Corporate Governance and Business Ethics
Risks How We Are Responding
Ensuring strong governance practices and communicating the We have established effective policies and
same across all levels in the Bank is important to build a culture frameworks that encourage employees to act
that ensures business outcomes are delivered in the right manner in accordance with the highest professional
and with responsibility. Banking is a business of trust, and failures and ethical standards. Regular communication
caused by ethics, values and behaviours can cause reputation risk and training of employees is also undertaken.
and could create significant costs to the Bank.
Opportunities
Embedding the right culture takes time to establish and begins
with strong corporate governance and business ethics, which
will ensure long-term sustainability of the organisation.
For more details refer to page 34
47
Annual Report 2022-23
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Transparency and Disclosures
Risks How We Are Responding
Transparency is integral to good governance. Ensuring We recognise the criticality of transparency
transparency in our engagement with customers and providing and disclosures, whether about the products
information of our products and services can enable customers we offer, our engagement with stakeholders
to take sound financial decisions. The Bank recognises the or our contribution to society. The Bank aims
responsibility and importance to be honest in its dealings with to maintain robust governance and ethical
stakeholders. and transparent relationship with
all stakeholders.
Opportunities
The Bank seeks to engage constructively and responsibly in
its area of operations. This is critical to build trust in the Brand,
and with direct consequences to our business. The Bank also
aims to ensure fair and balanced disclosures of its financial
performance, with additional relevant disclosures made as and
when required.
Improving Customer Experience and Satisfaction
Risks How We Are Responding
Customer demands are evolving and digitisation has created Our Customer 360º approach and digital
new dimensions in banking services. Continuous value creation capabilities have strengthened the Bank’s
and superior banking experiences have become important value propositions for customers. Actively
considerations for customers. Lack of innovation and a customer- listening to our customers has helped improve
first approach could result in obsolete service delivery, meeting the Bank’s offerings to customers, and reflects
limited needs of customers and a loss of trust. in the advocacy scores for the Bank.
Opportunities
Digitisation and the rapid adoption of smartphones has
given banks an opportunity to explore new ways of banking
and providing customers with unique offerings and with
convenience.
For more details refer to page 30
48
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Customer Fairness and Right-selling
Risks How We Are Responding
Failure to serve with customer-appropriate product offering, or The Bank’s philosophy of ‘Fair to Customer,
value-add for customers or inappropriate conduct can lead to Fair to Bank’ emphasises the need to deliver
loss of trust and risk the reputation of the Bank. fair value to customers, including selling
products and offer services which meet
Opportunities societal needs and are in the interest of
customers.
Banking is a business based on trust, and requires high level
of customer-appropriate conduct. Generating business while
protecting the interests of customers contributes to attracting
depositors and growth in business.
For more details refer to page 34
Financial Performance
Risks How We Are Responding
The Bank’s ability to adapt to any challenges posed by the Our strategic focus is to grow the core
external environment and swiftly prepare for compliance operating profit less provisions within the
with evolving regulations is key to deliver consistent financial guardrails of risk and compliance. We are
performance. investing in areas that are critical for improving
productivity and operational efficiency.
Opportunities
The Bank’s approach is to identify micromarkets which hold high
potential & increase market share by serving customers with
360º solutions as well as engage with all key stakeholders. This
provides opportunities to penetrate the deep market in India.
For more details refer to page 117
Stability of Risk Management and Risk Outcomes
Risks How We Are Responding
The Bank is exposed to several risks and the ability to manage The Bank continuously reviews the operating
various types of traditional and emerging risks is critical for environment and closely monitors significant
sustainable growth of the Bank. risks that could impact business. The Bank’s
Enterprise Risk Management and Risk
Opportunities Appetite Framework articulates the risk
appetite, and drills down the same into a limit
Dynamic risk management and understanding the opportunities
framework for various risk categories under
and challenges associated with participating in strategic
which various business lines operate.
opportunities is the bedrock for robust growth of business.
For more details refer to page 42
49
Annual Report 2022-23
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Leadership Development and Succession Planning
Risks How We Are Responding
Strong management development and succession planning The Bank has adopted the principle of ‘One
are important for the successful implementation of our Bank, One Team’, and has accordingly
strategy and stability of the organisation. structured its human resource management
practices, including key performance
Opportunities indicators, providing operating flexibility and
accountability to business centres and a
Leadership development and commitment to attracting,
shift from grades to functional designations
developing and retaining a diverse and inclusive workforce can
at senior levels. These are aimed at greater
enable the Bank to deliver strong and consistent results.
agility and synergy across the organisation
and are supporting improved business
performance and financial results.
For more details refer to page 52
Promoting Environment-Positive Projects
Risks How We Are Responding
The climate challenge and a fast transition to a low-carbon The Bank has been supporting capacity
economy could give rise to new types of risks that may not be fully creation in environment-friendly areas, such
understood. as renewable energy, use of electric vehicles
and development of green buildings, with an
Opportunities appropriate risk-return assessment. There is
also a focus on promoting biodiversity and
Using our financial expertise to provide capital to low-carbon
protecting our ecology through the Bank’s CSR
sectors and new business opportunities in this space, based on
initiatives.
appropriate risks and return assessment. We are committed to
supporting customers as they decarbonise their business.
For more details refer to page 66
50
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Carbon Emissions & Resource Efficiency in the Bank's own Operations
Risks How We Are Responding
Assessing the environmental impact of the Bank’s own The Bank is committed to minimising the
operations and facilities will be necessary to develop the environmental impact of its operations and
Bank’s own roadmap towards carbon neutrality/net zero in facilities. It is working towards meeting this
own operations. objective by adopting best practices and
certifications for green standards in the
Opportunities Bank’s operations.
Being in the service industry, the carbon footprint from own
operations is not expected to be significant and would be
manageable.
For more details refer to page 68
Exposure of the Bank to Climate-related Risks in its Loan Portfolio
Risks How We Are Responding
The Bank’s Board has emphasised the need to evaluate the The Bank has established adequate policies
impact of risks posed by climate change. and frameworks for evaluating climate-related
risks in the lending book. At the same time,
Opportunities assessment of the portfolio to climate risks has
been included as part of stress testing as well
Significant opportunities are likely to emerge as efforts to
as capital planning exercise.
meet national commitments towards sustainable growth and
transition to become net zero by the year 2070 gains traction.
The Bank has been supporting environmentally favourable
projects based on an appropriate risk-return assessment.
For more details refer to page 67
51
Annual Report 2022-23
HUMAN CAPITAL
The Bank's human resources and cultural anchors are critical to
driving the success of its business.
The Bank’s human capital strategy is underpinned by of the Bank is aligned to reward team performance.
key cultural anchors of Fair Compensation, Learning and The Bank’s approach to compensation is intended to
Growth, and Care. drive meritocracy within the framework of prudent risk
management. The total compensation is a prudent mix
The Bank’s endeavour is to create a responsive of fixed pay and variable pay, which takes into account
workforce, encouraged by empowering the teams a mix of external market pay and internal equity. The
to take cues from the local environment and identify fixed pay offered by the Bank, largely reflects pay for
opportunities for risk-calibrated growth. The Bank has the role. The variable compensation is in the form of
taken steps to organise and structure teams in a way share-linked instruments or cash or a mix of cash and
which facilitates the Bank’s approach to Customer 360°. share-linked instruments. The cash component of variable
The Bank has invested in aligning the organisation around pay (performance bonus) is aligned to the philosophy of 'One
micromarkets and customer ecosystems by increasing Bank One Team' as it is based on overall performance of the
the density of leadership in key markets. The integration Bank and reflects reward for team performance. The grant
of the Bank’s businesses happens closer to the customer. of share-linked instruments to eligible employees, reflects
This enables better understanding of customer needs at individual potential and criticality of position/employee. The
a micromarket level in addition to enhancing the Bank’s compensation of staff engaged in all assurance functions
agility in responding to business requirements and like Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit depends on the
opportunities. The corporate office operates as a service achievement of key results of the respective functions and
centre and the purpose of the central team is to serve is independent of the business areas they oversee.
the employees to facilitate customer engagement and
seamless delivery of products and services. The Bank
encourages its employees to experiment and innovate to LEARNING AND GROWTH
deliver services and create solutions for customers within
the guardrails of risk and compliance. The Bank’s focus on Customer 360° banking requires
employees to have multi-product knowledge and skills.
FAIR COMPENSATION The Bank has invested in training its employees and
enhancing their ability to comprehensively serve customers.
The Bank follows a prudent compensation practice under This has enabled teams to be agile in responding to
the guidance of the Board of Directors and the Board requirements of customers, and work collaboratively to
Governance Remuneration & Nomination Committee (the create innovative and personalised products & solutions
BGRNC or the Committee). The Compensation philosophy for customers.
Cloud Computing Automation
API & Microservices
Cybersecurity
SKILL
Data Engineering
DOMAINS
Data Analytics
DevOps
Project Management Data Visualisation
52
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
HUMAN CAPITAL
INDUSTRY ACADEMIA INITIATIVES
Post Graduate Programme in
Ascend Programme
Relationship Management
Programme for graduates
21-day programme designed
from top-tier institutes
to develop a cadre of banking
spread out over a year
professionals adept in sales and
relationship management
ICICI Bank Probationary ICICI Business Leadership
Officers Programme Programme – PG Certificate in
12-month programme designed Securities Market
to develop a pool of first 12-month programme designed
level managers with banking to develop professionals for
knowledge and required skillsets securities markets
ICICI Young Leaders Programme (YLP)
12-month career acceleration programme
designed for employees
The Bank has a capability building architecture spanning Building a Digitally Capable Workforce
across functional training, leadership development,
digital and industry academia programmes to equip As a part of 'Bank to BankTech' journey, the Bank
employees with the required skillsets. continues to skill employees under the Digital
Academy in line with the vision of a scalable, future-
The Bank has collaborated with academia partners to ready and data-driven organisation. Employees from
provide a steady supply of quality, job-ready workforce. across groups undergo skilling in domains such as API
One of the key aspects of the industry academia & Micro Services, Cloud Computing, Data Engineering,
programmes is the skills it builds in the banking, Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence and Project
compliance, financial and digital services domains. Management.
This aligns new hires to the culture of the Bank and
imparts functional knowledge in banking and related To mitigate cybersecurity domain risks, the Bank conducted
subjects. Employees at frontline levels can also enrol in a dedicated Cybersecurity Programme in partnership with
ICICI Bank’s Probationary Officer programme and get reputed institutes covering areas such as infrastructure
inducted as Probationary Officers after completing the security, network security, digital forensics, incident
programme at ICICI Manipal Academy. management and network analysis.
The Bank has a Young Leaders Programme (YLP), where To enable employees with diverse skills in data sciences,
employees have the opportunity for higher education design thinking and artificial intelligence, various
(Post Graduate Programme). Those who successfully programmes and academies have been created across
complete this programme are deployed back into the the Bank. During fiscal 2023, the Bank delivered a total
Bank in managerial roles. of over 12 million learning hours for its employees; the
average learning person-days was around 12.2 days.
The Bank is an employer of choice at premier management
and engineering campuses across the country.
53
Annual Report 2022-23
HUMAN CAPITAL
In order to periodically review and align learning content ICICI Bank also partners with thought-leaders across
and design, the Bank has constituted academic councils, a wide spectrum of fields ranging from academia,
comprising representatives from business, human management to sports, to engage with and build
resources and the Bank’s skilling partners. These councils leadership perspectives.
meet on a quarterly basis to review the alignment of the
existing content in view of evolving business needs. Succession Planning
The Bank has institutionalised a succession planning
Strengthening Risk and Compliance
and leadership development initiative to identify and
Culture groom leaders for next level roles. The Bank has a
robust succession planning process which, through the
As custodians of trust, employees are expected to Leadership Cover Index (LCI), closely tracks the depth of
take decisions which are fair to customers and fair to leadership bench at the senior management positions.
the Bank. The Bank has a strong bench for key positions and for
critical leadership roles.
To enable our employees to manage workplace
dilemmas, we have conducted workshops to orient
frontline leadership on dealing with dilemmas they CARE
may face during the course of their roles. The workshop
reinforces the need to apply the Bank’s framework while Employees are the most important capital for the
dealing with such situations within the guardrails of success of the Bank’s strategy and growth of the
risk and compliance. organisation. The Bank believes in providing an enabling
work environment that helps employees to achieve
Job Rotation and Moving Across Roles aspirational goals. The Bank is an inclusive and a caring
workplace, driven by meritocracy and equal opportunities
The Bank believes in investing in its employees to take up for all.
challenging assignments and responsibilities early in the
career. The Bank’s ‘customer-oriented’ approach known Employees at the Bank imbibe Officer Like Qualities
as Customer 360°, encourages employees to take up new (OLQ) at the workplace and in all internal and external
roles and not restrict themselves to specific areas. As a engagements. These include respect for Brand ICICI,
part of their career and skill development, the Bank offers dignified behaviour in dealing with everyone, managers
opportunities to employees to explore diverse roles and in position of authority can be demanding but not
functions. This provides employees the chance to explore demeaning, being humble & service-oriented and having
and develop learning and expertise in different domains. an attitude of learning. The Bank has a 24x7 emergency
helpline, accessible to all employees of the Bank. This
Leadership Development helpline facility has, over the years, provided crucial
support to employees and their immediate family members
Leadership Development Programmes and Leadership during exigencies. To cater to emergencies, the Bank also
Engagement Sessions are conducted on a regular basis has a dedicated Quick Response Team (QRT) to assist
at the Bank. employees if they are in any distress. Each QRT is a
GPS-enabled vehicle, equipped with a stretcher and
The ‘Ignite' series is an ongoing initiative designed to other equipment.
keep the employees abreast with breakthroughs in the
domains of leadership, digital transformation, data To facilitate quick medical attention for employees in
science and behavioural economics. The sessions provide medical emergencies, the Bank has tie-ups with more
an opportunity to teams to engage with domain experts than 100 hospitals in key cities across the country. The
and thought leaders in these areas. Bank also provides comprehensive insurance coverage for
54
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
HUMAN CAPITAL
Redressal) Act, 2013. The Bank has created awareness
EMPOWERING WOMEN EMPLOYEES about the Act through mandatory e-learning at the time
of induction. The Bank also regularly communicates
with employees regarding the mechanism for raising
Travel
complaints and the need for right conduct by all
Accompaniment
employees. The policy ensures that all such complaints are
handled promptly and effectively with utmost sensitivity
Maternity Child Care
and confidentiality, and are resolved within defined
Leave Leave
timelines. For other workplace issues, the Bank has a
structured mechanism to resolve them. The Call@I-Care
provides employees with a platform to deal with their
Fertility Leave Adoption Leave queries and concerns.
EMPLOYEE CONNECT AND
all employees, across all grades. Group insurance facility
ENGAGEMENT
includes both the Personal Accidental Insurance Scheme
as well as the Group Life Insurance Scheme. The Bank also
facilitates a Parental Insurance Scheme at preferential ICICI Bank believes in creating a culture of free and
rates for its employees. open conversations. Forums of engagement have been
created where employees can engage with senior
ICICI Bank has also set in place a robust grievance handling leadership of the Bank and seek clarification on policy
mechanism to ensure that it is accessible to all employees. and strategy.
Known as I-Care, this centralised and dedicated team
is equipped to handle employee queries and strives to Leadership Engagement Sessions
provide a speedy resolution.
The Bank's senior management regularly engages with
The Bank's philosophy of meritocracy and equal employees physically and virtually to emphasise the
opportunity has led to a significant number of key Bank’s cultural anchors including ethical conduct,
positions being held by women employees over the last adherence to regulations and compliance. Business
two decades. Conscious of life stage needs and safety of centre visits are also an important part of the
women employees, a range of benefits and policies have communication agenda. Employees are also kept
been curated. In addition to maternity leave, employees updated on the strategy and performance and progress
have access to child care leave and adoption leave. The of the Bank through quarterly engagement on financial
Bank has a Travel Accompaniment Policy which allows performance by the Executive Director with the
women with young children to be accompanied by their leadership team.
child and a caregiver during official travel, with the cost
borne by the Bank. Coffee & Conversation
The Bank also has a policy designed to provide financial Through the initiative of 'Coffee and Conversation',
support to employees who have children with special supervisors and HR managers engage with their teams
needs. Under this policy, the Bank covers expenses and new joiners on a regular basis. They cover different
incurred on improving the quality of life of employee’s areas like ICICI Bank's culture, importance of respect and
children with special needs through specialised dignity in all engagements, and abiding by internal policy
education (at home or through a special-needs school), commitments on diversity and human rights.
specialised therapy, specialised equipment and periodic
treatment, if required (at hospital or at home). I-Engage
At the Bank, sexual harassment cases are handled as Onboarding sessions are conducted by Business and
per the guidelines set under The Sexual Harassment HR managers to induct all new hires to the Bank's culture
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & and systems.
55
Annual Report 2022-23
HUMAN CAPITAL
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
ICICI Bank is committed to nurturing and promoting a culture of diversity, equity and inclusion. Our inclusive
culture, free from any biases, enables employees to work effectively.
To maintain our culture of diversity and equity, the objectives of our DE&I initiatives are:
• Promote a culture of DE&I (Diversity, Equity & Inclusion) across the Bank
• Ensure that ICICI continues to be an employer for diverse groups
• Maintain an environment of inclusion for all its employees
• Maintain a culture of no discrimination
The Bank is also committed to promote and respect human rights. The Bank has put in place policies to
provide an enabling and harassment-free work environment that respects and upholds individual dignity.
The Bank's Human Rights Policy is aligned with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights (UNGP) and International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and
Rights at Work.
DIGITAL@HR
To deliver superior service at scale, our ethos of care and our strength of technology came together to craft an intuitive
and seamless experience for our employees.
Universe on the Move – the employee app
As an integrated workplace technology solution
Geo-fencing sign-in
for HR and business transactions, the ‘Universe on
the Move' (UOTM) mobile application makes life
simple for employees every day – helping employees
complete HR and business transactions on the go.
Most employee services are available easily through Communication banners
the Universe on the Move app at the click of a button.
What makes UOTM unique is that it also integrates
Birthday feature
business transactions – such as facility to provide
business approvals or logging customer leads – in a
seamless manner. Investment declaration
Leave/ muster
Features
Business enablers
Lead Corporate ATM
iMaintain
creation ecosystem vault feedback
56
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
HUMAN CAPITAL
LEARNING MATRIX – AI-ENABLED LEARNING ON THE GO
Easier search & recommendation
Learning calendar
AI-curated open content
Social learning
Feedback surveys
Leaderboard for learners
Learning Matrix experience from the application stage to the onboarding
stage. Candidates can easily apply for relevant jobs at the
For any learning-focussed organisation, constant click of a button and be updated with real-time progress
skilling, re-skilling, up-skilling and capability building of their job application. At any juncture, candidates can
are key factors to enable employees to serve evolving reach out for support – through a comprehensive service
customer needs. The Learning Matrix is an AI-enabled platform integrating chat, calls and emails offering a
digital learning platform with a rich online library and seamless journey to aspiring ICICIans.
with features like leaderboard, social learning and
access to curated open content. This AI-powered ICICI Bank Alumni Portal
platform recommends personalised learning programmes
and helps curate content based on in-platform feedback. The ICICI Bank Alumni Portal is a digital platform which
The Learning Matrix offers an intuitive and engaging provides ex-employees with a smooth relieving experience
learning experience to employees on the go. and access to important documentation after their exit
from the Bank.
ICICI Careers
As employee needs evolve, the Bank is committed to
To attract the best talent, the Bank has created a serve employees with passion and care.
digital careers platform to provide aspirants a seamless
57
Annual Report 2022-23
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
An ongoing engagement with our stakeholders is important for the
Bank to understand matters relevant to them and create sustainable
value for all.
The Bank continuously endeavours to understand The Bank holds regular interactions with customers,
the concerns and opinions expressed by stakeholders investors, employees, regulators and engages with
and respond to them promptly. communities and banking associations to remain informed.
CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT THROUGH CSR
Trainees during
a session at ICICI
Academy for Skills
in Bengaluru.
A farmer in Daska
village in Sangrur
district, Punjab
removing stubble
from his field.
A beneficiary
of the ‘Oilseed
Value Chain’ at a
sunflower farm at
Dhanora village
in Latur district,
Maharashtra.
Solar panel
installation
in a school at
Mawbri village
in Ribhoi district,
Meghalya.
58
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
ENGAGING WITH OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS
Customers
We are committed to understanding the requirements and expectations of our customers, and continuously
engage with them to shape Customer 360° experiences.
How Do We Engage Our Response
We engage through multiple channels like The Bank has put in place mechanisms to ensure customer
their interaction with our frontline employees, needs are appropriately addressed and right-selling of
structured surveys for seeking feedback, products and services are ensured. Reiterating the principle
customer meets organised at business centres of 'Fair to Customer, Fair to the Bank' in every communication
and channels available for raising queries and to employees, the approach is to only offer products that
grievances. meet requirements of a customer. In the past, the Bank has
withdrawn products that could potentially lead to mis-selling
Subjects considered important by our
and inconvenience the customer. In line with the above principle,
customers:
the Bank has also moderated prepayment fee for certain
• Convenience
products/segments.
• Responsive, skilled and considerate staff
• Availability of relevant products and The Bank has a dedicated customer service team focussed
services on improving process efficiency, reducing customer effort and
• Quick resolution of queries, requests leveraging technology to enhance customer experience and
raised and grievance redressal response time. This is accompanied with continuous upskilling
and knowledge building of staff. The Bank strongly follows a
policy of zero tolerance to unethical conduct by employees.
Shareholders/Investors
We believe that engaging with our shareholders and investors is important to understand market priorities
and drive business outcomes that can lead to sustainable value-creation for all stakeholders.
How Do We Engage Our Response
There is continuous engagement with our During fiscal 2023, the Bank significantly improved the return
investors and shareholders either through the on capital to shareholders. The Investor Relations team
annual general meeting, periodic conference provides details on the performance and strategic objectives
calls, analyst day event, emails or one-to-one of the Bank during quarterly result calls and endeavours
interactions. The Bank also has mechanisms
to enhance disclosures in the investor presentations on
to address queries and grievances of our
an ongoing basis depending on market conditions and
shareholders and investors.
investors’ feedback. Continuous engagement is ensured
Subjects considered important by our including meetings with the senior management. The team
shareholders/investors: also facilitates engagement with investors on topics like
• Shareholder value creation Environmental, Social and Governance to provide insights
• Medium and long-term strategy with regards to sustainability in the Bank’s own operations
• Governance and ethical practices and management of climate-related financial risks.
• Compliance
• Transparency
• Disclosure of non-financial metrics like
ESG
59
Annual Report 2022-23
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Society
The Bank is committed to contributing towards socio-economic development and, for the larger benefit of the
society, is undertaking corporate social responsibility activities across the length and breadth of the country.
How Do We Engage Our Response
The Bank set up its philanthropic arm, ICICI During fiscal 2023, the Bank spent `4.63 billion
Foundation for Inclusive Growth (ICICI towards CSR activities, and complied with the CSR rules under
Foundation), in 2008 for addressing critical the Companies Act, 2013. Environment and healthcare were
gaps in socio-economic development, important focus areas for the Bank's CSR activities. Extensive
particularly in rural areas in India. Rural work was undertaken in the areas of watershed management,
development initiatives are also being rainwater harvesting, promoting environment conservation
undertaken directly through the Bank's efforts and supporting healthcare facilities and access to affordable
in promoting financial inclusion and inclusive treatments.
growth. ICICI Foundation, through its team of
As a large financial institution, the Bank recognises the
about 800 people at the end of fiscal 2023,
importance of engaging with its value chain partners on ESG. In
extensively engages with local authorities and
fiscal 2023, the Bank developed a supplier code of conduct and
people to understand needs and development
also checklists on ESG factors for onboarding of new vendors.
gaps.
The Bank has started engaging with its vendors to sensitise
Subjects considered important by local and build awareness regarding ESG, the need for adopting
authorities: green procurement standards and promote social factors like
• The key asks have been to address need human rights, diversity, equity and inclusion.
for health facilities, overcome water
shortage and prevent environment
degradation
Regulators
Being a systemically important bank in India, ensuring resilience and stability is important for the Bank.
How Do We Engage Our Response
Our engagement with the regulators is The Bank has a dedicated team for communicating with
ongoing, through periodic meetings and other regulators and responding to their specific requirements in a
forms of communications like emails, letters, time-bound manner. The Bank has well-defined processes and
etc. The Bank also engages constructively is leveraging technology to ensure monitoring and compliance
in policy forums organised by the regulator to regulatory developments. The Bank has increased focus on
and also respond to policy-related discussion building resilience and also participates in initiatives undertaken
papers issued by the regulator. by the regulator.
Subjects considered important by regulator:
• Fair treatment of customers and grievance
redressal
• Anti-money laundering and fraud risk
• Operational risk including IT and
cybersecurity risk
• Financial stability and resilience
• Data, information and reporting quality
60
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Employees
Employees are the most important capital for the success of our strategy and growth of the organisation.
We believe in providing an inclusive workplace, driven by meritocracy and equal opportunities to all.
How Do We Engage Our Response
Engagement with employees was through In the last two years, the Bank has significantly reorganised
various platforms including townhall sessions its workforce with new roles aligned to market opportunities.
with Directors, periodic communication Promoting job rotation and encouraging employees to move
meetings and business centre visits by senior across roles is helping the Bank in providing career growth to
leaders, an employee app, Universe on the employees. The Bank believes in giving responsibility to young
Move and query raising portal. capable professionals ahead of time and support them in their
next career move early on in their career. Learning and skill
Subjects considered important by our
development is an important value proposition provided to
employees:
employees. The focus of skill development initiatives is on
• Risk and compliance culture
digital, functional and behavioural learning. The Bank has a
• Enabling work culture with opportunities fair compensation policy which aligns rewards with prudent
for growth and learning risk taking. Care and well-being of employees is a key focus
• Culture of experimentation area and the Bank has established policies in this regard. The
Bank has a culture where employees can raise issues freely
• Meritocracy
and expect their grievances/concerns will be handled in a
• Responsive grievance handling process
sensitive manner.
For more details on the Bank's HR practices, please refer to page 52 and the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report.
CORPORATE SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
During fiscal 2023, the Bank spent `4.63 billion
towards CSR activities. Major focus areas for CSR
were healthcare, environment, societal development
and supporting sustainable livelihoods. The Bank’s
philanthropic arm, the ICICI Foundation for Inclusive
Growth (ICICI Foundation), has been the primary
implementing partner and for undertaking desired
socio-economic interventions. Over the years, ICICI
Foundation has developed capabilities to understand
requirements at the grassroot level and designing
activities or projects to create maximum impact. These
projects range from addressing issues of resource
shortages, value chain development for agricultural
products to imparting skilled training in smart
agricultural practices and other areas.
Brood lac distribution to the beneficiaries of 'Lac Value Chain'
at Burhabahera village in Ranchi district, Jharkhand.
61
Annual Report 2022-23
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
FOUR MAJOR FOCUS AREAS OF ICICI FOUNDATION
Affordable and Accessible Healthcare Sustainable Environment and Ecology
Providing ambulances, healthcare Tree plantation, sustainable forests,
equipment and supporting treatment to watershed management, rainwater
underprivileged individuals
harvesting and promoting renewable
energy capacity
Inclusive Approach for Societal Income Growth of Underprivileged
Development Skill development in urban and rural
Promoting education, sports, areas, value chain development, climate
entrepreneurship, support to armed smart agriculture, Rural Self-Employment
forces, disaster relief and projects Training Institutes
undertaken in aspirational districts
Through these activities, ICICI Foundation has impacted Some major efforts in the areas of health and
the lives of about 10.9 million people across the length environment during fiscal 2023 were as follows:
and breadth of the country. The efforts have been taken
in 250 districts spread across the 36 states and union Affordable and Accessible Healthcare
territories of India. Projects in areas like watershed
management, value chain enhancement, afforestation, Healthcare came into sharper focus following the
sanitation, skilling, responsible waste management Covid-19 pandemic, when the need to significantly
and others have been taken up in 38 districts out of strengthen the health infrastructure in the country was
the 112 districts identified under the Government's recognised. Through the ICICI Foundation, the Bank
Aspirational Districts Programme. continued to take several measures like providing
Dialysis machine donated at Sidhagiri Hospital in Kolhapur, Maharashtra.
62
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Sustainable Environment and Ecology
Environmental and ecological protection has become
a critical developmental need for India, as several
regions face challenges of water shortage, decline in
soil quality and productivity of crops, and the need to
increase forest cover and create carbon sinks. The team
at ICICI Foundation engages with the local authorities
and administration to understand the challenges and
evaluate corrective measures that could be undertaken.
Several projects relating to water conservation and
rejuvenating water bodies have been undertaken. In
fiscal 2023, the water body rejuvenation implemented
projects had the potential for harvesting 8.4 billion litres
per annum of water, and rainwater harvesting projects
Blood donation camp organised at ICICI Bank's zonal office in undertaken at 3,500 rural government schools had the
Jaipur, Rajasthan. potential to harvest 740 million litres of water. Overall,
till date ICICI Foundation’s efforts has created 17.1 billion
litres of water harvesting potential in the country, much
of which are in water scarce areas.
ambulances, blood donation and blood transport
vehicles, dialysis machines and other health equipment
to government and charitable institutions. Support
was provided to underprivileged individuals for cancer
care, bone marrow transplant, eye checkups and organ
transplants. During fiscal 2023, over 200 hospitals and
over 800,000 individuals benefitted from our healthcare
initiatives.
The Bank has committed to support the Tata Memorial
Centre (TMC) for expanding cancer treatment facility in
the country. The commitment of `12 billion over the next
four years is towards three centres being established
in Maharashtra, Punjab and Andhra Pradesh, and is
expected to double the capacity for treatment by TMC.
Distribution of smokeless cookstove, as part of a green initiative,
at Kunariya village in Kutch district, Gujarat.
63
Annual Report 2022-23
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
FINANCIAL INCLUSION AND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
INITIATIVES
There are specific segments of the rural economy that
require a more supportive and sensitive response to
their financial requirements and the Bank has taken
initiatives to address the needs of such segments. The
Self-Help Groups (SHGs) programme is an initiative that
has contributed to entrepreneurship among women in the
rural areas. A comprehensive suite of banking products,
Lantena, a non-edible weed, being removed at the Bandipur including zero-balance savings account and term loans,
Tiger Reserve in Karnataka to help promote the growth of
for meeting the business requirements of the women
native plants and provide wildlife with access to food.
of these SHGs is provided. Services are offered at their
doorstep, thus saving their time, money and effort to visit
More than 2.6 million trees have been planted till date the closest business centre.
and interventions in 42 forest reserves have been made
by way of creating water bodies, habitat restoration, ICICI Bank is also organising financial literacy camps
weed removal and addressing man-wildlife conflicts and has set up dedicated service desks at select
and protect biodiversity. business centres to guide SHGs on banking procedures.
There has been a gradual rise in entrepreneurial
For more details on ICICI Foundation’s activities, refer to the ventures by women in the areas where the Bank has
Bank’s ESG Report for fiscal 2023. been providing such services to SHGs. In addition to
direct efforts in reaching out to SHGs, the Bank has tied
up with about 546 non-government organisations
called Self-Help Promoting Institutions (SHPIs).
The Bank’s CSR expenses in the four major areas
The Bank has provided loans to women beneficiaries
during fiscal 2023 were:
through over 785,000 SHG loans until March 31, 2023.
Of these, 337,000 SHGs were ‘first time borrowers’,
`1.84 billion
who had not taken a loan from any formal financial
institution. In addition to direct customers, the Bank
Sustainable environment and ecology
reaches out to about 2.5 million customers through
microfinance institutions. The Bank also provides lending
`1.06 billion to Joint Liability Groups (JLGs), which are semi-formal
groups from the weaker sections of society, through
microfinance companies. The lending activities are
Affordable and accessible healthcare
undertaken within the overall framework prescribed by
the RBI. The Bank also offers credit-related services to
`0.76 billion microfinance companies for onward lending to the rural
population.
Income growth of underprivileged
At March 31, 2023, the Bank had over 21.1 million Basic
Savings Bank Deposit Accounts (BSBDA), of which
`0.74 billion
around 4.4 million accounts were opened under the
Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. The Bank encourages
Inclusive approach for societal development and enables these account holders to transact digitally.
64
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Digital Banking Unit (DBU)
Digital Banking Units (DBU) with the objective of
encouraging customers to undertake and experience the
Technology has played a key enabler in fostering financial benefits of digital transactions. The DBUs are primarily
inclusion. The delivery of financial services in remote fixed-point business units for delivering digital banking
unbanked and under-banked areas has been products and services, with most services made available
made possible due to digitisation. In fiscal 2023, in self-service mode. The Bank set up four such DBUs
the Government of India announced the launch of which were launched in October 2022.
Key performance parameters of the DBUs during October 2022-March 2023 were as follows:
List of Activities Number
No. of accounts opened 326
No. of credit cards 181
No. of loans 52
Count of financial transactions 33,444
Count of non-financial transactions 2,068
No. of frauds Nil
No. of grievances received 6
No. of digital awareness/literacy camps arranged 51
65
Annual Report 2022-23
ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY
The Bank is committed to adapting to emerging trends that will
shape the nation's transition to a low-carbon economy, with
appropriate assessment of risks and opportunities in delivering on
the objectives.
The Bank's efforts in promoting environmental be uniformly applied to classify financial products and
sustainability is in three strategic areas including services offered by the Bank as sustainable finance. The
sustainable financing, in its own operations and framework specifies the eligibility criteria, the applicable
corporate social responsibility. due diligence requirements and the verification process
for sustainable finance. The framework also aims to
SUSTAINABLE FINANCING establish a consistent and comprehensive methodology
for the classification and reporting of the Bank’s credit
During fiscal 2023, the Bank made further efforts to facilities as sustainable.
embed sustainable financing in its business strategy.
Consideration of Environmental, Social and Governance At March 31, 2023, the Bank's outstanding portfolio to
(ESG) aspect in the Bank’s lending decisions and risk sectors like renewable energy, electric vehicles, green
management framework are important factors and certified real estate, waste management, water and
various approaches have been implemented. The Social sanitation, positive impact sectors like small-scale khadi,
and Environmental Management Framework (SEMF) handicrafts and lending to weaker section under priority
requires analysis of specific environmental and social sector norms was about `556.00 billion. Of this, the
risks as part of the overall credit appraisal process for green financing portfolio accounted for about 21.4%.
assessing new project financing proposals. Key elements
of the assessment include screening through an exclusion
list drawn broadly from guidance by the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) and the list of highly polluting SUSTAINABLE FINANCING
sectors published by the Ministry of Environment,
Forests & Climate Change (MOEFCC) in India, seeking a
declaration from borrowers and independent due
diligence as per the criteria defined in the SEMF.
As part of the credit evaluation process for all large
corporate lending proposals, borrower ESG scores from
external agencies, if available, are considered. Further,
the Bank has developed sector-specific checklists
to facilitate assessment of ESG and climate-related
physical and transition risks that a borrower in
sectors like power, transportation, cement, steel and
others could be exposed to. This helps the Bank in
profiling borrowers as ‘High’, ‘Medium’ and ‘Low’, based
on their ESG-related risks and maturity in terms of
policies and processes deployed to address these risks.
During fiscal 2023, the Bank developed a framework for
Sustainable Financing, aimed at providing guidance on
green/social (sustainable)/sustainability-linked lending. It
outlines the methodology and associated procedures to
66
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY
ADDRESSING CLIMATE-RELATED
Further, the rapidly evolving regulations, policies,
RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES technology and law on climate change and climate
action could significantly impact lending practices
Climate change and its impact on the economy and as well as enhance associated risks for the Bank.
financial systems is a tangible risk and requires close Navigating through this dynamic environment is crucial
monitoring. The Bank’s approach to analysing climate for the Bank's sustainable growth. The Bank will pro-
risks include developing methods to integrate climate risk actively integrate these risks into the Bank's credit
in the risk management framework and begin testing the evaluation process. Further, risks could arise with
resilience of the lending portfolio to climate risks which changing investor and customer expectations. The Bank
can be categorised into transition and physical risks. is cognisant of transition from fossil fuel-based energy
to renewable sources, and will capitalise on business
The Bank has formulated an approach to address risks opportunities in this transition based on selection of
emanating from climate change, as part of its Climate counterparty and appropriate risk-return in accordance
Risk Management Framework. The scope of the with the Enterprise Risk Management framework.
framework comprises assessment of impact of climate
change on the Bank’s own operations, climate risk The Bank has emphasised the need to sharpening the
management of the Bank’s loan book and integration of focus on measuring its carbon footprint. During fiscal
material climate risks into the existing risk management 2023, evaluating Scope 3 emissions in own operations
framework. The framework will be periodically reviewed was taken up and the Bank is considering various pilot
for aligning with regulatory guidance on climate risks. projects to assess key data and information requirements
As climate risk management is at a nascent stage in the for calculating carbon and GHG (Greenhouse Gas)
Indian banking industry and regulations in this regard emissions in accordance with established protocols.
are being formulated, the Bank will ensure that gradually
the approaches evolve and get refined for integration of
climate risk management within the risk management
framework.
Key Focus Areas for Addressing Climate Risks
Own Operations Sustainable Financing Risk Management
The Bank is working towards The Bank has developed a framework The Bank has formulated an approach
reducing its Scope 1 and Scope 2 for Sustainable Financing, which to address risks emanating from
emissions. A roadmap to reduce provides guidance on eligibility criteria climate change, as part of a Climate
Scope 2 emissions and the for sustainable/sustainability-linked Risk Management Framework
overall emission intensity is being lending, guidance on assessment of which comprises assessment of
pursued. The Bank is in the process facilities, monitoring and reporting impact of climate change on the
of evaluating Scope 3 emissions of such facilities. This is the first step Bank’s own operations, climate risk
from own operations. The Bank is towards bringing sharper focus in the management of the Bank’s loan
working towards identifying and Bank's sustainable lending practices. book and integration of material
putting in place the elements climate risks into the existing risk
required to achieve carbon The Bank is also committed to management framework.
neutrality in own operations. extending its expertise to customers
that are transitioning to decarbonise The Bank has been participating
their business activities. in pilots conducted by the regulator
to evaluate impact of climate-related
financial risks on the Indian
banking sector.
67
Annual Report 2022-23
ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY
To facilitate the above initiatives in the Bank, developing Bank has developed a Suppliers' Code of Conduct.
proficiency in understanding ESG-related risks and The Code encourages vendors to adopt sustainable
opportunities, and evaluation of ESG/climate-related practices like efficient use of energy and water,
risks has been embedded into the training imparted to waste management, and embed good practices like
a core team within the risk management group and occupational health and safety, human rights and
other critical functions. others in their operations.
ENVIRONMENTAL SENSITIVITY IN • The Bank has developed Green Procurement
standards to promote purchase of environment-
OWN OPERATIONS
friendly goods.
The Bank's ESG Policy emphasises its commitment to
conduct business sustainably and efficiently, thereby • The Bank has shifted to using FSC (Forest
reducing the environmental impact from own premises Stewardship Council) certified recycled paper for
and operations. The key areas of focus are digitisation, pre-print forms at its branches. This provides about
minimising GHG emissions, energy conservation, water 37% reduction in carbon emissions compared to
conservation, waste management and sustainable conventional paper.
procurement.
• The Bank increased the proportion of renewable
During fiscal 2023, efforts were further expanded to energy in total electricity consumption from 7.0% in
identify and address critical areas to decarbonise own fiscal 2022 to 9.0% in fiscal 2023.
operations. Some key efforts included:
• The Bank has shifted to use of electric vehicles *tCOe - Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
2
for transport of Bank's staff at specific locations
where call-centres are present. On an average,
about 66,000 kms is covered every month which
provides an abatement of approximately 15 tCO e*
2
on a monthly basis.
• The Bank has commissioned a 500 litres per day
capacity machine for converting atmospheric
moisture into clean potable water at one of the data
centres. The water-from-air system is approved by
the Environmental Protection Training and Research
Institute as an environment-friendly technology. The
machine produces approximately 350 litres of water
per day and has significantly eliminated reliance on
packaged drinking water.
• The Bank has set up charging stations for electric
vehicles at the ICICI Service Centre (Corporate Office)
and the learning centre at Khandala. Both these are
in Maharashtra.
• To strengthen engagement of the Bank’s
The charging station for electric vehicles at ICICI Service Centre
Infrastructure Management and Services Group
in Bandra-Kurla Complex, Mumbai.
(IMSG) with vendors on ESG and sustainability, the
68
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY
• ICICI Bank’s largest office premise at Gachibowli
in Hyderabad, was awarded the ‘Platinum’ rating
in the Green Existing Building category by the
IGBC* (Indian Green Building Council). The rating
is focussed on sustained performance of buildings
with respect to the enabling of green features which
includes sourcing of 100% electricity from renewable
energy sources, 100% recycling and reuse of the
waste water, 3-stage high efficiency air filtration
system to improve indoor air quality, at least 70%
recycling and reuse of food waste and adoption of
electric vehicle fleet for transportation. With this, by
the end of fiscal 2023, about 4.42 million square feet
(34% of the Bank’s total own area) is IGBC green
certified, up from 2.28 million square feet at the end
of fiscal 2019.
To facilitate the above, in addition to creating
awareness within the IMSG and training the relevant
ICICI Bank office at Gachibowli, Hyderabad, rated 'Platinum' by
team members, engagement with vendors of IMSG was
IGBC in 'Green Existing Building' category (inset: IGBC Plaque).
undertaken during fiscal 2023 to create awareness
about the Bank's approach on adoption of sustainable
practices and to communicate the Bank’s intent to
evaluate them on environmental and social factors.
Promoting Environment and Sustainability Through CSR
As part of CSR initiatives being carried out through ICICI Foundation, ICICI Bank has extensively
supported efforts for environmental protection and improving biodiversity. Projects have been executed
in the areas of water conservation, forest conservation and afforestation and protecting biodiversity,
which are contributing towards restoring ecological balance in the areas of intervention.
Additionally, projects have been undertaken to significantly abate carbon emissions. These include:
• Working with farmers in 600 villages in northern India to stop burning crop residue/stubble that
causes significant pollution during October-November every year. Through the efforts, these
villages have been freed from pollution caused by the stubble (Parali) burning, and creating a
positive impact of abating 1.92 million tonnes of CO emissions and 0.19 million tonnes of carbon
2
monoxide. The impact and emission reduction was assessed by Punjab Agricultural University.
• As part of waste management initiatives, about 200 electric vehicles were provided to civic
authorities for garbage collection. This averted at least 500 tonnes of CO emissions during the year.
2
There are several other interventions as part of CSR activities, where the Bank has not evaluated the
impact on reduction of GHG emissions.
*The Indian Green Building Council (IGBC), part of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), is the country’s premier body for green
building certification. The ratings are awarded based on assessment of energy efficiency, use of renewable energy, water conservation,
waste management, indoor air quality and sustainable sourcing of material. IGBC rating levels (in ascending order) are: Certified, Silver,
Gold and Platinum.
69
Annual Report 2022-23
ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY
The Bank’s GHG emissions in its own operations in fiscal
2023 were:
Emission Category Value (tCO e4)
2
Owned cars (Scope 1) 4.53
High speed diesel consumption in 6,413.64
DGs (Scope 1)
Refrigerant emissions (Scope 1) 16,552.92
Fire extinguishers (Scope 1) 844.12
Electricity purchased (Scope 2) 125,950.45
Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal
In ‘000 tCO e
2 2021 2022 2023
During fiscal 2023, the Bank expanded its efforts Scope 1 23 26 24
to identify and address critical areas to decarbonise Scope 2 114 116 126
its operations
Scope 33 (business travel) - - 18
Total 137 142 168
Emission intensity for total
GHG EMISSIONS IN OWN
Scope 1 and Scope 2 (in
OPERATIONS tCO e per ` crore turnover) 1.40 1.36 1.16
2
The Bank continued with its practice to get an Emissions intensity for total
independent assurance of the Bank’s Scope 11 and Scope 1 and Scope 2
(in tCO e per FTE5 employee) 1.39 1.35 1.16
Scope 22 emissions undertaken. For fiscal 2023, the 2
limited assurance assignment was taken up by DNV
Business Assurance India Private Limited for the Bank’s
operations being carried out at its towers, data centres, While the Bank is yet to announce a target for
business centres and offices. The limited assurance of carbon neutrality/net zero, the above efforts are a
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for fiscal 2022 was reflection of the deep-rooted commitment to managing
conducted by TUV India Private Limited. the impact of our operations on the environment.
1 Scope 1 emissions include CO emissions from the combustion of fuel in diesel-generating sets and company-owned vehicles,
2
emissions due to loss of refrigerants and emissions due to CO based fire extinguishers. The emissions from diesel-generating sets was
2
estimated using the spend-based method. The emissions from fire extinguishers and owned vehicles was based on actual consumption.
2 Scope 2 emissions are due to electricity purchased from the grid. The estimation was based on actual consumption of electricity, and
using the grid emission factor published by the Central Electricity Authority, India.
3 Scope 3 emissions have been estimated for business-related travel by employees through modes like aircraft, train, buses, and cars.
Emissions from hotel stay during such travel is not included. As per internal estimates, air travel contributed the highest emissions
followed by car travel. For the purpose, DEFRA (Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) 2022 emission factors have been
considered.
4 tCOe - Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
2
5 One Full Time Equivalent (FTE) employee - One full time employee working on a full time schedule over the year.
70
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting the Twenty-Ninth Annual Report of ICICI Bank Limited (ICICI Bank/the Bank)
along with the audited financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
The financial performance for fiscal 2023 is summarised in the following table:
` in billion, except percentages Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2023 % change
Net interest income and non-interest income 650.80 820.12 26.0%
Operating expenses 267.33 328.73 23.0%
Core operating profit 383.47 491.39 28.1%
Provisions and contingencies (excluding tax) 86.41 66.66 (22.9)%
Profit before tax excluding treasury gains 297.06 424.73 43.0%
Treasury gains 9.03 (0.52) (105.8)%
Profit before tax 306.09 424.21 38.6%
Tax 72.70 105.25 44.8%
Profit after tax 233.39 318.96 36.7%
` in billion, except percentages Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2023 % change
Consolidated profit before tax and minority interest 349.96 472.55 35.0%
Consolidated profit after tax and minority interest 251.10 340.37 35.6%
DIVIDEND
Your Bank has a consistent dividend payment history. Your Bank’s Dividend Distribution Policy is based on the profitability
and key financial metrics, capital position & requirements and the regulations pertaining to the payment of dividend. The
Board of Directors has recommended a dividend of ` 8.00 per equity share for the year ended March 31, 2023.
APPROPRIATIONS
The Bank has appropriated accumulated profit as follows:
` in billion Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2023
Profit after tax 233.39 318.96
Profit brought forward 310.09 436.71
Accumulated profit (before appropriations) 543.48 755.67
Appropriations:
To Statutory Reserve, making in all ` 435.78 billion 58.35 79.74
To Special Reserve created and maintained in terms of Section 36(1)(viii) of
the Income Tax Act, 1961, making in all ` 154.49 billion 15.00 25.65
To Capital Reserve, making in all ` 150.42 billion 15.741 0.88
To Investment Fluctuation Reserve, making in all ` 21.76 billion2 3.83 1.04
To Revenue and other reserves, making in all ` 109.37 billion 0.00 50.00
Dividend paid on equity shares3 13.85 34.79
Balance carried over to balance sheet 436.71 563.57
1 The Bank had shifted certain securities from held-to-maturity (HTM) category to available-for-sale (AFS) category on May 3, 2017.
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) through its order dated May 3, 2021 directed the Bank to appropriate the net profit made on sale of these
investments during fiscal 2018 to capital reserve. Accordingly, an amount of ` 15.09 billion was transferred from balance in profit and
loss account to capital reserve during fiscal 2022.
71
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
2 Represents an amount transferred to Investment Fluctuation PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES
Reserve (IFR) on net profit on sale of AFS and held-for-trading OR INVESTMENTS
(HFT) investments during the period. The amount not less
Pursuant to Section 186(11) of the Companies Act,
than the lower of net profit on sale of AFS and HFT category
2013, the provisions of Section 186 of the Companies
investments during the year or net profit for the year less
Act, 2013, except sub-section (1), do not apply to a
mandatory appropriations is required to be transferred to
IFR, until the amount of IFR is at least 2% of the HFT and AFS loan made, guarantee given or security provided by a
portfolio. The Bank can draw down balance available in IFR in banking company in the ordinary course of business. The
excess of 2% of its AFS and HFT portfolio. particulars of investments made by the Bank are disclosed
3 Represent dividend declared for previous financial year and paid in Schedule 8 of the financial statements as per the
in current financial year. applicable provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
The Bank prepares its financial statements in accordance
SUBSIDIARY, ASSOCIATE AND JOINT
with the applicable accounting standards, RBI guidelines
VENTURE COMPANIES
and other applicable laws/regulations. RBI, under its risk-
There was no change in the subsidiaries and associates
based supervision exercise, carries out the risk assessment
of the Bank during fiscal 2023. The Bank does not have
of the Bank on an annual basis. This assessment is
any joint venture company. As at March 31, 2023, your
undertaken for the position at March 31, 2023. As a Bank had following subsidiaries (15) and associate (9)
part of this assessment, RBI separately reviews asset companies:
classification and provisioning of credit facilities given
Name of the subsidiary company % of shares held
by the Bank to its borrowers. The divergences, if any, in
ICICI Bank UK PLC 100
classification or provisioning arising out of the supervisory ICICI Bank Canada 100
process are given effect to in the financial statements in ICICI Securities Limited1 74.85
subsequent periods after conclusion of the exercise. ICICI Securities Holdings, Inc.2 100
ICICI Securities, Inc.3 100
In terms of the RBI circular no. DBR.BP.BC.No.32/
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership
21.04.018/2018-19 dated April 1, 2019, banks are
Limited 100
required to disclose the divergences in asset classification ICICI Venture Funds Management
and provisioning consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory Company Limited 100
process in their notes to accounts to the financial ICICI Home Finance Company
statements, wherever either (a) the additional provisioning Limited 100
ICICI Trusteeship Services Limited 100
requirements assessed by RBI exceed 10% of the reported
ICICI Investment Management
net profits before provisions and contingencies or (b) the
Company Limited 100
additional gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 15% of the
ICICI International Limited 100
published incremental gross NPAs for the reference period,
ICICI Prudential Pension Funds
or both. Based on the condition mentioned in the RBI Management Company Limited4 100
circular, no disclosure on divergence in asset classification ICICI Prudential Life Insurance
and provisioning for NPAs is required with respect to RBI’s Company Limited 51.27
supervisory process for fiscal 2022. ICICI Prudential Asset Management
Company Limited 51.00
ICICI Prudential Trust Limited 50.80
SHARE CAPITAL
1 The Board of Directors of the Bank on June 29, 2023 have
During the year under review, the Bank allotted 34,044,356
approved the draft scheme of arrangement for delisting of
equity shares of ` 2.00 each pursuant to exercise of stock equity shares of ICICI Securities Limited (ISEC) by issuing equity
options under the ICICI Bank Employees Stock Option shares of the Bank to the public shareholders of ISEC in lieu of
cancellation of their equity shares in ISEC, thereby making ISEC
Scheme - 2000. For details refer to Schedule 1 of the
a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank, in accordance with
financial statements. Chapter VI, Part C, Regulation 37 of the Securities and Exchange
72
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021, 12 - Additional information to consolidated accounts” of
subject to receipt of requisite approvals. this Annual Report. A summary of key financials of the
2 ICICI Securities Holdings, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of Bank’s subsidiaries is also given in “Statement Pursuant
ICICI Securities Limited.
to Section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013” of this Annual
3 ICICI Securities, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of ICICI Report.
Securities Holdings, Inc.
The highlights of the performance of key subsidiaries are
4 ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company Limited
is a wholly owned subsidiary of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance given as a part of Management’s Discussion & Analysis
Company Limited. under the section “Consolidated financials as per Indian
GAAP”.
Name of the associate company % of shares held
ICICI Lombard General Insurance The Bank will make available separate audited financial
Company Limited1 48.02 statements of the subsidiaries to any Member upon
I-Process Services (India) Private request. These documents/details will be available on the
Limited2 19.00 Bank's website at https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/
NIIT Institute of Finance Banking and annual and will also be available for inspection by any
Insurance Training Limited 18.79 Member or trustee of the holder of any debentures of the
ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited 19.01 Bank. As required by Accounting Standard 21 (AS-21)
India Infradebt Limited 42.33 issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India,
Arteria Technologies Private Limited 19.98 the Bank’s consolidated financial statements included
Rajasthan Asset Management in this Annual Report incorporate the accounts of its
Company Private Limited3 24.30 subsidiaries and other consolidating entities.
OTC Exchange of India3 20.00
Falcon Tyres Limited3 26.39 SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS
PASSED BY THE REGULATORS OR COURTS
1 The Board of Directors of the Bank have approved an increase
in shareholding in ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company OR TRIBUNALS IMPACTING THE GOING
Limited, in multiple tranches up to 4.0% additional shareholding, CONCERN STATUS OF THE COMPANY AND
as permissible under applicable law, to ensure compliance with
ITS FUTURE OPERATIONS
the Section 19(2) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and
make it a subsidiary of the Bank, subject to receipt of necessary There are no significant and/or material orders passed by
regulatory approval(s). The Bank would acquire atleast 2.5% the regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going
stake out of the above 4.0% before September 9, 2024. As on
concern status or future operations of the Bank.
the date of this Report, necessary approval(s) are awaited.
2 The Board of Directors of the Bank have approved the proposal
MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENT
for making I-Process Services (India) Private Limited a wholly-
AFFECTING FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE
owned subsidiary of the Bank, subject to receipt of requisite
regulatory and statutory approval(s). As on the date of this BANK
Report, necessary approval(s) are awaited.
There are no material changes and commitments affecting
3 These companies are not considered as associates in the
the financial position of the Bank which have occurred
financial statements, in accordance with the provisions of
between the end of the financial year of the Bank to which
AS 23 on ‘Accounting for Investments in Associates in
Consolidated Financial Statements’. the financial statements relate and the date of this Report.
HIGHLIGHTS OF PERFORMANCE OF DIRECTORS AND OTHER KEY MANAGERIAL
SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT PERSONNEL
VENTURE COMPANIES AND THEIR
Changes in the composition of the Board of
CONTRIBUTION TO THE OVERALL Directors and other Key Managerial Personnel
PERFORMANCE OF THE COMPANY (KMP)
The performance of subsidiaries and associates and The Board at its Meeting held on April 23, 2022 and the
their contribution to the overall performance of the Bank Members at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on
as on March 31, 2023 is given in “Consolidated Financial August 30, 2022 approved the appointment of Rakesh
Statements of ICICI Bank Limited - Schedule 18 - Note Jha as a Wholetime Director (designated as Executive
73
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Director) for a period of five years effective May 1, 2022 or Director of the Bank for a second term commencing
the date of approval of his appointment by RBI, whichever from April 14, 2024 to April 13, 2027, subject to the
is later. Rakesh Jha ceased to be the Group Chief Financial approval of Members.
Officer effective May 1, 2022 and consequently KMP. RBI,
The resolutions for the above re-appointments are being
through its letter dated September 2, 2022, communicated
proposed in the Notice of the forthcoming AGM through
its approval for the appointment of Rakesh Jha as an
item nos. 6 to 8.
Executive Director of the Bank for a period of three years
from the date of its approval. Accordingly, Rakesh Jha The Board also at its Meeting held on May 28, 2023
assumed office as Executive Director and KMP effective noted that the Members had approved the appointment
September 2, 2022. The Board at its Meeting held on of Sandeep Batra as Executive Director of the Bank for a
April 23, 2022 approved the appointment of Anindya period of five years effective from the date of approval of
Banerjee as the Group Chief Financial Officer and KMP of RBI. The effective date of the same was from December 23,
the Bank with effect from May 1, 2022. 2020. The current tenure of Sandeep Batra as Executive
Director of the Bank as per RBI approval, which was for
The Board at its Meeting held on June 28, 2022 and the
three years, ends on December 22, 2023. Based on the
Members at the AGM held on August 30, 2022 approved
recommendation of the BGRNC, the Board approved the
the following:
re-appointment of Sandeep Batra as Executive Director of
(a) Re-appointment of Neelam Dhawan as an
the Bank for a further period of two years with effect from
Independent Director of the Bank for a second term
December 23, 2023 to December 22, 2025, subject to the
commencing from January 12, 2023 to January 11,
approval of RBI. This term of two years is within the five
2026.
years term as previously approved by the Members.
(b) Re-appointment of Uday Chitale as an Independent
Vishakha Mulye stepped down from her position as
Director of the Bank for a second term commencing
Executive Director with effect from May 31, 2022
from January 17, 2023 to October 19, 2024.
consequent to her decision to pursue career opportunities
(c) Re-appointment of Radhakrishnan Nair as an outside the ICICI Group. Anup Bagchi ceased to be a
Independent Director of the Bank for a second term Director of the Bank with effect from close of business
commencing from May 2, 2023 to May 1, 2026. hours on April 30, 2023 pursuant to his appointment as
Managing Director & CEO of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance
The Board at its Meeting held on October 22, 2022,
Company Limited with effect from June 19, 2023. To ensure
based on the recommendation of the Board Governance,
a seamless transition, he assumed the office of Executive
Remuneration & Nomination Committee (BGRNC),
Director & Chief Operating Officer of ICICI Prudential Life
approved the re-appointment of Sandeep Bakhshi as
Insurance Company Limited with effect from May 1, 2023.
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer of the Bank for
The Board acknowledges the valuable contribution and
a period of three years with effect from October 4, 2023 to
guidance provided by both the Directors.
October 3, 2026, subject to the approval of Members and
RBI. The re-appointment is being proposed in the Notice of The Board at its Meeting held on March 16, 2023, based
the forthcoming AGM through item no. 13. on the recommendation of the BGRNC, approved the
appointment of Prachiti Lalingkar as the Company
The Board at its Meeting held on May 28, 2023, based on the
Secretary & Compliance Officer and KMP of the Bank
recommendations of the BGRNC, approved the following:
effective April 1, 2023 pursuant to the superannuation
(a) Re-appointment of Hari L. Mundra as an Independent
of Ranganath Athreya in July 2023. Ranganath Athreya
Director of the Bank for a second term commencing
ceased to be the Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
from October 26, 2023 to October 25, 2024, subject
and KMP of the Bank with effect from close of business
to the approval of Members.
hours on March 31, 2023.
(b) Re-appointment of B. Sriram as an Independent
As on the date of this report, in terms of Section
Director of the Bank for a second term commencing
203(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, Sandeep Bakhshi,
from January 14, 2024 to January 13, 2027, subject to
Managing Director & CEO, Rakesh Jha, Executive
the approval of Members.
Director, Sandeep Batra, Executive Director, Anindya
(c) Re-appointment of S. Madhavan as an Independent Banerjee, Group Chief Financial Officer and Prachiti
74
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Lalingkar, Company Secretary are the Key Managerial re-appointment of the joint statutory auditors is proposed
Personnel of the Bank. to the Members in the Notice of the forthcoming AGM
through item nos. 4 and 5.
Declaration of Independence
There are no qualifications, reservation or adverse remarks
All Independent Directors have given declarations that
made by the joint statutory auditors in the audit report.
they meet the criteria of independence as laid down under
Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 as amended and Secretarial Auditors
Regulation 16 of the Securities and Exchange Board of
The Board appointed M/s. Parikh Parekh & Associates,
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
a firm of Company Secretaries in Practice to undertake
Regulations, 2015, as amended (SEBI Listing Regulations)
the Secretarial Audit of the Bank for fiscal 2023. The
which have been relied on by the Bank and were placed at
Secretarial Audit Report is annexed herewith as Annexure
the Board Meeting held on April 22, 2023. In the opinion of
A. There are no qualifications, reservation or adverse
the Board, the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions
remark or disclaimer made by the auditor in the report
specified in the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI Listing
save and except disclaimer made by them in discharge of
Regulations and are independent of the Management.
their professional obligation.
Retirement by rotation The Annual Secretarial Compliance Report for fiscal 2023
is available on the website of the Bank at https://www.
In terms of Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013,
icicibank.com/about-us/disclosures-to-stock-exchanges
Sandeep Bakhshi would retire by rotation at the
and on the websites of the stock exchanges i.e. BSE
forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offers himself for re-
Limited (BSE) at www.bseindia.com and National Stock
appointment.
Exchange of India Limited (NSE) at www.nseindia.com.
AUDITORS
Maintenance of Cost Records
Statutory Auditors Being a banking company, the Bank is not required
At the AGM held on August 30, 2022, the Members to maintain cost records as specified by the Central
Government under Section 148(1) of the Companies Act,
approved the re-appointment of M/s M S K A & Associates,
2013.
Chartered Accountants (hereinafter referred to as M S K A
& Associates) and M/s KKC & Associates LLP, Chartered
Reporting of Frauds by Auditors
Accountants (formerly M/s Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP),
(hereinafter referred to as KKC & Associates LLP) as the During the year under review, there were no instances of
joint statutory auditors to hold office from the conclusion fraud reported by the statutory auditors, branch auditors
of the Twenty-Eighth AGM till the conclusion of the and secretarial auditor under Section 143(12) of the
Twenty-Ninth AGM. As per the RBI guidelines, the joint Companies Act, 2013 to the Audit Committee or the Board
statutory auditors of the banking companies are allowed of Directors.
to continue for a period of three years, subject to fulfilling
the prescribed eligibility norms. Accordingly, M S K A & PERSONNEL
Associates, Chartered Accountants and KKC & Associates The statement containing particulars of employees as
LLP, Chartered Accountants would be eligible for required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act,
re-appointment at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM. 2013 read with Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment
Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
the Board has proposed the re-appointment of M S K A & is given in an Annexure and forms part of this report. In
Associates, Chartered Accountants and KKC & Associates terms of Section 136(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, the
LLP, Chartered Accountants as the joint statutory auditors annual report and the financial statements are being sent
for the year ending March 31, 2024 (fiscal 2024). The joint to the Members excluding the aforesaid Annexure. The
statutory auditors will hold office from the conclusion of Annexure is available for inspection and any Member
the forthcoming AGM till the conclusion of Thirtieth AGM. interested in obtaining a copy of the Annexure may write
Their re-appointment has been approved by RBI. The to the Company Secretary of the Bank.
75
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
INTERNAL CONTROL AND ITS ADEQUACY BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
The Bank has adequate internal controls and processes in
place with respect to its financial statements which provide The Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report as
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial stipulated under Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI Listing
reporting and the preparation of financial statements. Regulations will be hosted on the Bank’s website at
These controls and processes are driven through various (https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/annual) as part of
policies, procedures and certifications. The processes the green initiative of the Bank. Any Member interested in
and controls are reviewed periodically. The Bank has a obtaining a copy of the Report may write to the Company
mechanism of testing the controls at regular intervals for Secretary of the Bank.
their design and operating effectiveness to ascertain the
The Bank has been releasing the Environmental, Social
reliability and authenticity of financial information.
and Governance Report since fiscal 2020. The report for
fiscal 2023 will be hosted on the Bank’s website at (https://
DISCLOSURE UNDER FOREIGN EXCHANGE
www.icicibank.com/about-us/annual).
MANAGEMENT ACT, 1999
INTEGRATED REPORTING
The Bank has obtained a certificate from its statutory
auditors that it is in compliance with the Foreign Exchange The Bank has adopted the principles of the International
Management Act, 1999 provisions with respect to Integrated Reporting Framework as developed by the
investments made in its consolidated subsidiaries and International Integrated Reporting Council in its Annual
associates during fiscal 2023. Report since fiscal 2019. For accessing the Report for
fiscal 2023, please refer to the Integrated Report section
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS of the Annual Report 2022-23.
The Bank has a Board-approved Group Arm’s Length
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Policy which requires transactions with the group
companies to be at arm’s length. All the related party The Bank’s risk management framework is based on
transactions between the Bank and its related parties, a clear understanding of various risks, disciplined risk
entered during the year ended March 31, 2023, were on assessment & measurement procedures and continuous
arm’s length basis and were in the ordinary course of monitoring. The Board of Directors has oversight on all
the risks assumed by the Bank. Specific committees have
business.
been constituted to facilitate focused oversight of various
There were no related party transactions to be reported risks, as follows:
under Section 188(1) of the Companies Act 2013, in
• The Risk Committee of the Board, reviews, inter alia,
Form No. AOC-2, pursuant to Rule 8(2) of the Companies
risk management policies of the Bank pertaining to
(Accounts) Rules, 2014.
credit, market, liquidity, operational and outsourcing
All related party transactions as required under Accounting risks and business continuity management. The
Standard AS-18 are reported in note no. 46 of schedule Committee also reviews the Risk Appetite and
18 - Notes to Accounts of standalone financial statements Enterprise Risk Management frameworks, Internal
and note no. 2 of schedule 18 - Notes to Accounts of Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP)
consolidated financial statements of the Bank. and stress testing. The stress testing framework
includes a range of Bank-specific market (systemic)
The Bank has a Board-approved Related Party
and combined scenarios. The ICAAP exercise covers
Transactions Policy, which has been disclosed on the
the domestic and overseas operations of the Bank,
website of the Bank and can be viewed at (https://www.
banking subsidiaries and non-banking subsidiaries.
icicibank.com/about-us/other-policies).
The Committee reviews setting up of limits on any
industry or country, migration to the advanced
ANNUAL RETURN
approaches under Basel II and implementation
The Annual Return in Form No. MGT-7 will be hosted on of Basel Ill and the activities of the Asset Liability
the website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/ Management Committee. The Committee reviews the
about-us/annual). level and direction of major risks pertaining to credit,
76
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
market, liquidity, operationaI, reputation, technology, Group and Information Security Group. The Chief Risk
information security, compliance, group and capital Officer (CRO) reports to the Risk Committee constituted
at risk as a part of the risk dashboard. In addition, by the Board which reviews risk management policies of
the Committee has oversight on risks of subsidiaries the Bank. The CRO, for administrative purposes, reports to
covered under the Group Risk Management an Executive Director of the Bank. The above mentioned
Framework. The Risk Committee also reviews the groups are independent of all business operations and
Liquidity Contingency Plan for the Bank and the coordinate with representatives of the business units
various thresholds set out in the Plan. to implement the Bank’s risk management policies and
methodologies.
• The Credit Committee of the Board, apart from
sanctioning credit proposals based on the Bank’s The Internal Audit Group acts as an independent entity
credit approval authorisation framework, reviews and is responsible to evaluate and provide objective
developments in key industrial sectors (along with assurance on the effectiveness of internal controls, risk
exposure to these sectors), the Bank’s exposure management and governance processes within the Bank
to large borrower accounts and borrower groups. and suggest improvements. The Internal Audit Group
The Credit Committee also reviews major credit maintains appropriately qualified personnel to fulfill its
portfolios, non-performing loans, accounts under responsibilities. The Internal Audit and Compliance groups
watch, overdues, incremental sanctions, etc. are responsible to the Audit Committee of the Board.
• The Audit Committee of the Board, provides direction
INFORMATION REQUIRED UNDER THE
to and monitors the quality of the internal audit
function, oversees the financial reporting process SEXUAL HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT
and also monitors compliance with inspection and WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, PROHIBITION
audit reports of RBI, other regulators and statutory & REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013
auditors.
The Bank has a policy against sexual harassment and a
• The Asset Liability Management Committee provides formal process for dealing with complaints of harassment
guidance for management of liquidity of the overall or discrimination. The said policy is in line with the
Bank and management of interest rate risk in the requirements of ‘The Sexual Harassment of Women at
banking book within the broad parameters laid down Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act,
by the Board of Directors/Risk Committee. 2013’. The Bank has complied with provisions relating to
the constitution of Internal Committee under the said Act.
Summaries of reviews conducted by these Committees
are reported to the Board on a regular basis. The details pertaining to number of complaints during the
year has been provided below:
Policies approved from time to time by the Board of
Directors/Committees of the Board form the governing (a) number of complaints filed during the financial year:
framework for each type of risk. The business activities 43
are undertaken within this policy framework. Independent
(b) number of complaints disposed of during the financial
groups and subgroups have been constituted across the
year: 43
Bank to facilitate independent evaluation, monitoring
and reporting of various risks. These groups function (c) number of complaints pending1 at end of the financial
independently of the business groups/subgroups. year: Nil
The Bank has dedicated groups, namely, the Risk 1 All complaints received during fiscal 2023 have been closed
within the applicable turnaround time of 90 days.
Management Group, Compliance Group, Corporate Legal
Group, Internal Audit Group and the Financial Crime
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Prevention & Reputation Risk Management Group, with a
mandate to identify, assess and monitor all of the Bank’s The corporate governance framework at ICICI Bank is based
principal risks in accordance with well-defined policies on an effective independent Board, the separation of the
and procedures. The Risk Management Group is further Board’s supervisory role from the executive management
organised into Credit Risk Management Group, Market and the constitution of Board Committees to oversee
Risk Management Group, Operational Risk Management critical areas. At March 31, 2023, Independent Directors
77
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
constituted a majority on most of the Committees and most
Date of July 20, 2000
of the Committees were chaired by Independent Directors. incorporation
Place of Mumbai
I. Philosophy of Corporate Governance
incorporation
At ICICI Bank, we are committed to maintain the
Statutory B S R & Co. LLP
highest standards of governance in the conduct
Auditors Chartered Accountants
of our business and continuously strive to create
Firm Registration No. 101248W/
lasting value for all our stakeholders. We focus on
W-100022
maintaining comprehensive compliance with the
Date of Appointment: July 17, 2019
laws, rules and regulations that govern our business
Walker Chandiok & Co. LLP
and promote a culture of accountability, transparency
Chartered Accountants
and ethical conduct across the Bank.
Firm Registration No. 001076N/
G roup Code of Business Conduct and Ethics N500013
Date of Appointment: June 25, 2021
The Group Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for
Directors and employees of the ICICI Group aims at
F amiliarisation Programme for Independent
ensuring consistent standards of conduct and ethical Directors
business practices across the constituents of the ICICI
Independent Directors are familiarised with their roles,
Group. This Code is reviewed on an annual basis and
rights and responsibilities in the Bank as well as with
the latest Code is available on the website of the Bank
the nature of the industry and the business model
at (https://www.icicibank.com/managed-assets/docs/
of the Bank through induction programmes at the
personal/general-links/code_of_business_conduct_
time of their appointment as Directors and through
ethics.pdf). Pursuant to the SEBI Listing Regulations,
presentations on economy & industry overview, key
a confirmation from the Managing Director & CEO
regulatory developments, strategy and performance
regarding compliance with the Code by all the
which are made to the Directors from time to time.
Directors and senior management forms part of the
Additionally, Independent Directors also attend the
Annual Report.
programmes organised by reputed institutions. The
details of the familiarisation programmes have been
C ode of Conduct as prescribed under the
hosted on the website of the Bank at (https://www.
Securities and Exchange Board of India
icicibank.com/about-us/bod-1).
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations,
2015 D ividend Distribution Policy
In accordance with the requirements of the Securities In accordance with Regulation 43A of the SEBI Listing
and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Regulations, the Dividend Distribution Policy is hosted
Trading) Regulations, 2015, the Bank has adopted on the website of the Bank and can be viewed at
the Code on Prohibition of Insider Trading. (https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/other-policies).
M aterial Subsidiaries W histle Blower Policy
The Bank has formulated a Whistle Blower
In accordance with the requirements of the SEBI
Policy which is periodically reviewed. The policy
Listing Regulations, the Bank has formulated a
comprehensively provides an opportunity for
Policy for determining Material Subsidiaries and the
any employee (including directors), secondees or
same has been hosted on the website of the Bank at
stakeholders of the Bank to raise any issue concerning
(https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/other-policies).
breaches of law, accounting policies or any act
The Bank does not have any unlisted material resulting in financial or reputation loss and misuse
subsidiary. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company of office or suspected or actual fraud. The policy
Limited is a material listed subsidiary of the Bank in provides for a mechanism to report such concerns
terms of the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations. to the Audit Committee through specified channels.
The additional details with regard to ICICI Prudential The policy has been periodically communicated
Life Insurance Company Limited are as follows: to the employees and also posted on the Bank’s
78
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
intranet. Issues raised under the Whistle Blower S kills/expertise/competence of the Board of
Policy or to senior management are investigated for Directors
appropriate action, including an assessment of the
The Bank has identified the core skills/expertise/
impact on financial statements, if any. The Whistle
competence of the Board of Directors as required
Blower Policy complies with the requirements of
under Section 10A(2)(a) of the Banking Regulation
vigil mechanism as stipulated under Section 177 of
Act, 1949 in the context of its business(s) and the
the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws,
sectors(s) for it to function effectively and has been in
rules and regulations. The details of establishment of
compliance with the same.
the Whistle Blower Policy/vigil mechanism have been
disclosed on the website of the Bank at (https://www. The details of the core skills/expertise/competence
icicibank.com/about-us/other-policies). possessed by the existing directors of the Bank is
detailed as under:
CEO/CFO Certification
Name of Areas of expertise
In terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the
Director
certification by the Managing Director & CEO and
Chief Financial Officer on the financial statements Girish Chandra Agriculture and rural economy,
and internal controls relating to financial reporting Chaturvedi Banking, Co-operation,
has been obtained. Economics, Finance, Small Scale
Industry, Human Resources,
D etails of utilisation of funds Risk Management, Business
During the year under review, the Bank has not raised Management, Insurance
any funds through preferential allotment or Qualified Hari L. Mundra Accountancy, Banking, Economics,
Institutions Placement as specified under Regulation Finance, Law, Human Resources,
32(7A) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. Risk Management, Business
Management, Business and
During the year under review, the Bank has raised
` 71,000.0 million through issue of senior unsecured Financial Strategy, Treasury,
M&A, Business Restructuring and
redeemable long term bonds in the nature of
Taxation
debentures, in tranches, on private placement basis.
There is no deviation in utilisation of the funds. S. Madhavan Accountancy, Banking, Economics,
Finance, Law, Information
F ees to statutory auditors
Technology, Human Resources,
The details of fees pertaining to services provided Risk Management, Business
by the statutory auditors and entities in the network Management, Strategy, Business
firm/network entity of which the statutory auditors Operations, Governance, Taxation
are a part, to ICICI Bank Limited and its subsidiaries
Neelam Banking, Information Technology,
during the year ended March 31, 2023 are given in
Dhawan Human Resources, Business
the following table:
Management, Corporate
Governance and Business Strategy
Nature of service Amount in `1
Audit 52,500,000 Radhakrishnan Accountancy, Agriculture and Rural
Certification and other audit Nair Economy, Banking, Co-operation,
related services 10,960,000 Economics, Finance, Law, Small
Total 63,460,000 Scale Industry, Payment and
Settlement Systems, Human
1 Excludes taxes and out of pocket expenses.
Resources, Risk Management,
R ecommendations of mandatory committees Business Management, Insurance,
Securities, Treasury Management,
All the recommendations made by the committees
Foreign Exchange Management,
of the Board mandatorily required to be constituted
Information Technology, Investor
by the Bank under the Companies Act, 2013 and the
Protection
SEBI Listing Regulations were accepted by the Board.
79
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Name of Areas of expertise Instrument type CARE ICRA CRISIL
Director Certificate of Deposits CARE [ICRA]
B. Sriram Banking, Finance, Small Scale Industry, A1+ A1+ -
Information Technology, Payment and Fixed deposits CARE [ICRA]
Settlement Systems, Credit and Risk, AAA AAA -
Treasury, Insolvency & Bankruptcy
Moody's: Moody's Investors Services
Uday Chitale Accountancy, Banking, Finance,
S&P: S&P Global Ratings
Alternate Dispute resolution (ADR),
CARE: CARE Ratings Limited, India
Auditing & Assurance, Securities
ICRA: ICRA Limited, India
Vibha Paul Consumer Insight & Marketing, CRISIL: CRISIL Limited, India
Rishi Strategy, Accountancy, Agriculture and
Notes:
rural economy, Economics, Finance,
(1) In May 2022, Japan Credit Rating Agency, Limited withdrew
Information Technology, Human
ICICI Bank’s foreign currency long-term issuer rating of BBB+.
Resources, Risk Management, Business The rating withdrawal was at the Bank’s request pursuant to
Management the full repayment of bonds and subsequent delisting of the
Tokyo Pro-bond Programme.
Sandeep Banking, Finance, Business
(2) In June 2022, ICRA Limited standardised its rating scale based
Bakhshi Management, Insurance
on directions from SEBI, and accordingly revised the rating
Rakesh Jha Banking, Business Management, Risk symbol for ICICI Bank’s fixed deposits programme from MAAA
to [ICRA]AAA.
Management, Finance, Accountancy,
Economics and Information Technology
Certificate from a Company Secretary in practice
Sandeep Batra Accountancy, Banking, Finance, Law, In terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Bank has
Information Technology, Human obtained a Certificate from a Company Secretary in
Resources, Risk Management, Business practice that none of the Directors on the Board of the
Management, Insurance, Securities, Bank have been debarred or disqualified from being
Governance, Economics
appointed or continuing as directors of companies by
the Securities and Exchange Board of India/Ministry of
Credit Rating as on March 31, 2023
Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority. The
Foreign currency denominated instruments issued by the Certificate of Company Secretary in practice is annexed
Bank herewith as Annexure B.
Instrument type Moody's S&P Board of Directors
Senior unsecured medium term ICICI Bank has a broad-based Board of Directors,
notes Baa3 BBB- constituted in compliance with the Banking Regulation
Certificate of Deposits P-3 - Act, 1949, the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI Listing
Regulations and in accordance with good corporate
Rupee denominated instruments issued by the Bank
governance practices. The Board functions either as a
Instrument type CARE ICRA CRISIL full Board or through various committees constituted to
Tier II bonds (Basel III) CARE [ICRA] oversee specific operational areas.
AAA AAA -
The Board of the Bank at March 31, 2023 consisted of
Additional Tier 1 bonds CARE [ICRA] CRISIL twelve Directors, out of which eight were Independent
(Basel III) AA+ AA+ AA+ Directors and four were Executive Directors.
Unsecured redeemable CARE [ICRA] CRISIL
There were nine meetings of the Board during the year -
bonds AAA AAA AAA
April 23, June 28, July 23, September 16, October 22 and
Long term bonds issued CARE [ICRA] CRISIL
December 16 in 2022 and January 21, February 17-18
by erstwhile ICICI Limited AAA AAA AAA
and March 16 in 2023.
80
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
There were no inter-se relationships between any of the Directors.
The names of the Directors, their attendance at Board Meetings during the year, attendance at the last AGM and details
of other directorships and board committee memberships held by them at March 31, 2023 are set out in the following
table:
Number of
Board directorships Number
Attendance
Meetings of other of other Directorships in other listed
at last AGM
Name of Director attended Indian of other committee entity and category of
(August 30,
during public Indian member- directorship
2022)
the year limited companies ships1
companies
Independent Directors
Girish Chandra 9/9 Present 1 - 2(1) -
Chaturvedi, Chairman
(DIN: 00110996)
Hari L. Mundra 9/9 Present 1 - 1(1) -
(DIN: 00287029)
S. Madhavan 9/9 Present 4 3 6(3) • HCL Technologies Limited (ID)
(DIN: 06451889) • Procter & Gamble Health Limited (ID)
• Sterlite Technologies Limited (ID)
• Transport Corporation of India
Limited (ID)
Neelam Dhawan 9/9 Present 2 1 3(2) -
(DIN: 00871445)
Radhakrishnan Nair 9/9 Present 6 1 7(2) • Geojit Financial Services Limited (ID)
(DIN: 07225354) • ICICI Prudential Life Insurance
Company Limited (ID)
• ICICI Securities Primary Dealership
Limited (ID)
• Inditrade Capital Limited (ID)
B. Sriram 9/9 Present 5 1 4(1) • Nippon Life India Asset Management
(DIN: 02993708) Limited (ID)
• TVS Motor Company Limited (ID)
Uday Chitale 9/9 Present 1 1 1(0) • ICICI Lombard General Insurance
(DIN: 00043268) Company Limited (ID)
Vibha Paul Rishi 9/9 Present 5 - 6(3) • Asian Paints Limited (ID)
(DIN: 05180796) • ICICI Prudential Life Insurance
Company Limited (ID)
• Piramal Pharma Limited (ID)
• Tata Chemicals Limited (ID)
Executive Directors
Sandeep Bakhshi, 9/9 Present - - - -
Managing Director &
Chief Executive Officer
(DIN: 00109206)
Anup Bagchi 9/9 Present 3 - - • ICICI Prudential Life Insurance
(upto April 30, 2023) Company Limited (NED)
(DIN: 00105962)
81
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Number of
Board directorships Number
Attendance
Meetings of other of other Directorships in other listed
at last AGM
Name of Director attended Indian of other committee entity and category of
(August 30,
during public Indian member- directorship
2022)
the year limited companies ships1
companies
Rakesh Jha (w.e.f. 6/6 N.A. 4 - 1(0) • ICICI Home Finance Company
September 2, 2022) Limited (NED)
(DIN: 00042075) • ICICI Lombard General Insurance
Company Limited (NED)
• ICICI Securities Limited (NED)
Sandeep Batra 9/9 Present 4 - 3(0) • ICICI Lombard General Insurance
(DIN: 03620913) Company Limited (NED)
• ICICI Prudential Life Insurance
Company Limited (NED)
Vishakha Mulye 1/1 N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
(Resigned with effect
from May 31, 2022)
(DIN: 00203578)
Independent Director (ID)
Non-Executive Director (NED)
1 Includes only chairmanship/membership of Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of other Indian public limited
companies. Figures in parentheses indicate committee chairpersonships.
The profiles of the Directors can be viewed on the II. Audit Committee
website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/
T erms of Reference
about-us/bod-1).
The Audit Committee provides direction to the audit
The Board has constituted various committees, namely,
function and monitors the quality of internal and
Audit Committee, Board Governance, Remuneration &
statutory audit. The responsibilities of the Audit
Nomination Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee include examining the financial statements
Committee, Credit Committee, Customer Service and auditors’ report and overseeing the financial
Committee, Fraud Monitoring Committee, Information reporting process to ensure fairness, sufficiency
Technology Strategy Committee, Risk Committee, and credibility of financial statements, review of the
Stakeholders Relationship Committee and Review quarterly and annual financial statements before
Committee for Identification of Wilful Defaulters/Non submission to the Board, review of management’s
Co-operative Borrowers. discussion & analysis, recommendation of
appointment, terms of appointment, remuneration
The quorum of the Board Committees was increased
and removal of central and branch statutory auditors
from at least two members to at least three members
and chief internal auditor, approval of payment
with effect from June 30, 2019, to transact business at
to statutory auditors for other permitted services
any Board Committee meeting and in case where the
rendered by them, reviewing and monitoring with
Committee comprises of two members only or where two
the management the auditor’s independence and the
members are participating, then any Independent Director
performance and effectiveness of the audit process,
may attend the meeting to fulfil the requirement of three
approval of transactions with related parties or any
members.
subsequent modifications and utilization of loans
The terms of reference of the Board Committees as and/or advances from/investment by the Bank in its
mentioned above, their composition and attendance of the subsidiaries. The Audit Committee also reviews the
respective Members at the various Committee Meetings functioning of the Whistle-Blower Policy, adequacy
held during fiscal 2023 are set out hereinafter: of internal control systems and the internal audit
82
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
function, compliance with inspection and audit Name of Member Number of
reports and reports of statutory auditors, findings of meetings attended
internal investigations, management letters/letters
Uday Chitale, Chairman 13/13
on internal control weaknesses issued by statutory
S. Madhavan 13/13
auditors/internal auditors, investment in shares and
Radhakrishnan Nair 13/13
advances against shares. The Audit Committee
responsibilities also include reviewing with the
III. B oard Governance, Remuneration &
management the statement of uses/application of
Nomination Committee
funds raised through an issue (public issue, rights
issue, preferential issue, etc.), the statement of funds T erms of Reference
utilised for the purposes other than those stated in The functions of the Committee include recommending
the offer document/prospectus/notice and the report appointments of Directors to the Board, identifying
submitted by the monitoring agency, monitoring persons who are qualified to become Directors
the utilization of proceeds of a public or rights issue and who may be appointed in senior management
and making appropriate recommendations to the in accordance with the criteria laid down and
recommending to the Board their appointment and
Board to take steps in this matter, discussion on the
removal, formulate a criteria for the evaluation of the
scope of audit with external auditors, examination of
performance of the wholetime/Independent Directors
reasons for substantial defaults, if any, in payment
and the Board and to extend or continue the term of
to stakeholders, valuation of undertakings or assets,
appointment of Independent Directors on the basis of
evaluation of risk management systems and scrutiny
the report of performance evaluation of Independent
of inter-corporate loans and investments. The Audit Directors, recommending to the Board a policy relating
Committee is also empowered to appoint/oversee to the remuneration for the Directors, key managerial
the work of any registered public accounting firm, personnel and other employees, recommending to
establish procedures for receipt and treatment of the Board the remuneration (including performance
complaints received regarding accounting, internal bonus and perquisites) to wholetime Directors and
accounting controls and auditing matters and senior management personnel. The functions also
engage independent counsel as also provide for include approving the policy for and quantum of
bonus payable to the members of the staff including
appropriate funding for compensation to be paid to
senior management and key managerial personnel,
any firm/advisors. In addition, the Audit Committee
formulating the criteria for determining qualifications,
also exercises oversight on the regulatory compliance
positive attributes and independence of a Director,
function of the Bank. The Committee also considers
framing policy on Board diversity, framing guidelines
and comments on rationale, cost-benefits and
for the Employees Stock Option Scheme/Employees
impact of schemes involving merger/demerger/ Stock Unit Scheme and decide on the grant of
amalgamation etc., on the Bank and its shareholders. options/units to employees and wholetime Directors
The Audit Committee is also empowered to approve of the Bank and its subsidiary companies.
the appointment of the Chief Financial Officer
Composition
(i.e., the whole-time Finance Director or any other
person heading the finance function or discharging There were five Meetings of the Committee during
that function) after assessing the qualifications, the year - April 23, 2022, June 24, 2022, October 21,
experience and background, etc. of the candidate. 2022, January 20, 2023 and March 16, 2023. The
details of the composition of the Committee and
Composition attendance at its Meetings held during the year are
set out in the following table:
There were thirteen Meetings of the Committee
during the year - April 15, April 22, April 23, May 27,
Name of Member Number of
July 7, July 20, July 22, October 19, October 21 and
meetings attended
December 15 in 2022 and January 18, January 20
Neelam Dhawan, Chairperson 5/5
and March 24 in 2023. The details of the composition
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi 5/5
of the Committee and attendance at its Meetings
B. Sriram 5/5
held during the year are set out in the following table:
83
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
P olicy/Criteria for Directors’ Appointment the website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.
com/about-us/other-policies).
The Bank with the approval of its Board Governance,
Remuneration & Nomination Committee (Committee) The remuneration payable to Non-Executive/
has put in place a policy on Directors’ appointment Independent Directors is governed by the provisions
and remuneration including criteria for determining of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, RBI guidelines
qualifications, positive attributes and independence issued from time to time and the provisions of the
of a Director as well as a policy on Board diversity. The Companies Act, 2013 and related rules to the extent
policy has been framed based on the broad principles these are not inconsistent with the provisions of the
as outlined hereinafter. The Committee evaluates Banking Regulation Act, 1949/RBI guidelines.
the composition of the Board and vacancies arising
The remuneration for the Non-Executive/Independent
in the Board from time to time. The Committee while
Directors (other than Government Nominee Director)
recommending candidature of a Director considers
would be sitting fee for attending each Meeting of the
the special knowledge or expertise possessed by the
Committee/Board as approved by the Board.
candidate as required under the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949. The Committee assesses the fit and proper In addition to sitting fee, Non-Executive Directors
credentials of the candidate and the companies/ (other than part-time Chairman and the Government
entities with which the candidate is associated Nominee Director) are entitled to a fixed remuneration
either as a director or otherwise and as to whether of ` 2,000,000 per annum with effect from April 1,
such association is permissible under RBI guidelines 2021 which has been approved by the Members at
and the internal norms adopted by the Bank. For the the Annual General Meeting held on August 20, 2021.
above assessment, the Committee is guided by the For the Non-Executive Chairman, the remuneration,
guidelines issued by RBI in this regard. in addition to sitting fee includes such fixed payments
as may be recommended by the Board and approved
The Committee also evaluates the prospective
by the Members and RBI, maintaining a Chairman’s
candidate for the position of a Director from
office at the Bank’s expense, bearing expenses for
the perspective of the criteria for independence
travel on official visits and participation in various
prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 as well
forums (both in India and abroad) as Chairman of the
as the SEBI Listing Regulations. For a Non-Executive
Bank and bearing travel/halting/other expenses and
Director to be classified as Independent he/she must
allowance for attending to duties as Chairman of the
satisfy the criteria of independence as prescribed and
Bank and any other modes of remuneration as may
sign a declaration of independence. The Committee
be permitted by RBI from time to time.
reviews the same and determine the independence
of a Director. All the Non-Executive/Independent Directors would be
entitled to reimbursement of expenses for attending
The Committee based on the above assessments
Board/Committee Meetings, official visits and
makes suitable recommendations on the appointment
participation in various forums on behalf of the Bank.
of Directors to the Board.
P erformance evaluation of the Board,
R emuneration policy
Committees and Directors
The Compensation Policy of the Bank is in line with the
The Bank with the approval of its Board Governance,
RBI circulars and in compliance with the requirements
Remuneration & Nomination Committee and the
for the Remuneration Policy as prescribed under the
Board has put in place a framework for evaluation of
Companies Act, 2013. The Policy is divided into the
the Board, Directors, Chairperson and Committees.
segments, Part A, Part B and Part C where Part A
covers the requirements for wholetime Directors & The evaluations for the Directors, the Board, Chairman
employees pursuant to RBI guidelines, Part B relates of the Board and the Committees is carried out through
to compensation to Non-Executive Directors (except circulation of different questionnaires, for the Directors,
part-time Non-Executive Chairman) and Part C for the Board, for the Chairperson of the Board and
relates to compensation to part-time Non-Executive the Committees respectively. The performance of the
Chairman. The Compensation Policy is available on Board is assessed on select parameters related to
84
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
roles, responsibilities and obligations of the Board, of effectiveness of contribution of the Committee’s
relevance of Board discussions, attention to strategic deliberation/recommendations to the functioning/
issues, performance on key areas, providing feedback decisions of the Board. The Bank has taken effective
to executive management and assessing the quality, steps with regards to the action points arising out
quantity and timeliness of flow of information of performance evaluation process for fiscal 2022.
between the Company management and the Board The performance evaluation process for fiscal 2023
that is necessary for the Board to effectively and
was conducted by an Independent External Agency
reasonably perform their duties.
and was completed to the satisfaction of the Board.
The evaluation criteria for the Directors is based The Board of Directors also identified specific action
on their participation, contribution and offering points arising out of the overall evaluation which
guidance to and understanding of the areas which would be executed as directed by the Board.
were relevant to them in their capacity as members
The evaluation process for wholetime Directors is
of the Board.
further detailed in note no. 51 of Schedule 18 of the
The evaluation criteria for the Chairperson of the financial statements.
Board besides the general criteria adopted for
assessment of all Directors, focuses on leadership D etails of Remuneration paid to Executive
abilities, effective management of meetings and Directors
preservation of interest of stakeholders.
The Board Governance, Remuneration & Nomination
The evaluation of the Committees is based on Committee determines and recommends to the Board
assessment of the clarity with which the mandate of the amount of remuneration, including performance
the Committee is defined, effective discharge of terms bonus and perquisites, payable to the Managing
of reference of the Committees and assessment Director & CEO and Wholetime Directors.
The following table sets out the details of remuneration (including perquisites and retiral benefits) paid in fiscal 2023:
Details of Remuneration (`)
Sandeep Anup Sandeep Rakesh Vishakha
Bakhshi Bagchi Batra Jha1 Mulye2
2022-23 2022-23 2022-23 2022-23 2022-23
Basic3 36,172,200 30,975,240 30,975,240 23,068,903 7,201,440
Performance bonus paid in fiscal 20234 21,350,000 18,650,000 18,650,000 13,908,217 15,590,000
Allowances and perquisites3,5 30,843,252 30,602,979 29,423,785 24,943,027 15,245,289
Contribution to provident fund3 4,340,664 3,717,029 3,717,029 2,768,273 864,171
Contribution to superannuation fund3 - - - - -
Contribution to gratuity fund3 3,013,144 2,580,237 2,580,237 1,921,640 599,880
Stock options6 (Number) 317,800 249,100 249,100 249,100 -
1 Rakesh Jha was appointed as Executive Director effective September 2, 2022. The above remuneration is his full year salary.
2 V ishakha Mulye's last working day with the Bank was May 31, 2022. The above remuneration pertains to her period in the Bank
during fiscal 2023.
3 R BI approval for revision in fixed remuneration (Basic, allowances & retirals) for fiscal 2022 was received by the Bank on May 10,
2022. Hence the table above carries the arrear payments made during the fiscal 2023 which pertains to fiscal 2022 increments
for Sandeep Bakhshi, Anup Bagchi, Sandeep Batra and Vishakha Mulye.
4 B onus amounts earned for fiscal 2022 were subject to deferment policy of the Bank in-line with the regulatory stipulations. The
above table represent payouts of the non-deferred portion of the bonus amount pertaining to fiscal 2022. The balance amount
shall be equally deferred over a period of three years. The amounts also include the deferred portion of the bonus amount
approved in earlier years that was paid during fiscal 2023.
5 Allowances and perquisites exclude stock option perquisites.
6 Represents options granted during fiscal 2023.
85
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Perquisites (evaluated as per Income-tax rules, The Board at its Meeting held on April 23, 2022
wherever applicable, and otherwise at actual cost to approved revision in sitting fee from ` 50,000 to
the Bank in other cases) such as the benefit of the ` 100,000 for each Meeting of Board Governance,
Bank’s furnished accommodation, gas, electricity, Remuneration & Nomination Committee, Corporate
furnishings, club fees, personal and group insurance, Social Responsibility Committee, Customer Service
use of car, running and maintenance of cars Committee, Fraud Monitoring Committee, Information
including drivers, telephone/IT assets at residence or Technology Strategy Committee, Stakeholders
reimbursement of expenses in lieu thereof, payment Relationship Committee and Review Committee for
of income-tax on perquisites by the Bank to the Identification of Wilful Defaulters/Non Co-operative
extent permissible under the Income-tax Act, 1961 Borrowers effective April 24, 2022.
and rules framed thereunder, medical reimbursement,
leave and leave travel concession, education and Information on the total remuneration paid to each
other benefits, provident fund, superannuation fund, Non-Executive Director during fiscal 2023 is set out
gratuity and other retirement benefits, in accordance in the following table:
with the scheme(s) and rule(s) applicable from time Amount (`)
to time to retired wholetime Directors of the Bank or
Name of Director Sitting Fees Remuneration
the members of the staff. In line with the staff loan
policy applicable to specified grades of employees Girish Chandra 2,900,000 3,500,000
who fulfil prescribed eligibility criteria to avail loans Chaturvedi
for purchase of residential property, the Wholetime Hari L. Mundra 4,450,000 2,000,000
Directors are also eligible for housing loans. The stock
S. Madhavan 3,750,000 2,000,000
options vest in a graded manner over a three-year
Neelam Dhawan 2,150,000 2,000,000
period, with 30%, 30% and 40% of the grant vesting
in each year, commencing from the end of 12 months Radhakrishnan Nair 3,100,000 2,000,000
from the date of the grant. The options so vested B. Sriram 4,800,000 2,000,000
are to be exercised within 5 years from the date of Uday Chitale 3,100,000 2,000,000
vesting.
Vibha Paul Rishi 2,150,000 2,000,000
The Bank does not pay any severance fees to
its Managing Director & CEO or to its Wholetime D isclosures required with respect to Section
Directors. The tenure of the office of Managing 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013
Director & CEO and the Wholetime Directors of the
The ratio of the remuneration of each director to the
Bank is five years, subject to approval of RBI and
median employee’s remuneration and such other details
the Members. The notice period for each of them, as
in terms of Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013
specified in their respective terms of appointments is
two months. read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
Neither the Managing Director & CEO nor the
and as amended from time to time.
Wholetime Directors received any remuneration or
commission from any of the subsidiary companies.
(i) T he ratio of the remuneration of each director
The Bank does not have any holding company.
to the median remuneration of the employees of
R emuneration disclosures as required under the company for the financial year;
the RBI Guidelines
Independent Directors1
The remuneration related disclosures as required
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi, 11.20:1
under the RBI Guidelines on Compensation of Whole
Chairman
Time Directors/Chief Executive Officers/Material Risk
Takers and Control Function staff are disclosed in note Hari L. Mundra 11.29:1
no. 51 of Schedule 18 of the financial statements. S. Madhavan 10.06:1
Neelam Dhawan 7.26:1
D etails of Remuneration paid to
Non‑Executive Directors Radhakrishnan Nair 8.93:1
The Bank pays sitting fee of ` 100,000 to B. Sriram 11.90:1
Non-Executive Directors for attending each Meeting Uday Chitale 8.93:1
of the Board, Audit Committee, Credit Committee and
Vibha Paul Rishi 7.26:1
Risk Committee.
86
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Executive Directors around 13%, while the average increase in the
remuneration of the Key Managerial Personnel
Sandeep Bakhshi, 119:1
was in the range of 6%- 8%3.
Managing Director & CEO
Anup Bagchi 103:1
(vi) Affirmation that the remuneration is as per
Rakesh Jha2 103:1 the remuneration policy of the company.
Sandeep Batra 103:1
Yes
(ii) The percentage increase in remuneration of Notes:
each director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief 1 The Independent Directors of the Bank including
Chairman receive sitting fees for attending each Meeting
Executive Officer, Company Secretary or
of the Board/Committee as approved by the Board.
Manager, if any, in the financial year;
The Chairman receives remuneration of ` 3,500,000
Sandeep Bakhshi, 6% per annum as approved by the Members and RBI. The
Independent Directors other than Chairman receive fixed
Managing Director & CEO
remuneration of ` 2,000,000 per annum as approved by
Anup Bagchi, 6% the Members with effect from April 1, 2021.
Executive Director
The ratio of remuneration as stated in point (i) above
Rakesh Jha, 6% is calculated after considering sitting fees and fixed
Executive Director3 remuneration paid during fiscal 2023.
2 The ratios are computed on annualized remuneration
Sandeep Batra, 6%
in the capacity of a Director, which was effective
Executive Director September 2, 2022 for Rakesh Jha.
Anindya Banerjee, 7% 3 Rakesh Jha ceased to be the Group Chief Financial Officer
Group Chief Financial Officer4 of the Bank effective May 1, 2022. He was appointed as
Executive Director of the Bank effective September 2,
Ranganath Athreya, 8%
2022 with the salary increase of 49%
Company Secretary
4 Anindya Banerjee was appointed as Group Chief
Financial Officer of the Bank effective May 1, 2022. His
(iii) The percentage increase in the median
full year salary has been considered for the percentage
remuneration of employees in the financial year;
calculation as stated in point (ii) above.
T he percentage increase in the median 5 Vishakha Mulye's last working day with the Bank was
remuneration of employees in the financial year May 31, 2022. The ratio of her annualised remuneration
was around 11%. to the median remuneration of the employees was 103:1
and the percentage increase in her remuneration was 6%.
(iv) The number of permanent employees on the
P articulars of Senior Management Personnel
rolls of company;
as on March 31, 2023
T he number of employees, as mentioned in
Ajay Gupta (Head - Retail & Business Credit, Policy &
the section on ‘Management’s Discussion &
Debt Service Management), Anindya Banerjee (Group
Analysis’ is 129,020. Out of this, the employees
Chief Financial Officer), Anish Madhavan (Group
on permanent rolls of the Bank is 126,660
Chief Internal Auditor and Head Financial Crime
including employees in overseas locations.
Prevention), Anubhuti Sanghai (Head - Operations &
(v) Average percentile increase already made Customer Service), Anuj Bhargava (Head - Customer
in the salaries of employees other than the 360, Branch Banking, Marketing & Alliances, Self
managerial personnel in the last financial Employed Segment and Small & Medium Enterprises),
year and its comparison with the percentile Atul Arora (Business Head - North & East 1), Balaji
increase in the managerial remuneration and V.V. (Chief Technology Officer), Bijith Bhaskar (Head -
justification thereof and point out if there are Digital Channels & Partnership), G Srinivas (Chief Risk
any exceptional circumstances for increase in Officer), Hitesh Sachdev (Head - Start Up Engagement
the managerial remuneration; and Investments), Nilanjan Sinha (General Counsel),
Partha Dey (Head – Services Sector; Retail Structure
T he average percentage increase made in
Finance & Financial Institutions Group), Pranav
the salaries of total employees other than the
Mishra (Head - Global Clients Group, MNC, PSU
Key Managerial Personnel for fiscal 2023 was
87
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
and Advisory), Prasanna Balachander (Group Head from among the themes specified in Schedule VII of the
- Global Markets - Sales, Trading and Research), Companies Act, 2013, for initiatives to be undertaken
Pravendra Shah (Chief of Internal Vigilance), Rajesh by the Bank, reviewing and recommending the
Iyer (Head - Wealth, Private Banking & Loans Against annual CSR plan to the Board with details of
Securities), Rajesh Nair (Head - Mid Corporate projects and schedule of implementation, making
Group), Rajesh Rai (Business Head - West & South), recommendations to the Board with respect to the
Ranganath Athreya (Company Secretary), Sanjay CSR initiatives, policies and practices of the ICICI
Singhvi (Head - Secured Assets, Personal & Education Group, monitoring the CSR activities, implementation
Loan), Saurabh Singh (Head - TASC & Government and compliance with the CSR Policy, reviewing the
Business Group), Sidharatha Mishra (Business submissions to be made to the Board with respect
Head - East 2, APT), Sriram Hariharan (Head- to implementation of the annual CSR action plan
International Banking Group, Global Remittances and including the disbursement of funds for the purposes
NRI Services), Subir Saha (Group Chief Compliance and manner as approved, implementation of on-
Officer), Sudipta Roy (Head - Credit Cards, Payment going projects as per approved timelines and year-
Solutions & Merchant Ecosystem), Sujit Ganguli wise allocation of funds, any modifications to be
(Head - Corporate Brand and Communications), suggested to on-going projects, earmarking unspent
Sumit Sanghai (Head - Large Clients Group, Capital CSR amount, if any, in subsequent periods as
Markets, Transaction Banking, Construction Realty prescribed in the Companies Act, 2013 and suggest
& Funding, Asset Evaluation & Monetization, Supply deployment of any amount spent in excess of the
Chain Finance, Custody & Financial Sponsor), T K requirement for set-off in subsequent years, reviewing
impact assessment of projects, and reviewing and
Srirang (Group Chief Human Resources Officer and
implementing, if required, any other matter related to
Head Infrastructure Management), Vandana Jogani
CSR initiatives as recommended/suggested by RBI or
(Head - Process Optimisation & Key Initiatives), Vikas
any other body.
Agarwal (Head - Financial Sponsors & Syndications),
Vishal Batra (Business Head - Defence & Armed
Composition
Force Eco System), Vyom Upadhyay (Head - Data
There were four Meetings of the Committee during the
Science & Analytics).
year - April 22, 2022, July 21, 2022, October 19, 2022
During the year, Anindya Banerjee and Pravendra and January 18, 2023. The details of the composition
Shah were included in the list of senior management of the Committee and attendance at its Meetings
based on the eligibility criteria approved by the Board. held during the year are set out in the following table:
Avijit Saha, Drupad Shah, Hitesh Sethia, Kadayam
Name of Member Number of
Rajaram, Pankaj Gadgil, Pramod Rao, Prashant
meetings attended
Verma, Raghav Singhal, Sunir Ramchandani, Vikash
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi, 4/4
Sharma and Viral Rupani were excluded from the
Chairman
list of senior management either owing to their exit
Radhakrishnan Nair 4/4
from the Bank or changes in organization structure.
Uday Chitale 4/4
Rakesh Jha was a senior management personnel for
Vibha Paul Rishi 4/4
a period till September 1, 2022.
Anup Bagchi 4/4
(upto April 30, 2023)
IV. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
The Board at its Meeting on April 22, 2023
T erms of Reference
reconstituted the Committee to induct Rakesh Jha,
The functions of the Committee include review Executive Director as a Member of the Committee
of corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives with effect from May 1, 2023 in place of Anup Bagchi.
undertaken by the ICICI Group and the ICICI
Foundation for Inclusive Growth, formulation and D etails about the policy developed and
implemented by the Bank on CSR initiatives
recommendation to the Board of a CSR Policy
taken during the year
indicating the activities to be undertaken by the Bank
and recommendation of the amount of expenditure ICICI Bank has a long-standing commitment towards
to be incurred on such activities, identifying the focus, socio-economic development. The Bank’s CSR
88
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
activities are in the areas of healthcare, environment, The Board at its Meeting on April 22, 2023
societal development, sustainable livelihoods, rural reconstituted the Committee to induct Rakesh Jha,
development and related activities including financial Executive Director as a Member of the Committee
inclusion and financial literacy, social awareness with effect from May 1, 2023 in place of Anup Bagchi.
and other activities as may be required towards
fulfilling the CSR objectives. The activities are largely VI. Customer Service Committee
implemented either directly or through the ICICI
T erms of Reference
Foundation for Inclusive Growth.
The functions of this Committee include review
The CSR policy has been hosted on the website of of customer service initiatives, overseeing the
the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/ functioning of the Standing Committee on Customer
corporate-social-responsibility). Service (Customer Service Council) and evolving
innovative measures for enhancing the quality of
The Annual Report on the Bank’s CSR activities is
customer service and improvement in the overall
annexed herewith as Annexure C.
satisfaction level of customers.
V. Credit Committee
Composition
T erms of Reference There were five Meetings of the Committee during
the year - May 12, 2022, June 28, 2022, August 26,
The functions of the Committee inter alia includes
2022, November 17, 2022 and February 15, 2023.
review of developments in key industrial sectors, major
The details of the composition of the Committee and
credit portfolios and approval of credit proposals as
attendance at its Meetings held during the year are
per the authorisation approved by the Board.
set out in the following table:
Composition
Name of Member Number of
There were thirty Meetings of the Committee
meetings attended
during the year - April 6, April 19, April 29, May 9,
Vibha Paul Rishi, Chairperson 5/5
May 18, June 10, June 21, June 24 (held jointly with
Hari L. Mundra 5/5
Risk Committee), June 29, July 8, July 19, August 11,
Sandeep Bakhshi 5/5
August 29, September 20, September 29, October 11,
October 20, November 1, November 11, November 25, Anup Bagchi 3/3
December 7, December 19 and December 30 in 2022 (upto October 22, 2022)
and January 13, January 25, February 10, February 28, Rakesh Jha 2/2
March 13, March 20 and March 29 in 2023. The details (w.e.f. October 23, 2022)
of the composition of the Committee and attendance
at its Meetings held during the year are set out in the VII. Fraud Monitoring Committee
following table:
T erms of Reference
Name of Member Number of The Committee monitors and reviews all the frauds
meetings attended involving an amount of ` 10.0 million and above with
Sandeep Bakhshi, Chairman 28/30 the objective of identifying the systemic lacunae, if
Hari L. Mundra1 27/30 any, that facilitated perpetration of the fraud and put
in place measures to rectify the same. The functions
B. Sriram 30/30
of this Committee include identifying the reasons
Vishakha Mulye 2/2
for delay in detection, if any, and reporting to top
(upto April 23, 2022)
management of the Bank and RBI on the same. The
Anup Bagchi 27/28 progress of investigation and recovery position is also
(w.e.f. April 24, 2022 upto monitored by the Committee. The Committee also
April 30, 2023) ensures that staff accountability is examined at all
1 chaired the meetings held on January 25, 2023 and levels in all the cases of frauds and action, if required,
February 28, 2023 in the absence of Sandeep Bakhshi is completed quickly without loss of time. The role of
89
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
the Committee is also to review the efficacy of the and January 12, 2023. The details of the composition
remedial action taken to prevent recurrence of frauds, of the Committee and attendance at its Meetings
such as strengthening of internal controls. held during the year are set out in the following table:
C omposition Name of Member Number of
meetings attended
There were four Meetings of the Committee during the
year - April 13, 2022, July 15, 2022, October 10, 2022 B. Sriram, Chairman 5/5
and January 11, 2023. The details of the composition Neelam Dhawan 5/5
of the Committee and attendance at its Meetings Anup Bagchi 5/5
held during the year are set out in the following table: (upto April 30, 2023)
Sandeep Batra 5/5
Name of Member Number of
meetings attended The Board at its Meeting on April 22, 2023
Radhakrishnan Nair, 4/4 reconstituted the Committee to induct Rakesh Jha,
Chairman Executive Director as a Member of the Committee
S. Madhavan 4/4 with effect from May 1, 2023 in place of Anup Bagchi.
Neelam Dhawan 4/4
IX. Risk Committee
Sandeep Bakhshi 4/4
T erms of Reference
Anup Bagchi 3/3
(upto October 22, 2022) The functions of the Committee are to review ICICI
Rakesh Jha 1/1 Bank’s risk management policies pertaining to credit,
(w.e.f. October 23, 2022) market, liquidity, operational, outsourcing, reputation
risks, business continuity plan and disaster recovery
VIII. Information Technology Strategy Committee plan and approve Broker Empanelment Policy and
any amendments thereto. The functions of the
T erms of Reference
Committee also include setting limits on any industry
The functions of the Committee are to approve or country, review of the Enterprise Risk Management
strategy for Information Technology (IT) and policy (ERM) framework, Risk Appetite for the Bank, stress
documents, ensure that IT strategy is aligned with testing framework, Internal Capital Adequacy
business strategy, review IT risks, ensure proper Assessment Process (ICAAP) and framework for
balance of IT investments for sustaining the Bank's capital allocation; review of the Basel framework,
growth, oversee the aggregate funding of IT at Bank- risk dashboard covering various risks, outsourcing
level, ascertain if the management has resources to activities and the activities of the Asset Liability
ensure the proper management of IT risks, review Management Committee. The Committee has
contribution of IT to business, oversee the activities oversight on risks of subsidiaries covered under the
of Digital Council, review technology from a future Group Risk Management Framework. The Committee
readiness perspective, overseeing key projects also carries out Cyber Security risk assessment. The
progress & critical IT systems performance, review appointment, removal and terms of remuneration
of special IT initiatives, review cyber risk, consider of the Chief Risk Officer is subject to review by the
the RBI inspection report/directives received from Committee. The Committee keeps the Board of
time to time by the Bank in the areas of information Directors informed about the nature and content of
technology and cyber security and to review the its discussions, recommendations and actions to be
compliance of various actionables arising out of such taken. The Committee coordinates its activities with
reports/directives as may be deemed necessary from other committees, in instances where there is any
time to time. overlap with activities of such committees, as per the
framework laid down by the Board of Directors.
C omposition
There were five Meetings of the Committee during Composition
the year - April 14, 2022, July 14, 2022, July 22, 2022 There were twelve Meetings of the Committee during
(held jointly with Risk Committee), October 13, 2022 the year April 22, May 10, June 10, June 24, June 24
90
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(held jointly with Credit Committee), July 22, July 22 XI. R eview Committee for Identification of Wilful
(held jointly with Information Technology Strategy Defaulters/Non Co-operative Borrowers
Committee), October 21, November 24 in 2022 and
T erms of Reference
January 20, February 14 and March 24 in 2023.
The function of the Committee is to review the order
The details of the composition of the Committee and
of the Committee for identification of wilful defaulters/
attendance at its Meetings held during the year are
non co-operative borrowers (a Committee comprising
set out in the following table:
wholetime Directors and senior executives of the
Name of Member Number of Bank to examine the facts and record the fact of the
meetings attended borrower being a wilful defaulter/non co-operative
S. Madhavan, Chairman 12/12 borrower) and confirm the same for the order to be
considered final.
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi 12/12
Vibha Paul Rishi 4/4 Composition
(w.e.f. October 23, 2022)
The Managing Director & CEO is the Chairman of
Sandeep Batra 12/12
this Committee and any two independent Directors
comprise the remaining members. Two Meetings
X. Stakeholders Relationship Committee
of the Committee were held during the year. The
T erms of Reference Meetings held on July 12, 2022 and January 19, 2023
The functions of the Committee inter alia includes were attended by Sandeep Bakhshi, Uday Chitale
approval and rejection of transmission of shares, and Radhakrishnan Nair.
bonds, debentures, issue of duplicate certificates,
allotment of securities from time to time, redressal XII. Separate Meeting of Independent Directors
and resolution of grievances of security holders, During the year, the Independent Directors met
delegation of authority for opening and operation of on April 23, 2022 inter alia to review the matters
bank accounts for payment of interest/dividend. statutorily prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013
and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Composition
There were four Meetings of the Committee during the XIII. Other Committees
year - April 22, 2022, July 22, 2022, October 21, 2022
In addition to the above, the Board has from time
and January 21, 2023. The details of the composition
to time constituted various committees, namely,
of the Committee and attendance at its Meetings
Committee of Executive Directors, Executive
held during the year are set out in the following table:
Investment Committee, Asset Liability Management
Name of Member Number of Committee, Committee for Identification of Wilful
meetings attended Defaulters/Non Co-operative Borrowers, Committee
Hari L. Mundra, Chairman 4/4 of Senior Management (comprising certain wholetime
Uday Chitale 4/4 Directors and Executives) and Committee of
Anup Bagchi 3/3 Executives, Compliance Committee, Process Approval
(upto October 22, 2022) Committee, Outsourcing Committee, Operational
Sandeep Batra 1/1 Risk Management Committee, Vigilance Committee,
(w.e.f. October 23, 2022) Product Governance Forum and other committees
The Company Secretary of the Bank acts as (all comprising Executives). These committees are
the Compliance Officer in accordance with the responsible for specific operational areas like asset
requirements of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 340 liability management, approval/renewal of credit
investor complaints received in fiscal 2023 were proposals, approval of products and processes and
processed. At March 31, 2023, no complaints were management of operational risk, under authorisation/
pending. supervision of the Board and its committees.
91
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
XIV. General Body Meetings
The details of General Body Meetings held in the last three years are given below:
General Body Meeting Day, Date Time Venue
Twenty-Eighth Annual General Tuesday, 3:00 p.m. Meeting held through Video Conferencing/
Meeting August 30, 2022 Other Audio Visual Means
Twenty-Seventh Annual Friday, 3:00 p.m. Meeting held through Video Conferencing/
General Meeting August 20, 2021 Other Audio Visual Means
Twenty-Sixth Annual General Friday, 3:30 p.m. Meeting held through Video Conferencing/
Meeting August 14, 2020 Other Audio Visual Means
The details of the Special Resolutions passed at the Annual General Meetings held in the year 2022 and 2020 are
given below:
General Body Day, Date Resolutions
Meeting
Twenty-Eighth Tuesday, • Re-appointment of Neelam Dhawan (DIN: 00871445) as an Independent
Annual General August 30, Director of the Bank
Meeting 2022 • Re-appointment of Uday Chitale (DIN: 00043268) as an Independent Director
of the Bank
• Re-appointment of Radhakrishnan Nair (DIN: 07225354) as an Independent
Director of the Bank
• Approval and adoption of ‘ICICI Bank Employees Stock Unit Scheme - 2022’
• Approval of grant of Units to the eligible employees of select unlisted wholly
owned subsidiaries under ‘ICICI Bank Employees Stock Unit Scheme - 2022’
Twenty-Sixth Friday, • Re-appointment of Girish Chandra Chaturvedi (DIN: 00110996) as an
Annual General August 14, Independent Director of the Bank
Meeting 2020 • Shifting the Registered Office of the Bank from the State of Gujarat to the
State of Maharashtra and consequent amendment to the Memorandum of
Association of the Bank
No Special Resolution was passed at the Twenty-Seventh Annual General Meeting held on Friday, August 20, 2021.
P ostal Ballot relating to capital markets, during the last three years
are detailed as under:
No resolution was passed through postal ballot
during the financial year ended March 31, 2023. (i) BSE and NSE had levied a fine of ` 11,800 each
At present, no special resolution is proposed to be for delay in submitting the notice of record date in
passed through postal ballot. one instance under Regulation 60(2) of the SEBI
Listing Regulations. The Bank paid fines to both
XV. Disclosures the stock exchanges and filed for waiver of the
1. There are no materially significant transactions fine. BSE and NSE vide its communication dated
with related parties i.e., directors, management, March 31, 2023 and May 15, 2023 respectively,
subsidiaries, or relatives conflicting with the Bank’s waived the fine.
interests. The Bank has no promoter.
(ii) SEBI issued an administrative warning on
2. Details of non-compliance by the Bank, penalties or March 2, 2023 for collection of registration
strictures imposed on the Bank by stock exchanges fees in advance before submission of Common
or SEBI or any statutory authority, on any matter Application Form and collection of balance fees
92
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
in case of re-categorization of Foreign Portfolio to SEBI. The Bank filed the applications seeking
Investors category and non-updation of for disposal of the civil appeal matters pending
operational manual with specific section to deal before the Supreme Court which were heard
with specific entities. The Bank has submitted its on January 4, 2022 and Supreme Court vide its
action taken report to SEBI. Further, the Board order dated January 4, 2022 disposed off all the
of Directors noted the steps taken by the Bank appeals in view of the settlement between the
and advised to ensure timely compliance with parties. SEBI vide their email dated May 12, 2022
the instruction issued by SEBI. The same was has communicated that in view of the Order of
informed to SEBI. the Hon’ble Supreme Court, the matter stands
settled in respect of the appeals as mentioned in
(iii) SEBI issued an administrative warning on
the said order.
October 14, 2022 for failure to transfer amounts
pertaining to written off securities to the Investor (v) SEBI issued an administrative warning on
Protection and Education Fund within prescribed December 3, 2021 with regard to erroneous
timelines and delay in updation of Operational submission of monthly Assets Under Custody
Manual after issuance of Regulations/Guidelines. data to National Securities Depository Limited.
The Bank placed the same alongwith corrective The communication received from SEBI and
measures before the Board and also submitted additional corrective action taken by Bank was
the responses to SEBI. placed before the Board of Directors of the Bank.
The Board took note of the controls implemented
(iv) SEBI issued an Adjudication Order on
and advised to follow the same diligently and
September 12, 2019, imposing a penalty of
the same was informed to SEBI.
` 500,000 each (totalling to ` 1.0 million) under
Section 15HB of the Securities and Exchange (vi) SEBI vide letter dated November 11, 2020 had
Board of India Act, 1992 and Section 23E of the issued an administrative warning and advisory
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 on letter for two deficiencies/discrepancies i.e.
the Bank for delayed disclosure of an agreement non-disclosure of the track record and non-
made on May 18, 2010 relating to merger of submission of demarcation of responsibilities
erstwhile Bank of Rajasthan with the Bank. The statement to SEBI, observed during the
inspection for merchant banking activity. The
Bank had filed an appeal against SEBI’s Order
Bank placed SEBI’s letter alongwith corrective
with the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT)
measures before the Board and informed the
and SAT vide its order converted the monetary
same to SEBI.
penalty imposed on the Bank to warning.
3. In terms of the Whistle Blower Policy of the Bank, no
S ubsequently, SEBI had filed an appeal with
employee of the Bank has been denied access to the
the Supreme Court of India (Supreme Court)
Audit Committee.
against the SAT order pertaining to the Bank.
Separately, the Bank had also filed an appeal 4. Being a banking company, the disclosures relating
with the Supreme Court against the SAT order. to deposits as required under Rule 8(5)(v) and (vi)
The matter was heard by the Supreme Court of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, read with
wherein the Supreme Court directed an interim Sections 73 and 74 of the Companies Act, 2013, are
stay on the operation of the SAT orders. The not applicable to the Bank.
Bank subsequently filed counter affidavit before
5. There is no application or proceeding pending against
the Supreme Court. To bring closure to the
the Bank under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code,
matter, the Bank filed the settlement application
2016 during the year under review.
on January 6, 2021, under the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Settlement 6. There was no instance of one-time settlement by
Proceedings) Regulations, 2018 pursuant to the Bank with any other bank or financial institution
which the Bank has paid the settlement amount during the year under review.
93
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
XVI. Means of Communication Financial Year: April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023
It is ICICI Bank’s belief that all stakeholders should Record Date: August 9, 2023
have access to information regarding its position to
enable them to accurately assess its future potential. Dividend Payment Date: Will be paid/despatched on
ICICI Bank disseminates information on its operations or after September 1, 2023
and initiatives on a regular basis. ICICI Bank‘s website
Listing of equity shares/ADSs/Bonds on Stock
(www.icicibank.com) serves as a key awareness
Exchanges
facility for all its stakeholders, allowing them to
access information at their convenience. It provides
Stock Exchange Code for
comprehensive information on ICICI Bank’s strategy,
ICICI Bank
financial performance, operational performance and
the latest press releases. BSE Limited (Equity) 532174
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, &
ICICI Bank’s investor relations personnel respond
Dalal Street, Mumbai 400 001 6321741
to specific queries and play a proactive role in
disseminating information to both analysts and National Stock Exchange of India ICICIBANK
investors. In accordance with SEBI and Securities Limited (Equity)
Exchange Commission (SEC) guidelines, all Exchange Plaza, Bandra-Kurla
information which could have a material bearing on Complex, Mumbai 400 051
ICICI Bank’s share price is released through leading
New York Stock Exchange (ADSs)2 IBN
domestic and global wire agencies. The information
11, Wall Street, New York, NY 10005
is also disseminated to the NSE, BSE, New York Stock
United States of America
Exchange (NYSE), SEC, Singapore Stock Exchange,
Japan Securities Dealers Association and SIX Swiss 1 FII segment of BSE
Exchange Ltd. from time to time. 2 E ach ADS of ICICI Bank represents two underlying equity
shares
The financial and other information and the various
compliances as required/prescribed under the SEBI The bonds issued in domestic market comprised
Listing Regulations are filed electronically with privately placed bonds as well bonds issued via
NSE/BSE and are also available on their respective public issues which are listed on BSE/NSE.
websites in addition to the Bank’s website.
ICICI Bank has paid annual listing fees for the relevant
ICICI Bank’s quarterly financial results are published
periods to BSE and NSE where its equity shares/
in Financial Express and Vadodara Samachar. The
bonds are listed and NYSE where its ADSs are listed.
financial results, official news releases, earnings call
transcripts, audio recording and presentations are
L isting of other securities
also available on the Bank’s website.
The bonds issued overseas are issued either in public
The Management’s Discussion & Analysis forms part
or private placement format. The listed bonds are
of the Annual Report.
traded on Singapore Exchange Securities Trading
G eneral Shareholder Information Limited, 2 Shenton Way, #02-02, SGX Centre 1,
Singapore 068804 or India International Exchange
Annual General Meeting Day, Date Time
(IFSC) Limited (India INX), 1st Floor, Unit No. 101, The
Twenty-Ninth Annual Signature, Building No. 13B, Road 1C, Zone 1, GIFT
General Meeting through Wednesday, 2:00 SEZ, GIFT City, Gandhinagar, Gujarat 382355 or SIX
Video Conferencing/Other August 30, p.m. Swiss Exchange Ltd, Pfingstweidstrasse 110, P.O.
Audio Visual Means 2023
Box, CH-8021 Zurich, Switzerland.
94
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
M arket Price Information
The reported high and low closing prices and volume of equity shares of ICICI Bank traded during fiscal 2023 on BSE
and NSE are set out in the following table:
Month BSE NSE Total Volume on
BSE and NSE
High (`) Low (`) Volume High (`) Low (`) Volume
April-22 777.95 724.10 11,526,037 777.90 723.10 331,468,931 342,994,968
May-22 756.60 675.00 12,033,175 756.70 675.00 270,162,892 282,196,067
June-22 757.20 670.35 6,803,973 757.00 669.95 237,332,561 244,136,534
July-22 822.75 694.30 13,019,113 823.40 694.10 216,490,069 229,509,182
August-22 890.50 808.50 15,190,178 890.75 808.35 247,196,969 262,387,147
September-22 936.35 837.25 19,525,026 936.65 837.50 257,557,559 277,082,585
October-22 942.70 846.05 12,218,609 943.25 845.70 194,695,277 206,913,886
November-22 958.00 891.55 15,895,929 958.20 891.25 244,001,307 259,897,236
December-22 957.00 875.30 7,136,252 957.00 875.25 232,247,479 239,383,731
January-23 907.85 796.10 8,199,721 907.90 796.00 321,387,922 329,587,643
February-23 877.80 823.55 11,539,501 877.80 823.15 255,975,001 267,514,502
March-23 880.90 810.50 4,143,418 881.00 810.30 353,368,888 357,512,306
Fiscal 2023 958.00 670.35 137,230,932 958.20 669.95 3,161,884,855 3,299,115,787
The reported high and low closing prices and volume of ADSs of ICICI Bank traded during fiscal 2023 on the NYSE
are given below:
Month High (USD) Low (USD) Number of ADS traded
April-22 20.05 18.81 217,018,200
May-22 19.45 17.43 164,239,700
June-22 19.55 17.07 154,011,900
July-22 20.83 17.61 150,069,200
August-22 22.64 20.63 160,607,500
September-22 23.49 20.51 172,261,100
October-22 23.02 20.32 175,112,800
November-22 23.75 21.88 192,474,900
December-22 23.49 21.34 149,935,300
January-23 22.14 19.92 182,030,700
February-23 21.04 20.03 129,675,000
March-23 21.70 19.34 131,936,800
Fiscal 2023 23.75 17.07 1,979,373,100
95
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The performance of ICICI Bank equity shares relative to the S&P BSE Sensitive Index (Sensex), S&P BSE Bank Index
(Bankex) and NYSE Financial Index during the period April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023 is given in the following chart:
S&P BSE Sensex S&P BSE Bankex NYSE Financial Index ICICI Bank
S hare Transfer System, Dematerilisation of dated September 6, 2010 an audit is conducted
Shares and Liquidity on a quarterly basis, for the purpose of, inter alia,
reconciliation of the total admitted equity share
As per the SEBI mandate, securities of listed
capital with the depositories and in the physical form
companies can be transferred/traded only in
with the total issued/paid up equity share capital
dematerialised form. In view of this and to eliminate
of ICICI Bank. Audit Reports issued in this regard
all risks associated with physical shares and for
are placed before the Stakeholders Relationship
ease of portfolio management, Members holding
Committee and filed with BSE and NSE, where the
shares in physical form are requested to consider
equity shares of ICICI Bank are listed.
converting their holdings to dematerialised form. The
Bank’s equity shares are actively traded on the stock
R egistrar and Transfer Agents
exchanges.
The Bank has appointed KFin Technologies Limited
As required under Regulation 40(9) of the SEBI as its Registrar & Transfer Agent (R & T Agent) for
Listing Regulations, a certificate is obtained from a equity shares in place of 3i Infotech Limited with
practicing Company Secretary and filed with BSE effect from April 1, 2022. Investor services related
and NSE, where the equity shares of ICICI Bank are queries/requests/grievances for equity shares may be
listed. directed to C Shobha Anand at the following address:
In terms of Regulation 76 of the Securities and KFin Technologies Limited
Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Unit: ICICI Bank Limited
Participants) Regulations, 2018 and SEBI Circular No. Selenium Building, Tower-B
D&CC/FITTC/CIR-16/2002 dated December 31, 2002, Plot No. 31 & 32, Financial District
as amended vide Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/30/2010 Nanakramguda, Serlingampally
22/rpA
140
120
100
80
60
22/yaM 22/nuJ 22/luJ 22/guA 22/peS 22/tcO 22/voN 22/ceD 32/naJ 32/beF 32/raM
Annual Report 2022-23
96
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Hyderabad 500 032, Rangareddy 3i Infotech Limited
Telangana, India International Infotech Park, Tower # 5, 3rd Floor
Tel. No.: +91-040-6716 2222 Vashi Railway Station Complex, Vashi
Fax No.: +91-040-2342 0814 Navi Mumbai 400 703, Maharashtra, India
Toll free No.: 18003094001 Tel. No.: +91-22-7123 8034/35
WhatsApp No.: +91 910 009 4099 Fax No.: +91-22-6792 8099
E-mail: einward.ris@kfintech.com Toll free No.: 18601207777
Website: https://ris.kfintech.com E-mail: investor@icicibank.com
Investor Support Centre: https://ris.kfintech.com/ Website: https://www.3i-infotech.com/investors/
clientservices/isc
Q ueries relating to the operational and
Details of other Service Centers of KFin Technologies financial performance of ICICI Bank may be
Limited, R & T Agent for equity shareholders can addressed to:
be viewed at https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/
Anindya Banerjee/Abhinek Bhargava
investor-contact
ICICI Bank Limited
3i Infotech Limited is the R & T Agent for the bonds/ ICICI Bank Towers
debentures issued by the Bank. Investor services Bandra-Kurla Complex
related queries/requests/grievances for bonds/ Mumbai 400 051
debentures may be directed to Vijay Singh Chauhan Tel. No.: +91-22-2653 6173
at the following address: E-mail: ir@icicibank.com
Debenture Trustees
Pursuant to Regulation 53 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the names and contact details of the debenture trustees
for the public issue bonds and privately placed bonds of the Bank are given below:
Axis Trustee Services Limited IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited
The Ruby, 2nd Floor, SW 29 Universal Insurance Building
Senapati Bapat Marg Ground Floor, Sir P.M. Road
Dadar West, Mumbai 400 028 Fort, Mumbai 400 001
Tel. No.: +91-22-2425 5202 Tel. No.: +91-22-4080 7057
debenturetrustee@axistrustee.com itsl@idbitrustee.com
The details are available on the website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/Personal-Banking/investments/
icici-bank-bonds/index.page).
Bank’s Customer Service
The Bank enables customers to avail of services through multiple channels.
• Customer care: Connect with us on 1800 1080. To know more, visit https://www.icicibank.com/customer-
care?ITM=nli_cms_CONTACT_US_customer_care_menu_navigation
• Branch: Visit our branch for resolution.
• Website: Register a request on the Bank’s website. For details, https://www.icicibank.com/personal-banking/
insta-banking/internet-banking/list-of-service-requests
• Email: Write to us at customer.care@icicibank.com
• iMobile: Seek resolution using the IPAL chat bot.
97
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Information on Shareholding
Shareholding pattern of ICICI Bank at March 31, 2023
Shareholder Category No. of Shares % holding
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (Depositary for ADS holders) 1,335,200,207 19.12
FIIs/FPIs 2,493,590,546 35.71
Insurance Companies 708,965,402 10.15
Bodies Corporate (includes Government Companies and Clearing Members) 86,091,473 1.23
Banks & Financial Institutions 6,770,790 0.10
Mutual Funds 1,657,737,819 23.74
Individuals, HUF, Trusts 461,669,391 6.61
NBFCs Registered with RBI 14,360,029 0.21
Provident Funds/Pension Funds 139,905,614 2.00
Alternate Investment Fund 34,313,941 0.49
IEPF 8,196,312 0.12
Others (includes NRIs, Foreign Companies, Foreign Banks, Foreign Nationals etc.) 36,014,207 0.52
Total 6,982,815,731 100.00
Shareholders of ICICI Bank with more than one percent holding (PAN based) at March 31, 2023
Name of the Shareholder No. of Shares % holding
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas* 1,335,200,207 19.12
Life Insurance Corporation of India 436,045,481 6.24
SBI Mutual Fund 401,128,311 5.74
ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund 201,266,391 2.88
Government of Singapore 193,927,441 2.78
HDFC Mutual Fund 168,757,184 2.42
NPS Trust 139,905,614 2.00
UTI Mutual Fund 133,817,521 1.92
Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund 98,216,059 1.41
Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund 94,807,985 1.36
Dodge and Cox International Stock Fund 86,823,676 1.24
Nippon Life India Mutual Fund 83,529,717 1.20
SBI Life Insurance Company Limited 81,225,555 1.16
Europacific Growth Fund 78,969,116 1.13
Mirae Asset Mutual Fund 77,802,147 1.11
Axis Mutual Fund 73,313,274 1.05
* Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas holds equity shares of ICICI Bank as depositary for ADS holders.
98
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Distribution of shareholding of ICICI Bank at March 31, 2023
Range - Shares No. of Folios % No. of Shares %
1 - 5,000 1,907,110 98.72 265,027,798 3.79
5,001 - 10,000 12,632 0.65 43,793,951 0.63
10,001 - 20,000 5,562 0.29 38,650,155 0.55
20,001 - 30,000 1,708 0.09 20,791,917 0.30
30,001 - 40,000 817 0.04 14,291,193 0.20
40,001 - 50,000 453 0.02 10,217,330 0.15
50,001 - 100,000 1,034 0.05 36,935,404 0.53
100,001 & Above 2,630 0.14 6,553,107,983 93.85
Total 1,931,946 100.00 6,982,815,731 100.00
Details of shares held in Demat and Physical form at March 31, 2023
Mode of holding No. of Shares %
Demat 6,969,342,942 99.81
Physical 13,472,789 0.19
Total 6,982,815,731 100.00
Details of shares/convertible instruments held by amount of ` 59.7 million remaining unclaimed for a
Non‑Executive Directors period of seven years from the date of its transfer to
the Unpaid Dividend Accounts of the Bank has been
As on March 31, 2023, S. Madhavan and Vibha Paul
transferred to the IEPF.
Rishi (as joint holder) held 4,000 and 330 equity
shares of ` 2.00 each respectively. Pursuant to Section 124(6) of the Companies Act,
2013 read with the Investor Education & Protection
Disclosure with respect to shares lying in suspense
Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer &
account
Refund) Rules, 2016, during fiscal 2023, 689,814
The Bank has been transferring the shares lying equity shares in respect of which the dividend has not
unclaimed to the eligible shareholders as and when been claimed for seven consecutive years have been
the request for the same has been received after transferred to the designated demat account of the
proper verification. During the fiscal 2023, no shares IEPF Authority.
were transferred from the suspense account. The Bank
The unclaimed dividend and the equity shares
had 93,438 equity shares held by 467 shareholders
transferred to IEPF can be claimed by making an
lying in suspense account at the beginning and at the
application in the prescribed form available on the
end of the fiscal 2023.
website of IEPF at (www.iepf.gov.in).
The voting rights on the shares lying in suspense
Members who have not yet encashed their dividend
account are frozen till the rightful owner of such
warrant(s) for the financial year ended March 31, 2017
shares claims the shares.
and/or subsequent years are requested to submit
Transfer of unclaimed dividend and shares to their claims to KFin Technologies Limited without any
Investor Education & Protection Fund (IEPF) delay.
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 124 and 125 of The details of Nodal Officer and Deputy NodaI
the Companies Act, 2013, during fiscal 2023, dividend Officers appointed under the provisions of IEPF
99
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
are available on the website of the Bank at: Plant Locations – Not applicable
(https://nli.icicibank.com/NewRetailWeb/
Address for Correspondence
showUnclaimedForm.htm).
Prachiti Lalingkar
Outstanding GDRs/ADSs/Warrants or any Company Secretary
Convertible instruments, conversion date and ICICI Bank Limited
likely impact on equity ICICI Bank Towers
Bandra-Kurla Complex
ICICI Bank has 667.6 million ADS (equivalent to
Mumbai 400 051
1,335.2 million equity shares) outstanding, which
Tel. No.: +91-22-2653 8900
constituted 19.12% of ICICI Bank’s total equity capital
Fax No.: +91-22-2653 1230
at March 31, 2023. There are no other convertible
E-mail: companysecretary@icicibank.com
instruments outstanding as on March 31, 2023.
The Bank is in compliance with requirements specified
Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk
in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t)
and hedging activities
of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the SEBI
The foreign exchange risk position including bullion Listing Regulations.
is managed within the net overnight open position
The Bank has also complied with the discretionary
(NOOP) limit approved by the Board of Directors.
requirements such as maintaining a separate office
The foreign currency assets of the Bank are primarily
for the Chairman at the Bank’s expense, ensuring
floating rate linked assets. Wholesale liability raising
financial statements with unmodified audit opinion,
for foreign currencies takes place in USD or other
separation of posts of Chairman and Chief Executive
currencies through bond issuances, bilateral loans
Officer and reporting of internal auditor directly to the
and syndicated/club loans as well as refinance from
Audit Committee.
Export Credit Agencies (ECA) which may be at a
fixed rate or floating rate linked. In case of fixed Analysis of Customer Complaints
rate long-term wholesale fund raising in USD, the
The required details as per the RBI Circular No.
interest rate risk is generally hedged through interest
CEPD.CO.PRD.Cir.No.01/13.01.013/2020-21 dated
rate swaps wherein the Bank effectively moves the
January 27, 2021 are disclosed in note no. 53 of
interest payments to a floating rate index in order to
Schedule 18 of the financial statements.
match the asset profile. In case of fund raising in non-
USD currencies, the foreign exchange risk is hedged COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE OF THE AUDITORS
through foreign exchange swaps or currency interest
ICICI Bank has annexed to this Report, a certificate
rate swaps.
obtained from the statutory auditors regarding compliance
The extant RBI guidelines do not allow AD Category I of conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the
Banks to take any market positions in commodity SEBI Listing Regulations.
related activities. However, the extant guidelines
allows Bank to import gold and silver in line with SHARE BASED EMPLOYEE BENEFITS SCHEME(S)
the RBI license and selling of imported gold/silver on
(a) I CICI Bank Employees Stock Option Scheme ‑
outright basis to domestic clients or providing gold
2000
metal loan to jewellery manufacturers. ICICI Bank
ICICI Bank has an Employees Stock Option Scheme
provides pricing and hedging of Gold Metal Loan to
- 2000 (Scheme 2000) which was instituted in fiscal
jewellery customers and such exposures are covered
2000 to enable the employees and Wholetime
on a back-to-back basis with gold suppliers.
Directors of ICICI Bank and its subsidiaries to
In view of the above, the disclosure pursuant to participate in future growth and financial success of
the SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/ the Bank. The Scheme 2000 aims at achieving the
2018/0000000141 dated November 15, 2018 is not twin objectives of aligning employee interest to that
required to be given. of the shareholders and retention. Through employee
100
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
stock option grants, the Bank seeks to foster a Till March 31, 2021, the Bank recognised cost of stock
culture of long-term sustainable value creation. The options granted under Scheme 2000, using intrinsic
Scheme 2000 is in compliance with the Securities value method. Pursuant to RBI clarification dated
and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee August 30, 2021, the cost of stock options granted
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 after March 31, 2021 is recognised based on fair
(the SEBI SBEB & SE Regulations). The options are value method. The cost of stock options granted up to
granted by the Board Governance, Remuneration & March 31, 2021 continues to be recognised on intrinsic
Nomination Committee and noted/approved by the value method. The Bank uses Black-Scholes model to
Board as the case maybe. fair value the options on the grant date and the inputs
used in the valuation model include assumptions such
The Scheme was initially approved by the Members
as the expected life of the share option, volatility, risk
at their meeting held on February 21, 2000 and
free rate and dividend yield. The diluted earnings per
amended from time to time.
share (EPS) pursuant to issue of shares on exercise
The Bank has upto March 31, 2023 granted 612.29 of options calculated in accordance with Accounting
million stock options from time to time aggregating Standard 20 (AS-20) for the year ended March 31,
to 8.77% of the issued equity capital of the Bank 2023 was ` 44.89 compared to basic EPS of ` 45.79.
at March 31, 2023. As per the Scheme 2000, as
The following table sets forth, for the periods
amended from time to time, the maximum number of
indicated, the key assumptions used to estimate the
options granted to any employee/Director in a year is
fair value of options granted.
limited to 0.05% of ICICI Bank’s issued equity shares
at the time of the grant, and the aggregate of all such Particulars Year ended Year ended
options is limited to 10% of ICICI Bank’s issued equity March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023
shares on the date of the grant (equivalent to 698.28
Risk-free 5.34% to 6.53% 5.99% to 7.37%
million shares of face value ` 2.00 each at March 31,
interest rate
2023).
Expected life 3.55 to 5.55 3.23 to 5.23
Particulars of options granted by ICICI Bank as on years years
March 31, 2023 are given below:
Expected 35.38% to 34.79% to
volatility 39.41% 38.98%
Number of options outstanding1 at 237,197,999
the beginning of the year Expected 0.18% to 0.30% 0.27% to 0.72%
dividend yield
Number of options granted during 25,793,500
the year The weighted average fair value, based on Black-
Number of options forfeited/ 3,921,340 Scholes model, of options granted under Scheme
lapsed during the year 2000 during the year ended March 31, 2023 was
Number of options vested during 29,953,785 ` 291.15 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 227.75)
the year and the weighted average exercise price of options
granted during the year ended March 31, 2023 was
Number of options exercised 34,044,356
` 747.92 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 570.43).
during the year
Number of shares arising as a 34,044,356 Risk free interest rates over the expected term of the
result of exercise of options option are based on the government securities yield
in effect at the time of the grant. The expected term of
Money realised by exercise of 9,420,690,715
an option is estimated based on the vesting term as
options during the year (`)
well as expected exercise behavior of the employees
Number of options outstanding1 at 225,025,803
who receive the option. Expected exercise behavior
the end of the year
is estimated based on the historical stock option
Number of options exercisable at 172,938,533
exercise pattern of the Bank. Expected volatility
the end of the year
during the estimated expected term of the option
1 options granted less exercised less lapsed is based on historical volatility determined based
101
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
on observed market prices of the Bank's publicly The detailed disclosures as stipulated under Regulation
traded equity shares. Expected dividends during the 14 of the SEBI SBEB & SE Regulations will be hosted on
estimated expected term of the option are based on the website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/
recent dividend activity. about-us/other-policies).
(b) I CICI Bank Employees Stock Unit Scheme - CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY
2022 ABSORPTION, FOREIGN EXCHANGE
The Board of Directors of ICICI Bank at its Meeting EARNINGS AND OUTGO
held on June 28, 2022, approved the adoption of The Bank has undertaken various initiatives for energy
Employees Stock Unit Scheme - 2022 (Scheme 2022). conservation at its premises. A detailed write up is given
The Scheme 2022 was approved by the Members at in the Environmental, Social and Governance Report of
the Annual General Meeting held on August 30, 2022. fiscal 2023 which will be available on the website of the
Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/annual) and
The key objectives of the Scheme 2022 are to deepen
in the Natural Capital chapter in the Integrated Report
the co-ownership amongst the (i) mid level and front-
section of the Annual Report 2022-23. The Bank has used
line managers, and (ii) employees of Bank’s select
information technology extensively in its operations; for
unlisted wholly owned subsidiaries with the following
details refer to the chapter Our Business Strategy in the
key considerations:
Integrated Report section of the Annual Report 2022-23.
i. to enable employees’ participation in the
business as an active stakeholder to usher in SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
an ‘Owner-Manager’ culture and to act as a Your Bank is in compliance with the Secretarial Standard
retention mechanism; on Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) for the
ii. to enhance motivation of employees; and
financial year ended March 31, 2023.
iii. to enable employees to participate in the long
term growth and financial success of the Bank. DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
The Scheme 2022 is in compliance with the SEBI The Directors confirm:
SBEB & SE Regulations.
1. that in the preparation of the annual accounts, the
Maximum of 100,000,000 Units, shall be granted in applicable accounting standards had been followed,
one or more tranches over a period of 7 years from along with proper explanation relating to material
the date of approval of the Scheme 2022 by the departures;
shareholders, which shall entitle the Unit holder one
2. that they have selected such accounting policies and
fully paid-up equity share of face value of ` 2.00 of
applied them consistently and made judgements and
the Bank (as adjusted for any changes in capital
estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so as to
structure of the Bank) against each Unit exercised
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
and accordingly, up to 100,000,000 equity shares Bank at the end of the financial year and of the profit
of face value of ` 2.00 each shall be allotted to all of the Bank for that period;
eligible employees taken together under the Scheme
3. that they have taken proper and sufficient care for
2022.
the maintenance of adequate accounting records,
Units granted under the Scheme 2022 shall vest not in accordance with the provisions of the Banking
later than the maximum vesting period of 4 years. Regulation Act, 1949 and the Companies Act,
Exercise price shall be the face value of equity shares 2013 for safeguarding the assets of the Bank
of the Bank i.e. ` 2.00 for each unit (as adjusted for and for preventing and detecting fraud and other
any changes in capital structure of the Bank). irregularities;
No units were granted under the Scheme 2022 during 4. that they have prepared the annual accounts on a
fiscal 2023. going concern basis;
102
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
5. that they have laid down internal financial controls deep sense of appreciation to all the employees whose
to be followed by the Bank and that such internal outstanding professionalism, commitment and initiative
financial controls are adequate and were operating have made the organisation’s growth and success
effectively; and possible and continues to drive its progress. Finally, the
Directors wish to express their gratitude to the Members
6. that they have devised proper systems to ensure
for their trust and support.
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws
and that such systems were adequate and operating For and on behalf of the Board
effectively.
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Chairman
ICICI Bank is grateful to the Government of India, Reserve June 29, 2023 DIN: 00110996
Bank of India, Securities and Exchange Board of India,
Compliance with the Group Code of Business
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
Conduct and Ethics
and overseas regulators for their continued co-operation,
support and guidance. ICICI Bank wishes to thank I confirm that all Directors and members of the senior
its investors, the domestic and international banking management have affirmed compliance with Group
community, rating agencies, depositories and stock Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for the year ended
exchanges for their support. March 31, 2023.
ICICI Bank would like to take this opportunity to express Sandeep Bakhshi
sincere thanks to its valued clients and customers for Managing Director & CEO
their continued patronage. The Directors express their April 22, 2023 DIN: 0109206
103
Annual Report 2022-23
DDIIRREECCTTOORRSS’’ RREEPPOORRTT
ANNEXURE A
FORM No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
[Pursuant to Section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To, extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct
The Members, Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;
ICICI Bank Limited (v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):
good corporate practices by ICICI Bank Limited (hereinafter
(a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
called the Company/the Bank). Secretarial Audit was
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon. (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations,
Based on our verification of the Company’s books,
2015;
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other
records maintained by the Company, to the extent the (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
information provided by the Company, its officers, agents (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
and authorised representatives during the conduct of Regulations, 2018;
secretarial audit, the explanations and clarifications given
to us and the representations made by the Management (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
and considering the relaxations granted by the Ministry (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat
of Corporate Affairs and Securities and Exchange Board Equity) Regulations, 2021;
of India warranted due to the spread of the COVID-19
(e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
pandemic, we hereby report that in our opinion, the
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities)
Company has, during the audit period covering the
Regulations, 2021;
financial year ended on March 31, 2023, generally
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder (f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
and also that the Company has proper Board processes (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer
and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter: Companies Act and dealing with client; (Not
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms applicable to the Company during the audit
and returns filed and other records made available to us period);
and maintained by the Company for the financial year
(g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
ended on March 31, 2023 according to the provisions of:
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;
(i) The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules (Not applicable to the Company during the audit
made thereunder; period);
(ii) The Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 (h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder; (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 (Not
(iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and applicable to the Company during the audit
Bye-laws framed thereunder; period);
(iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and (i) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
the rules and regulations made thereunder to the (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992;
104
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DDIIRREECCTTOORRSS’’ RREEPPOORRTT
(j) The Securities and Exchange Board of India paid fines to both the stock exchanges and filed for waiver
(Bankers to an Issue) Regulations, 1994; of the fine. BSE and NSE has vide its communication dated
March 31, 2023 and May 15, 2023 respectively, waived
(k) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
the fine.
(Debenture Trustee) Regulations, 1993;
We further report that:
(l) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Custodian) Regulations, 1996; The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted
with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive
(m) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in
(Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019;
the composition of the Board of Directors that took
(n) The Securities and Exchange Board of India place during the period under review were carried out in
(Stock Brokers) Regulations, 1992; and compliance with the provisions of the Act.
(o) The Securities and Exchange Board of India Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the
(Depositories and Participant) Regulations, Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda
2018; were sent at least seven days in advance, and a system
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and
(vi) Other laws applicable specifically to the Company
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and
namely:
for meaningful participation at the meeting.
(a) The Banking Regulation Act, 1949, Master
In respect of meetings held at short notice or meetings
Circulars, Notifications and Guidelines issued by
for which the agenda notes (other than those relating to
the RBI from time to time;
Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (UPSI)) were sent
(b) The Securitisation and Reconstruction of at a notice of less than 7 days, the unanimous consent
Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security of the Board/Committee was taken for discussion of the
Interest Act, 2002; said agenda items and the same has been recorded in the
minutes.
(c) The Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and
Financial Institutions Act, 1993; Decisions at the Meetings of the Board of Directors and of
the Committees thereof were taken with requisite majority.
(d) The Shops and Establishments Act, 1953
We further report that there are adequate systems and
We have also examined compliance with the applicable processes in the Company commensurate with the size
clauses of the following: and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and
(i) Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of
guidelines.
Company Secretaries of India with respect to board
and general meetings. We further report that the following events occurred
during the audit period which have a major bearing on
(ii) The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company
the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the laws, rules,
with BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of
regulations, guidelines, standards etc. referred to above:
India Limited read with the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 1. During the financial year ended March 31, 2023, the
Requirements) Regulations, 2015. Bank has redeemed various series of debentures
in the nature of Public issue bonds, Private
During the period under review, the Company has
placement bonds and Pension bonds aggregating
generally complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules,
to ` 59,04,78,39,918/- and has complied with the
Regulations, Guidelines, standards etc. mentioned above.
applicable laws.
We report that:
2. Done a secondary listing of following foreign
The National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE currency bonds issued under US $7,500,000,000
Limited have levied a fine of ` 11,800 each for delay in GMTN Programme and listed on Singapore Exchange
submitting the notice of record date in one instance Securities Trading Limited, on Global Securities
under Regulation 60(2) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Market platform at India International Exchange
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. The Bank (IFSC) Limited (India INX):
105
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ISIN Number 144A ISIN No. Reg S Amount Date of Issuance Date of Maturity
- XS1576750951 US$ 650,000,000 March 9, 2017 September 9, 2022
US45112EAG44 US45112FAJ57 US$ 800,000,000 March 18, 2016 March 18, 2026
US45112EAH27 US45112FAM86 US$ 500,000,000 December 14, 2017 December 14, 2027
3. Issued and allotted:
• 21,000 senior unsecured redeemable long term bonds in the nature of debentures aggregating to ` 2,100.00
crores on private placement basis
• 50,000 senior unsecured redeemable long term bonds in the nature of debentures aggregating to ` 5,000.00
crores on private placement basis
4. During the financial year ended March 31, 2023, the Bank has allotted 34,044,356 equity shares of face value of ` 2
each under the Employee Stock Option Scheme.
For Parikh Parekh & Associates
Company Secretaries
P. N. Parikh
Partner
FCS No.: 327 CP No.: 1228
Place: Mumbai UDIN: F000327E000380806
Date: May 25, 2023 PR No.: 723/2020
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of this
report.
106
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
’ANNEXURE A’
To,
The Members,
ICICI Bank Limited
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1. Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2. We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the
correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct
facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the process and practices, we followed provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.
3. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the
Company.
4. Where ever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the Compliance of laws, rules and
regulations and happening of events etc.
5. The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the
responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
6. The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Parikh Parekh & Associates
Company Secretaries
P. N. Parikh
Partner
FCS No.: 327 CP No.: 1228
Place: Mumbai UDIN: F000327E000380806
Date: May 25, 2023 PR No.: 723/2020
107
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNEXURE B
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Para C (10)(i) of Schedule V to the SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To,
The Members of
ICICI Bank Limited
ICICI Bank Tower,
Near Chakli Circle,
Old Padra Road,
Vadodara - 390007
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of ICICI
Bank Limited having CIN L65190GJ1994PLC021012 and having registered office at ICICI Bank Tower, Near Chakli Circle,
Old Padra Road, Vadodara - 390007 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for
the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with clause 10(i) of Para C of Schedule V
to the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification
Number (DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the
Company & its officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2023 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as
Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India or the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such
other statutory authority.
Sl. Name of the Director as on DIN Category of Directorship Date of
No March 31, 2023 Appointment
1. Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi 00110996 Non-Executive - Independent Director July 01, 2018
2. Mr. Hari L. Mundra 00287029 Non-Executive - Independent Director October 26, 2018
3. Mr. S. Madhavan 06451889 Non-Executive - Independent Director April 14, 2019
4. Ms. Neelam Dhawan 00871445 Non-Executive - Independent Director January 12, 2018
5. Mr. Radhakrishnan Nair 07225354 Non-Executive - Independent Director May 02, 2018
6. Mr. B. Sriram 02993708 Non-Executive - Independent Director January 14, 2019
7. Mr. Uday Chitale 00043268 Non-Executive - Independent Director January 17, 2018
8. Ms. Vibha Paul Rishi 05180796 Non-Executive - Independent Director January 23, 2022
9. Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi 00109206 Managing Director & Chief Executive October 15, 2018
Officer
10. Mr. Anup Bagchi 00105962 Wholetime Director February 01, 2017
11. Mr. Sandeep Batra 03620913 Wholetime Director December 23, 2020
12. Mr. Rakesh Jha 00042075 Wholetime Director September 02, 2022
108
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management
of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither
an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management
has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For M/s Vinod Kothari & Company
Practicing Company Secretaries
Unique Code: P1996WB042300
Vinita Nair
Senior Partner
Membership No.: F10559
C P No.: 11902
Place: Mumbai Peer Review Certificate No.: 781/2020
Date: April 22, 2023 UDIN: F010559E000168772
109
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNEXURE C
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES
1. B rief outline on CSR Policy of the Company are effective only when they result in wider access
to opportunities and benefit a broader section of the
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has been
society. ICICI Bank’s approach is to identify critical
a long-standing commitment at ICICI Bank and
areas of development that require investments and
forms an integral part of our activities. The Bank’s
intervention, and which can help to realize India’s
contribution to social sector development includes
potential for growth and prosperity.
several pioneering interventions, and is implemented
through the involvement of stakeholders within the The CSR Policy of the Bank sets the framework
Bank, the Group and the broader community. The guiding the Bank’s CSR activities. It outlines the
Bank established the ICICI Foundation for Inclusive governance structure, operating framework,
Growth (ICICI Foundation) in 2008 with a view to monitoring mechanism, guiding principles for
significantly expand the ICICI Group’s activities in the selecting CSR projects and CSR activities that could
area of CSR. Over the last few years, ICICI Foundation be undertaken. The Bank's CSR activities are largely
has developed significant projects in specific focused in the areas of healthcare, environment,
areas, and has built capabilities for direct project societal development, supporting sustainable
implementation as opposed to extending financial livelihoods, creating social awareness and activities
support to other organisations. like disaster relief or other activities under Schedule
VII of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”).
ICICI Bank’s objective is to proactively support
meaningful socio-economic development in India The CSR Policy was last approved by the Committee
and enable a larger number of people to participate in April 2021. The web-link to the Bank’s CSR Policy
in and benefit from India’s economic progress. This is: https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/corporate-
is based on the belief that growth and development social-responsibility
2. Composition of the CSR Committee
Sr. Name of Director Designation/Nature of Number of Number of meetings
No. Directorship meetings of CSR of CSR Committee
Committee held attended during
during the year the year
1. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Non-Executive (part-time) 4 4
(Chairman of CSR Committee) Chairman / Independent Director
2. Radhakrishnan Nair Independent Director 4 4
3. Uday Chitale Independent Director 4 4
4. Vibha Paul Rishi Independent Director 4 4
5. Anup Bagchi Executive Director 4 4
(upto April 30, 2023)
3. P rovide the web-link where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects
approved by the Board are disclosed on the website of the Company
Link to the Bank’s CSR page is:
https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/corporate-social-responsibility
110
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
4. P rovide the executive summary along with 5. (a) Average net profit of the Company as per
web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR sub‑section (5) of Section 135
Projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule ` 200.43 billion
(3) of rule 8, if applicable
(b) Two percent of average net profit of the
The Bank conducted impact assessment through Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135
external agencies of eight projects undertaken in
` 4,008.5 million
fiscal 2022. Of these, six projects were implemented
through ICICI Foundation and two projects were (c) Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or
programmes or activities of the previous
directly implemented by the Bank.
financial years
Projects implemented through ICICI Foundation were:
` 139.9 million
• Dialysis machines provided to select hospitals in
(d) Amount required to be set‑off for the financial
seven states
year, if any
• Funds provided for surgeries/procedures to Sri ` 70.0 million
Sathya Sai Hospital
(e) Total CSR obligation for the financial year
• Livelihood project through e-rickshaws [(b)+(c)‑(d)]
distribution ` 4,078.4 million
• ASHA worker programme 6. (a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both ongoing
project and other than ongoing projects)
• Education project ‘Prabal Super-50’
` 4,625.6 million (Excludes surplus arising from
• Project ‘Connectivity through bridge’
CSR projects of previous financial year and
spent in fiscal 2023)
Projects directly implemented by the Bank were:
(b) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads
• The financial inclusion programme
Nil
• Social awareness programme.
(c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if
The executive summary of impact assessment of the
applicable
projects as referred above is provided in Annexure 1
` 1.0 million
of the Annual Report on CSR.
(d) Total amount spent for the Financial Year
Link to the impact assessment reports on the Bank’s
[(a) + (b) +(c)]
website:
` 4,626.6 million (Excludes surplus arising from
https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/corporate- CSR projects of previous financial year and
social-responsibility spent in fiscal 2023)
(e) CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year
Total amount Amount unspent (in `)
spent in fiscal Total amount transferred to Amount transferred to any fund specified under
2023 Unspent CSR Account as per Schedule VII as per second proviso to Section 135(5)
(in ` million) Section 135(6)
Amount Date of transfer Name of the Fund Amount Date of transfer
4,626.6* Nil - - Nil -
* Excludes surplus arising from CSR projects of previous financial year and spent in fiscal 2023.
111
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(f) Excess amount for set‑off, if any
Sr. No. Particular Amount (in ` million)
(1) (2) (3)
(i) 2% of average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5) 3,938.5*
(ii) Total amount spent for the financial year 4,766.5#
(iii) Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)] 828.0
(iv) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the 139.9
previous financial years, if any
(v) Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)] 688.1
* Adjusted for the excess amount of ` 70.0 million spent during fiscal 2022 and available for set off in fiscal 2023
# Includes amount spent towards surplus arising from CSR projects of previous financial year
7. D etails of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial Years
Not applicable
8. W hether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social
Responsibility amount spent in the Financial Year
Yes, the details will be available on the Bank’s website at https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/annual
9. S pecify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit
as per sub-section (5) of Section 135
Not applicable
Sandeep Batra Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Executive Director CSR Committee Chairman
DIN: 03620913 DIN: 00110996
June 29, 2023
112
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNEXURE 1: SUMMARY OF IMPACT ASSESSMENT STUDY
1. D ialysis machines provided to select • 60% children were less than five years of age
hospitals in seven states and 30% were in the age-cohort of 5-12 years;
58% of those treated were boys and 42% were
The dialysis project aimed to develop a sustainable
girls.
and collaborative ecosystem for providing access to
affordable and high-quality dialysis services to renal • Most of the people who received services
patients. The initiative, implemented through ICICI were from economically weaker section and
Foundation, was expected to benefit those who had other backward and scheduled castes. The
less or no access to these facilities. The Bank provided support extended made paediatric cardiac care
211 dialysis machines to 76 hospitals in seven states accessible and affordable to these people who
during fiscal 2022. The project was implemented in a could not afford the treatment.
public-private partnership mode, with infrastructure
• Of the families surveyed, 45% were from below
and consummables being made available by the
poverty line, with average monthly income of
government and dialysis machines being funded by
around ` 12,000.
the Bank.
• Contribution to SSSSH gave an SROI value of
Key findings of the study were as follows:
19:1.
• On an average, two to three shifts of dialysis
were done in a day, with no major breakdown 3. L ivelihood project through e-rickshaws
issues with the machines. distribution
This project was undertaken through ICICI
• The programme has made dialysis services
Foundation in collaboration with the Kaushambi
accessible and affordable to the very poor and
district administration in Uttar Pradesh. The local
marginal communities in remote locations. Most
district authority introduced a Garib Sarthi Yojana
of the patients were from below poverty line and
in December 2021 to provide sustainable source
received services at a nominal price.
of income to the underserved and marginalized
• The Social Return on Investment (SROI) in communities in the district. As part of the initiative,
the project was significant with every ` 1.00 electric rickshaws (e-rickshaws) were made available
invested contributing to a social return of ` 25.5 to families below poverty line from rural and urban
over a 10-year period. areas. The funding was for procurement of the
e-rickshaws.
2. F unds provided for surgeries/procedures to
Key impact of the project were:
Sri Sathya Sai Hospital
• 74% of the beneficiaries belonged to the socially
As part of the focus on healthcare, the Bank, through
marginalized sections of society.
ICICI Foundation, had provided funds to Sri Sathya
Sai Sanjeevani Hospital (SSSSH) for heart treatment • Around 80% of the beneficiaries were involved in
of children. The funds could support 400 child heart low-paying jobs such as farming or daily wage
surgeries, which is provided free of cost by the labour.
hospital. The assessment focused on understanding
• 80% of the beneficiaries stated that income
the utilization of funds and the manner in which it
had increased post the programme, and 90% of
had contributed towards improving the lives of the
them earned more than ` 7,000 per month from
beneficiaries.
the e-rickshaws.
Key findings of the study were:
• 63% of the beneficiaries had seen an
• The 400 beneficiaries were from 15 states, improvement in their lifestyle sufficing through
with maximum from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, material well-being in terms of assets procured
Maharashtra, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh. and living conditions.
113
Annual Report 2022-23
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
• 60% beneficiaries indicated they were able to and Leadership (CSRL) which was the implementing
save from the income earned. partner and ICICI Foundation which ensured the
financial stability of the project.
• At the time of the survey, 70% of the beneficiaries
had started using the e-rickshaws commercially. Some key insights from the project were:
• A drawback noted by the study was that • The programme delivered 100% pass rate of
over 60% of the beneficiaries received their the students who appeared for the NEET 2022
e-rickshaws after 11 months from submission of exam.
their application.
• 77% of the students were children of retired
army personnel and 23% were of personnel in-
4. A SHA worker programme
service.
With a view to strengthen the primary healthcare
efforts for women and children undertaken through • 100% of the students confirmed coaching was
ASHA workers, the Bank, through ICICI Foundation, in line with the NEET syllabus.
provided support to 75,000 ASHA workers in fiscal
• 96% of students rated the residential facilities
2022. The women workers were provided with
provided at the campus as ‘4 and above’ (out of
materials like bags, information booklet, education
5).
and communication material, charts for maintaining
records, registers, and other such material that would • 19% of the students have been placed in elite
help them in effective delivery of support for maternal government medical colleges.
and child health. The programme was implemented
6. P roject ‘Connectivity through bridge’
in all districts of Maharashtra.
Under this project, 11 bridges were installed over
Key impact of the project were as follows:
streams and other water bodies in the hilly areas
• 90% of ASHA workers regularly used the kits for of Uttarakhand, primarily, Almora, Champawat,
counselling and home visits. Nainital, Rudraprayag, and Uttarkashi in
collaboration with Himalayan Environmental Studies
• 82% of ASHA workers indicated that they were
and Conservation Organization (HESCO). The project
able to correctly answer majority of the queries
aimed at providing a bridge for rural connectivity in
relating to ante-natal care, and 78% indicated
the mountainous region and positively contributing
they could appropriately respond to queries
to the socio-economic and ecological factors for the
relating to post-natal care.
local people.
• 88% ASHA workers reported that maternal and
Some key impact of the project for the local people
child health monitoring improved using the kits.
were:
• 62% informed that they were able to prevent
• Increased access to markets, timely delivery of
complications faced by women during pregnancy
goods and reduction in spoilage of goods due to
through regular monitoring.
improved access to transportation.
• The SROI for the project was ` 12.13 for every
• Improvement in the access to health services,
rupee spent.
educational services, market, and farm for local
5. E ducation project ‘Prabal Super-50’ people.
The Prabal SUPER-50 project supported children • Reduction in transportation time, cost due to
of army personnel by providing one-year free improved access to road, bridge and availability
residential boarding, coaching and mentoring for of alternative shorter route.
medical entrance exam (NEET) preparation. The
• Reduction in accidents and risks involved,
project was executed through ICICI Foundation. The
especially during monsoon.
key stakeholders were the army that provided the
basic infrastructure, Centre for Social Responsibility • Ease in the availability of emergency services.
114
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
7. T he financial inclusion programme messages were relevant and contextualized to the
local population. In fiscal 2022, the project involved
Financial inclusion programme has been implemented
installation of 3,500 boards at over 43 different sites/
by the Bank for ensuring access to financial services,
locations in Pune, Bangalore, Chennai and Kolkata.
timely and adequate credit for vulnerable groups
such as weaker sections and low-income groups The key findings of the assessment were:
at an affordable cost. The Bank has taken several
• The programme met three of the MCA’s approved
steps towards this goal, including using a network
activities under Schedule VII (Section 135) of the
of Business Correspondents (BCs) and branches,
offering digital payment solutions, and encouraging Companies Act, 2013 and four areas of national
customers to conduct digital transactions. policies.
The key findings are: • The programme was aligned with seven
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
• 44% of respondents developed habit of saving
which include good health and well-being,
and planning expenses. Majority were not able
quality education, clean water and sanitation,
to do so due to low and unstable income.
sustainable cities and communities, responsible
• 68% found accessing financial services to be consumption and production, life below water
convenient. and life on land.
• 73% of respondents informed that knowledge of • The programme also aligned with three of the
various financial services and products improved National Guidelines on Responsible Business
with the assistance of the BCs. Conduct Principles under SEBI’s Business
Responsibility & Sustainability Report (BRSR).
• By providing access to financial services and to
government schemes, the program has helped • The daily effective circulation (DEC), which is
marginalized families improve their standard of the average number of people passing by, was
living. observed to be more than 1.48 crore. This implies
an annual visibility impression of 176 crore.
8. S ocial Awareness Programme
• One of the recommendations in the report is to
The social awareness programme of the Bank aims
appropriately size and place the display board
to spread messages and improve awareness on road
in heavy traffic areas to improve visibility and
safety, sanitation, environment and others, and bring
effectiveness of the social message.
about a behavioral change among people to make
them socially responsible citizens. In this programme, • The Program also aligns with the SEBI’s
various signage and boards were placed at several BRSR principles pertaining to protection and
locations across India. The Bank collaborated restoration of environment and promoting
with local government bodies to ensure that the inclusive growth and equitable development.
115
Annual Report 2022-23
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE ON
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To the Members of We have carried out an examination of the relevant
ICICI Bank Limited records of the Bank in accordance with the Guidance Note
on Certification of Corporate Governance issued by the
We have examined the compliance of conditions of
Corporate Governance by ICICI Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’), for Institute of the Chartered Accountants of India (the ICAI),
the year ended March 31, 2023, as stipulated in regulations the Standards on Auditing specified under Section 143(10)
17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of regulation 46(2) of the Companies Act, 2013, in so far as applicable for the
and paragraphs C, D, E of Schedule V of the Securities and purpose of this certificate and as per the Guidance Note
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes issued by
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’) the ICAI which requires that we comply with the ethical
and as amended from time to time.
requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY We have complied with the relevant applicable
requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1,
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is
the responsibility of the management. This responsibility Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews
includes the design, implementation, and maintenance of of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance
internal control procedures to ensure compliance with the and Related Services Engagements.
conditions of the Corporate Governance stipulated in the
Listing Regulations. OPINION
Based on our examination of the relevant records and
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY
according to the information and explanations given to us,
Our responsibility is limited to examining the procedures
we certify that the Bank has complied with the conditions
and implementation thereof, adopted by the Bank for
of Corporate Governance as stipulated in regulations 17
ensuring compliance with the conditions of Corporate
to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of regulation 46(2) and
Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of
paragraphs C, D, E of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations
opinion on the financial statements of the Bank.
during the year ended March 31, 2023, as applicable.
We have examined the books of account and other
We further state that such compliance is neither an
relevant records and documents maintained by the Bank
for the purposes of providing reasonable assurance on the assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor the
compliance with Corporate Governance requirements by efficiency or effectiveness with which the management
the Bank. has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
For M S K A & Associates For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W (formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105146W/W100621
Tushar Kurani Gautam Shah
Membership No.: 118580 Membership No.: 117348
UDIN: 23118580BGXRQX8542 UDIN: 23117348BGSZJJ6336
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai
Date: June 21, 2023 Date: June 21, 2023
116
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT 2.3% year-on-year. Investments, as represented by real
Gross Fixed Capital Formation (GFCF), grew 8.9% year-
Global growth momentum is expected to slow from 2.7%
on-year up from 8.0% in the third quarter and 4.9% in the
year-on-year in calendar year 2022 to 2.1% in calendar
fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 on the back of infrastructure
year 2023 led primarily by a weaker outlook in developed
thrust by the government and good growth in capital
market (DM) economies with risks to the outlook being to
expenditure.
the downside. The lagged effect of monetary tightening
undertaken over calendar year 2022 along with weakening
Inflation
credit markets will work as the main headwinds in terms
Inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI),
of pulling global growth lower. At the same time, headline
softened from 7.0% year-on-year in March 2022 to 5.7%
inflation is expected to drop-off reflecting easing in
year-on-year in March 2023, compared to an average
supply-side inflation pressures. However, DM core inflation
inflation of 6.7% year-on-year in fiscal 2023. Food inflation
remains elevated and a concern that will restrict the ability
too eased to 4.2% year-on-year, while core inflation was
of DM central banks to turn accommodative over calendar
lower at 5.2% year-on-year. The most important factor
year 2023. Risks to the global growth outlook are to the
working in favour of inflation is lower global commodity
downside reflected in: (a) possibility of further strain in
and oil prices. Given the above backdrop along with muted
the DM banking sector and (b) a further escalation in geo-
commodity prices, inflation estimates have been lowered
political tensions.
to 5.1% year-on-year in fiscal 2024 as compared to 5.3%
Domestically, India recovered from the Covid-19 pandemic earlier. However, upside risks due to a below normal
as the third wave started receding from January 2022. rainfall (led by El-Nino) could push the food prices higher
However, just when the Covid-19 pandemic was getting in case of pulses and rice.
over, the world witnessed another major shock in the
form of the Russia-Ukraine crisis, leading to a spike in Interest rates
commodity prices. The subsequent sanctions on Russia In May 2022, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC)
further disrupted commodity markets, increased volatility delivered its first post-pandemic hike of 40 basis points,
and uncertainty, and kept an upward pressure on inflation. taking the repo rate to 4.4%. More rate hikes followed: 50
Consequently, domestic inflation averaged 6.7% during basis points in June 2022, 50 basis points in August 2022,
fiscal 2023, putting pressure on consumption growth. 50 basis points in September 2022, 35 basis points in
Overall, India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew 7.2% December 2022 and 25 basis points in February 2023,
in fiscal 2023 mainly driven by strong investments and taking the cumulative rate hikes to 250 basis points
exports growth. during fiscal 2023. However, the MPC surprised markets
by keeping the policy rate unchanged at 6.5% in the
Growth
meeting held in April 2023, while the stance remained
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, India’s real Gross unchanged. System liquidity reduced from an average of
Value Added (GVA) grew 6.5% year-on-year. Real GDP 6.39 trillion in March 2022 to 32.36 billion in March 2023.
growth came at 6.1% year-on-year in the fourth quarter The transmission of monetary policy resulted in increase in
of fiscal 2023, taking fiscal 2023 growth to 7.2%. The interest rates in the banking system. Between April 2022
notable development emerged from industry (particularly and March 2023, the weighted average lending rate
manufacturing) which recorded higher growth than (WALR) of commercial banks on fresh rupee loans
implied in the Second Advance Estimates (SAE) due to a increased by 169 basis points.
turnaround in profitability on the back of lower raw material
prices. Agriculture recorded a growth of 5.5% year-on- Financial markets
year during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, the highest During fiscal 2023, the Rupee depreciated by 8.4% from
quarterly growth since March 2020. Services sector grew ` 75.79 per USD at March 31, 2022 to ` 82.18 per USD
6.9% year-on-year, mainly due to an uptick in trade and at March 31, 2023. With the global turmoil due to the
travel services. From the expenditure side, consumption continuing Russia-Ukraine war, the Rupee touched ` 82.99
recorded muted growth. Private consumption grew just per USD at October 19, 2022. The benchmark S&P BSE
2.8% year-on-year, while government consumption grew Sensex increased by 0.7% during fiscal 2023 compared to
117
Annual Report 2022-23
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
18.3% in fiscal 2022. The yields on the benchmark 10-year Going forward, the Bank would focus on maximizing the
government securities increased from 6.84% at March 31, profit before tax (excluding treasury gains) within the
2022 to 7.31% at March 31, 2023. The yield fluctuated guardrails of compliance and risk management. The Bank
during the year, with the highest at 7.62% on June 16, believes there are significant opportunities for profitable
2022. It cooled down to 7.29% by July 6, 2022. growth across various sectors of the Indian economy. The
Risk Appetite and Enterprise Risk Management framework
Banking sector trends articulates the Bank’s risk appetite and drills it down into a
limit framework for various risk categories. The Bank will
Non-food credit of the banking system displayed robust
focus on growing its loan portfolio in a granular manner
growth during fiscal 2023, with growth of 15.4% compared
with a focus on risk and reward, with return of capital and
to 8.7% in fiscal 2022, with incremental credit growth of
containment of provisions within targeted levels being a
` 18.2 trillion in the year. With the latest sectoral break-up
key imperative. There are no specific targets for loan mix
of credit data available till April 2023, credit growth was
or segment-wise loan growth. The Bank would aim to
led by services (21.6% year-on-year) and personal credit
continue to grow its deposit franchise, maintain a stable
(19.4% year-on-year). In addition, industry credit also
and healthy funding profile and competitive advantage in
showed an uptick in growth at 7.0% year-on-year.
cost of funds.
According to RBI’s Financial Stability Report of
See also “Integrated Report – Our Business Strategy”.
December 2022, non-performing assets (NPAs) of
scheduled commercial banks continued to decline in STANDALONE FINANCIALS AS PER INDIAN
fiscal 2023, with gross NPA ratio at 5.0% and net NPA
GAAP
ratio at 1.3% at September 30, 2022 compared to a
gross NPA ratio of 6.9% and net NPA ratio of 2.3% at Summary
September 30, 2021. Restructuring of loans for the MSME Profit before tax (excluding treasury gains) increased by
sector impacted by the second Covid-19 wave under 43.0% from 297.06 billion in fiscal 2022 to 424.73 billion
Resolution Framework 2.0 stood at 2.3% of total MSME in fiscal 2023. Core operating profit (i.e. profit before
advances as on September 30, 2022. provisions and tax, excluding treasury gains) increased by
28.1% from ` 383.47 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 491.39 billion
Outlook in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in net interest
The MPC expectedly kept the repo rate unchanged at income by ` 146.63 billion and fee income by ` 23.14
the June 2023 review. It also kept the stance of monetary billion, offset, in part, by an increase in operating expenses
policy unchanged at ‘withdrawal of accommodation’. A by ` 61.40 billion. Provisions and contingencies (excluding
long pause on rates by the MPC is expected, with rate cuts provision for tax) decreased by 22.9% from ` 86.41 billion
possible in the first few months of calendar year 2024. in fiscal 2022 to ` 66.66 billion in fiscal 2023. Gains from
treasury-related activities decreased from a gain of ` 9.03
STRATEGY billion in fiscal 2022 to a loss of ` 0.52 billion in fiscal 2023.
Profit after tax increased from ` 233.39 billion in fiscal
In fiscal 2023, the Bank maintained its strategic focus on
2022 to ` 318.96 billion in fiscal 2023.
profitable growth in business within the guardrails of risk
and compliance. The Bank grew its credit portfolio with Net interest income increased by 30.9% from ` 474.66
a focus on granularity and saw healthy growth across billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 621.29 billion in fiscal 2023 due
retail, business banking and wholesale portfolios. The to an increase in the net interest margin (NIM) and an
increase in the average interest-earning assets.
Bank continued to focus on holistically serving its clients
and their ecosystems. The Bank sought to maintain Fee income increased by 14.8% from ` 156.87 billion in
and enhance its liability franchise. The Bank focused on fiscal 2022 to ` 180.01 billion in fiscal 2023. Dividend from
maintaining a strong balance sheet, with robust liquidity, subsidiaries/joint ventures/associates decreased by 2.5%
prudent provisioning and healthy capital adequacy. The from ` 18.29 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 17.84 billion in fiscal
Bank’s capital adequacy ratios were significantly above 2023. Operating expenses increased by 23.0% from ` 267.33
regulatory requirements as of March 31, 2023. billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 328.73 billion in fiscal 2023.
118
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Provisions and contingencies (excluding provision for tax) by 20.5%. Total investments increased by 16.8% from
decreased by 22.9% from ` 86.41 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 3,102.41 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 3,623.30 billion
` 66.66 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to a write-back at March 31, 2023. Cash and cash equivalents decreased
of provision for non-performing and other assets, offset, by 28.8% from ` 1,678.22 billion at March 31, 2022 to
in part, by an increase in contingency provisions made ` 1,194.38 billion at March 31, 2023.
on a prudent basis, and provision for investments. There
The weighted average high-quality liquid assets,
was a write-back of ` 6.23 billion in provision for non-
maintained during the three months ended March 31, 2023
performing and other assets in fiscal 2023 compared to
were ` 3,234.60 billion (three months ended March 31,
a provision of ` 61.64 billion in fiscal 2022. During fiscal
2022: ` 3,197.27 billion). The average liquidity coverage
2023, there were higher recoveries and upgrades from
ratio was 124.13% for the three months ended March 31,
non-performing assets (NPA) resulting in net write-back
2023 as against the requirement of 100.00%.
of provision, offset, in part, by an increase in provisioning
rate for certain categories of NPAs. During fiscal 2023, the Total deposits increased by 10.9% from ` 10,645.72 billion
Bank changed its provisioning norms on NPAs to make at March 31, 2022 to ` 11,808.41 billion at March 31,
them more conservative. In fiscal 2022, the provision for 2023. Total deposits increased by 8.3% from ` 10,900.08
non-performing and other assets also included provision
billion at September 30, 2022 to ` 11,808.41 billion at
on loans restructured under Resolution Framework for
March 31, 2023. Term deposits increased by 17.1%
COVID-19.
from ` 5,461.35 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 6,395.79
The provision coverage ratio on NPAs increased from billion at March 31, 2023. Current and savings account
79.2% at March 31, 2022 to 82.8% at March 31, 2023. (CASA) deposits increased by 4.4% from ` 5,184.37
During fiscal 2023, the Bank made a contingency provision billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 5,412.62 billion at March 31,
amounting to ` 56.50 billion (fiscal 2022: write-back of 2023. Average CASA deposits increased by 13.3% from
` 0.25 billion), on a prudent basis, to further strengthen ` 4,198.86 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 4,758.90 billion in fiscal
the balance sheet. The Bank held a total contingency 2023. Borrowings increased by 11.3% from ` 1,072.31
provision of ` 131.00 billion at March 31, 2023. billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 1,193.25 billion at March 31,
2023.
The income tax expense increased from ` 72.70 billion in
fiscal 2022 to ` 105.25 billion in fiscal 2023. The effective The Bank had a business center (branch) network of
tax rate increased from 23.7% in fiscal 2022 to 24.8% 5,900 branches, and network of 16,650 ATMs/CRMs at
in fiscal 2023 primarily due to change in composition of March 31, 2023.
income.
The Bank is subject to Basel III capital adequacy guidelines
Net worth increased by 17.7% from ` 1,705.12 billion at stipulated by RBI. The total capital adequacy ratio of
March 31, 2022 to ` 2,007.16 billion at March 31, 2023
the Bank at March 31, 2023 (after deducting proposed
primarily due to accretion to reserves out of retained profit,
dividend for fiscal 2023 from capital funds) in accordance
offset, in part, by payment of dividend for fiscal 2022.
with RBI guidelines on Basel III was 18.34% as compared
Total assets increased by 12.3% from ` 14,112.98 billion to 19.16% at March 31, 2022. The Tier-1 capital adequacy
at March 31, 2022 to ` 15,842.07 billion at March 31, 2023. ratio was 17.60% at March 31, 2023 as compared to
Total advances increased by 18.7% from ` 8,590.20 billion 18.35% at March 31, 2022. The Common Equity Tier 1
at March 31, 2022 to ` 10,196.38 billion at March 31, (CET-1) ratio was 17.12% at March 31, 2023 as compared
2023 primarily due to an increase in domestic advances to 17.60% at March 31, 2022.
119
Annual Report 2022-23
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
OPERATING RESULTS DATA
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the operating results data.
` in billion, except percentages
Particulars Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2023 % change
Interest income ` 863.75 ` 1,092.31 26.5%
Interest expense 389.09 471.02 21.1
Net interest income 474.66 621.29 30.9
Fee income1 156.87 180.01 14.8
Dividend from subsidiaries/joint ventures/associates 18.29 17.84 (2.5)
Other income 0.98 0.98 -
Core operating income 650.80 820.12 26.0
Operating expenses 267.33 328.73 23.0
Core operating profit 383.47 491.39 28.1
Treasury gains 9.03 (0.52) -
Operating profit 392.50 490.87 25.1
Provisions, net of write-backs 86.41 66.66 (22.9)
Profit before tax 306.09 424.21 38.6
Tax, including deferred tax 72.70 105.25 44.8
Profit after tax ` 233.39 ` 318.96 36.7%
1 Includes merchant foreign exchange income and margin on customer derivative transactions.
2 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
3 Prior period figures have been re-grouped/re-arranged, where necessary.
Key ratios
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the key financial ratios.
Particulars Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2023
Return on average equity (%)1 14.77 17.28
Return on average assets (%)2 1.84 2.16
Net interest margin (%) 3.96 4.48
Cost to income (%)3 40.51 40.11
Provisions to core operating profit (%) 22.53 13.57
Earnings per share (`) 33.66 45.79
Book value per share (`) 245.38 287.44
1 Return on average equity is the ratio of the net profit after tax to the quarterly average equity share capital and reserves.
2 Return on average assets is the ratio of net profit after tax to average assets.
3 Cost represents operating expense. Income represents net interest income and non-interest income.
The return on average equity, return on average assets and earnings per share increased primarily due to an increase in
profit after tax.
120
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Net interest income and spread analysis
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the net interest income and spread analysis.
` in billion, except percentages
Particulars Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2023 % change
Interest income ` 863.75 ` 1,092.31 26.5%
Interest expense 389.09 471.02 21.1
Net interest income 474.66 621.29 30.9
Average interest-earning assets 11,979.51 13,872.53 15.8
Average interest-bearing liabilities ` 10,478.20 ` 11,998.16 14.5%
Net interest margin 3.96% 4.48% -
Average yield 7.21% 7.87% -
Average cost of funds 3.71% 3.93% -
Interest spread 3.50% 3.94% -
1 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
Net interest income increased by 30.9% from ` 474.66 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 621.29 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due
to an increase in the net interest margin by 52 basis points and an increase of 15.8% in the average interest-earning
assets.
Net interest margin increased by 52 basis points from 3.96% in fiscal 2022 to 4.48% in fiscal 2023. The yield on average
interest-earning assets increased by 66 basis points from 7.21% in fiscal 2022 to 7.87% in fiscal 2023. The cost of funds
increased by 22 basis points from 3.71% in fiscal 2022 to 3.93% in fiscal 2023. The interest spread increased by 44 basis
points from 3.50% in fiscal 2022 to 3.94% in fiscal 2023. The full impact of rise in interest rates from the beginning of
fiscal year 2023 is expected to be reflected in the cost of domestic term deposits during fiscal 2024.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the trend in yield, cost, spread and margin.
Particulars Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2023
Yield on interest-earning assets 7.21% 7.87%
- On advances 8.27 8.94
- On investments 5.98 6.57
- On SLR investments 6.22 6.62
- On other investments 4.72 6.16
- On other interest-earning assets 4.04 3.38
Cost of interest-bearing liabilities 3.71 3.93
- Cost of deposits 3.53 3.66
- Current and savings account (CASA) deposits 2.27 2.28
- Term deposits 4.54 4.78
- Cost of borrowings 5.37 5.97
Interest spread 3.50 3.94
Net interest margin 3.96% 4.48%
121
Annual Report 2022-23
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The yield on average interest-earning assets increased yields and new investment in government securities
by 66 basis points from 7.21% in fiscal 2022 to 7.87% in at higher yields.
fiscal 2023 primarily due to the following factors:
The yield on non-SLR investments increased by 144
• The yield on domestic advances increased by 52 basis points from 4.72% in fiscal 2022 to 6.16% in
basis points from 8.64% in fiscal 2022 to 9.16% fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in yield on
in fiscal 2023. The yield on advances increased bonds and debentures, foreign government securities
primarily due to re-pricing of existing floating rate and commercial paper.
loans linked to the repo rate and the Bank’s Marginal
• The yield on other interest-earning assets decreased
Cost of funds based Lending Rate (MCLR) to a higher
by 66 basis points from 4.04% in fiscal 2022 to 3.38%
rate and new lending at higher rates. At March 31,
in fiscal 2023. The decrease was primarily due to a
2023, of the total domestic loan book, 30% had fixed
decrease in interest income on funding swaps and an
interest rates, 45% had interest rates linked to repo
increase in average balance with RBI which does not
rate, 20% had interest rates linked to MCLR and other
earn any interest. During first quarter of fiscal 2023,
older benchmarks and 5% had interest rates linked to
RBI had increased the cash reserve ratio from 4.00%
T-bills.
to 4.50%. The decrease in yield on other interest-
RBI increased the repo rate by 250 basis points from earning assets was offset, in part, by an increase in
4.00% in May 2022 to 6.50% in February 2023. The yield on call money lent and an increase in yield on
Bank’s 1-year MCLR increased by 150 basis points in balance with other banks.
phases during fiscal 2023 from 7.25% in March 2022
Interest on income tax refund decreased from ` 2.43
to 8.75% in March 2023. The impact of increase in
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 1.14 billion in fiscal 2023.
repo rates from May 2022 started reflecting in overall
The receipt, amount and timing of such income
yield through repricing of the repo and T-bill linked
depends on the nature and timing of determinations
portfolio from Q2-2023 and onwards. For MCLR
by tax authorities and are hence neither consistent
linked loans, the effect on the yields is based on
nor predictable.
respective reset dates of underlying loans. Further,
the future movement in the yield on advances will The cost of funds increased by 22 basis points from 3.71%
depend on the increase/decrease in the repo rate and in fiscal 2022 to 3.93% in fiscal 2023 primarily due to the
the systemic interest rates. following factors:
The yield on overseas advances increased by 239 • The cost of average deposits increased from 3.53%
basis points from 1.51% in fiscal 2022 to 3.90% in in fiscal 2022 to 3.66% in fiscal 2023 primarily due
fiscal 2023 primarily due to repricing of floating rate to an increase in cost of domestic term deposits. The
advances and new lending at higher rates on account cost of domestic term deposits increased by 23 basis
of the ongoing rate hike cycle by the US Federal points from 4.57% in fiscal 2022 to 4.80% in fiscal
Reserve. The yield on overseas advances was also 2023. The peak rate for retail term deposits increased
positively impacted by higher interest collection on significantly in phases from 5.75% in May 2022 to
NPAs. 7.10% in February 2023 on account of significant
increase in repo rate by the Reserve Bank of India.
The overall yield on average advances increased by
67 basis points from 8.27% in fiscal 2022 to 8.94% in The full impact of the rise in interest rates on deposits
fiscal 2023. from the beginning of fiscal year 2023 will be reflected
in the cost of domestic term deposits during fiscal
• The yield on average interest-earning investments
2024.
increased by 59 basis points from 5.98% in fiscal
2022 to 6.57% in fiscal 2023. The yield on Indian The cost of savings account deposits increased
government investments increased by 40 basis marginally from 3.15% in fiscal 2022 to 3.16% in
points from 6.22% in fiscal 2022 to 6.62% in fiscal fiscal 2023. The average CASA deposits increased
2023. This was primarily due to reset of floating rate from 44.5% of total average deposits in fiscal 2022
bonds linked to Treasury bills (T-bills) at higher rates to 44.7% of total average deposits in fiscal 2023.
pursuant to a significant increase in treasury bill Average CASA deposits were 39.7% of the total
122
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
funding (i.e., deposits and borrowings) for fiscal 2023 increase in cost of term borrowings on account of
as compared to 40.1% for fiscal 2022. ongoing rate hike cycle by the US Federal Reserve.
• The cost of borrowings increased by 60 basis points The Bank’s interest income, yield on advances, net interest
from 5.37% in fiscal 2022 to 5.97% in fiscal 2023. income and net interest margin are impacted by systemic
The cost of domestic borrowings increased by 28 liquidity, the competitive environment, level of additions
basis points from 6.38% in fiscal 2022 to 6.66% in to non-performing loans, regulatory developments,
fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in cost of monetary policy and economic and geopolitical factors.
short term money market borrowings and refinance Interest rates on about 49.9% of Bank’s domestic loans
borrowings, offset, in part, by a decrease in cost of are linked to external market benchmarks. The differential
bond borrowings. The cost of overseas borrowings movements in the external benchmark rates compared to
increased by 218 basis points from 1.11% in fiscal cost of funds of the Bank impact the Bank’s net interest
2022 to 3.29% in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an income and net interest margin in fiscal 2024.
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, the trend in average interest-earning assets and average interest-
bearing liabilities:
` in billion, except percentages
Particulars Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2023 % change
Advances ` 7,716.34 ` 9,390.62 21.7%
Interest-earning investments1 2,744.51 3,180.93 15.9
Other interest-earning assets 1,518.66 1,300.98 (14.3)
Total interest-earning assets 11,979.51 13,872.53 15.8
Deposits 9,433.39 10,634.91 12.7
Borrowings1 1,044.80 1,363.25 30.5
Total interest-bearing liabilities ` 10,478.20 ` 11,998.16 14.5%
1 Average investments and average borrowings include average short-term repurchase transactions.
2 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
The average interest-earning assets increased by 15.8% billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to a decrease in call
from ` 11,979.51 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 13,872.53 billion money lent and Rural infrastructure development fund
in fiscal 2023 due to an increase in average advances by (RIDF) and related deposits, offset, in part, by an increase
` 1,674.28 billion and average investments by ` 436.42 in balance with RBI.
billion, offset, in part, by a decrease in average other
interest-earning assets by ` 217.68 billion. Average interest-bearing liabilities increased by 14.5%
from ` 10,478.20 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 11,998.16 billion
Average advances increased by 21.7% from ` 7,716.34
in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in average
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 9,390.62 billion in fiscal 2023 due
deposits by ` 1,201.52 billion and an increase in average
to an increase of 23.0% in average domestic advances,
borrowings by ` 318.45 billion.
offset, in part, by a decrease of 1.7% in average overseas
advances. Average deposits increased by 12.7% from ` 9,433.39
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 10,634.91 billion in fiscal 2023
Average interest-earning investments increased by 15.9%
due to an increase in average term deposits and average
from ` 2,744.51 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 3,180.93 billion
CASA deposits.
in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in average
investment in Indian government securities, offset, in Average borrowings increased by 30.5% from ` 1,044.80
part, by a decrease in average investments in foreign billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 1,363.25 billion in fiscal 2023
government securities.
primarily due to an increase in bond borrowings, term
Average other interest-earning assets decreased by money borrowings, refinance borrowings and repo
14.3% from ` 1,518.66 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 1,300.98 borrowings.
123
Annual Report 2022-23
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
FEE INCOME linked fees, offset, in part, by a decrease in fee income from
third party product distribution. The fee income during the
Fee income primarily includes fees from retail customers
first half of fiscal 2023 increased by 24.1% as compared
such as loan processing fees, fees from cards business,
to the first half of fiscal 2022 primarily due to the lower
account servicing charge, income from foreign exchange
base effect resulting from the second-wave of Covid-19
transactions and third party referral fees and fees from
pandemic.
corporate clients includes loan processing fees, transaction
banking fees, income from foreign exchange transactions
DIVIDEND FROM SUBSIDIARIES/JOINT
and margin on derivative transactions.
VENTURES/ASSOCIATES
Fee income increased by 14.8% from ` 156.87 billion in
Dividend from Subsidiaries/joint ventures/associates
fiscal 2022 to ` 180.01 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due
decreased by 2.5% from ` 18.29 billion in fiscal 2022 to
to an increase in transaction banking fees, income from
` 17.84 billion in fiscal 2023.
foreign exchange and derivatives products and lending
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of dividend received from Subsidiaries/joint ventures/
associates:
` in billion
Name of the entity Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2023
ICICI Bank Canada ` 0.88 ` 1.06
ICICI Bank UK PLC - 0.80
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 1.48 0.40
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 1.89 2.24
ICICI Prudential Asset Management company Limited 6.14 6.22
ICICI Securities Limited 5.98 5.44
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited 1.81 1.36
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited - 0.16
ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited - 0.05
India Infradebt Limited 0.11 0.11
ICICI Prudential Trust Limited 0.00 0.00
Total ` 18.29 ` 17.84
1 0.00 represents insignificant amount.
2 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
Other income
Other income remained at a similar level at ` 0.98 billion in fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2023.
Operating expenses
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the principal components of operating expenses.
` in billion, except percentages
Particulars Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2023 % change
Payments to and provisions for employees ` 96.73 ` 120.60 24.7%
Other administrative expenses 170.60 208.13 22.0
Total operating expenses ` 267.33 ` 328.73 23.0%
1 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
Operating expenses primarily include employee expenses, depreciation on assets and other administrative expenses.
Operating expenses increased by 23.0% from ` 267.33 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 328.73 billion in fiscal 2023.
124
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Payments to and provisions for employees maintenance, direct marketing expenses, depreciation,
premium paid towards priority sector lending certificates
Employee expenses increased by 24.7% from ` 96.73
and other expenditure. Other administrative expenses
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 120.60 billion in fiscal 2023
increased by 22.0% from ` 170.60 billion in fiscal 2022 to
primarily due to an increase in salary cost, provision for
` 208.13 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase
retirement benefit obligations, provision for performance
in technology related expenses, advertisement and
bonus and performance-linked retention pay and fair
sales promotion expenses and direct marketing agency
value accounting of employee stock options. Salary cost
expenses.
increased primarily due to impact of annual increments,
promotions and an increase in average staff strength
PROFIT/(LOSS) ON TREASURY-RELATED
(number of employees at March 31, 2022: 105,844 and
ACTIVITIES (NET)
at March 31, 2023: 129,020). Provision for retirement
benefit obligations increased primarily due to impact of Gains from treasury-related activities include gains on
change in assumptions for salary escalation and dearness sale of investments and unrealised profit/(loss) on account
allowance. of revaluation of investments in the fixed income portfolio,
equity and preference share portfolio, units of venture
The employee base includes sales executives, employees
funds and security receipts issued by asset reconstruction
on fixed term contracts and interns.
companies.
Other administrative expenses Loss from treasury-related activities was ` 0.52 billion in
Other administrative expenses primarily include rent, taxes fiscal 2023 as compared to a gain of ` 9.03 billion in fiscal
and lighting, advertisements, sales promotion, repairs and 2022.
PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENCIES (EXCLUDING PROVISIONS FOR TAX)
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the components of provisions and contingencies.
` in billion, except percentages
Particulars Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2023 % change
Provision for non-performing and other assets1 ` 61.64 ` (6.23) -
Provision for investments (including credit substitutes) (net) 3.77 13.00 -
Provision for standard assets 4.49 5.80 29.2
Others2 16.51 54.09 -
Total provisions and contingencies (excluding
provision for tax) ` 86.41 ` 66.66 (22.9%)
1 Includes restructuring related provision.
2 I ncludes contingency provision amounting to ` 56.50 billion on a prudent basis for the year ended March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022:
write-back of ` 0.25 billion).
3 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
For a discussion on provisioning norms and policies, see Provision for non-performing and other assets decreased
“Financial Statement (Schedule 17- Significant Accounting from a provision of ` 61.64 billion in fiscal 2022 to a
Policies) – Provision/write-offs on loans and other credit write-back of ` 6.23 billion in fiscal 2023. During fiscal
facilities”. 2023, there were higher recoveries and upgrades from
non-performing assets resulting in net write-back of
Provisions and contingencies (excluding provisions
provision, offset, in part, by an increase in provisioning
for tax) decreased from ` 86.41 billion in fiscal 2022 to
rate for certain categories of non-performing assets. In
` 66.66 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to a decrease in
fiscal 2022, the provision for non- performing and other
provision for non-performing and other assets, offset, in
assets also included provision on loans restructured under
part, by an increase in contingency provisions made on a
Resolution Framework for COVID-19.
prudent basis, and provision for investments.
125
Annual Report 2022-23
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The provision coverage ratio (excluding cumulative Other provisions and contingencies increased from ` 16.51
technical/prudential write-offs) on NPAs increased billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 54.09 billion in fiscal 2023. During
from 79.2% at March 31, 2022 to 82.8% at March 31, fiscal 2023, the Bank made a contingency provision
2023. amounting to ` 56.50 billion (fiscal 2022: write-back of
` 0.25 billion), on a prudent basis, to further strengthen
Provision for investments increased from ` 3.77 billion in
the balance sheet. The Bank holds a total contingency
fiscal 2022 to ` 13.00 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to
provision of ` 131.00 billion at March 31, 2023.
an increase in provision on debentures, equity shares and
security receipts.
TAX EXPENSE
Provision for standard assets increased from ` 4.49
The income tax expense increased from ` 72.70 billion in
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 5.80 billion in fiscal 2023. The
fiscal 2022 to ` 105.25 billion in fiscal 2023. The effective
cumulative general provision held at March 31, 2023 was
tax rate increased from 23.7% in fiscal 2022 to 24.8%
` 47.02 billion (March 31, 2022: ` 40.94 billion).
in fiscal 2023 primarily due to change in composition of
income.
FINANCIAL CONDITION
Assets
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the principal components of assets.
` in billion, except percentages
Assets At At % change
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023
Cash and bank balances ` 1,678.22 ` 1,194.38 (28.8%)
Investments 3,102.41 3,623.30 16.8
- Government and other approved investments1 2,563.78 3,057.69 19.3
- Equity investment in subsidiaries 67.13 69.78 3.9
- Other investments 471.50 495.83 5.2
Advances (net of BRDS/IBPC)2 8,590.20 10,196.38 18.7
- Domestic 8,177.36 9,855.28 20.5
- Overseas branches 412.84 341.10 (17.4)
Fixed assets (including leased assets) 93.74 96.00 2.4
Other assets 648.41 732.01 12.9
- RIDF and other related deposits3 264.19 216.22 (18.2)
Total assets ` 14,112.98 ` 15,842.07 12.3%
1 B anks in India are required to maintain a specified percentage, currently 18.00% (at March 31, 2023), of their net demand and time
liabilities by way of investments in instruments referred as SLR securities by RBI or liquid assets like cash and gold.
2 Bill Rediscounting Scheme (BRDS)/Interbank Participatory Certificate (IBPC).
3 D eposits made in Rural Infrastructure Development Fund and other related deposits pursuant to shortfall in the amount required to
be lent to certain specified sectors called priority sector as per RBI guidelines.
4 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
Total assets of the Bank increased by 12.3% from ` 14,112.98 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 15,842.07 billion at March 31,
2023, due to a 18.7% increase in advances and a 16.8% increase in investments, offset, in part, by a 28.8% decrease in
cash and cash equivalents.
126
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Cash and cash equivalents billion at March 31, 2023. Net advances (net of BRDS/
IBPC) increased by 18.7% from ` 8,590.20 billion at
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and
March 31, 2022 to ` 10,196.38 billion at March 31, 2023
balances with RBI and other banks, including money at call
primarily due to an increase in retail advances.
and short notice. Cash and cash equivalents decreased
by 28.8% from ` 1,678.22 billion at March 31, 2022 to Net domestic advances increased by 20.5% from
` 1,194.38 billion at March 31, 2023 primarily due to a ` 8,177.36 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 9,855.28 billion at
decrease in short term lending to RBI and foreign currency March 31, 2023. Retail advances increased by 22.7% from
term money lent. ` 4,546.35 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 5,578.17 billion at
March 31, 2023. Advances of rural business increased by
Investments 13.8% from ` 768.30 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 874.31
billion at March 31, 2023. The business banking portfolio
Total investments increased by 16.8% from ` 3,102.41
increased by 34.9% from ` 534.37 billion at March 31,
billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 3,623.30 billion at
2022 to ` 721.12 billion at March 31, 2023. SME advances
March 31, 2023. Investments in Indian government
increased by 19.2% from ` 404.50 billion at March 31,
securities increased from ` 2,563.78 billion at March 31,
2022 to ` 482.21 billion at March 31, 2023. The domestic
2022 to ` 3,057.69 billion at March 31, 2023. Other
corporate portfolio increased by 21.2% year-on-year.
investments increased from ` 538.63 billion at March 31,
2022 to ` 565.61 billion at March 31, 2023 primarily due Net advances of overseas branches decreased by 17.4%
to an increase in investment in bonds and debentures and from ` 412.84 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 341.10 billion
pass through certificates, offset, in part, by a decrease in at March 31, 2023.
investment in foreign government securities.
Fixed and other assets
At March 31, 2023, the Bank had an outstanding net
Fixed assets (net block) increased by 2.4% from ` 93.74
investment of ` 2.11 billion in security receipts issued by
billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 96.00 billion at March 31,
asset reconstruction companies as compared to ` 8.07
2023.
billion at March 31, 2022.
Other assets increased by 12.9% from ` 648.41 billion
RBI through its circular dated December 8, 2022, extended
at March 31, 2022 to ` 732.01 billion at March 31, 2023
the dispensation of enhanced HTM limit of 23.0% of Net
primarily due to an increase in mark-to-market on foreign
Demand and Time Liabilities (NDTL) up to March 31, 2024.
exchange and derivative transactions and interest
The enhanced HTM limit of 23.0% shall be restored to
accrued on loans and investments, offset, in part, by a
19.5% in a phased manner, beginning from the quarter
decrease in RIDF and related deposits. The Bank is an
ending June 30, 2024.
active participant in the interest and foreign exchange
derivative market. While the positive mark-to-market on
Advances
such transactions are accounted in ‘Other Assets’, the
Net advances (gross of BRDS/IBPC) increased by 20.2% negative mark-to-market on offsetting transactions are
from ` 8,603.70 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 10,345.09 accounted in ‘Other Liabilities’.
127
Annual Report 2022-23
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
LIABILITIES
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the principal components of liabilities (including capital and reserves).
` in billion, except percentages
Liabilities At At % change
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023
Equity share capital ` 16.56 ` 21.58 30.3%
Reserves 1,688.56 1,985.58 17.6
Deposits 10,645.72 11,808.41 10.9
- Savings deposits 3,599.57 3,797.76 5.5
- Current deposits 1,584.80 1,614.86 1.9
- Term deposits 5,461.35 6,395.79 17.1
Borrowings (excluding subordinated debt) 933.80 1,110.44 18.9
- Domestic 614.59 852.30 38.7
- Overseas branches 319.21 258.14 (19.1)
Subordinated debt (included in Tier-1 and Tier-2 capital) 138.51 82.81 (40.2)
Other liabilities 689.83 833.25 20.8
Total liabilities ` 14,112.98 ` 15,842.07 12.3%
1 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
Total liabilities (including capital and reserves) increased to ` 4,758.90 billion in fiscal 2023. The average CASA
by 12.3% from ` 14,112.98 billion at March 31, 2022 to deposits were 44.7% of total average deposits for fiscal
` 15,842.07 billion at March 31, 2023, due to a 17.7% 2023 as compared to 44.5% for fiscal 2022. Average
increase in net worth, a 10.9% increase in deposits and a CASA deposits were 39.7% of the total funding (i.e.,
20.8% increase in other liabilities. deposits and borrowings) for fiscal 2023 as compared to
40.1% for fiscal 2022.
Deposits
Deposits of overseas branches increased by 50.7% from
Deposits increased by 10.9% from ` 10,645.72 billion at
` 98.11 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 147.82 billion at
March 31, 2022 to ` 11,808.41 billion at March 31, 2023.
March 31, 2023.
Term deposits increased by 17.1% from ` 5,461.35 billion
at March 31, 2022 to ` 6,395.79 billion at March 31, Total deposits remained at similar level at 90.8% of the
2023. Savings account deposits increased by 5.5% from funding (i.e., deposits and borrowings) at March 31, 2023
` 3,599.57 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 3,797.76 billion and March 31, 2022.
at March 31, 2023 and current account deposits increased
by 1.9% from ` 1,584.80 billion at March 31, 2022 to Borrowings
` 1,614.86 billion at March 31, 2023. CASA deposits Borrowings increased by 11.3% from ` 1,072.31 billion at
increased by 4.4% from ` 5,184.37 billion at March 31, March 31, 2022 to ` 1,193.25 billion at March 31, 2023
2022 to ` 5,412.62 billion at March 31, 2023. primarily due to an increase in refinance borrowings
The average current account deposits increased by 13.5% and bond borrowings, offset, in part, by a decrease
from ` 1,167.28 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 1,324.77 billion in subordinated debt, foreign currency term money
in fiscal 2023. The average savings account deposits borrowings and foreign currency bond borrowings. Net
increased by 13.3% from ` 3,031.58 billion in fiscal 2022 borrowings of overseas branches decreased from ` 319.21
to ` 3,434.14 billion in fiscal 2023. Average CASA deposits billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 258.14 billion at March 31,
increased by 13.3% from ` 4,198.86 billion in fiscal 2022 2023.
128
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Other liabilities Equity share capital and reserves
Other liabilities increased by 20.8% from ` 689.83 billion Equity share capital and reserves increased by 17.7% from
at March 31, 2022 to ` 833.25 billion at March 31, 2023 ` 1,705.12 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 2,007.16 billion at
primarily due to an increase in mark-to-market on foreign March 31, 2023 primarily due to accretion to reserves out
exchange and derivative transactions and contingency of retained profit, offset, in part, by payment of dividend
provision. The Bank is an active participant in the interest for fiscal 2022.
and foreign exchange derivative market. While the positive
At March 31, 2023, the Bank’s Tier-1 capital adequacy
mark-to-market on such transactions are accounted in
ratio was 17.60% as against the requirement of 9.70%
‘Other Assets’, the negative mark-to-market on offsetting
and total capital adequacy ratio was 18.34% as against
transactions are accounted in ‘Other Liabilities’.
the requirement of 11.70%.
OFF BALANCE SHEET ITEMS, COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the principal components of contingent liabilities.
` in billion
Particulars At At
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023
Claims against the Bank, not acknowledged as debts ` 82.84 ` 81.96
Liability for partly paid investments 0.01 0.01
Notional principal amount of outstanding forward exchange contracts 10,645.24 15,330.22
Guarantees given on behalf of constituents 1,037.75 1,238.18
Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations 462.81 441.91
Notional principal amount of currency swaps 498.34 564.63
Notional principal amount of interest rate swaps and currency options and
interest rate futures 25,912.44 25,089.18
Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable 37.33 85.57
Total ` 38,676.76 ` 42,831.66
1 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
The Bank enters into foreign exchange contracts in The Bank is an active market participant in the interest rate
its normal course of business, to exchange currencies and foreign exchange derivative market for trading and
at a prefixed price at a future date. With respect to the market making purposes, which are carried out primarily
transactions entered into with its customers, the Bank for customer transactions and managing the proprietary
generally enters into off-setting transactions in the inter- position on interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The
bank market. This results in generation of a higher number notional amount of interest rate swaps and currency
of outstanding transactions, and hence a large value of options decreased from ` 25,912.44 billion at March 31,
gross notional principal of the portfolio, while the net 2022 to ` 25,089.18 billion at March 31, 2023.
market risk is lower. The notional principal amount of
outstanding forward exchange contracts increased from LOAN CONCENTRATION
` 10,645.24 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 15,330.22 billion
The Bank follows a policy of portfolio diversification and
at March 31, 2023 primarily due to an increase in trading
evaluates its total financing exposure to a particular
and market making activities in forwards to facilitate client
industry in the light of its forecasts of growth and profitability
flow and capture opportunities in the forward market.
for that industry. The Bank’s Credit Risk Management
129
Annual Report 2022-23
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Group monitors all major sectors of the economy and to 15.0% of its total exposure. In addition, the Bank has a
specifically tracks industries in which the Bank has credit framework for managing concentration risk with respect
exposures. The Bank monitors developments in various to single borrower and group exposures, based on the
sectors to assess potential risks in its portfolio and new internal rating and track record of the borrowers. The
business opportunities. The Bank’s policy is to limit its exposure limits for lower rated borrowers and groups are
portfolio to any particular industry (other than retail loans) substantially lower than the regulatory limits.
The following tables set forth, at the dates indicated, the composition of the Bank’s exposure.
` in billion, except percentages
Industry March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023
Total exposure % of total Total exposure % of total
exposure exposure
Retail finance1 ` 6,043.07 36.3% ` 7,751.65 38.3%
Services – finance 1,476.68 8.9 1,766.80 8.7
Rural retail 973.18 5.8 1,250.80 6.2
Banks 1,320.71 7.9 1,208.52 6.0
Wholesale/retail trade 551.86 3.3 819.20 4.0
Electronics and engineering 702.80 4.2 804.99 4.0
Crude petroleum/refining and petrochemicals 678.01 4.1 764.57 3.8
Services – non-finance 492.76 3.0 668.24 3.3
Road, ports, telecom, urban development and
other infrastructure 538.29 3.2 609.28 3.0
Power 400.71 2.4 477.22 2.4
Construction 385.13 2.3 471.72 2.3
Iron and steel (including iron and steel products) 367.01 2.2 446.44 2.2
Chemical and fertilisers 265.07 1.6 382.83 1.9
Automobiles 210.21 1.3 261.26 1.3
Manufacturing products (excluding metal and
metal products) 173.32 1.0 250.49 1.2
Textile 152.86 0.9 220.59 1.1
Metal and metal products (excluding iron and
steel) 179.73 1.1 203.47 1.0
Other industries2 1,736.52 10.5 1,886.74 9.3
Total ` 16,647.92 100.0% ` 20,244.81 100.0%
1 I ncludes home loans, automobile loans, commercial business loans, dealer financing, personal loans, credit cards and loans against
securities.
2 O ther industries primarily include developer financing portfolio, gems and jewelry, mining, cement, food & beverages, mutual funds,
shipping, drugs and pharmaceuticals, asset reconstruction company, venture capital funds and FMCG.
3 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
The exposure to the top 20 non-bank borrowers as a percentage of total exposure decreased from 9.6% of total exposure
of the Bank at March 31, 2022 to 8.5% at March 31, 2023. All top 20 borrowers as of March 31, 2023 are rated A+ and
above internally. The exposure to the top 10 borrower groups decreased from 10.3% of total exposure of the Bank at
March 31, 2022 to 10.1% at March 31, 2023.
130
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the composition of the Bank’s outstanding net advances:
` in billion
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023
Advances ` 8,590.20 ` 10,196.38
- Domestic book 8,177.36 9,855.28
- Retail 4,546.35 5,578.17
- Rural 768.30 874.31
- Business banking 534.37 721.12
- SME 404.50 482.21
- Corporate and others 1,923.84 2,199.47
- Overseas book ` 412.84 ` 341.10
The Bank’s capital allocation framework is focused on growth in granular retail, SME/ business banking and rural lending
and lending to the corporate sector with a focus on increase in lending to higher rated corporates. Net retail advances
increased by 22.7% in fiscal 2023 compared to an increase of 18.7% in total advances. The share of net retail advances
increased from 52.9% of net advances at March 31, 2022 to 53.9% of net advances at March 31, 2023. Including non-
fund based outstanding, the share of retail portfolio was 45.7% of the total portfolio at March 31, 2023.
The overseas loan portfolio in USD terms declined by 23.8% year-on-year at March 31, 2023. The year-on-year decrease
in the overseas loan portfolio was primarily due to decline in the India-linked trade finance book. The overseas loan
portfolio was 3.3% of the overall loan book at March 31, 2023. The corporate fund and non-fund outstanding, net of
cash/bank/financial institutions/insurance backed lending, was USD 2.70 billion at March 31, 2023. Out of USD 2.70
billion, 88.7% of the outstanding was to Indian corporates and their subsidiaries and joint ventures and 7.4% of the
outstanding was to non-India companies with Indian or India-linked operations and activities. The portfolio in this
segment are primarily to well rated companies and the Indian operations of these companies are target customers for
the Bank’s deposit and transaction banking franchise. The Bank would continue to pursue risk-calibrated opportunities
in this segment. The non-India linked corporate portfolio reduced by 52.3% from about USD 641.2 million year-on-year
to USD 305.6 million at March 31, 2023.
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the composition of the Bank’s net outstanding retail advances.
` in billion, except percentages
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023
Total retail % of total Total retail % of total
advances retail advances advances retail advances
Home loans ` 2,930.63 64.5% ` 3,446.96 61.8%
Personal loans 628.73 13.8 880.55 15.8
Automobile loans 418.84 9.2 518.78 9.3
Commercial business 261.67 5.8 275.41 4.9
Credit cards 250.62 5.5 378.41 6.8
Others1 55.86 1.2 78.06 1.4
Total retail advances2 ` 4,546.35 100.0% ` 5,578.17 100.0%
1 Includes loans against securities and dealer financing.
2 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
131
Annual Report 2022-23
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the composition of the Bank’s net outstanding rural advances:
` in billion
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023
Farmer finance ` 226.47 ` 234.05
Jewel loan 207.09 228.86
Rural business credit 189.87 239.10
Others1 144.87 172.30
Rural advances ` 768.30 ` 874.31
1 I ncludes term loans for farm equipment, self-help groups, loans to microfinance institutions for on-lending to individuals and inventory
funding.
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the rating wise categorisation of the Bank’s net outstanding
advances other than retail and rural advances:
` in billion, except percentages
Ratings category1 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023
AA- and above 36.1 46.9
A+, A, A- 35.7 26.6
A- and above 71.8 73.5
BBB+, BBB, BBB- 24.5 24.3
BB and below2 2.9 1.2
Unrated 0.8 1.0
Total 100.0 100.0
Total net advances3 ` 3,275.55 ` 3,826.41
1 Based on internal ratings.
2 Includes net non-performing loans.
3 Includes business banking, SME, domestic, corporate and overseas loans.
DIRECTED LENDING
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, ICICI Bank’s average priority sector lending:
Particulars Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2023
Amount % of Amount % of Target (% of
(` billions) adjusted net (` billions) adjusted net adjusted net
bank credit bank credit bank credit)
Agriculture Sector ` 1,226.50 17.8% ` 1,423.58 17.7% 18.0%
- Small and marginal farmers 636.37 9.2% 794.72 9.9% 9.5%
- Non-corporate farmers 873.81 12.7% 1,068.17 13.3% 13.8%
Micro, small and medium enterprises 1,473.72 - 1,729.04 - -
- Micro enterprises 550.66 8.0% 661.21 8.2% 7.5%
Other priority sector 145.18 - 178.32 - -
Total priority sector lending ` 2,845.40 41.3% ` 3,330.94 41.5% 40.0%
- Weaker sections ₹ 762.02 11.1% ` 910.20 11.3% 11.5%
1 The above includes the impact of Priority Sector Lending Certificate purchased/sold by the Bank.
There was a marginal shortfall in the achievement of target for lending to the agriculture sector.
132
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
CLASSIFICATION OF LOANS
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, information regarding asset classification of the Bank’s gross non-
performing assets (net of write-offs, interest suspense and derivative income reversals).
` in billion
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023
Non-performing assets
Sub-standard assets ` 85.32 ` 68.79
Doubtful assets 181.48 127.00
Loss assets 72.40 116.05
Total non-performing assets1 ` 339.20 ` 311.84
1 Include advances, lease receivables and credit substitutes like debentures and bonds. Excludes preference shares.
2 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, information regarding the Bank’s non- performing assets (NPAs).
` in billion, except percentages
Year ended Gross NPA1 Net NPA Net customer % of net NPA to net
assets customer assets2
March 31, 2020 `414.09 `101.14 `7,166.74 1.41%
March 31, 2021 413.73 91.80 8,025.90 1.14
March 31, 2022 339.20 69.61 9,160.87 0.76
March 31, 2023 `311.84 `51.55 `10,816.41 0.48%
1 Net of write-offs, interest suspense and derivatives income reversal.
2 Include advances, lease receivables and credit substitutes like debentures and bonds. Excludes preference shares.
3 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of gross non-performing assets (net of write-
offs) by industry sector.
` in billion, except percentages
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023
Amount % Amount %
Retail finance1 ` 80.72 23.8% ` 71.79 23.0%
Construction 55.50 16.4 54.21 17.4
Rural retail 37.08 10.9 37.29 12.0
Crude petroleum/refining and petrochemicals 26.69 7.9 26.84 8.6
Power 31.67 9.3 21.91 7.0
Services – non-finance 14.13 4.2 15.37 4.9
Road, ports, telecom, urban development and 14.49 4.3 13.75 4.4
other infrastructure
Electronics and engineering 16.93 5.0 12.52 4.0
Mining 10.93 3.2 11.78 3.8
Wholesale/retail trade 6.37 1.9 7.77 2.5
Iron/steel and products 6.16 1.8 5.48 1.8
Manufacturing products 3.19 0.9 3.53 1.1
Gems and jewelry 2.83 0.8 3.19 1.0
Other industries2 32.51 9.6 26.41 8.5
Total ` 339.20 100.0% ` 311.84 100.0%
1 I ncludes home loans, automobile loans, commercial business loans, dealer financing, personal loans, credit cards and loans against
securities.
2 O ther industries primarily include textile, metal and metal products, shipping, food and beverages, chemical and fertilizers, services-
finance, cement, drugs and pharmaceuticals, FMCG, automobiles and developer financing.
3 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
133
Annual Report 2022-23
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The gross additions to NPAs were ` 186.41 billion in fiscal For a discussion on accounting policy for classification on
2023 (` 192.91 billion in fiscal 2022). The net additions to loans, see “Financial Statement (Schedule 17- Significant
NPAs were ` 20.38 billion in fiscal 2023 (` 29.28 billion in Accounting Policies) – Provision/write-offs on loans and
fiscal 2022). In fiscal 2023, the Bank recovered/upgraded other credit facilities”.
non-performing assets amounting to ` 166.03 billion
(` 163.63 billion in fiscal 2022), wrote-off non-performing SEGMENT INFORMATION
assets amounting to ` 44.66 billion (` 99.46 billion in
RBI in its guidelines on "segmental reporting” has stipulated
fiscal 2022) and sold non-performing assets amounting
specified business segments and their definitions, for the
to ` 3.08 billion (` 4.35 billion in fiscal 2022). As a result,
purpose of public disclosures on business information
gross NPAs (net of write-offs) of the Bank decreased from
for banks in India. The business segments as defined by
` 339.20 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 311.84 billion at
RBI for standalone segmental report are Retail Banking,
March 31, 2023.
Wholesale Banking, Treasury and Other Banking.
Net NPAs decreased from ` 69.61 billion at March 31, Additionally, Unallocated includes items such as income
2022 to ` 51.55 billion at March 31, 2023. The ratio of net tax paid in advance net of provision for tax, deferred tax
NPAs to net customer assets decreased from 0.76% at and provisions to the extent reckoned at entity level.
March 31, 2022 to 0.48% at March 31, 2023. The provision
Framework for transfer pricing
coverage ratio at March 31, 2023 was 82.8% as compared
to 79.2% at March 31, 2022. All liabilities are transfer priced to a central treasury unit,
which pools all funds and lends to the business units
At March 31, 2023, gross non-performing loans in the
at appropriate rates based on the relevant maturity of
retail portfolio were 1.28% of gross retail loans compared
assets being funded after adjusting for regulatory reserve
to 1.76% at March 31, 2022 and net non-performing
requirement and directed lending requirements.
loans in the retail portfolio were 0.47% of net retail loans
compared to 0.74% at March 31, 2022. Retail banking segment
The total non-fund based outstanding to borrowers The profit before tax of the segment increased from
classified as non-performing was ` 37.80 billion at ` 114.00 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 175.34 billion in fiscal
March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: ` 36.40 billion). The 2023 primarily due to an increase in net interest income
Bank held a provision of ` 20.05 billion at March 31, 2023 and non-interest income and a decrease in provisions,
(March 31, 2022: ` 20.51 billion) against these non-fund offset, in part, by an increase in operating expenses.
based outstanding.
Wholesale banking segment
The gross outstanding loans to borrowers whose The profit before tax of the segment increased from
facilities have been restructured decreased from ` 82.67 ` 90.53 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 157.85 billion in fiscal
billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 45.08 billion at March 31, 2023 primarily due to an increase in net interest income
2023. The net outstanding loans to borrowers whose and non-interest income and a decrease in provisions,
facilities have been restructured decreased from ` 79.84 offset, in part, by an increase in operating expenses.
billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 43.30 billion at March 31,
2023. The aggregate non-fund based outstanding to Treasury segment
borrowers whose loans were restructured was ` 3.32 The profit before tax of the segment increased from
billion at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: ` 5.65 billion). ` 98.20 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 142.72 billion in fiscal
Additionally, Bank holds provision of ` 12.02 billion on 2023 primarily due to an increase in net interest income,
restructured accounts. offset, in part, by a decrease in non- interest income and
an increase in provisions and operating expenses.
At March 31, 2023, the outstanding loans and non-fund
facilities to borrowers in the corporate and small and
Other banking segment
medium enterprises portfolio rated BB and below were
Profit before tax of the other banking segment increased
` 47.04 billion which includes the outstanding loans and
from ` 3.11 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 4.80 billion in fiscal
non-funded facilities under resolution amounting to ` 7.74
2023.
billion.
134
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Unallocated a total capital adequacy ratio of 17.3% at March 31, 2023
as compared to 17.2% at March 31, 2022.
During fiscal 2023, the Bank on a prudent basis has made
an additional contingency provision of ` 56.50 billion as
ICICI Bank UK PLC (ICICI Bank UK)
compared to a write-back of ` 0.25 billion in fiscal year
2022. The contingency provision was not allocated to any The core operating profit of ICICI Bank UK increased
segment and included in unallocated. from USD 11.7 million in fiscal 2022 to USD 18.3 million
in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in net interest
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALS AS PER income and fee income, offset, in part, by a decrease in
INDIAN GAAP other income. Profit after tax of ICICI Bank UK increased
from USD 10.9 million (` 0.81 billion) in fiscal 2022 to USD
The consolidated profit after tax increased from ` 251.10
13.0 million (` 1.05 billion) in fiscal 2023 primarily due to
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 340.37 billion in fiscal 2023
higher core operating profit, offset, in part, by an increase
primarily due to an increase in the profit of ICICI Bank
in impairment provisions.
and subsidiaries namely ICICI Home Finance Company,
ICICI Bank Canada, ICICI Prudential Asset Management Total assets decreased from USD 2.24 billion at March 31,
Company and ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company 2022 to USD 2.14 billion at March 31, 2023. Net advances
and an increase in share of profit from associate namely decreased from USD 1.32 billion at March 31, 2022 to
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company, offset, in part, USD 1.09 billion at March 31, 2023. The net impairment
by a decrease in profit of certain subsidiaries namely ICICI ratio increased from 2.0% at March 31, 2022 to 3.3%
Securities and ICICI Securities Primary Dealership. at March 31, 2023. ICICI Bank UK had a total capital
adequacy ratio of 27.1% at March 31, 2023 compared to
The consolidated assets of the Bank and its subsidiaries
23.0% at March 31, 2022.
and other consolidating entities increased from
` 17,526.37 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 19,584.90 billion
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company (ICICI
at March 31, 2023. Consolidated advances increased from
Life)
` 9,203.08 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 10,838.66 billion
The Annualised Premium Equivalent of ICICI Life increased
at March 31, 2023.
by 11.7% from ` 77.33 billion for fiscal 2022 to ` 86.40
At March 31, 2023, the Bank’s consolidated Tier-1 capital billion for fiscal 2023. The Value of New Business (VNB)
adequacy ratio was 17.33% as against the requirement of increased by 27.8% from ` 21.63 billion for fiscal 2022 to
9.70% and consolidated total capital adequacy ratio was ` 27.65 billion for fiscal 2023. The VNB margin increased
18.09% as against the requirement of 11.70%. from 28.0% for fiscal 2022 to 32.0% in fiscal 2023. The
total premium earned increased by 6.6% from ` 374.58
ICICI Bank Canada billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 399.33 billion in fiscal 2023. The
The core operating profit of ICICI Bank Canada increased total assets under management increased from ` 2,404.92
from CAD 26.2 million in fiscal 2022 to CAD 61.2 million billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 2,511.91 billion at March 31,
in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in net interest 2023.
income and fee income, offset, in part, by an increase
Net premium earned increased by 6.2% from ` 363.21
in operating expenses. The profit after tax of ICICI Bank
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 385.60 billion in fiscal 2023.
Canada increased from CAD 29.2 million (` 1.74 billion)
The profit after tax increased from ` 7.54 billion in fiscal
in fiscal 2022 to CAD 46.4 million (` 2.82 billion) in fiscal
2022 to ` 8.11 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to lower
2023 primarily due to an increase in core operating profit.
Covid-19 related death claims (net of reinsurance), offset,
The total assets increased from CAD 5.74 billion at in part, by a decrease in shareholder surplus.
March 31, 2022 to CAD 5.98 billion at March 31, 2023.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company (ICICI
Loans and advances increased from CAD 4.98 billion at
General)
March 31, 2022 to CAD 5.17 billion at March 31, 2023. The
net impairment ratio increased from 0.01% at March 31, The Gross Domestic Premium Income of ICICI General
2022 to 0.08% at March 31, 2023. ICICI Bank Canada had increased by 17.0% year-on-year from ` 179.77 billion
135
Annual Report 2022-23
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
in fiscal 2022 to ` 210.25 billion in fiscal 2023. The profit in fiscal 2023 primarily due to a decrease in net interest
after tax increased from ` 12.71 billion in fiscal 2022 to income and lower trading gains.
` 17.29 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase
in premium income and reversal of tax provision, offset, in ICICI Home Finance Company Limited (ICICI HFC)
part, by an increase in claims and benefits paid.
As per Indian GAAP, profit after tax increased from ` 0.93
ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 3.65 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily
(ICICI Prudential AMC) due to an increase in core operating profit and decrease
As per Indian GAAP, the profit after tax of ICICI Prudential in provisions. The core operating profit increased primarily
AMC increased from ` 14.36 billion in fiscal 2022 to due to an increase in net interest income and fee income,
` 15.08 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase
offset, in part, by an increase in operating expenses.
in fee income, offset, in part, by an increase in operating
expenses. Net NPAs decreased from ` 5.16 billion at March 31, 2022
to ` 3.53 billion at March 31, 2023.
ICICI Securities
As per Indian GAAP, the consolidated profit after tax of ICICI Venture Funds Management Company
ICICI Securities decreased from ` 13.98 billion in fiscal (ICICI Venture)
2022 to ` 11.40 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to
The profit after tax of ICICI Venture increased from
decrease in fee income.
` 2.2 million in fiscal 2022 to ` 61.9 million in fiscal 2023
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership (I-Sec PD) primarily due to an increase in management fees received
As per Indian GAAP, the profit after tax of I-Sec PD from launch of new fund, offset, in part, by an increase in
decreased from ` 3.30 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 1.28 billion operating expenses.
The following table sets forth, for the periods and at the dates indicated, the profit/(loss) and total assets of our principal
subsidiaries/associates as per Indian GAAP.
` in billion
Company Profit after tax Total assets1
Fiscal Fiscal At At
2022 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023
ICICI Bank Canada ` 1.74 ` 2.82 ` 348.35 ` 363.46
ICICI Bank UK PLC 0.81 1.05 170.77 176.13
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 7.54 8.11 2,441.54 2,558.47
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited2,3 12.71 17.29 508.48 550.86
ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited 14.36 15.08 21.48 24.89
ICICI Securities Limited (consolidated) 13.98 11.40 135.20 154.71
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited 3.30 1.28 202.30 344.01
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 0.93 3.65 157.58 187.01
ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited `0.004 `0.06 ` 2.84 ` 3.02
1 T otal assets are as per classification used in the consolidated financial statements and hence the total assets as per subsidiary’s
financial statements may differ.
2 T he entity have been accounted as per the equity method as prescribed by Accounting Standard – 23 – “Accounting for Investments
in Associates in Consolidated Financial Statements”.
3 Total assets as per financial statements of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited.
4 0.00 represents insignificant amount.
5 See also “Financials- Statement pursuant to Section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013”.
6 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
136
)segatnecrep
dna
atad
erahs
rep
tpecxe
,noillib
ni
`(
3202
2202
1202
0202
9102
8102
7102
6102
5102
4102
14.808,11
27.546,01
22.523,9
96.907,7
02.925,6
57.906,5
93.009,4
62.412,4
36.516,3
41.913,3
stisoped
latoT
83.691,01
02.095,8
92.733,7
09.254,6
74.668,5
59.321,5
23.246,4
46.253,4
22.578,3
30.783,3
secnavda
latoT
51.700,2
21.507,1
90.574,1
40.561,1
86.380,1
95.150,1
15.999
63.798
92.408
31.237
sevreser
& latipac
ytiuqE
70.248,51
89.211,41
33.403,21
56.389,01
95.446,9
98.197,8
19.717,7
59.602,7
92.164,6
24.649,5
stessa
latoT
1%3.81
1%2.91
1%1.91
1%1.61
1%9.61
1%4.81
1%4.71
1%6.61
1%0.71
1%7.71
oitar
ycauqeda
latipac
latoT
93.194
74.383
15.313
80.862
27.022
93.981
01.971
30.891
72.081
77.551
tiforp
gnitarepo
eroC
92.126
66.474
98.983
76.233
51.072
62.032
73.712
42.212
04.091
57.461
emocni
tseretni
teN
%84.4
%69.3
%96.3
%37.3
%24.3
%32.3
%52.3
%94.3
%84.3
%33.3
nigram
tseretni
teN
69.813
93.332
39.161
13.97
36.33
77.76
10.89
62.79
57.111
01.89
xat
retfa
tiforP
97.54
66.33
10.42
82.21
32.5
65.01
13.51
32.51
65.71
54.51
3,2)cisaB(
erahs
rep
sgninraE
98.44
89.23
76.32
80.21
71.5
64.01
52.51
41.51
93.71
93.51
erahs
rep
sgninraE
3,2)detuliD(
%3.71
%8.41
%2.21
%1.7
%2.3
%6.6
%3.01
%3.11
%3.41
%7.31
ytiuqe
egareva
no
nruteR
00.8
00.5
00.2
00.0
00.1
05.1
05.2
00.5
00.5
06.4
4,2erahs
rep
dnediviD
.krowemarf
III
lesaB
rep
sa
detaluclac
neeb
sah
oitar
ycauqeda
latipac
latoT
1
eulav
ecaf
a
gnivah
serahs
ytiuqe
evif
otni
01`
fo
erahs
ytiuqe
eno
fo noisivid-bus
eht
devorppa
knaB
eht
fo
sredloherahs
eht
,5102
,13
hcraM
dedne
raey
eht
gniruD
2
.noisivid-bus
fo
tceffe
eht
stcelfer
osla
sdoirep
roirp
fo
noitamrofni
erahs
reP
.hcae
2
`
fo
ylluf
)neT(
01
yreve
rof
hcae
2
`
fo erahs
ytiuqe
sunob
)enO(
1
.e.i
,01:1
fo
noitroporp
eht
ni
serahs
sunob
deussi
knaB
eht
,8102
,13
hcraM
dedne
raey
eht
gniruD
3
.eussi
sunob
fo
tceffe
eht
stcelfer
osla
sdoirep
roirp
fo
noitamrofni
erahs
reP
.)SDA
gniylrednu
serahs
gnidulcni(
dleh
serahs
ytiuqe
pu-diap
ytiuqe
no
tnemyap
dnedivid
yna
ekam
ton
llahs
sknab
taht
detcerid
dah
,0202
,71
lirpA
detad
')desiveR(
sknab
yb
sdnedivid
fo
noitaralceD'
ralucric
sti
hguorht
IBR
4
.0202YF
rof
dnedivid
yna
yap
ton
did
knaB
eht
,ylgnidroccA
.0202
,13
hcraM
dedne
raey
laicnanif
eht
ot
gniniatrep
stiforp
eht
morf
serahs
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS: LAST 10 YEARS
137
Annual Report 2022-23
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of
ICICI Bank Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
1. We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of ICICI Bank Limited (‘the Bank’), which
comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2023, the Standalone Profit and Loss Account, and
Standalone Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements,
including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (‘the standalone financial
statements’).
2. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid
standalone financial statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the
Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and circulars and guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) from time to
time (‘RBI Guidelines’) in the manner so required for Banking companies and give a true and fair view in conformity
with the Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Accounting
Standards) Rules, 2021 and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the
Bank as at 31 March 2023, and its profit, and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (‘SAs’) specified under section 143(10) of
the Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of
the Standalone Financial Statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the Bank in accordance with the
Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements
that are relevant to our audit of the standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules
thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the
Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
4. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the
standalone financial statements of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate
opinion on these matters.
5. We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Identification and provisioning of non-performing advances (NPA):
Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at 31 March 2023: ` 10,196,383,053 (in ‘000s)
Provision for NPA as at 31 March 2023: ` 248,358,100 (in ‘000s)
(Refer Schedule 9, Schedule 17(3) and Schedule 18(17))
The Reserve Bank of India’s (“RBI”) guidelines Our audit procedures with respect to this matter
on Income recognition and asset classification & included:
Provisioning (“IRAC”) and other circulars and directives
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of
issued by the RBI from time to time, which prescribe the
key controls (including application controls) over
prudential norms for identification and
approval, recording, monitoring and recovery of loans,
138
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
classification of performing & non-performing assets monitoring overdue / stressed accounts, identification
(“NPA”) and the minimum provision required for such of NPA, provision for NPA and valuation of security and
assets. The Bank is required to have Board approved collateral on a test check basis. Further obtained an
policy as per IRAC guidelines for NPA identification & understanding of the contingency provision carried by
classification of advances and provision thereon. the Bank and verified the underlying assumptions used
by the Bank for such estimate.
The provision on NPA is estimated based on ageing
and classification of NPAs, recovery estimates, nature Tested application controls included test of automated
of loan product, value of security and other qualitative controls, reports and system reconciliations.
factors and is subject to the minimum provisioning
Reviewed existence and effectiveness of monitoring
norms specified by RBI and approved policy of the
mechanisms such as Internal Audit, Systems Audit, and
Bank in this regard.
Concurrent Audit as per the policies and procedures of
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to the Bank;
determine the identification and provision required
Evaluated the governance process and review controls
against NPAs by applying quantitative as well as
over calculations of provision of non-performing
qualitative factors. The risk of identification of NPAs is
advances, basis of provisioning in accordance with the
affected by factors like stress and liquidity concerns in
Board approved policy.
certain sectors.
Selected a sample of borrowers based on quantitative
Additionally, the Bank makes provisions on exposures
and qualitative risk factors for their assessment of
that are not classified as NPA including advances
appropriate identification & classification as NPA
to certain sectors and identified advances or group
including computation of overdue ageing to assess
advances. These are classified as contingency
its correct classification and provision amount as per
provisions.
extant IRAC norms and the Bank policy.
Since the identification of NPAs and provisioning for
Performed other substantive procedures included and
advances require significant level of estimation and
not limited to the following:
given its significance to the overall audit including
possible observation by RBI which could result into  Selected samples of performing loans and
disclosure in the financial statements, we have assessed independently as to whether those
ascertained identification and provisioning for NPAs as should be classified as NPA;
a key audit matter.
 For samples selected, reviewed the collateral
valuations, financial statements and other
qualitative information
 Considered the accounts reported by the Bank
and other Banks as Special Mention Accounts
(“SMA”) in RBI’s Central Repository of Information
on Large Credits (CRILC) to identify stress.
 For selected samples, assessed independently,
the accounts that can potentially be classified as
NPA and Red flagged accounts.
 Inquired with the credit and risk departments to
ascertain if there were indicators of stress or an
occurrence of an event of default in a particular
loan account or any product category which
needed to be considered as NPA.
139
Annual Report 2022-23
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
 Examined the accounts under watchlist report
provided by the risk department.
 Discussed with the management of the Bank on
sectors where there is a perceived credit risk and
the steps taken to mitigate the risks to identified
sectors.
 Selected and tested samples for accounts which
are restructured as per RBI Master Circular -
Prudential norms on Income Recognition, Asset
Classification and Provisioning pertaining to
Advances; and
 Assessed appropriateness & the adequacy of
disclosures against the relevant accounting
standards and RBI requirements relating to NPAs.
Evaluation of Litigations included in contingent liabilities.
(Included under contingent liabilities) (in ‘000)
As at As at
Particulars
31 March 2023 31 March 2022
Legal Cases 3,027,295 3,201,365
Taxes 78,935,723 79,637,364
Total Claims against Bank not acknowledged as Debt 81,963,017 82,838,729
(Refer Schedule 12 I, Schedule 17(12) and Schedule 18(36))
The Bank has material open tax litigations including Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter
matters under dispute which involve significant included:
judgement to determine the possible outcome of these
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of the
disputes.
Bank’s key controls over the estimation, monitoring
Significant management judgement is needed in and disclosure of provisions and contingent liabilities
determining whether an obligation exists and whether on test check basis.
a provision should be recognised as at the reporting
Our substantive audit procedures included and were
date, in accordance with the accounting criteria set
not limited to the following:
under Accounting Standard 29 - Provisions, Contingent
Liabilities and Contingent Assets (‘AS 29’), or whether it  Obtained an understanding of Bank’s process
needs to be disclosed as a contingent liability. Further, for determining tax liabilities, tax provisions
significant judgements are also involved in measuring and contingent liabilities pertaining to legal and
such obligations, the most significant of which are: taxation matters;
 Assessment of Liability: Judgement is involved in  Obtained a list of cases /matters in respect of
determination of whether outflow in respect of which the litigations were outstanding as at
identified material matters are probable and can reporting date:
be estimated reliably.
140
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
 Adequacy of provisions: The appropriateness of • For significant legal matters, we obtained
assumption and judgements used in estimation of external confirmations and corroborated
significant provisions; and with management’s documented conclusions
on the assessment of outstanding litigations
 Adequacy of disclosures of provision for liabilities
against the Bank;
and charges, and contingent liabilities.
• For significant taxation matters, we involved
The Bank’s assessment is supported by the facts of
our tax specialists to gain an understanding
matter, their own judgement, experience, and advises
of status of the litigations including
from legal and independent tax consultants wherever
understanding of various orders/ notices
considered necessary.
received by the Bank and management’s
Since the assessment of these open litigations requires grounds of appeals before the relevant
significant level of judgement in interpretation of law, appellate authorities.
we have included this as a key audit matter.
 Evaluated the merit of the subject matter under
consideration with reference to the grounds
presented therein and available independent legal
/ tax advice;
 Inquired with appropriate level of the management
including status update, expectation of outcomes
with the basis, and the future course of action
contemplated by the Bank;
 Reviewed minutes of meetings with Board, and
Audit committee in this regard
 Agreed underlying tax balances to supporting
documentation including correspondence with the
Tax authorities; and
 Assessed the appropriateness & adequacy
of disclosures within the standalone financial
statements in accordance with the applicable
accounting standards and requirements of RBI in
this regard.
141
Annual Report 2022-23
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Information Technology (‘IT’) systems and controls impacting financial controls.
The Bank has a complex IT architecture to support Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter
its day-to-day business operations. High volume of included:
transactions is processed and recorded on single or
For testing the IT general controls, application controls
multiple applications.
and IT dependent manual controls, we involved IT
The reliability and security of IT systems plays a key specialists as part of the audit. The team also assisted
role in the business operations of the Bank. Since in testing the accuracy of the information produced by
large volume of transactions are processed daily, the the Bank’s IT systems.
IT controls are required to ensure that applications
Obtained a comprehensive understanding of IT
process data as expected and that changes are made
applications landscape implemented at the Bank. It
in an appropriate manner.
was followed by process understanding, mapping of
applications to the same and understanding financial
risks posed by people-process and technology.
Appropriate IT general controls and application controls Key IT audit procedures includes testing design and
are required to ensure that such IT systems are able to operating effectiveness of key controls operating over
process the data, as required, completely, accurately user access management (which includes user access
and consistently for reliable financial reporting. provisioning, de-provisioning, access review, password
configuration review, segregation of duties and privilege
We have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as key
access), change management (which include change
audit matter because of the high level automation,
release in production environment are compliant to the
significant number of systems being used by the
defined procedures and segregation of environment is
management and the complexity of the IT architecture
ensured), program development (which include review
and its impact on the financial reporting system.
of data migration activity), computer operations (which
includes testing of key controls pertaining to, backup,
Batch processing (including interface testing), incident
management and data centre security), System
interface controls. This included testing that requests
for access to systems were appropriately logged,
reviewed, and authorized.
In addition to the above, the design and operating
effectiveness of certain automated controls, that were
considered as key internal system controls over financial
reporting were tested. Using various techniques such
as inquiry, review of documentation / record / reports,
observation, and re-performance. We also tested few
controls using negative testing technique.
Tested compensating controls and performed alternate
procedures, where necessary. In addition, understood
where relevant changes made to the IT landscape
during the audit period.
142
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Valuation of Derivatives
(Included under contingent liabilities) (in ‘000)
As at As at
Particulars
31 March 2023 31 March 2022
Notional amounts 40,984,024,707 37,056,016,613
(Refer Schedule 12.III, 12.VI, 12.VII and 18(14))
Derivatives are valued through models with external Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to,
inputs. The derivatives portfolio of the Bank primarily the following:
includes transactions which are carried out on behalf
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design,
of its clients (and are covered on a back-to-back basis)
and tested the operating effectiveness of the key
and transactions to hedge the Bank’s interest and
controls over the valuation processes, including:
foreign currency risk.
 independent price verification performed by a
management expert; and model governance and
validation.
A significant degree of management judgement is On a sample basis, we performed an independent
involved in the application of valuation techniques reassessment of the valuation of derivatives and
through which the value of the Bank’s derivatives evaluated significant models and methodologies used
is determined. The financial statement risk arises in valuation, to ensure compliance with the relevant
particularly with respect to complex valuation models, RBI regulations, reasonableness of the valuation
valuation parameters, and inputs that are used in methodology and the inputs used.
determining fair values.
Considering the significance of the above matter to
the financial statements, significant management
estimates and judgements, and auditor attention
required to test such estimates and judgements, we
have identified this as a key audit matter for current
year audit.
Information Other than the Standalone Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
6. The Bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the Annual Report but does not include the standalone financial statements and our auditor’s
report thereon. The Annual Report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the standalone financial statements, or knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to
be materially misstated.
143
Annual Report 2022-23
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to
communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the
relevant laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Standalone Financial
Statements
7. The Bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to
the preparation and presentation of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the
financial position, financial performance, and cash flows of the Bank in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act, read with the
Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, and provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949
and circulars and guidelines issued by the RBI from time to time (‘RBI Guidelines’). This responsibility also includes
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI Guidelines for
safeguarding of the assets of the Bank and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and
application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively
for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation
of the standalone financial statement that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error.
8. In preparing the standalone financial statements, Board of Directors are responsible for assessing the Bank’s ability
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intend to liquidate the Bank or to cease operations,
or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
9. The Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
10. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements.
11. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism
throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our
opinion on whether the Bank has adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls;
144
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the Management;
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and,
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the
standalone financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or
conditions may cause the Bank to cease to continue as a going concern;
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including
the disclosures, and whether the standalone1 financial statements represent the underlying transactions and
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
12. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we
identify during our audit.
13. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
14. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of
most significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements of the current year, and are therefore, the key
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public
interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
15. The Balance Sheet and the Profit and Loss Account have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of
Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Section 133 of the Act and the relevant rules issued thereunder.
16. As required by sub-section (3) of section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that:
a. We have obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were
necessary for the purpose of our audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
b. The transactions of the Bank, which have come to our notice, have been within the powers of the Bank.
c. Since the key operations of the Bank are automated with the key applications integrated to the core banking
system, the audit is carried out centrally as all the necessary records and data required for the purposes of our
audit are available therein. We have visited 156 branches to examine the records maintained at the branches
for the purpose of our audit.
17. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
a. We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit;
b. In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Bank so far as it appears from
our examination of those books;
c. The Balance Sheet, the Profit and Loss Account and the Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this Report are in
agreement with the books of account;
145
Annual Report 2022-23
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
d. In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified
under Section 133 of the Act read with relevant rules issued thereunder, to the extent they are not inconsistent
with the accounting policies prescribed by the RBI;
e. On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31 March 2023 taken on record
by the Board of Directors, none of the directors are disqualified as on 31 March 2023 from being appointed as
a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act;
f. With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements
of the Bank and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure A”; and
g. With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information
and according to the explanations given to us:
i. The Bank has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial
statements (Refer Schedule 12, Schedule 17(12) and Schedule 18(41));
ii. The Bank has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material
foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts ((Refer Schedule 17(12)
and Schedule 18(41));
iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and
Protection Fund by the Bank during the year ended 31 March 2023;
iv. (1) The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed in
schedule 18(57) to the standalone financial statements, no funds have been advanced or loaned or
invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the
Bank to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether directly
or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on
behalf of the Bank (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of
the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
(2) The Management has represented that, to the best of it’s knowledge and belief, as disclosed in
schedule 18(57) to the standalone financial statements, no funds have been received by the Bank
from any person(s)/entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), that the Bank has directly
or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on
behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
(3) Based on such audit procedures performed, as considered reasonable and appropriate in the
circumstances, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the management
representations under sub-clauses (1) and (2) above contain any material misstatement.
v. The Bank has declared and paid dividend during the year which is in compliance with section 123 of the
Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
vi. As the proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 (as amended), which provides for
the accounting software used by the Bank for maintaining its books of account to have the feature for
recording of audit trail (edit log) facility and related matters, is applicable for the Bank only with effect from
financial year beginning 1 April 2023, the reporting under clause (g) of Rule 11 is currently not applicable.
146
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
h. With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the requirements of
Section 197(16) of the Act, as amended, the Bank is a banking Company as defined under Banking Regulation
Act, 1949. Accordingly, the requirements prescribed under Section 197 of the Act do not apply.
For M S K A & Associates For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No.105047W (Formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.105146W/W100621
Tushar Kurani Gautam Shah
Partner Partner
Membership Number.: 118580 Membership Number.: 117348
UDIN: 23118580BGXROY2671 UDIN: 23117348BGSZHO1617
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai
Date: 22 April 2023 Date: 22 April 2023
147
Annual Report 2022-23
Annexure "A" to the Independent Auditor’s report on the Standalone Financial
Statements of ICICI Bank Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023
[Referred to in paragraph “17(f)” under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of
even date]
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the aforesaid Standalone Financial
Statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Opinion
1. We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements of ICICI Bank
Limited (“the Bank”) as at 31 March 2023 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the
Bank for the year ended on that date.
2. In our opinion, the Bank has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls with reference to
standalone financial statements and such internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements
were operating effectively as at 31 March 2023, based on the internal control with reference to standalone financial
statements criteria established by the Bank considering the essential components of internal control stated in the
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India (ICAI) (the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
3. The Bank’s Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the
internal control with reference to standalone financial statements criteria established by the Bank considering the
essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design,
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of its
assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,
and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
4. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to standalone
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the
Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate
internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements was established and maintained and if
such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
5. Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of internal financial controls
with reference to standalone financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial
controls with reference to standalone financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial
controls with reference to standalone financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,
and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
6. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Standalone Financial Statements
7. Bank’s internal financial control with reference to standalone financial statements is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of standalone financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A Bank’s internal
financial control with reference to standalone financial statements includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
148
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
Annexure A (Contd.)
dispositions of the assets of the bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
to permit preparation of standalone financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the bank are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of management and directors of the bank; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the bank’s assets that could have a material effect on
the standalone financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Standalone Financial Statements
8. Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to
error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls
with reference to standalone financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial
control with reference to standalone financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
For M S K A & Associates For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No.105047W (Formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.105146W/W100621
Tushar Kurani Gautam Shah
Partner Partner
Membership Number.: 118580 Membership Number.: 117348
UDIN: 23118580BGXROY2671 UDIN: 23117348BGSZHO1617
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai
Date: 22 April 2023 Date: 22 April 2023
149
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
BALANCE SHEET
at March 31, 2023
` in ‘000s
At At
Schedule
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital 1 13,967,750 13,899,662
Employees stock options outstanding 1A 7,608,859 2,664,141
Reserves and surplus 2 1,985,577,170 1,688,555,941
Deposits 3 11,808,406,972 10,645,716,132
Borrowings 4 1,193,254,936 1,072,313,597
Other liabilities and provisions 5 833,250,836 689,827,947
TOTAL CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES 15,842,066,523 14,112,977,420
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India 6 685,261,721 1,095,228,198
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 7 509,121,002 582,995,434
Investments 8 3,623,297,355 3,102,410,024
Advances 9 10,196,383,053 8,590,204,390
Fixed assets 10 95,998,412 93,738,159
Other assets 11 732,004,980 648,401,215
TOTAL ASSETS 15,842,066,523 14,112,977,420
Contingent liabilities 12 42,831,654,487 38,676,758,717
Bills for collection 864,547,740 751,508,328
Significant accounting policies and notes to accounts 17 & 18
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Balance Sheet.
As per our Report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Uday M. Chitale Sandeep Bakhshi
Chartered Accountants Chairman Director Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration no.: 105047W DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
Tushar Kurani Anup Bagchi Rakesh Jha Sandeep Batra
Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director
Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00105962 DIN-00042075 DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP Anindya Banerjee Prachiti Lalingkar Rajendra Khandelwal
Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
Mumbai
April 22, 2023
150
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
for the year ended March 31, 2023
` in ‘000s
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
I. INCOME
Interest earned 13 1,092,313,380 863,745,452
Other income 14 198,314,479 185,175,299
TOTAL INCOME 1,290,627,859 1,048,920,751
II. EXPENDITURE
Interest expended 15 471,027,360 389,084,507
Operating expenses 16 328,732,391 267,333,160
Provisions and contingencies (refer note 18.41) 171,903,146 159,108,177
TOTAL EXPENDITURE 971,662,897 815,525,844
III. PROFIT/(LOSS)
Net profit/(loss) for the year 318,964,962 233,394,907
Profit brought forward 436,713,394 310,090,657
TOTAL PROFIT/(LOSS) 755,678,356 543,485,564
IV. APPROPRIATIONS/TRANSFERS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve 79,742,000 58,349,000
Transfer to/(from) Reserve Fund - -
Transfer to Capital Reserve 878,200 15,742,037
Transfer to Capital Redemption Reserve - -
Transfer to/(from) Investment Reserve Account - -
Transfer to/(from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve 1,043,810 3,828,798
Transfer to Revenue and other reserves 50,000,000 -
Transfer to Special Reserve 25,650,000 15,000,000
Dividend paid during the year 34,794,463 13,852,335
Balance carried over to balance sheet 563,569,883 436,713,394
TOTAL 755,678,356 543,485,564
Significant accounting policies and notes to accounts 17 & 18
Earnings per share (refer note 18.1)
Basic (`) 45.79 33.66
Diluted (`) 44.89 32.98
Face value per share (`) 2.00 2.00
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Profit and Loss Account.
As per our Report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Uday M. Chitale Sandeep Bakhshi
Chartered Accountants Chairman Director Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration no.:105047W DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
Tushar Kurani Anup Bagchi Rakesh Jha Sandeep Batra
Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director
Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00105962 DIN-00042075 DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP Anindya Banerjee Prachiti Lalingkar Rajendra Khandelwal
Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
Mumbai
April 22, 2023
151
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended March 31, 2023
` in ‘000s
Year ended Year ended
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
Cash flow from/(used in) operating activities
Profit/(loss) before taxes 424,212,254 306,088,853
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation 14,551,663 13,162,116
Net (appreciation)/depreciation on investments 25,947,137 19,089,256
Provision in respect of non-performing and other assets (6,222,899) 61,640,412
General provision for standard assets 5,795,607 4,492,475
Provision for contingencies & others 54,087,695 16,510,217
Employee Stock Options Expense 5,172,383 2,642,190
Income from subsidiaries and consolidated entities (17,845,592) (18,287,906)
(Profit)/loss on sale of fixed assets (534,906) (40,400)
(i) 505,163,342 405,297,213
Adjustments for:
(Increase)/decrease in investments 118,142,776 44,311,642
(Increase)/decrease in advances (1,606,959,156) (1,314,758,223)
Increase/(decrease) in deposits 1,162,749,545 1,320,494,527
(Increase)/decrease in other assets (87,974,398) 50,727,916
Increase/(decrease) in other liabilities and provisions 82,944,583 81,334,402
(ii) (331,096,650) 182,110,264
Refund/(payment) of direct taxes (iii) (97,163,542) (36,938,226)
Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities (i)+(ii)+(iii) (A) 76,903,150 550,469,251
Cash flow from/(used in) investing activities
Redemption/sale from/(investments in) subsidiaries (including
application money) (5,299,820) 28,153,800
Income from subsidiaries, joint ventures and consolidated entities 17,845,592 18,287,906
Purchase of fixed assets (20,200,892) (16,109,856)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 2,815,987 208,665
(Purchase)/sale of held-to-maturity securities (652,674,032) (380,894,998)
Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities (B) (657,513,165) (350,354,483)
Cash flow from/(used in) financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital (including ESOPs) 9,420,691 7,979,764
Proceeds from long-term borrowings 329,872,556 252,601,665
Repayment of long-term borrowings (183,073,266) (233,144,678)
Net proceeds/(repayment) of short-term borrowings (27,161,726) 135,095,945
Dividend paid (34,794,463) (13,852,335)
152
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended March 31, 2023 (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
Year ended Year ended
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities (C) 94,263,792 148,680,361
Effect of exchange fluctuation on translation reserve (D) 2,505,314 (1,853,998)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
(A) + (B) + (C) + (D) (483,840,909) 346,941,131
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1,678,223,632 1,331,282,501
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 1,194,382,723 1,678,223,632
1. Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances with RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and short notice.
As per our Report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Uday M. Chitale Sandeep Bakhshi
Chartered Accountants Chairman Director Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration no.:105047W DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
Tushar Kurani Anup Bagchi Rakesh Jha Sandeep Batra
Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director
Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00105962 DIN-00042075 DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP Anindya Banerjee Prachiti Lalingkar Rajendra Khandelwal
Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
Mumbai
April 22, 2023
153
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 1 - CAPITAL
Authorised capital
12,500,000,000 equity shares of ` 2 each
(March 31, 2022: 12,500,000,000 equity shares of ` 2 each) 25,000,000 25,000,000
Equity share capital
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital
6,948,771,375 equity shares of ` 2 each
(March 31, 2022: 6,915,992,387 equity shares) 13,897,543 13,831,985
Add: 34,044,356 equity shares of ` 2 each (March 31, 2022: 32,778,988
equity shares) issued during the year 68,088 65,558
13,965,631 13,897,543
Add: Forfeited equity shares1 2,119 2,119
TOTAL CAPITAL 13,967,750 13,899,662
1. On account of forfeiture of 266,089 equity shares of ` 10 each.
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 1A - EMPLOYEES STOCK OPTIONS OUTSTANDING
Opening balance 2,664,141 31,010
Additions during the year1 5,172,383 2,642,190
Deductions during the year2 (227,665) (9,059)
Closing balance 7,608,859 2,664,141
1. Represents cost of stock options recongnised during the year.
2. R epresents amount transferred to Securities Premium on account of exercise of employee stock options and to General Reserve on
lapses of employee stock options during the year.
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 2 - RESERVES AND SURPLUS
I. Statutory reserve
Opening balance 356,036,519 297,687,519
Additions during the year 79,742,000 58,349,000
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance 435,778,519 356,036,519
II. Special reserve
Opening balance 128,840,000 113,840,000
Additions during the year 25,650,000 15,000,000
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance 154,490,000 128,840,000
III. Securities premium
Opening balance 496,253,897 488,330,632
Additions during the year1 9,576,331 7,923,265
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance 505,830,228 496,253,897
154
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
IV. Investment reserve account
Opening balance - -
Additions during the year - -
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance - -
V. Investment fluctuation reserve2
Opening balance 20,714,999 16,886,201
Additions during the year 1,043,810 3,828,798
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance 21,758,809 20,714,999
VI. Capital reserve
Opening balance 149,540,462 133,798,425
Additions during the year3,4 878,200 15,742,037
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance 150,418,662 149,540,462
VII. Capital redemption reserve
Opening balance 3,500,000 3,500,000
Additions during the year - -
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance 3,500,000 3,500,000
VIII. Foreign currency translation reserve
Opening balance 7,732,961 9,586,959
Additions during the year 2,505,314 -
Deductions during the year - (1,853,998)
Closing balance 10,238,275 7,732,961
IX. Revaluation reserve
Opening balance 31,956,593 30,935,908
Additions during the year5 839,516 1,724,938
Deductions during the year6 (2,171,483) (704,253)
Closing balance 30,624,626 31,956,593
X. Revenue and other reserves
Opening balance 57,267,116 56,570,435
Additions during the year7 52,101,052 696,681
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance 109,368,168 57,267,116
XI. Balance in profit and loss account4 563,569,883 436,713,394
TOTAL RESERVES AND SURPLUS 1,985,577,170 1,688,555,941
1. Includes amount on account of exercise of employee stock options.
2. R epresents amount transferred to Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR) on net profit on sale of AFS and HFT investments during the
period. The amount not less than the lower of net profit on sale of AFS and HFT category investments during the period or net profit
for the period less mandatory appropriations is required to be transferred to IFR, until the amount of IFR is at least 2% of the HFT and
AFS portfolio.
3. R epresents appropriations made for profit on sale of investments in held-to-maturity category, net of taxes and transfer to statutory
reserve and profit on sale of land and buildings, net of taxes and transfer to statutory reserve.
4. T he Bank had shifted certain securities from held-to-maturity category to available-for-sale category on May 3, 2017. RBI through its
order dated May 3, 2021 directed the Bank to appropriate the net profit made on sale of these investments during FY2018 to capital
reserve. Accordingly, an amount of ` 15,091.1 million was transferred from balance in Profit and Loss account to capital reserve
during FY2022.
5. Represents gain on revaluation of premises carried out by the Bank.
6. I ncludes amount transferred from revaluation reserve to general reserve on account of incremental depreciation charge on revaluation
and revaluation surplus on premises sold. Also includes the amount of loss on revaluation of certain assets which were held for sale.
7. I ncludes amount transferred from Employee Stock Options outstanding to general reserve on lapses of employee stock options during
the period.
155
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 3 - DEPOSITS
A. I. Demand deposits
i) From banks 49,917,686 79,700,410
ii) From others 1,564,941,951 1,505,096,359
II. Savings bank deposits 3,797,758,853 3,599,568,969
III. Term deposits
i) From banks 113,475,314 71,532,495
ii) From others 6,282,313,168 5,389,817,899
TOTAL DEPOSITS 11,808,406,972 10,645,716,132
B. I. Deposits of branches in India 11,660,582,193 10,547,609,016
II. Deposits of branches outside India 147,824,779 98,107,116
TOTAL CAPITAL 11,808,406,972 10,645,716,132
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 4 - BORROWINGS
I. Borrowings in India
i) Reserve Bank of India1 - -
ii) Other banks - -
iii) Financial institutions2 355,946,900 187,168,771
iv) Borrowings in the form of bonds and debentures
(excluding subordinated debt) 460,418,579 391,495,007
v) Capital instruments
a) Innovative Perpetual Debt Instruments (IPDI)
(qualifying as additional Tier 1 capital) 51,400,000 66,950,000
b) Unsecured redeemable debentures/bonds
(subordinated debt included in Tier 2 capital) 31,409,320 71,556,981
TOTAL BORROWINGS IN INDIA 899,174,799 717,170,759
II. Borrowings outside India
i) Bonds and notes 131,367,581 170,411,911
ii) Other borrowings 162,712,556 184,730,927
TOTAL BORROWINGS OUTSIDE INDIA 294,080,137 355,142,838
TOTAL BORROWINGS 1,193,254,936 1,072,313,597
1. R epresents borrowings made under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF).
2. Includes borrowings made under repo and refinance.
3. S ecured borrowings in I and II above amount to Nil (March 31, 2022: Nil) except no borrowing (March 31, 2022: ` 4,913.3 million) was
made under market repurchase transactions (including tri-party repo) with banks and financial institutions and transactions under
liquidity adjustment facility and marginal standing facility.
156
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
I. Bills payable 134,783,012 129,495,726
II. Inter-office adjustments (net) 3,228,016 4,418,106
III. Interest accrued 30,423,631 24,632,882
IV. Sundry creditors 167,703,280 144,731,299
V. General provision for standard assets (refer note 18.19) 47,022,362 40,942,883
VI. Unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts1 178,698,973 110,510,788
VII. Others (including provisions)2 271,391,562 235,096,263
TOTAL OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS 833,250,836 689,827,947
1. Gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts is disclosed under Schedule 11 - Other assets.
2. I ncludes contingency provision amounting to ` 131,000.0 million (March 31, 2022: ` 74,500.0 million) and specific provision for
standard loans amounting to ` 14,946.9 million (March 31, 2022: ` 30,203.0 million).
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 6 - CASH AND BALANCES WITH RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
I. Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes) 85,594,376 71,208,342
II. Balances with Reserve Bank of India
(a) in current account 480,247,345 529,999,856
(b) in other accounts1 119,420,000 494,020,000
TOTAL CASH AND BALANCES WITH RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 685,261,721 1,095,228,198
1. Represents lending under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) and Standing Deposit Facility (SDF).
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND
SHORT NOTICE
I. In India
i) Balances with banks
a) In current accounts 1,161,580 324,146
b) In other deposit accounts 39,768,173 5,321,404
ii) Money at call and short notice
a) With banks 8,217,000 -
b) With other institutions1 6,000,000 -
TOTAL 55,146,753 5,645,550
II. Outside India
i) In current accounts 283,001,318 302,607,893
ii) In other deposit accounts 26,708,047 179,630,804
iii) Money at call and short notice 144,264,884 95,111,187
TOTAL 453,974,249 577,349,884
TOTAL BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE 509,121,002 582,995,434
1. Includes lending under reverse repo.
157
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 8 - INVESTMENTS
I. Investments in India [net of provisions]
i) Government securities 3,057,772,845 2,563,877,338
ii) Other approved securities - -
iii) Shares (includes equity and preference shares) 21,711,915 24,135,943
iv) Debentures and bonds (including commercial paper and certificate
of deposits) 288,094,031 225,803,491
v) Subsidiaries and/or joint ventures 68,914,088 66,264,177
vi) Others (mutual fund units, pass through certificates, security
receipts, and other related investments) 105,787,007 71,922,592
TOTAL INVESTMENTS IN INDIA 3,542,279,886 2,952,003,541
II. Investments outside India [net of provisions]
i) Government securities 42,389,373 107,340,857
ii) Subsidiaries and/or joint ventures abroad
(includes equity and preference shares) 19,698,901 19,698,901
iii) Others (equity shares, bonds and certificate of deposits) 18,929,195 23,366,725
TOTAL INVESTMENTS OUTSIDE INDIA 81,017,469 150,406,483
TOTAL INVESTMENTS 3,623,297,355 3,102,410,024
A. Investments in India
Gross value of investments 3,599,811,662 3,002,256,404
Less: Aggregate of provision/depreciation/(appreciation) 57,531,776 50,252,863
Net investments 3,542,279,886 2,952,003,541
B. Investments outside India
Gross value of investments 85,062,773 151,569,301
Less: Aggregate of provision/depreciation/(appreciation) 4,045,304 1,162,818
Net investments 81,017,469 150,406,483
TOTAL INVESTMENTS 3,623,297,355 3,102,410,024
158
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 9 - ADVANCES [net of provisions]
A. i) Bills purchased and discounted1 495,756,534 475,480,187
ii) Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand 2,799,818,550 2,279,069,891
iii) Term loans 6,900,807,969 5,835,654,312
TOTAL ADVANCES 10,196,383,053 8,590,204,390
B. i) Secured by tangible assets (includes advances against book debts) 7,123,779,285 6,136,277,576
ii) Covered by bank/government guarantees 153,940,219 178,653,112
iii) Unsecured 2,918,663,549 2,275,273,702
TOTAL ADVANCES 10,196,383,053 8,590,204,390
C. I. Advances in India
i) Priority sector 2,807,812,582 2,491,680,887
ii) Public sector 516,152,443 483,782,406
iii) Banks 7,698,171 432,346
iv) Others 6,523,615,093 5,201,460,769
TOTAL ADVANCES IN INDIA 9,855,278,289 8,177,356,408
II. Advances outside India
i) Due from banks - -
ii) Due from others
a) Bills purchased and discounted 151,133,779 173,178,388
b) Syndicated and term loans 101,434,591 85,793,092
c) Others 88,536,394 153,876,502
TOTAL ADVANCES OUTSIDE INDIA 341,104,764 412,847,982
TOTAL ADVANCES 10,196,383,053 8,590,204,390
1. Net of bills re-discounted amounting to ` 10,000.0 million (March 31, 2022: Nil).
159
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 10 - FIXED ASSETS
I. Premises
Gross block
At cost at March 31 of preceding year 81,486,941 78,890,743
Additions during the year1 2,401,505 2,993,921
Deductions during the year (2,664,056) (397,723)
Closing balance 81,224,390 81,486,941
Depreciation
At March 31 of preceding year 20,180,009 18,421,307
Charge during the year2 2,154,851 2,038,226
Deductions during the year (447,084) (279,524)
Total depreciation 21,887,776 20,180,009
Net block3 59,336,614 61,306,932
II. Other fixed assets (including furniture and fixtures)
Gross block
At cost at March 31 of preceding year 88,772,438 78,861,437
Additions during the year 15,409,102 13,724,162
Deductions during the year (5,758,596) (3,813,161)
Closing balance 98,422,944 88,772,438
Depreciation
At March 31 of preceding year 59,595,871 53,842,117
Charge during the year 10,893,499 9,484,874
Deductions during the year (5,661,468) (3,731,120)
Total depreciation 64,827,902 59,595,871
Net block 33,595,042 29,176,567
III. Lease assets
Gross block
At cost at March 31 of preceding year 17,890,746 17,735,222
Additions during the year 11,660 155,524
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance4 17,902,406 17,890,746
Depreciation
At March 31 of preceding year 14,636,086 14,448,172
Charge during the year 199,564 187,914
Deductions during the year - -
Total depreciation, accumulated lease adjustment and provisions 14,835,650 14,636,086
Net block 3,066,756 3,254,660
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS 95,998,412 93,738,159
1. I ncludes revaluation gain amounting to ` 839.5 million (March 31, 2022: ` 1,724.9 million) on account of revaluation carried out by the
Bank.
2. I ncludes depreciation charge on account of revaluation amounting to ` 748.4 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended
March 31, 2022: ` 696.7 million).
3. Includes assets amounting to ` 428.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 558.5 million) which are held for sale.
4. Includes assets taken on lease amounting to ` 1,187.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 1,176.1 million).
160
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 11 - OTHER ASSETS
I. Inter-office adjustments (net) - -
II. Interest accrued 123,894,716 88,248,164
III. Tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net) 16,081,826 21,463,118
IV. Stationery and stamps 3,181 3,451
V. Non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims1,2 - -
VI. Advances for capital assets 7,393,764 3,680,645
VII. Deposits 48,012,567 35,163,419
VIII. Deferred tax assets (net) (refer note 18.43) 75,034,537 77,732,740
IX. Deposits in Rural Infrastructure and Development Fund 216,216,187 264,194,161
X. Unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts3 172,562,634 102,645,663
XI. Others 72,805,568 55,269,854
TOTAL OTHER ASSETS 732,004,980 648,401,215
1. No assets were sold during the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 563.6 million).
2. Net of provision amounting to ` 29,011.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 29,011.8 million).
3. Gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts is disclosed under Schedule 5 - Other liabilities.
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 12 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
I. Claims against the Bank not acknowledged as debts 81,963,017 82,838,729
II. Liability for partly paid investments 12,455 12,455
III. Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts1 15,330,218,103 10,645,244,026
IV. Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
a) In India 1,107,502,893 882,110,255
b) Outside India 130,675,436 155,637,359
V. Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations 441,907,720 462,814,238
VI. Currency swaps1 564,629,994 498,337,575
VII. Interest rate swaps, currency options and interest rate futures1 25,089,176,610 25,912,435,012
VIII. Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable 85,568,259 37,329,068
TOTAL CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 42,831,654,487 38,676,758,717
1. Represents notional amount.
161
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Profit and Loss Account
` in ‘000s
Year ended Year ended
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED
I. Interest/discount on advances/bills 839,429,657 638,335,578
II. Income on investments 208,884,565 164,092,693
III. I nterest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and other inter-bank funds 18,505,130 15,608,305
IV. Others1,2 25,494,028 45,708,876
TOTAL INTEREST EARNED 1,092,313,380 863,745,452
1. Includes interest on income tax refunds amounting to ` 1,144.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 2,434.2 million).
2. Includes interest and amortisation of premium on non-trading interest rate swaps and foreign currency swaps.
` in ‘000s
Year ended Year ended
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 14 - OTHER INCOME
I. Commission, exchange and brokerage 147,765,850 126,396,696
II. Profit/(loss) on sale of investments (net) 1,737,270 7,043,249
III. Profit/(loss) on revaluation of investments (net) (1,296,397) (17,653)
IV. Profit/(loss) on sale of land, buildings and other assets (net)1 534,906 40,400
V. Profit/(loss) on exchange/derivative transactions (net) 30,278,524 29,634,217
VI. Income earned by way of dividends, etc. from subsidiary companies
and/or joint ventures abroad/in India 17,845,592 18,287,906
VII. Miscellaneous income (including lease income) 1,448,734 3,790,484
TOTAL OTHER INCOME 198,314,479 185,175,299
1. Includes profit/(loss) on sale of assets given on lease.
` in ‘000s
Year ended Year ended
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 15 - INTEREST EXPENDED
I. Interest on deposits 389,680,668 333,001,545
II. Interest on Reserve Bank of India/inter-bank borrowings 9,335,421 909,329
III. Others (including interest on borrowings of erstwhile ICICI Limited) 72,011,271 55,173,633
TOTAL INTEREST EXPENDED 471,027,360 389,084,507
162
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Profit and Loss Account (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
Year ended Year ended
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 16 - OPERATING EXPENSES
I. Payments to and provisions for employees 120,599,320 96,727,472
II. Rent, taxes and lighting1 13,789,914 12,410,538
III. Printing and stationery 2,471,090 2,058,744
IV. Advertisement and publicity 14,773,598 10,073,452
V. Depreciation on Bank’s property 13,048,350 11,523,100
VI. Depreciation (including lease equalisation) on leased assets 199,538 187,914
VII. Directors’ fees, allowances and expenses 47,851 45,484
VIII. Auditors’ fees and expenses 60,199 52,962
IX. Law charges 1,277,541 1,150,521
X. Postages, courier, telephones, etc. 5,896,242 5,725,178
XI. Repairs and maintenance 31,251,038 24,649,279
XII. Insurance 14,789,240 12,944,781
XIII. Direct marketing agency expenses 28,901,240 22,568,493
XIV. Other expenditure2 81,627,230 67,215,242
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES 328,732,391 267,333,160
1. Includes lease expense amounting to ` 10,784.1 million (March 31, 2022: ` 9,860.8 million).
2. I ncludes expenses on purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLC) amounting to ` 15,035.2 million (March 31, 2022:
` 13,206.1 million).
3. Net of recoveries from group companies towards shared services.
163
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
SCHEDULE 17
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Overview
ICICI Bank Limited (ICICI Bank or the Bank), incorporated in Vadodara, India is a publicly held banking company engaged
in providing a wide range of banking and financial services including commercial banking and treasury operations.
ICICI Bank is a banking company governed by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The Bank also has overseas branches
in Bahrain, China, Dubai, Hong Kong, Singapore, United States of America and Offshore Banking units.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with requirements prescribed under the Third Schedule
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The accounting and reporting policies of ICICI Bank used in the preparation of
these financial statements conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (Indian GAAP), the guidelines
issued by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from time to time and the Accounting Standards notified under Section 133 of the
Companies Act, 2013 read together with paragraph 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 to the extent applicable
and practices generally prevalent in the banking industry in India. The Bank follows the historical cost convention and the
accrual method of accounting, except in the case of interest and other income on non-performing assets (NPAs) where
it is recognised upon realisation.
Use of estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that are considered
in the reported amounts of assets and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as of the date of the financial statements
and the reported income and expenses during the reporting period. Management believes that the estimates used in the
preparation of the financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results could differ from these estimates. The
impact of any revision in these estimates is recognised prospectively from the period of change.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1. Revenue recognition
a) Interest income is recognised in the profit and loss account as it accrues, except in the case of non-performing
assets (NPAs) where it is recognised upon realisation, as per the income recognition and asset classification
norms of RBI.
b) Income on discounted instruments is recognised over the tenure of the instrument on a constant yield basis.
c) Dividend income is accounted on accrual basis when the right to receive the dividend is established.
d) Loan processing fee is accounted for upfront when it becomes due.
e) Project appraisal/structuring fee is accounted for on the completion of the agreed service.
f) Arranger fee is accounted for as income when a significant portion of the arrangement is completed and right
to receive is established.
g) Commission received on guarantees and letters of credit issued is amortised on a straight-line basis over the
period of the guarantee/letters of credit.
h) The annual/renewal fee on credit cards, debit cards and prepaid cards are amortised on a straight line basis
over one year.
i) Fees paid/received for priority sector lending certificates (PSLC) is amortised on straight-line basis over the
period of the certificate.
j) All other fees are accounted for as and when they become due where the Bank is reasonably certain of ultimate
collection.
164
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
2. Investments
Investments are accounted for in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines on investment classification and
valuation.
The Bank follows trade date method of accounting for purchase and sale of investments, except for government of
India and state government securities where settlement date method of accounting is followed in accordance with
RBI guidelines.
Classification:
All investments are classified into ‘Held to Maturity’ (HTM), ‘Available for Sale’ (AFS) and ‘Held for Trading’ (HFT) on
the date of purchase as per the extant RBI guidelines on investment classification and valuation. Reclassifications, if
any, in any category are accounted for as per RBI guidelines. Under each classification, the investments are further
categorised as (a) government securities, (b) other approved securities, (c) shares, (d) bonds and debentures, (e)
subsidiaries and joint ventures and (f) others.
Investments that are held principally for resale within 90 days from the date of purchase are classified as HFT
securities. Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity are classified as HTM securities. Investments
which are not classified in either of the above categories are classified under AFS securities. Investments in the
equity of subsidiaries/joint ventures are classified under HTM or AFS categories.
Cost of acquisition:
Costs, including brokerage and commission pertaining to investments paid at the time of acquisition and broken
period interest (the amount of interest from the previous interest payment date till the date of purchase of instruments)
on debt instruments, are charged to the profit and loss account.
Valuation:
Securities are valued scrip-wise. Depreciation/appreciation on securities, other than those acquired by way of
conversion of outstanding loans, is aggregated for each category. Net appreciation in each category under each
investment classification, if any, being unrealised, is ignored, while net depreciation is provided. The depreciation
on securities acquired by way of conversion of outstanding loans is fully provided. Non-performing investments are
identified based on the RBI guidelines.
HTM securities are carried at their acquisition cost or at amortised cost, if acquired at a premium over the face value.
Any premium over the face value of fixed rate and floating rate securities acquired is amortised over the remaining
period to maturity on a constant yield basis and straight line basis respectively.
AFS and HFT securities are valued periodically as per RBI guidelines. Any premium over the face value of fixed rate
and floating rate investments in government securities, classified as AFS, is amortised over the remaining period to
maturity on constant yield basis and straight line basis respectively. Quoted investments are valued based on the
closing quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or prices declared by Primary Dealers Association of India (PDAI)
jointly with Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association (FIMMDA)/Financial Benchmark India Private
Limited (FBIL), periodically.
The market/fair value of unquoted government securities which are in nature of Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)
securities included in the ‘Available for Sale’ and ‘Held for Trading’ categories is as per the rates published by FBIL.
The valuation of other unquoted fixed income securities, including Pass Through Certificates, wherever linked to the
Yield-to-Maturity (YTM) rates, is computed with a mark-up (reflecting associated credit risk) over the YTM rates for
government securities published by FIMMDA. The sovereign foreign securities and non-INR India linked bonds are
valued on the basis of prices published by the sovereign regulator or counterparty quotes.
Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of deposits being discounted instruments, are valued at carrying
cost.
165
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The units of mutual funds are valued at the latest repurchase price/net asset value declared by the mutual fund.
Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-up value, if the latest balance sheet is available, or at ` 1, as per
RBI guidelines.
The units of Venture Capital Funds (VCFs) are valued at the net asset value (NAV) declared by the VCF. If the latest
balance sheet is not available continuously for more than 18 months, the units of VCF are valued at ` 1, as per
RBI guidelines.
At the end of each reporting period, security receipts issued by the asset reconstruction companies are valued in
accordance with the guidelines applicable to such instruments, prescribed by RBI from time to time. Accordingly, in
cases where the cash flows from security receipts issued by the asset reconstruction companies are limited to the
actual realisation of the financial assets assigned to the instruments in the concerned scheme, the Bank reckons the
net asset value obtained from the asset reconstruction company from time to time, for valuation of such investments
at each reporting period end. The Bank makes additional provisions on the security receipts based on the remaining
period for the resolution period to end. The security receipts which are outstanding and not redeemed as at the end
of the resolution period are treated as loss assets and are fully provided.
The Bank assesses investments in subsidiaries for any other than temporary diminution in value and appropriate
provisions are made.
Depreciation/provision on non-performing investments is made as per internal provisioning norms, subject to
minimum provisioning requirements of RBI.
Disposal:
Gain/loss on sale of investments is recognised in the profit and loss Account. Cost of investments is computed based
on the First-In-First-Out (FIFO) method. The profit from sale of investment under HTM category, net of taxes and
transfer to statutory reserve is transferred to “Capital Reserve” in accordance with the RBI Guidelines.
Short sale:
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in dated central government securities in accordance with RBI
guidelines. The short positions are categorised under HFT category and are marked to market. The mark-to-market
loss is charged to profit and loss account and gain, if any, is ignored as per RBI guidelines.
Repurchase transactions:
Market repurchase, reverse repurchase and transactions with RBI under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) are
accounted for as borrowing and lending transactions in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines.
3. Provision/write-offs on loans and other credit facilities
Classification:
The Bank classifies its loans and investments, including at overseas branches and overdues arising from crystallised
derivative contracts, into performing and NPAs in accordance with RBI guidelines. Loans and advances held at the
overseas branches that are identified as impaired as per host country regulations but which are standard as per
the extant RBI guidelines are classified as NPAs to the extent of amount outstanding in the respective host country.
Further, NPAs are classified into sub-standard, doubtful and loss assets based on the criteria stipulated by RBI.
Interest on non-performing advances is transferred to an interest suspense account and not recognised in profit and
loss account until received.
The Bank considers an account as restructured, where for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s
financial difficulty, the Bank grants concessions to the borrower, that the Bank would not otherwise consider. The
moratorium granted to the borrowers based on RBI guidelines is not accounted as restructuring of loan. The RBI
guidelines on ‘Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress’ provide a prudential framework for resolution
plan of certain loans. The borrowers where resolution plan was implemented under these guidelines are classified
as standard restructured.
166
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Non-performing and restructured loans are upgraded to standard as per the extant RBI guidelines or host country
regulations, as applicable.
Provisioning:
In the case of corporate loans and advances, provisions are made for sub-standard and doubtful assets as per internal
provisioning norms, subject to minimum provisioning requirements of RBI. Loss assets and the unsecured portion of
doubtful assets are fully provided. For impaired loans and advances held in overseas branches, which are performing
as per RBI guidelines, provisions are made as per the host country regulations. For loans and advances held in overseas
branches, which are NPAs both as per the RBI guidelines and host country regulations, provisions are made at the higher
of the provisions required as per internal provisioning norms and host country regulations. Provisions on homogeneous
non-performing retail loans and advances, subject to minimum provisioning requirements of RBI, are made on the basis
of the ageing of the loan. The specific provisions on non-performing retail loans and advances held by the Bank are
higher than the minimum regulatory requirements.
In respect of non-retail loans reported as fraud to RBI the entire amount, is provided over a period not exceeding four
quarters starting from the quarter in which fraud has been detected. In respect of non-retail loans where there has been
delay in reporting the fraud to the RBI or which are classified as loss accounts, the entire amount is provided immediately.
In case of fraud in retail accounts, the entire amount is provided immediately. In respect of borrowers classified as non-
cooperative borrowers or willful defaulters, the Bank makes accelerated provisions as per RBI guidelines.
The Bank holds specific provisions against non-performing loans and advances and against certain performing loans
and advances in accordance with RBI directions.
The Bank makes provision on restructured loans subject to minimum requirements as per RBI guidelines. Provision due
to diminution in the fair value of restructured/rescheduled loans and advances is made in accordance with the applicable
RBI guidelines.
In terms of RBI guidelines, the NPAs are written-off in accordance with the Bank’s policy. Amounts recovered against bad
debts written-off are recognised in the profit and loss account.
The Bank maintains general provision on performing loans and advances in accordance with the RBI guidelines, including
provisions on loans to borrowers having unhedged foreign currency exposure, provisions on loans to specific borrowers
in specific stressed sectors, provision on exposures to step-down subsidiaries of Indian companies and provision on
incremental exposure to borrowers identified as per RBI’s large exposure framework. For performing loans and advances
in overseas branches, the general provision is made at higher of aggregate provision required as per host country
regulations and RBI requirement.
In addition to the provisions required to be held according to the asset classification status, provisions are held for
individual country exposures including indirect country risk (other than for home country exposure). The countries are
categorised into seven risk categories namely insignificant, low, moderately low, moderate, moderately high, high and
very high, and provisioning is made on exposures exceeding 180 days on a graded scale ranging from 0.25% to 25%. For
exposures with contractual maturity of less than 180 days, provision is required to be held at 25% of the rates applicable
to exposures exceeding 180 days. The indirect exposure is reckoned at 50% of the exposure. If the Bank’s net funded
exposure in respect of a country is less than 1% of its total assets, no provision is required on such country exposure.
The Bank makes additional provisions as per RBI guidelines for the cases where viable resolution plan has not been
implemented within the timelines prescribed by the RBI, from the date of default. These additional provisions are written-
back on satisfying the conditions for reversal as per RBI guidelines.
The Bank, on prudent basis, has made contingency provision on certain loan portfolios, including borrowers who had
taken moratorium at any time during FY2021 under the extant RBI guidelines related to Covid-19 regulatory package.
The Bank also makes additional contingency provision on certain standard assets. The contingency provision is included
in ‘Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities and Provisions’.
167
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The Bank has a Board approved policy for making floating provision, which is in addition to the specific and general
provisions made by the Bank. The floating provision is utilised, with the approval of Board and RBI, in case of
contingencies which do not arise in the normal course of business and are exceptional and non-recurring in nature
and for making specific provision for impaired loans as per the requirement if extant RBI guidelines or any regulatory
guidance/instructions. The floating provision is netted-off from advances.
4. Transfer and servicing of assets
The Bank transfers commercial and consumer loans through securitisation transactions. The transferred loans are
de-recognised and gains/losses are accounted, only if the Bank surrenders the right to benefits specified in the
underlying securitised loan contract. Recourse and servicing obligations are accounted for net of provisions.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines for securitisation of standard assets, with effect from February 1, 2006,
the profit/premium arising from securitisation is amortised over the life of the securities issued or to be issued by
the special purpose vehicle to which the assets are sold. With effect from May 7, 2012, the RBI guidelines require
the profit/premium arising from securitisation to be amortised based on the method prescribed in the guidelines.
As per the RBI guidelines issued on September 24, 2021, gain realised at the time of securitisation of loans is
accounted through profit and loss account on completion of transaction. The Bank accounts for any loss arising from
securitisation immediately at the time of sale.
The unrealised gains, associated with expected future margin income is recognised in profit and loss account on
receipt of cash, after absorbing losses, if any.
Net income arising from sale of loan assets through direct assignment with recourse obligation is amortised over
the life of underlying assets sold and net income from sale of loan assets through direct assignment, without any
recourse obligation, is recognised at the time of sale. Net loss arising on account of direct assignment of loan assets
is recognised at the time of sale. As per the RBI guidelines issued on September 24, 2021, any loss or realised gain
from sale of loan assets through direct assignment is accounted through profit and loss account on completion of
transaction.
The acquired loans is carried at acquisition cost. In case premium is paid on a loan acquired, premium is amortised
over the loan tenure.
In accordance with RBI guidelines, in case of non-performing loans sold to Asset Reconstruction Companies (ARCs),
the Bank reverses the excess provision in profit and loss account in the year in which amounts are received. Any
shortfall of sale value over the net book value on sale of such assets is recognised by the Bank in the year in which
the loan is sold.
5. Fixed assets
Fixed assets, other than premises, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any. Premises
are carried at revalued amount, being fair value at the date of revaluation less accumulated depreciation. Cost
includes freight, duties, taxes and incidental expenses related to the acquisition and installation of the asset.
Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of fixed assets on a straight-line basis. Assets purchased/sold
during the year are depreciated on a pro-rata basis for the actual number of days the asset has been capitalised.
Assets individually costing upto ` 5,000/- are depreciated fully in the year of acquisition.
In case of revalued/impaired assets, depreciation is provided over the remaining useful life of the assets with
reference to revised asset values. In case of premises, which are carried at revalued amounts, the depreciation on the
excess of revalued amount over historical cost is transferred from Revaluation Reserve to General Reserve annually.
The profit on sale of premises is appropriated to Capital Reserve, net of transfer to Statutory Reserve and taxes, in
accordance with RBI guidelines.
168
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The useful lives of the groups of fixed assets are given below.
Asset Useful life
Premises owned by the Bank 60 years
Leased assets and improvements to leasehold premises 60 years or lease period whichever is lower
ATMs1,2 5-8 years
Plant and machinery1 (including office equipment) 5-10 years
Electric installations and equipments 10-15 years
Computers 3 years
Servers and network equipment1 4-10 years
Furniture and fixtures1 5-10 years
Motor vehicles1 5 years
Others (including software)1,3 3-4 years
1. T he useful life of fixed assets is based on historical experience of the Bank, which is different from the useful life as prescribed
in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013.
2. Cash acceptor machine
3. Excludes software, which are procured based on licensing arrangements and depreciated over the period of license.
4. Assets at residences of Bank’s employees are depreciated over the estimated useful life of 5 years.
Non-banking assets
Non-banking assets (NBAs) acquired in satisfaction of claims are valued at the market value on a distress sale
basis or value of loan, whichever is lower. Further, the Bank creates provision on these assets as per the extant RBI
guidelines or specific RBI directions.
6. Translation of foreign currency items
Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing
on the date of the transaction. Income and expenditure items of integral foreign operations (representative offices)
are translated at daily closing rates, and income and expenditure items of non-integral foreign operations (foreign
branches and offshore banking units) are translated at quarterly average closing rates.
Monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities of domestic and integral foreign operations are translated at closing
exchange rates notified by Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) relevant to the balance sheet
date and the resulting gains/losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations are
translated at relevant closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI at the balance sheet date and the resulting gains/
losses from exchange differences are accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve until the disposal of
the net investment in the non-integral foreign operations. Pursuant to RBI guideline, the Bank does not recognise the
cumulative/proportionate amount of such exchange differences as income or expenses, which relate to repatriation
of accumulated retained earnings from overseas operations, in the profit and loss account.
Contingent liabilities on account of guarantees, endorsements and other obligations denominated in foreign
currencies are disclosed at the closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI relevant to the balance sheet date.
169
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
7. Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
The forward exchange contracts that are not intended for trading and are entered into to establish the amount of
reporting currency required or available at the settlement date of a transaction are effectively valued at closing spot
rate. The premium or discount arising on inception of such forward exchange contracts is amortised over the life
of the contract as interest income/expense. All other outstanding forward exchange contracts are revalued based
on the exchange rates notified by FEDAI for specified maturities and at interpolated rates for contracts of interim
maturities. The contracts of longer maturities where exchange rates are not notified by FEDAI are revalued based on
the forward exchange rates implied by the swap curves in respective currencies. The resultant gains or losses are
recognised in the profit and loss account.
The swap contracts entered to hedge on-balance sheet assets and liabilities are structured such that they bear an
opposite and offsetting impact with the underlying on-balance sheet items. The impact of such derivative instruments
is correlated with the movement of underlying assets and liabilities and accounted pursuant to the principles of
hedge accounting. The Bank identifies the hedged item (asset or liability) at the inception of the transaction itself.
Hedge effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception of the hedge and periodically thereafter. Based on
RBI circular issued on June 26, 2019, the accounting of hedge relationships established after June 26, 2019 is in
accordance with the Guidance note on Accounting for Derivative Contracts issued by ICAI. The swaps under hedge
relationships established prior to that date are accounted on an accrual basis and are not marked to market unless
their underlying transaction is marked-to-market. Gains or losses arising from hedge ineffectiveness, if any, are
recognised in the profit and loss Account.
The derivative contracts entered into for trading purposes are marked-to-market and the resulting gain or loss is
accounted in the profit and loss account. Pursuant to RBI guidelines, any receivables under derivative contracts
which remain overdue for more than 90 days and mark-to-market gains on other derivative contracts with the same
counter-parties are reversed through profit and loss account.
8. Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)
The Employees Stock Option Scheme (the Scheme) provides for grant of options on the Bank’s equity shares to
wholetime directors and employees of the Bank and its subsidiaries. The options granted vest in a graded manner
and may be exercised within a specified period.
Till March 31, 2021, the Bank recognised cost of stock options granted under Employee Stock Option Scheme, using
intrinsic value method. Under Intrinsic value method, options cost is measured as the excess, if any, of the fair market
price of the underlying stock over the exercise price on the grant date. The fair market price is the closing price on the
stock exchange with highest trading volume of the underlying shares, immediately prior to the grant date.
Pursuant to RBI clarification dated August 30, 2021, the cost of stock options granted after March 31, 2021 is
recognised based on fair value method. The cost of stock options granted up to March 31, 2021 continues to be
recognised on intrinsic value method. The Bank uses Black-Scholes model to fair value the options on the grant
date and the inputs used in the valuation model include assumptions such as the expected life of the share option,
volatility, risk free rate and dividend yield.
The cost of stock options is recognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period.
9. Employee Benefits
Gratuity
The Bank pays gratuity, a defined benefit plan, to employees who retire or resign after a minimum prescribed period
of continuous service and in case of employees at overseas locations as per the rules in force in the respective
countries. The Bank makes contribution to recognised trust which administers the funds on its own account or
through insurance companies.
170
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Actuarial valuation of the gratuity liability is determined by an independent actuary appointed by the Bank. Actuarial
valuation of gratuity liability is determined based on certain assumptions regarding rate of interest, salary growth,
mortality and staff attrition as per the projected unit credit method. The actuarial gains or losses arising during the
year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Superannuation Fund and National Pension Scheme
The Bank has a superannuation fund, a defined contribution plan, which is administered by trustees and managed
by insurance companies. The Bank contributes 15.0% of the total annual basic salary for certain employees to
superannuation funds. Further, the Bank contributes upto 10.0% of the total basic salary of certain employees
to National Pension Scheme (NPS), a defined contribution plan, which is managed and administered by pension
fund management companies. The employees are given an option to receive the amount in cash in lieu of such
contributions along with their monthly salary during their employment.
The amounts so contributed/paid by the Bank to the superannuation fund and NPS or to employees during the year
are recognised in the profit and loss account. The Bank has no liability towards future benefits under superannuation
fund and national pension scheme other than its annual contribution.
Pension
The Bank provides for pension, a defined benefit plan, covering eligible employees of erstwhile Bank of Madura,
erstwhile Sangli Bank and erstwhile Bank of Rajasthan. The Bank makes contribution to a trust which administers
the funds on its own account or through insurance companies. The plan provides for pension payment including
dearness relief on a monthly basis to these employees on their retirement based on the respective employee’s years
of service with the Bank and applicable salary.
Actuarial valuation of the pension liability is determined by an independent actuary appointed by the Bank. Actuarial
valuation of pension liability is calculated based on certain assumptions regarding rate of interest, salary growth,
mortality and staff attrition as per the projected unit credit method. The actuarial gains or losses arising during the
year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Employees covered by the pension plan are not eligible for employer’s contribution under the provident fund plan.
Provident Fund
The Bank is statutorily required to maintain a provident fund, a defined benefit plan, as a part of retirement benefits
to its employees. Each employee contributes a certain percentage of his or her basic salary and the Bank contributes
an equal amount for eligible employees. The Bank makes contribution as required by The Employees’ Provident
Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 to Employees’ Pension Scheme administered by the Regional
Provident Fund Commissioner. The Bank makes balance contributions to a fund administered by trustees. The funds
are invested according to the rules prescribed by the Government of India. The Bank recognises such contribution as
an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Interest payable on provident fund should not be lower than the statutory rate of interest declared by the Central
Government under the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. Actuarial valuation for
the interest obligation on the provident fund balances is determined by an actuary appointed by the Bank.
The actuarial gains or losses arising during the year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
The overseas branches of the Bank and its eligible employees contribute a certain percentage of their salary towards
respective government schemes as per local regulatory guidelines. The contribution made by the overseas branches
is recognised in profit and loss account at the time of contribution.
Compensated absences
The Bank provides for compensated absence based on actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary.
171
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
10. Income Taxes
Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current tax and deferred tax expense incurred by the Bank. The
current tax expense and deferred tax expense is determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act,
1961 and as per Accounting Standard 22 - Accounting for Taxes on Income respectively. Deferred tax adjustments
comprise changes in the deferred tax assets or liabilities during the year and change in tax rate.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised by considering the impact of timing differences between taxable
income and accounting income for the current year, and carry forward losses. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The impact of changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Deferred tax assets are recognised and re-assessed at each reporting date, based upon management’s judgement
as to whether their realisation is considered as reasonably certain. However, in case of unabsorbed depreciation
or carried forward loss, deferred tax assets will be recognised only if there is virtual certainty of realisation of such
assets.
11. Impairment of Assets
The Bank follows revaluation model of accounting for its premises and the recoverable amount of the revalued assets
is considered to be close to its revalued amount. Accordingly, separate assessment for impairment of premises is not
required.
For assets other than premises, the Bank assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any indication that
an asset may be impaired. Impairment loss, if any, is provided in the profit and loss account to the extent the carrying
amount of assets exceeds their estimated recoverable amount.
12. Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
The Bank estimates the probability of any loss that might be incurred on outcome of contingencies on the basis
of information available up to the date on which the financial statements are prepared. A provision is recognised
when an enterprise has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of
resources will be required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. Provisions are
determined based on management estimates of amounts required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date,
supplemented by experience of similar transactions. These are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted
to reflect the current management estimates. In cases where the available information indicates that the loss on
the contingency is reasonably possible but the amount of loss cannot be reasonably estimated, a disclosure to this
effect is made in the financial statements. In case of remote possibility neither provision nor disclosure is made in the
financial statements. The Bank does not account for or disclose contingent assets, if any.
The Bank estimates the probability of redemption of customer loyalty reward points using an actuarial method by
employing an independent actuary and accordingly makes provision for these reward points. Actuarial valuation is
determined based on certain assumptions regarding mortality rate, discount rate, cancellation rate and redemption
rate.
13. Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss after tax for the year attributable to equity
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year.
Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if contracts to issue equity shares were
exercised or converted during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed using the weighted average
number of equity shares and dilutive potential equity shares outstanding during the year, except where the results
are anti-dilutive.
172
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
14. Share issue expenses
Share issue expenses are deducted from Share Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
15. Bullion transaction
The Bank deals in bullion business on a consignment basis. The bullion is priced to the customers based on the price
quoted by the supplier. The difference between price recovered from customers and cost of bullion is accounted for
as commission at the time of sales to the customers. The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending basis
and the interest expense/income is accounted on accrual basis.
16. Lease transactions
Lease payments, including cost escalations, for assets taken on operating lease are recognised as an expense in the
profit and loss account over the lease term on straight line basis. The leases of property, plant and equipment, where
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Bank are classified as finance lease.
Minimum lease payments under finance lease are apportioned between the finance costs and outstanding liability.
17. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances with RBI, balances with other banks and money at call
and short notice.
173
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
SCHEDULE 18
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE ACCOUNTS
The following disclosures have been made taking into account the requirements of Accounting Standards (ASs) and
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines.
1. Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per equity share are computed in accordance with AS 20 – Earnings per share. Basic
earnings per equity share is computed by dividing net profit/(loss) after tax by the weighted average number of
equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed using the weighted
average number of equity shares and weighted average number of dilutive potential equity shares outstanding
during the year.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the computation of earnings per share.
` in million, except per share data
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Net profit/(loss) attributable to equity share holders 318,965.0 233,394.9
Nominal value per share (`) 2.00 2.00
Basic earnings per share (`) 45.79 33.66
Effect of potential equity shares (`) (0.90) (0.68)
Diluted earnings per share (`)1 44.89 32.98
Reconciliation between weighted shares used in computation of basic
and diluted earnings per share
Basic weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 6,966,305,957 6,933,652,636
Add: Effect of potential equity shares 138,684,400 142,291,212
Diluted weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 7,104,990,357 7,075,943,848
1. The dilutive impact is due to options granted to employees by the Bank.
2. Business/Information ratios
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the business/information ratios.
Sr. Year ended Year ended
Particulars
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
1. Interest income to working funds1 7.40% 6.83%
2. Non-interest income to working funds1 1.34% 1.46%
3. Cost of deposits 3.66% 3.53%
4. Net interest margin2 4.48% 3.96%
5. Operating profit to working funds1,3 3.33% 3.10%
6. Return on assets4 2.16% 1.84%
7. Net profit/(loss) per employee5 (` in million) 2.8 2.3
8. Business (average deposits plus average advances) per
employee5,6 (` in million) 170.7 166.9
1. F or the purpose of computing the ratio, working funds represent the simple average of balances of total assets computed for
monthly reporting dates of Form X submitted to RBI under Section 27 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
2. N et interest income/Average earning assets. Net interest income is the difference of interest income and interest expense.
Average earning assets are average of daily balance of interest earning assets.
3. Operating profit is profit for the year before provisions and contingencies.
4. F or the purpose of computing the ratio, assets represent the monthly average of total assets computed for reporting dates of
Form X submitted to RBI under Section 27 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
5. C omputed based on average number of employees which include sales executives, employees on fixed term contracts and interns.
6. T he average deposits and the average advances represent the simple average of the figures reported in Form A to RBI under
Section 42(2) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
174
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
3. Capital adequacy ratio
The Bank is subject to the Basel III capital adequacy guidelines stipulated by RBI with effect from April 1, 2013. As
per the guidelines, the Tier-1 capital is made up of Common Equity Tier-1 (CET1) and Additional Tier-1.
Basel III guidelines require the Bank to maintain a minimum Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR) of
11.70% with minimum CET1 CRAR of 8.20% and minimum Tier-1 CRAR of 9.70%. The minimum total CRAR, Tier-1
CRAR and CET1 CRAR requirement include capital conservation buffer of 2.50% and additional capital requirement
of 0.20% on account of the Bank being designated as Domestic Systemically Important Bank.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, computation of capital adequacy as per Basel III framework.
` in million, except percentage
At At
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Common Equity Tier 1 capital (CET 1) 1,832,770.7 1,555,000.1
Additional Tier 1 capital 51,400.0 66,206.5
Tier 1 capital (i + ii) 1,884,170.7 1,621,206.6
Tier 2 capital 78,652.2 71,923.7
Total capital (Tier 1+Tier 2) 1,962,822.9 1,693,130.3
Total Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs) 10,705,150.5 8,835,909.9
CET1 CRAR (%) 17.12% 17.60%
Tier-1 CRAR (%) 17.60% 18.35%
Tier-2 CRAR (%) 0.74% 0.81%
Total CRAR (%) 18.34% 19.16%
Leverage Ratio 10.27% 9.95%
Percentage of the shareholding of
a) Government of India 0.20% 0.19%
Amount of equity capital raised1 - -
Amount of non-equity Tier-1 capital raised during the year, of which:
a) Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares - -
b) Perpetual Debt Instruments - -
Amount of Tier-2 capital raised; of which
1. Debt Capital Instruments - -
2. Preference Share Capital Instruments [Perpetual Cumulative - -
Preference Shares (PCPS)/Redeemable Non-Cumulative Preference
Shares (RNCPS)/Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares
(RCPS)]
1. A dditionally ` 9,644.4 million raised pursuant to exercise of employee stock options during the year ended March 31, 2023 (year
ended March 31, 2022: ` 7,988.8 million).
4. Liquidity coverage ratio
The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) had introduced the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) in order to
ensure that a bank has an adequate stock of unencumbered high quality liquid assets (HQLA) to survive a significant
liquidity stress lasting for a period of 30 days. LCR is defined as a ratio of HQLA to the total net cash outflows
estimated for the next 30 calendar days. As per the RBI guidelines, the minimum LCR required to be maintained by
banks is 100.0%.
175
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
176
.knaB
eht
fo
RCL
eht
fo
seulav
dethgiew
dna
dethgiewnu
fo
egareva
ylretrauq
eht
,detacidni
sdoirep
eht
rof
,htrof
stes
elbat gniwollof
ehT
desu
snoitavresbo
fo
rebmuN
.retrauq
eht
gnirud
snoitavresbo
yliad
fo
egareva
elpmis
no
desab
detupmoc
si
RCL
egareva
ylretrauq
ehT
eerht
;syad
26
:2202
,13
rebmeceD
dedne
shtnom
eerht(
syad
16
saw
3202
,13
hcraM
dedne
shtnom
eerht
rof
RCL
ylretrauq
gnitupmoc
ni
.)syad
06
:2202
,13
hcraM
dedne
shtnom
eerht
dna
syad
16
:2202
,03
enuJ
dedne
shtnom
eerht
;syad
46
:2202
,03
rebmetpeS
dedne shtnom
noillim
ni
`
dedne
shtnom
eerhT
dedne
shtnom
eerhT
dedne
shtnom
eerhT
dedne
shtnom
eerhT
dedne
shtnom
eerhT
2202
,03
enuJ
2202
,03
rebmetpeS
2202
,13
rebmeceD
2202
,13
hcraM
3202
,13
hcraM
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
.rS
sralucitraP
dethgiew
dethgiewnu
dethgiew
dethgiewnu
dethgiew
dethgiewnu
dethgiew
dethgiewnu
dethgiew
dethgiewnu
.oN
eulav
eulav
eulav
eulav
eulav
eulav
eulav
eulav
eulav
eulav
)egareva(
)egareva(
)egareva(
)egareva(
)egareva(
)egareva(
)egareva(
)egareva(
)egareva(
)egareva(
stessa diuqil ytilauq
hgiH
2.560,012,3
.A.N
5.489,002,3
.A.N
3.972,431,3
.A.N
3.372,791,3
.A.N
5.595,432,3
.A.N
stessa
diuqil ytilauq hgih
latoT
.1
swolftuo
hsaC
llams
morf
stisoped
dna stisoped
liateR
.2
2.029,715
5.538,681,6
3.440,735
4.452,973,6
5.260,455
7.574,965,6
3.266,105
5.083,799,5
1.054,375
8.971,467,6
:hcihw
fo ,sremotsuc ssenisub
4.367,001
6.762,510,2
1.188,001
4.226,710,2
0.588,201
9.007,750,2
8.570,89
9.515,169,1
9.769,201
0.853,950,2
stisoped elbatS
)i(
8.651,714
9.765,171,4
2.361,634
0.236,163,4
5.771,154
8.477,115,4
5.685,304
6.468,530,4
2.284,074
8.128,407,4
stisoped elbats sseL
)ii(
0.553,758,1
9.161,874,3
1.906,968,1
1.070,774,3
2.001,388,1
9.020,915,3
3.328,738,1
6.503,744,3
1.738,119,1
0.113,706,3
:hcihw
fo
,gnidnuf
elaselohw derucesnU
.3
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
)seitrapretnuoc
lla(
stisoped lanoitarepO
)i(
3.799,908,1
2.408,034,3
1.211,977,1
1.375,683,3
8.824,408,1
5.943,044,3
7.195,497,1
0.470,404,3
5.410,558,1
4.884,055,3
)seitrapretnuoc
lla(
stisoped
lanoitarepo-noN
)ii(
7.753,74
7.753,74
0.794,09
0.794,09
4.176,87
4.176,87
6.132,34
6.132,34
6.228,65
6.228,65
tbed derucesnU
)iii(
-
.A.N
-
.A.N
2.2
.A.N
-
.A.N
-
.A.N
gnidnuf elaselohw deruceS
.4
3.358,611
0.606,563
0.876,731
3.727,324
0.201,661
4.202,035
6.575,611
6.762,653
8.753,841
8.579,315
:hcihw
fo ,stnemeriuqer lanoitiddA
.5
serusopxe
evitavired
ot detaler swolftuO
)i(
4.497,08
4.497,08
8.884,69
8.884,69
1.882,111
1.882,111
1.177,08
1.177,08
7.963,29
7.963,29
stnemeriuqer
laretalloc rehto dna
tbed
no
gnidnuf
fo ssol
ot detaler swolftuO
)ii(
7.89
7.89
0.88
0.88
9.38
9.38
0.211
0.211
6.68
6.68
stcudorp
2.069,53
9.217,482
2.101,14
5.051,723
0.037,45
4.038,814
5.296,53
5.483,572
5.109,55
5.915,124
seitilicaF
ytidiuqil dna tiderC
)iii(
8.005,162
8.005,162
8.391,462
8.391,462
5.021,672
5.021,672
6.708,952
6.708,952
8.886,292
8.886,292
snoitagilbo
gnidnuf lautcartnoc
rehtO
.6
8.587,681
7.901,492,4
3.110,202
5.931,895,4
4.439,312
0.147,868,4
7.764,371
4.516,389,3
1.232,032
8.204,091,5
snoitagilbo
gnidnuf tnegnitnoc
rehtO
.7
1.514,049,2
.A.N
5.635,010,3
.A.N
8.123,390,3
.A.N
5.633,988,2
.A.N
9.565,651,3
.A.N
swolftuo hsac
latoT
.8
1.01
2.567,192
9.11
0.581,96
3.51
9.743,61
8.5
5.615,906
7.5
3.171,22
)soper
esrever
.g.e( gnidnel deruceS
.9
3.543,933
8.646,984
8.815,904
2.773,675
7.801,144
5.688,616
5.196,883
8.446,415
6.616,854
6.818,926
serusopxe
gnimrofrep
ylluf morf swolfnI
.01
6.181,07
5.968,99
7.908,08
5.701,411
6.414,901
0.808,841
7.826,16
6.215,29
8.301,29
9.222,231
swolfni hsac
rehtO
.11
0.735,904
5.182,188
4.043,094
7.966,957
6.835,055
4.240,287
0.623,054
9.376,612,1
1.627,055
8.212,487
swolfni hsac
latoT
.21
2.560,012,3
.A.N
5.489,002,3
.A.N
3.972,431,3
.A.N
3.372,791,3
.A.N
5.595,432,3
.A.N
ALQH
latoT
.31
1.878,035,2
.A.N
1.691,025,2
.A.N
2.387,245,2
.A.N
5.010,934,2
.A.N
8.938,506,2
.A.N
)21(-)8(
swolftuo hsac ten
latoT
.41
%48.621
.A.N
%10.721
.A.N
%62.321
.A.N
%90.131
.A.N
%31.421
.A.N
)%(
oitar egarevoc ytidiuqiL
.51
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Liquidity of the Bank is managed by the Asset Liability Management Group (ALMG) under the central oversight
of the Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO). For the domestic operations of the Bank, ALMG-India is
responsible for the overall management of liquidity. For the overseas branches of the Bank, a decentralised approach
is followed for day-to-day liquidity management, while a centralised approach is followed for long-term funding in
co-ordination with Head Office. Liquidity in the overseas branches is maintained taking into consideration both host
country and the RBI regulations.
HQLA primarily includes government securities in excess of minimum statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) and to the extent
allowed under marginal standing facility (MSF) and facility to avail liquidity for LCR (FALLCR) of ` 2,753,045.5 million
(March 31, 2022: ` 2,790,136.8 million) at March 31, 2023.
As per the RBI guidelines, the carve-out from SLR under FALLCR was 15.0% of Net Demand and Time Liabilities
(NDTL) till April 17, 2022 and was increased to 16.0% of NDTL effective April 18, 2022; for Marginal Standing
Facility (MSF), it was 2.0% of NDTL. Additionally, cash, balance in excess of cash reserve requirement with RBI and
balances with central banks at our overseas branches locations amounted to ` 320,660.8 million at March 31, 2023
(March 31, 2022: ` 263,064.3 million). Further, average level 2 assets, primarily consisting of AA- and above rated
corporate bonds and commercial papers, amounted to ` 127,857.7 million at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022:
` 76,569.7 million).
At March 31, 2023, top liability products/instruments and their percentage contribution to the total liabilities of the
Bank were term deposits of 40.37% (March 31, 2022: 38.67%), savings account deposits of 23.97% (March 31,
2022: 25.49%), current account deposits of 10.19% (March 31, 2022: 11.22%) and bond borrowings of 4.26%
(March 31, 2022: 4.96%). Top 20 depositors comprised 3.47% of the total deposits of the Bank at March 31, 2023
(March 31, 2022: 5.26%). Further, the total borrowings mobilised from significant counterparties (from whom the
funds borrowed were more than 1.00% of the Bank’s total liabilities) were 2.48% of the total liabilities of the Bank
at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: 2.37%).
The weighted cash outflows are primarily driven by unsecured wholesale funding which includes non-operational
deposits and unsecured debt. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, unsecured wholesale funding
contributed 60.57% (March 31, 2022: 63.61%) of the total weighted cash outflows. The non-operational deposits
include term deposits with premature withdrawal facility. Retail deposits including deposits from small business
customers and other contingent funding obligations constituted 18.17% (March 31, 2022: 17.36%) and 7.29%
(March 31, 2022: 6.00%) of the total weighted cash outflows, respectively. The other contingent funding obligations
primarily included bank guarantees (BGs) and letters of credit (LCs) issued on behalf of the Bank’s clients.
In view of the margin rules for non-centrally cleared derivative transactions issued by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision and discussion paper issued by the RBI, certain derivative transactions would be subject to
margining and consequent collateral exchange would be as governed by Credit Support Annex (CSA). The Bank
has entered into CSAs which would require maintenance of collateral. The Bank considers the increased liquidity
requirement on account of valuation changes in the transactions settled through Qualified Central Counterparties
(QCCP) in India including the Clearing Corporation of India (CCIL) and other exchange houses as well as for
transactions covered under CSAs. The potential outflows on account of such transactions have been considered
based on the look-back approach prescribed in the RBI guidelines.
The average LCR of the Bank for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was 124.13% (March 31, 2022:
131.09%). During the year ended March 31, 2023, other than Indian Rupee, USD was the only significant foreign
currency which constituted more than 5% of the balance sheet size of the Bank. The average LCR of the Bank for
USD currency, computed based on daily LCR values, was 83.68% for the three months ended March 31, 2023
(March 31, 2022: 256.23%).
177
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
5. Information about business and geographical segments
Business Segments
Pursuant to the guidelines issued by RBI on AS 17 - Segment Reporting, the following business segments have
been reported.
• Retail Banking includes exposures which satisfy the four criteria of orientation, product, granularity and low
value of individual exposures for retail exposures laid down in Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS)
document ‘International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: A Revised Framework’.
This segment also includes income from credit cards, debit cards, third party product distribution and the
associated costs.
• Wholesale Banking includes all advances to trusts, partnership firms, companies and statutory bodies, which
are not included under Retail Banking.
• Treasury includes the entire investment and derivative portfolio of the Bank.
• Other Banking includes leasing operations and other items not attributable to any particular business segment.
• Unallocated includes items such as tax paid in advance net of provision, deferred tax and provisions to the
extent reckoned at the entity level.
Income, expenses, assets and liabilities are either specifically identified with individual segments or are allocated to
segments on a systematic basis.
All liabilities are transfer priced to a central treasury unit, which pools all funds and lends to the business units
at appropriate rates based on the relevant maturity of assets being funded after adjusting for regulatory reserve
requirements.
The transfer pricing mechanism of the Bank is periodically reviewed. The segment results are determined based on
the transfer pricing mechanism prevailing for the respective reporting periods.
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the business segment results on this basis.
` in million
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Sr. Other
Particulars Retail Wholesale
No. Treasury Banking Total
Banking Banking
Business
1. Revenue 1,037,753.4 506,148.5 847,707.4 23,830.6 2,415,439.9
2. Less: Inter-segment revenue 1,124,812.0
3. Total revenue (1)–(2) 1,290,627.9
4. Segment results 175,336.8 157,857.8 142,715.5 4,802.2 480,712.3
5. Unallocated expenses 56,500.0
6. Operating profit (4)-(5) 424,212.3
7. Income tax expenses
(including deferred tax credit) 105,247.3
8. Net profit/(loss) (6)-(7) 318,965.0
9. Segment assets 6,039,593.7 4,328,743.5 5,084,697.5 297,915.4 15,750,950.1
10. Unallocated assets 91,116.4
11. Total assets (9)+(10) 15,842,066.5
12. Segment liabilities 8,913,545.4 3,472,764.9 3,299,563.5 25,192.7 15,711,066.5
13. Unallocated liabilities 131,000.0
14. Total liabilities (12)+(13) 15,842,066.5
15. Capital expenditure 11,682.9 5,251.8 610.6 277.0 17,822.3
16. Depreciation 9,274.5 3,427.2 335.8 210.4 13,247.9
1. Includes share capital and reserves and surplus.
178
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Sr. Other
Particulars Retail Wholesale
No. Treasury Banking Total
Banking Banking
Business
1. Revenue 846,392.2 399,714.9 675,041.1 13,139.0 1,934,287.2
2. Less: Inter-segment revenue 885,366.4
3. Total revenue (1)–(2) 1,048,920.8
4. Segment results 114,003.9 90,529.3 98,202.2 3,103.5 305,838.9
5. Unallocated expenses (250.0)
6. Operating profit (4)-(5) 306,088.9
7. Income tax expenses
(including deferred tax credit) 72,694.0
8. Net profit/(loss) (6)-(7) 233,394.9
9. Segment assets 4,876,519.3 3,790,918.0 5,181,297.0 165,047.3 14,013,781.6
10. Unallocated assets 99,195.8
11. Total assets (9)+(10) 14,112,977.4
12. Segment liabilities 7,918,942.5 3,213,907.0 2,895,745.31 22,028.0 14,050,622.8
13. Unallocated liabilities 62,354.6
14. Total liabilities (12)+(13) 14,112,977.4
15. Capital expenditure 9,901.7 4,453.3 623.1 170.6 15,148.7
16. Depreciation 8,068.8 3,130.8 399.6 111.8 11,711.0
1. Includes share capital and reserves and surplus.
‘RBI’s Master Direction on Financial Statements – Presentation and Disclosures, requires to sub-divide ‘Retail
banking’ into (a) Digital Banking (as defined in RBI circular on Establishment of Digital Banking Units dated April 7,
2022) and (b) Other Retail Banking segment. Accordingly, the segmental results for retail banking segment for the
three months ended march 31, 2023 is sub-divided as below:
` in million
Sr. Segment Segment Segment Segment Capital Depreciation
Particulars
No. revenue results assets liabilities expenditure
Retail Banking 287,393.4 49,026.3 6,039,593.7 8,913,545.4 2,799.1 2,513.2
(i) Digital Banking 64,748.7 15,354.8 941,323.5 1,306,703.2 141.5 128.6
(ii) Other Retail Banking 222,644.7 33,671.5 5,098,270.2 7,606,842.2 2,657.6 2,384.6
179
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Geographical segments
The Bank reports its operations under the following geographical segments.
• Domestic operations comprise branches in India.
• Foreign operations comprise branches outside India and offshore banking units in India.
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, geographical segment results.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Revenues
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Domestic operations 1,257,715.6 1,030,521.2
Foreign operations 32,912.3 18,399.6
Total 1,290,627.9 1,048,920.8
` in million
At At
Assets
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Domestic operations 15,019,154.1 13,147,975.3
Foreign operations 731,796.0 865,806.3
Total 15,750,950.1 14,013,781.6
1. Segment assets do not include tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net) and deferred tax assets (net).
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, capital expenditure and depreciation thereon for the
geographical segments.
` in million
Capital expenditure incurred during Depreciation provided during
Particulars Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Domestic operations 17,672.8 15,089.7 13,164.4 11,633.6
Foreign operations 149.5 59.0 83.5 77.4
Total 17,822.3 15,148.7 13,247.9 11,711.0
180
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
6. Maturity pattern
The following table sets forth, the maturity pattern of assets and liabilities of the Bank at March 31, 2023.
` in million
Total foreign Total foreign
Loans & Investment
Maturity buckets Deposits1 Borrowings1 currency currency
Advances1 securities1
assets2 liabilities2
Day 1 10,042.4 1,245,694.5 127,754.2 - 35,349.4 1,637.6
2 to 7 days 116,565.8 113,368.4 564,803.8 21,086.7 474,567.6 50,108.9
8 to 14 days 95,999.8 67,409.4 228,411.9 10,111.6 68,969.2 24,821.5
15 to 30 days 239,586.3 111,274.4 194,054.5 16,811.4 61,989.4 38,634.4
31 days to 2 months 444,361.0 63,882.2 306,379.7 51,726.9 87,871.1 63,990.3
2 to 3 months 457,284.2 51,112.4 313,978.8 98,068.9 96,509.6 51,706.2
3 to 6 months 665,075.0 114,959.0 559,170.4 92,851.8 93,123.7 75,904.4
6 months to 1 year 1,081,144.6 190,744.3 901,157.0 179,973.3 79,832.7 91,177.0
1 to 3 years 2,883,348.7 397,446.1 1,588,983.4 324,902.8 89,170.3 205,213.2
3 to 5 years 1,891,304.2 576,828.0 3,521,292.8 130,609.0 18,342.9 45,168.3
Above 5 years 2,311,671.1 690,578.7 3,502,420.5 267,112.5 48,785.1 10,802.2
Total 10,196,383.1 3,623,297.4 11,808,407.0 1,193,254.9 1,154,511.0 659,164.0
1. Includes foreign currency balances.
2. Excludes off-balance sheet assets and liabilities.
The following table sets forth, the maturity pattern of assets and liabilities of the Bank at March 31, 2022.
` in million
Total foreign Total foreign
Loans & Investment
Maturity buckets Deposits1 Borrowings1 currency currency
Advances1 securities1
assets2 liabilities2
Day 1 10,023.7 1,023,151.0 162,162.4 758.0 395,980.6 6,728.2
2 to 7 days 79,283.8 83,798.1 607,138.7 9,668.5 177,666.4 14,922.0
8 to 14 days 93,192.1 67,604.5 235,678.2 11,180.3 128,950.4 19,335.6
15 to 30 days 194,044.8 68,387.2 185,586.0 7,968.7 62,348.0 22,612.3
31 days to 2 months 377,596.2 44,084.5 258,346.3 68,339.1 138,111.6 77,095.6
2 to 3 months 440,510.6 44,274.6 250,332.6 31,920.8 128,634.4 42,766.8
3 to 6 months 662,714.9 90,264.3 375,680.6 139,027.8 149,013.3 132,171.2
6 months to 1 year 900,298.5 168,371.2 560,255.7 77,967.0 64,919.5 42,368.4
1 to 3 years 2,349,247.5 318,754.2 1,254,163.9 316,029.9 51,242.0 122,288.6
3 to 5 years 1,618,921.1 539,761.1 3,389,943.1 155,341.3 15,862.0 77,514.1
Above 5 years 1,864,371.2 653,959.3 3,366,428.6 254,112.2 55,769.6 49,228.9
Total 8,590,204.4 3,102,410.0 10,645,716.1 1,072,313.6 1,368,497.8 607,031.7
1. Includes foreign currency balances.
2. Excludes off-balance sheet assets and liabilities.
The estimates and assumptions used by the Bank for classification of assets and liabilities under the different
maturity buckets are based on the returns submitted to RBI for the relevant periods.
181
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
7. Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)
In terms of the ESOS, as amended, the maximum number of options granted to any eligible employee in a financial
year shall not exceed 0.05% of the issued equity shares of the Bank at the time of grant of the options and aggregate
of all such options granted to the eligible employees shall not exceed 10.0% of the aggregate number of the issued
equity shares of the Bank on the date(s) of the grant of options in line with SEBI Regulations. Under the stock option
scheme, eligible employees are entitled to apply for equity shares. In April 2016, exercise period was modified from
10 years from the date of grant or five years from the date of vesting, whichever is later, to 10 years from the date
of vesting. In June 2017, exercise period was further modified to not exceed 10 years from the date of vesting of
options as may be determined by the Board Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee to be applicable
for future grants. In May 2018, exercise period was further modified to not exceed 5 years from the date of vesting
of options as may be determined by the Board Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee to be applicable
for future grants.
Options granted after March 2014 vest in a graded manner over a three-year period with 30%, 30% and 40% of the
grant vesting in each year, commencing from the end of 12 months from the date of grant other than certain options
granted in April 2014 which vested to the extent of 50% on April 30, 2017 and the balance on April 30, 2018 and
option granted in September 2015 which vested to the extent of 50% on April 30, 2018 and balance 50% vested
on April 30, 2019. Options granted in January 2018 vested at the end of four years from the date of grant. Certain
options granted in May 2018, vested to the extent of 50% on May 2021 and balance 50% on May 2022.
Options granted prior to March 2014 except mentioned below, vested in a graded manner over a four-year period,
with 20%, 20%, 30% and 30% of the grants vesting in each year, commencing from the end of 12 months from the
date of grant. Options granted in April 2009 vested in a graded manner over a five-year period with 20%, 20%,
30% and 30% of grant vesting each year, commencing from the end of 24 months from the date of grant. Options
granted in September 2011 vested in a graded manner over a five-year period with 15%, 20%, 20% and 45% of
grant vesting each year, commencing from the end of 24 months from the date of the grant.
The exercise price of the Bank’s options, except mentioned below, is the last closing price on the stock exchange,
which recorded highest trading volume preceding the date of grant of options. In February 2011, the Bank granted
16,692,500 options to eligible employees and whole-time Directors of the Bank and certain of its subsidiaries at
an exercise price of ` 175.82. This exercise price was the average closing price on the stock exchange during the
six months ended October 28, 2010. Of these options granted, 50% vested on April 30, 2014 and the balance 50%
vested on April 30, 2015.
The weighted average fair value, based on Black-Scholes model, of options granted during the year ended March 31,
2023 was ` 291.15 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 227.75).
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the key assumptions used to estimate the fair value of
options granted.
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Risk-free interest rate 5.99% to 7.37% 5.34% to 6.53%
Expected term 3.23 to 5.23 years 3.55 to 5.55 years
Expected volatility 34.79% to 38.98% 35.38% to 39.41%
Expected dividend yield 0.27% to 0.72% 0.18% to 0.30%
Risk free interest rates over the expected term of the option are based on the government securities yield in effect
at the time of the grant. The expected term of an option is estimated based on the vesting term as well as expected
exercise behavior of the employees who receive the option. Expected exercise behavior is estimated based on the
historical stock option exercise pattern of the Bank. Expected volatility during the estimated expected term of the
option is based on historical volatility determined based on observed market prices of the Bank’s publicly traded
equity shares. Expected dividends during the estimated expected term of the option are based on recent dividend
activity.
182
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the summary of the status of the Bank’s stock option plan.
` except number of options
Stock options outstanding
Year ended March 31, 2023 Year ended March 31, 2022
Particulars
Weighted Weighted
Number of Number of
average average
options options
exercise price exercise price
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 237,197,999 310.82 246,590,972 276.14
Add: Granted during the year 25,793,500 747.92 25,550,350 570.43
Less: Lapsed during the year, net of re-issuance 3,921,340 568.36 2,164,335 444.41
Less: Exercised during the year 34,044,356 276.72 32,778,988 243.44
Outstanding at the end of the year 225,025,803 361.60 237,197,999 310.82
Options exercisable 172,938,533 289.69 177,170,739 264.69
The following table sets forth, the summary of stock options outstanding at March 31, 2023.
Weighted average Weighted average
Range of exercise price Number of shares arising
exercise price remaining contractual life
(` per share) out of options
(` per share) (Number of years)
60-199 7,202,993 160.84 1.85
200-399 145,129,078 267.52 4.37
400-599 48,347,432 479.32 4.15
600-799 24,274,900 747.62 6.17
800-899 71,400 862.88 6.58
The following table sets forth, the summary of stock options outstanding at March 31, 2022.
Weighted average Weighted average
Range of exercise price Number of shares arising
exercise price remaining contractual life
(` per share) out of options
(` per share) (Number of years)
60-199 11,245,113 160.69 2.52
200-399 171,000,375 267.10 5.30
400-599 54,887,211 477.26 5.11
600-799 46,300 737.63 6.63
800-899 19,000 810.25 6.92
The options were exercised regularly throughout the period and weighted average share price as per National Stock
Exchange price volume data during the year ended March 31, 2023 was ` 832.00 (year ended March 31, 2022:
` 703.14).
8. Subordinated debt
During the year ended March 31, 2023 the Bank has not raised (March 31, 2022: Nil) subordinated debt bonds
qualifying for Additional Tier-1 capital and subordinated debt qualifying for Tier-2 capital (March 31, 2022: Nil).
183
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
9. Repurchase transactions
The following tables set forth for the periods indicated, the details of securities sold and purchased under repo and
reverse repo transactions respectively including transactions under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) and Marginal
Standing Facility (MSF).
` in million
Minimum Maximum Daily average Outstanding
outstanding outstanding outstanding balance at
Sr.
Particulars balance balance balance March 31,
No.
during the during the during the 2023
Year ended March 31, 2023
Securities sold under Repo, LAF and MSF
i) Government Securities - 244,318.8 137,385.3 -
ii) Corporate Debt Securities - 1,000.0 2.7 -
iii) Any other securities - - - -
Securities purchased under Reverse Repo and LAF
i) Government Securities - 660,560.0 101,231.3 -
ii) Corporate Debt Securities - 4,250.0 88.4 -
iii) Any other securities - - - -
1. Amounts reported are based on face value of securities under Repo and Reverse repo.
2. Amounts reported are based on lending/borrowing amount under tri-party repo, LAF and MSF.
` in million
Minimum Maximum Daily average Outstanding
outstanding outstanding outstanding balance at
Sr.
Particulars balance balance balance March 31,
No.
during the during the during the 2022
Year ended March 31, 2022
Securities sold under Repo, LAF and MSF
i) Government Securities - 429,969.4 109,949.5 5,000.0
ii) Corporate Debt Securities - - - -
iii) Any other securities - - - -
Securities purchased under Reverse Repo and LAF
i) Government Securities - 932,200.0 398,949.8 494,020.0
ii) Corporate Debt Securities - 2,000.0 60.3 -
iii) Any other securities - - - -
1 Amounts reported are based on face value of securities under Repo and Reverse repo.
2. Amounts reported are based on lending/borrowing amount under tri-party repo, LAF and MSF.
184
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
185
stnemtsevni
fo
noitisopmoC
.01
.3202
,13
hcraM
ta
knaB
eht
fo
stnemtsevni
fo
noitisopmoc
eht
,htrof
stes
elbat
gniwollof
ehT
noillim
ni
`
aidnI
edistuo
stnemtsevnI
aidnI
ni
stnemtsevnI
tnemnrevoG
latoT
latoT
seiraidisbuS
seitiruces
latoT
seiraidisbuS
rehtO
stnemtsevnI
stnemtsevnI
srehtO
tnioj
ro/dna
gnidulcni(
stnemtsevni
srehtO
tnioj
ro/dna
serutnebeD
serahS
devorppA
tnemnrevoG
edistuo
sdnoB
dna
seitiruceS
serutnev
lacol
aidnI
ni
serutnev
seitiruceS
aidnI
)seitirohtua
ytirutaM
ot
dleH
8.114,535,2
4.879,91
5.972
9.896,91
-
4.334,515,2
7.582,4
6.739,84
-
7.45
-
4.551,264,2
ssorG
-non
rof
noisivorP
:sseL
stnemtsevni
gnimrofrep
7.45
-
-
-
-
7.45
-
-
-
7.45
-
-
)IPN(
1.753,535,2
4.879,91
5.972
9.896,91
-
7.873,515,2
7.582,4
6.739,84
-
-
-
4.551,264,2
teN
elaS
rof
elbaliavA
6.357,400,1
6.721,62
2.235,22
-
4.595,3
0.626,879
2.715,911
5.679,91
2.752,412
6.424,15
-
5.054,375
ssorG
rof
noisivorP
:sseL
4.225,16
3.540,4
3.540,4
-
-
1.774,75
9.510,81
-
5.847,9
7.217,92
-
-
IPN
dna
noitaicerped
2.132,349
3.280,22
9.684,81
-
4.595,3
9.841,129
3.105,101
5.679,91
7.805,402
9.117,12
-
5.054,375
teN
gnidarT
rof
dleH
1.907,441
8.659,83
8.261
-
0.497,83
3.257,501
-
-
4.585,38
-
-
9.661,22
ssorG
rof
noisivorP
:sseL
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
IPN
dna
noitaicerped
1.907,441
8.659,83
8.261
-
0.497,83
3.257,501
-
-
4.585,38
-
-
9.661,22
teN
5.478,486,3
8.260,58
5.479,22
9.896,91
4.983,24
7.118,995,3
9.208,321
1.419,86
6.248,792
3.974,15
-
8.277,750,3
stnemtsevnI
latoT
-non
rof
noisivorP
:sseL
7.45
-
-
-
-
7.45
-
-
-
7.45
-
-
stnemtsevni
gnimrofrep
rof
noisivorP
:sseL
4.225,16
3.540,4
3.540,4
-
-
1.774,75
9.510,81
-
5.847,9
7.217,92
-
-
IPN
dna
noitaicerped
4.792,326,3
5.710,18
2.929,81
9.896,91
4.983,24
9.972,245,3
0.787,501
1.419,86
1.490,882
9.117,12
-
8.277,750,3
teN
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
186
.2202
,13
hcraM
ta
knaB
eht
fo
stnemtsevnI
fo
noitisopmoc
eht
htrof
stes
elbat
gniwollof
ehT
noillim
ni
`
aidnI
edistuo
stnemtsevnI
aidnI
ni
stnemtsevnI
tnemnrevoG
latoT
latoT
seiraidisbuS
seitiruces
latoT
seiraidisbuS
rehtO
stnemtsevnI
stnemtsevnI
serutnebeD
tnemnrevoG
srehtO
tnioj
ro/dna
gnidulcni(
stnemtsevni
srehtO
tnioj
ro/dna
serahS
devorppA
edistuo
sdnoB
dna
seitiruceS
serutnev
lacol
aidnI
ni
serutnev
seitiruceS
aidnI
)seitirohtua
ytirutaM
ot
dleH
0.447,660,2
4.438,02
5.531,1
9.896,91
-
6.909,540,2
8.645,3
6.739,84
6.208,1
7.45
-
9.765,199,1
ssorG
-non
rof
noisivorP
:sseL
stnemtsevni
gnimrofrep
9.38
-
-
-
-
9.38
-
-
-
7.45
-
2.92
)IPN(
1.066,660,2
4.438,02
5.531,1
9.896,91
-
7.528,540,2
8.645,3
6.739,84
6.208,1
-
-
7.835,199,1
teN
elaS
rof
elbaliavA
2.906,739
1.710,93
5.258,12
-
6.461,71
1.295,898
4.120,18
5.623,71
4.994,191
9.046,45
-
9.301,455
ssorG
rof
noisivorP
:sseL
9.752,15
4.411,1
4.411,1
-
-
5.341,05
3.989,31
-
5.264,5
7.196,03
-
-
IPN
dna
noitaicerped
3.153,688
7.209,73
1.837,02
-
6.461,71
6.844,848
1.230,76
5.623,71
9.630,681
2.949,32
-
9.301,455
teN
gnidarT
rof
dleH
5.274,941
9.717,19
6.145,1
-
3.671,09
6.457,75
7.343,1
-
0.469,73
7.681
-
2.062,81
ssorG
rof
noisivorP
:sseL
9.37
5.84
5.84
-
-
4.52
-
-
-
-
-
4.52
IPN
dna
noitaicerped
6.893,941
4.966,19
1.394,1
-
3.671,09
2.927,75
7.343,1
-
0.469,73
7.681
-
8.432,81
teN
7.528,351,3
4.965,151
6.925,42
9.896,91
9.043,701
3.652,200,3
9.119,58
1.462,66
0.662,132
3.288,45
-
0.239,365,2
stnemtsevnI
latoT
-non
rof
noisivorP
:sseL
stnemtsevni
gnimrofrep
9.38
-
-
-
-
9.38
-
-
-
7.45
-
2.92
rof
noisivorP
:sseL
IPN
dna
noitaicerped
8.133,15
9.261,1
9.261,1
-
-
9.861,05
3.989,31
-
5.264,5
7.196,03
-
4.52
0.014,201,3
5.604,051
7.663,32
9.896,91
9.043,701
5.300,259,2
6.229,17
1.462,66
5.308,522
9.531,42
-
4.778,365,2
teN
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Securities kept as margin
The following table sets forth, the face value of securities that are kept as margin are as under:
` in million
Sr. At At
Particulars
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards
(CCIL)
i) Collateral and fund management-Securities Segment 26,050.0 50,250.0
ii) Collateral and fund management-Tri-Party Repo 356,050.0 384,680.0
iii) Default Fund-Forex Forward Segment 2,250.0 3,650.0
iv) Default Fund-Forex Settlement Segment 220.0 250.0
v) Default Fund-Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement)
Segment 1,920.0 1,950.0
vi) Default Fund-Securities Segment 120.0 150.0
vii) Default Fund-Tri-Party Repo Segment 150.0 300.0
Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards
i) Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) - -
ii) Repo Transactions 314,750.0 314,750.0
Securities kept with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India
(NSCCIL) towards NSE Currency Derivative Segment 14,000.0 16,000.0
Securities kept with London clearing house (LCH) Clearnet Limited
towards LCH Currency Derivative Segment 9,531.7 -
11. Movement of provisions for depreciation on investments and Investment Fluctuation Reserve
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, the movement of provisions for depreciation on investments
and Investment Fluctuation Reserve of the Bank.
` in million, except percentage
Sr. At At
Particulars
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
A. Movement of provisions held towards depreciation on
investments
i) Opening balance 51,415.7 49,791.2
ii) Add: Provisions made during the year 14,688.5 7,633.3
iii) Less: Write-off/write-back of excess provisions during the year (4,527.1) (6,008.8)
iv) Closing balance 61,577.1 51,415.7
B. Movement of Investment Fluctuation Reserve
i) Opening balance 20,715.0 16,886.2
ii) Add: Amount transferred during the year 1,043.8 3,828.8
iii) Less: drawdown - -
iv) Closing balance 21,758.8 20,715.0
C. Closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of
investments in AFS and HFT/Current category 2.00% 2.00%
187
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
12. I nvestment in securities, other than government and other approved securities (Non-SLR investments)
i) I ssuer composition of investments in securities, other than government and other approved
securities
The following table sets forth, the issuer composition of investments of the Bank in securities, other than
government and other approved securities at March 31, 2023.
` in million
Extent of Extent of ‘below Extent of Extent of
Sr. private investment ‘unrated’ ‘unlisted’
Issuer Amount
No. placement grade’ securities securities2,4 securities2,4
(a) (b) (c) (d)
1. PSUs 34,991.4 15,118.9 - - 4,920.0
2. FIs 76,392.3 54,146.0 797.0 181.8 -
3. Banks 21,652.3 13,341.1 1,069.2 - 2,358.7
4. Private corporates 237,340.3 200,086.4 2,965.0 695.0 13,375.7
5. Subsidiaries/ Joint ventures 88,613.0 5,525.3 - - -
6. Others3,4 168,112.2 125,722.9 20,098.25 - -
Provision held towards
7.
depreciation (61,577.1) - - - -
Total 565,524.4 413,940.6 24,929.4 876.8 20,654.4
1. Amounts reported under columns (a), (b), (c) and (d) above are not mutually exclusive.
2. Excludes equity shares, units of equity-oriented mutual fund, units of venture capital fund, pass through certificates,
security receipts, commercial papers, certificates of deposit, non-convertible debentures (NCDs) with original or initial
maturity up to one year issued by corporate (including NBFC), unlisted convertible debentures and securities acquired by
way of conversion of debt.
3. Includes investments in non-Indian government securities by overseas branches amounting to ` 42,389.4 million.
4. Excludes investments in non-SLR Government of India securities amounting to ` 81.0 million.
5. Represents security receipts.
T he following table sets forth, the issuer composition of investments of the Bank in securities, other than
government and other approved securities at March 31, 2022.
` in million
Extent of Extent of ‘below Extent of Extent of
Sr. private investment ‘unrated’ ‘unlisted’
Issuer Amount
No. placement grade’ securities securities2,4 securities2,4
(a) (b) (c) (d)
1. PSUs 10,242.6 3,577.2 - - -
2. FIs 70,954.3 39,157.1 804.0 181.8 -
3. Banks 42,146.6 30,396.2 10,932.6 - 2,251.0
4. Private corporates 184,022.2 138,165.4 - 690.4 10,375.7
5. Subsidiaries/ Joint ventures 85,963.1 5,525.3 - - -
6. Others3,4 196,565.0 87,733.5 22,033.25 - -
Provision held towards
7.
depreciation (51,361.1) N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Total 538,532.7 304,554.7 33,769.8 872.2 12,626.7
1. Amounts reported under columns (a), (b), (c) and (d) above are not mutually exclusive.
2. Excludes equity shares, units of equity-oriented mutual fund, units of venture capital fund, pass through certificates,
security receipts, commercial papers, certificates of deposit, non-convertible debentures (NCDs) with original or initial
maturity up to one year issued by corporate (including NBFC), unlisted convertible debentures and securities acquired by
way of conversion of debt.
3. Includes investments in non-Indian government securities by overseas branches amounting to ` 104,390.9 million.
4. Excludes investments in non-SLR Government of India securities amounting to ` 94.5 million.
5. Represents security receipts.
188
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
ii) Non-performing investments in securities, other than government and other approved securities
T he following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in gross non-performing investments in
securities, other than government and other approved securities.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Opening balance 40,891.6 44,236.9
Additions during the year 10,106.1 400.8
Reduction during the year (6,081.5) (3,746.1)
Closing balance 44,916.2 40,891.6
Total provision held 40,394.6 34,655.8
13. Sales and transfers of securities to/from Held to Maturity (HTM) category
During the year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, the value of sales/transfers of securities to/from HTM
category did not exceed 5.0% of the book value of investments held in HTM category at the beginning of the year.
Sales and transfers of securities to/from HTM category does not include one-time transfer of securities, direct sales
from HTM for bringing down SLR holdings consequent to a downward revision in SLR requirements by RBI, sales
to RBI under open market operation auctions and government securities acquisition programme, repurchase of
government securities by Government of India and state development loans by concerned state government under
buyback or switch operations and additional shifting of securities explicitly permitted by RBI.
14. Derivatives
The Bank is a participant in the financial derivatives market. The Bank deals in derivatives for balance sheet
management, proprietary trading and market making purposes whereby the Bank offers derivative products to its
customers, enabling them to hedge their risks.
Dealing in derivatives is carried out by identified groups in the treasury of the Bank based on the purpose of the
transaction. Derivative transactions are entered into by the treasury front office. Treasury and Securities Service
Group (TSSG) conducts an independent check of the transactions entered into by the front office and also undertakes
activities such as confirmation, settlement, accounting, risk monitoring and reporting and ensures compliance with
various internal and regulatory guidelines.
The market making and the proprietary trading activities in derivatives are governed by the Investment policy
and Derivative policy of the Bank, which lays down the position limits, stop loss limits as well as other risk limits.
The Risk Management Group (RMG) lays down the methodology for computation and monitoring of risk. The Risk
Committee of the Board (RCB) reviews the Bank’s risk management policy in relation to various risks including credit
and recovery policy, investment policy, derivative policy, asset liability management (ALM) policy and operational
risk management policy. The RCB comprises independent directors and the Executive Director of the Bank.
The Bank measures and monitors risk of its derivatives portfolio using such risk metrics as Value at Risk (VaR), stop
loss limits and relevant greeks for options. Risk reporting on derivatives forms an integral part of the management
information system.
The use of derivatives for hedging purposes is governed by the hedge policy approved by ALCO. Subject to prevailing
RBI guidelines, the Bank deals in derivatives for hedging fixed rate, floating rate or foreign currency assets/liabilities.
Transactions for hedging and market making purposes are recorded separately. For hedge transactions, the Bank
identifies the hedged item (asset or liability) at the inception of the hedge itself. The effectiveness is assessed at the
time of inception of the hedge and periodically thereafter.
189
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Based on RBI circular issued on June 26, 2019, the accounting of hedge relationships established after June 26, 2019
is in accordance with the Guidance note on Accounting for Derivative Contracts issued by ICAI. The swaps under
hedge relationships established prior to that date are accounted for on an accrual basis and are not marked to
market unless their underlying transaction is marked-to-market. Gains or losses arising from hedge ineffectiveness,
if any, are recognised in the profit and loss Account. The premium on option contracts is accounted for as per Foreign
Exchange Dearlers Association of India (FEDAI) guidelines.
Over the counter (OTC) derivative transactions are covered under International Swaps and Derivatives Association
(ISDA) master agreements with the respective counter parties. The exposure on account of derivative transactions
is computed as per RBI guidelines.
The Board of Directors has authorised ALCO to review and approve matters, as applicable, pertaining to the LIBOR
transition to alternate risk free rates. A LIBOR Working Group has been constituted which reviews the progress
on the international front, and the work carried out alongside Indian Banking Association (IBA). An update on the
activities on the LIBOR transition and the proceedings of the Working Group are presented quarterly to ALCO. The
necessary changes were implemented in the treasury system of the Bank to handle the transition of existing trades
to the alternate risk free rates. The transition was carried out for the LIBORs (GBP, JPY, EUR, CHF) that ceased
on December 31, 2021. USD LIBORs are expected to cease at the end of June 2023. There is sufficient liquidity in
market for USD LIBOR linked trades. The Bank does not expect material valuation risk arising out of non-alignment
of fallback provisions of commercially linked positions i.e., trading deals and on the existing hedge deals of the Bank.
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the details of derivative positions.
` in million
At March 31, 2023 At March 31, 2022
Sr.
Particulars Currency Interest rate Currency Interest rate
No.
derivative1 derivative2 derivative1 derivative2
1. Derivatives (Notional principal amount)
a) For hedging - 364,145.0 - 256,843.9
b) For trading 1,662,275.0 23,627,386.6 1,200,607.0 24,953,321.7
2. Marked to market positions (net)3 (13,368.4) 9,074.0 (1,168.5) (62.3)
a) Asset (+) 36,738.3 97,204.6 25,319.0 47,374.3
b) Liability (-) (50,106.7) (88,130.6) (26,487.5) (47,436.6)
3. Credit exposure4 104,371.8 291,761.7 88,160.4 254,103.7
4. Likely impact of one percentage change in interest rate (100*PV01)5
a) On hedging derivatives6 - 7,813.2 - 6,289.6
b) On trading derivatives 1,467.5 10,770.6 2,551.3 6,129.0
5. Maximum and minimum of 100*PV01 observed during the period
a) On hedging6
Maximum - 9,327.0 - 6,454.8
Minimum - 5,937.8 - 5,073.9
b) On trading
Maximum 2,948.6 11,379.1 2,916.3 7,949.6
Minimum 1,416.4 1,489.8 2,440.3 1,170.2
1. E xchange traded and OTC options, cross currency interest rate swaps and currency futures are included in currency derivatives.
2. O TC interest rate options, interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, swaptions and exchange traded interest rate derivatives
are included in interest rate derivatives.
3. For trading portfolio including accrued interest.
4. Includes accrued interest and has been computed based on current exposure method.
5. Amounts given are absolute values on a net basis, excluding options.
6. T he swap contracts entered into for hedging purpose would have an opposite and off-setting impact with the underlying on-
balance sheet items.
190
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the details of Foreign exchange contracts.
` in million
Sr. At March 31, 2023 At March 31, 2022
Particulars
No. Trading Non-trading Trading Non-trading
1. Foreign exchange contracts 14,350,624.0 979,594.1 9,657,484.9 987,759.1
(Notional principal amount)
2. Marked to market positions (net) 467.4 (1,077.3) (6,931.4) 1,265.1
1. Asset (+) 24,154.1 2,154.3 18,946.4 1,733.1
2. Liability (-) (23,686.7) (3,231.7) (25,877.8) (468.0)
3. Credit exposure1 366,783.1 27,480.1 258,106.9 25,818.5
4. Likely impact of one percentage change in
interest rate (100*PV01)2 38.9 26.5 42.3 39.8
1. Computed as per RBI Master Circular on Exposure Norms dated July 1, 2015.
2. Amounts given are absolute values on a net basis.
As per the Master circular on Basel III Capital Regulations issued by RBI on April 1, 2022 on capital adequacy
computation, ‘Banks in India shall adopt the comprehensive approach, which allows fuller offset of collateral
against exposures, by effectively reducing the exposure amount by the value ascribed to the collateral’. Therefore,
counterparty exposure has been fully off-set against the collateral received from the counterparty and the excess
collateral posted over the net MTM payable is reckoned as exposure. Since, the collateral received is counterparty-
wise and not product-wise, the derivative exposure reported above has not been adjusted for the collateral received/
posted. At March 31, 2023, collateral utilised against the exposure was ` 11,761.9 million (March 31, 2022: ` 7,762.9
million), excess collateral posted over the exposure was ` 1,118.2 million (March 31, 2022: ` 1,959.5 million) and the
net credit exposure on Foreign exchange and derivatives, subsequent to collateral netting, was ` 779,752.9 million
(March 31, 2022: ` 620,386.1 million).
The net overnight open position (NOOP) at March 31, 2023 (as per last NOOP value reported to RBI for the year
ended March 31, 2023) was ` 4,710.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 6,202.9 million).
The Bank has no exposure in credit derivative instruments (funded and non-funded) including credit default swaps
(CDS) and principal protected structures at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: Nil).
15. Exchange traded interest rate derivatives and currency derivatives
Exchange traded interest rate derivatives
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of exchange traded interest rate derivatives.
` in million
Sr. At At
Particulars
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
1. Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate
derivatives undertaken during the year
- 10 year Government Security Notional Bond - 4,539.2
2. Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate
derivatives outstanding
- 10 year Government Security Notional Bond - -
3. Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate
derivatives outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ N.A. N.A.
4. Mark-to-market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ N.A. N.A.
191
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Exchange traded currency derivatives
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of exchange traded currency derivatives.
` in million
Sr. At At
Particulars
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
1. Notional principal amount of exchange traded currency derivatives
undertaken during the year 2,582,348.5 2,806,476.4
2. Notional principal amount of exchange traded currency derivatives
options outstanding 37,567.3 62,910.2
3. Notional principal amount of exchange traded currency derivatives
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ N.A. N.A.
4. Mark-to-market value of exchange traded currency derivatives
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ N.A. N.A.
16. Forward rate agreement (FRA)/Interest rate swaps (IRS)/Cross currency swaps (CCS)
The Bank enters into FRA, IRS and CCS contracts for balance sheet management and market making purposes
whereby the Bank offers derivative products to its customers to enable them to hedge their interest rate risk and
currency risk within the prevalent regulatory guidelines.
A FRA is a financial contract between two parties to exchange interest payments for ‘notional principal’ amount on
settlement date, for a specified period from start date to maturity date. Accordingly, on the settlement date cash
payments based on contract rate and the settlement rate, which is the agreed bench-mark/reference rate prevailing
on the settlement date, are made by the parties to one another.
An IRS is a financial contract between two parties exchanging or swapping a stream of interest payments for
a ‘notional principal’ amount on multiple occasions during a specified period. The Bank deals in interest rate
benchmarks like Mumbai Inter-Bank Offered Rate (MIBOR), Indian Government Securities Benchmark Rate (INBMK),
Mumbai Inter-Bank Forward Offer Rate (MIFOR) and Alternative Reference Rates (ARR) like Sterling Overnight
Index Average (SONIA), Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) and Tokyo Overnight Average Rate (TONAR).
A CCS is a financial contract between two parties exchanging interest payments and principal, wherein interest
payments and principal in one currency would be exchanged for interest payments and principal in another currency.
These contracts are subject to the risks of changes in market interest rates and currency rates as well as the
settlement risk with the counterparties.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of the FRA/IRS contracts.
` in million
Sr. At At
Particulars
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
1. Notional principal of FRA/IRS 23,972,449.0 25,184,685.1
2. Losses which would be incurred if all counter parties failed to fulfil
their obligations under the agreement1 97,127.6 47,632.0
3. Collateral required by the Bank upon entering into FRA/IRS - -
4. Concentration of credit risk2 5,112.9 3,414.2
5. Fair value of FRA/IRS3 1,963.7 (1,418.3)
1. F or trading portfolio both mark-to-market and accrued interest have been considered and for hedging portfolio only accrued
interest has been considered.
2. Credit risk concentration is measured as the highest net receivable under these contracts from a particular counter party.
3. Fair value represents mark- to-market including accrued interest.
192
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of the CCS.
` in million
Sr. At At
Particulars
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
1. Notional principal of CCS1 564,630.0 498,337.6
2. Losses which would be incurred if all counter parties failed to fulfil
their obligations under the agreement2 30,706.1 21,767.1
3. Collateral required by the Bank upon entering into CCS - -
4. Concentration of credit risk3 11,907.4 10,402.8
5. Fair value of CCS4 (6,157.1) 2,672.3
1. CCS includes cross currency interest rate swaps and currency swaps.
2. F or trading portfolio both mark-to-market and accrued interest have been considered and for hedging portfolio only accrued
interest has been considered.
3. Credit risk concentration is measured as the highest net receivable under these contracts from a particular counter party.
4. Fair value represents mark-to-market including accrued interest.
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the nature and terms of FRA and IRS.
Hedging
` in million
At March 31, 2023 At March 31, 2022
Benchmark Type Notional No. of Notional No. of
principal deals principal deals
MIBOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable 240,890.0 47 93,890.0 13
USD LIBOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable 123,255.0 15 162,953.9 19
Total 364,145.0 62 256,843.9 32
193
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Trading
` in million
At March 31, 2023 At March 31, 2022
Benchmark Type Notional No. of Notional
No. of deals
principal Deals principal
AUD LIBOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable - - 510.7 1
Bond yield Sell FRA 78,803.6 224 13,587.9 27
AUD LIBOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable - - 266.7 6
CADCDOR Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable 678.3 1 807.8 2
CADCDOR Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable 678.3 1 793.9 1
EURESTR Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable 38,625.8 15 7,040.8 3
EURESTR Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable 41,076.1 19 7,840.9 3
EURIBOR Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable 11,849.0 30 11,827.3 30
EURIBOR Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable 13,697.0 20 13,727.9 21
GBPSONIA Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable 8,577.5 16 7,498.9 15
GBPSONIA Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable 5,209.4 11 7,086.2 13
INBMK Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable 1,000.0 1 1,000.0 1
INBMK Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable 1,000.0 1 1,000.0 1
JPYTONAR Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable 5,396.9 7 5,283.0 6
JPYTONAR Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable 5,852.0 7 6,898.9 9
MIBOR Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable 9,624,496.5 14,850 11,018,340.0 16,676
MIBOR Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable 9,754,197.8 14,677 11,014,588.4 16,789
MIFOR Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable 320,642.7 446 532,286.6 749
MIFOR Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable 251,471.2 257 423,358.0 429
MODMIFOR Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable 101,000.0 125 - -
MODMIFOR Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable 172,100.0 191 - -
OTHERS Fixed receivable v/s Fixed payable 6,289.7 6 5,379.1 5
T-BILL Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable 26,257.7 9 26,239.0 9
T-BILL Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable 5,104.9 2 10,139.8 2
USD SOFR v/s Floating receivable v/s Floating
USD LIBOR payable 823.9 1 760.0 1
USDLIBOR Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable 449,837.7 411 601,931.2 577
USDLIBOR Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable 612,120.6 532 809,797.5 734
USDLIBOR Floating receivable v/s Floating payable 177,610.5 40 171,935.3 44
USDSOFR Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable 892,093.9 354 98,044.4 54
USDSOFR Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable 1,001,813.0 418 129,871.2 79
Total 23,608,304.0 32,672 24,927,841.4 36,287
194
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the nature and terms of CCS.
Trading
` in million
At March 31, 2023 At March 31, 2022
Benchmark Type Notional Notional
No. of deals No. of deals
principal principal
EUR ESTR v/s Floating receivable v/s Floating
USD SOFR payable 1,863.0 2 - -
EURIBOR Fixed Receivable v/s Floating payable 6,374.3 26 5,351.3 25
EURIBOR Fixed payable v/s Floating receivable 500.0 1 - -
EURIBOR v/s Floating receivable v/s Floating
USD LIBOR payable 19,505.6 9 17,378.2 8
EURIBOR v/s Floating payable v/s Floating
USD LIBOR receivable 17,888.5 5 18,421.3 9
EURIBOR v/s Fixed receivable v/s Floating
USD LIBOR payable - - 879.3 1
EURIBOR v/s Floating payable v/s Floating
USD SOFR receivable 16,434.0 1 - -
EURIBOR v/s Floating receivable v/s Floating
USD SOFR payable 541.0 2 - -
GBP SONIA v/s Floating receivable v/s Floating
USD LIBOR payable 1,758.5 3 1,720.6 3
GBP SONIA v/s Floating payable v/s Floating
USD LIBOR receivable 1,953.2 5 2,349.2 5
GBP SONIA v/s Floating receivable v/s Floating
USD SOFR payable 1,971.3 2 536.1 1
GBP SONIA v/s Floating payable v/s Floating
USD SOFR receivable 2,868.1 2 - -
JPY TONAR v/s Floating receivable v/s Floating
USD LIBOR payable - - 568.5 2
JPY TONAR v/s Floating payable v/s Floating
USD LIBOR receivable 369.9 1 276.4 2
MIFOR v/s USD Floating receivable v/s Floating
LIBOR payable 4,626.3 3 4,626.3 3
OTHERS Fixed receivable v/s Fixed payable 190,876.2 174 182,079.5 193
SGD LIBOR v/s Floating receivable v/s Floating
USD LIBOR payable - - 454.8 1
SGD LIBOR v/s Floating payable v/s Floating
USD LIBOR receivable - - 151.6 1
USD LIBOR Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable 135,962.5 78 169,718.5 140
USD LIBOR Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable 74,179.5 57 93,076.2 79
USD SOFR Fixed payable v/s Floating receivable 35,379.4 15 750.0 1
USD SOFR Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable 33,221.7 25 - -
USD SOFR v/s Floating receivable v/s Floating
EURIBOR payable 16,434.0 1 - -
EUR ESTR v/s Floating payable v/s Floating
USD SOFR receivable 1,922.9 1 - -
Total 564,629.9 413 498,337.7 474.0
1. Benchmark indicates floating leg of the fixed v/s floating CCS.
195
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
196
dleh
snoisivorp
dna
secnavda
fo noitacifissalC
.71
.3202
,13
hcraM
ta
dleh
snoisivorp
dna
secnavda
fo
noitacifissalc
eht ,htrof
stes
elbat
gniwollof
ehT
noillim
ni
`
latoT
gnimrofreP-noN
dradnatS
-noN
latoT
-buS
latoT
gnimrofreP
ssoL
luftbuoD
dradnats
dradnatS
secnavdA
secnavdA
sAPN
dna
secnavdA
dradnatS
ssorG
4.367,658,8
2.949,233
7.216,07
7.720,771
8.803,58
1.418,325,8
ecnalaB
gninepO
8.390,381
raey
eht
gnirud
snoitiddA
:ddA
)3.281,612(
*raey
eht
gnirud
snoitcudeR
:sseL
0.725,644,01
7.068,992
2.649,311
4.331,711
1.187,86
3.666,641,01
ecnalab
gnisolC
:ot
eud
sAPN
ssorG
ni
snoitcudeR*
)3.926,09(
noitadargpU
)i
)0.143,08(
)stnuocca
dedargpu
morf
seirevocer
gnidulcxe(
seirevoceR
)ii
)6.887,53(
sffo-etirW
laitnedurP
/lacinhceT
)iii
)4.324,9(
evoba
)iii(
rednu
esoht
naht
rehto
sffo-etirW
)vi
)snoisivorP
gnitaolF
gnidulcxe(
snoisivorP
1.755,662
9.636,362
7.216,07
1.489,351
1.040,93
2.029,2
dleh
snoisivorp
fo
ecnalab
gninepO
8.071,611
raey
eht
gnirud
edam
snoisivorp
hserF
:ddA
)6.944,131(
snaol
ffo-etirW
/desrever
noisivorp
ssecxE
:sseL
0.241,052
1.853,842
2.649,311
2.668,101
7.545,23
9.387,1
dleh
snoisivorp
fo
ecnalab
gnisolC
sAPN
teN
4.013,96
-
6.340,32
8.662,64
ecnalaB
gninepO
6.830,88
raey
eht
gnirud
snoitidda
hserF
:ddA
)3.848,501(
raey
eht
gnirud
snoitcudeR
:sseL
7.005,15
-
1.762,51
6.332,63
ecnalaB
gnisolC
snoisivorP
gnitaolF
9.1
ecnalaB
gninepO
-
raey
eht
gnirud
edam
snoisivorp
lanoitiddA
:ddA
-
raey
eht
gnirud
nwod
nward
tnuomA
:sseL
9.1
snoisivorp
gnitaolf
fo
ecnalab
gnisolC
noereht
edam
seirevocer
eht
dna
sffo-etirw
lacinhceT
1.975,674
stnuocca
ffo-nettirw
laitnedurP
/lacinhceT
fo
ecnalab
gninepO
4.379,05
raey
eht
gnirud
sffo-etirw
laitnedurP
/lacinhceT
:ddA
laitnedurp
/lacinhcet
ylsuoiverp
morf
edam
seirevoceR
:sseL
)5.843,81(
raey
eht
gnirud
stnuocca
ffo-nettirw
laitnedurp/lacinhcet
ylsuoiverp
morf
edam
ecifircaS
:sseL
)2.765,51(
raey
eht
gnirud
stnuocca
ffo-nettirw
8.636,394
ecnalab
gnisolC
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
197
.2202
,13
hcraM
ta
dleh
snoisivorp
dna
secnavda
fo
noitacifissalc
eht ,htrof
stes
elbat
gniwollof
ehT
noillim
ni
`
latoT
gnimrofreP-noN
dradnatS
-noN
latoT
-buS
latoT
gnimrofreP
ssoL
luftbuoD
dradnats
dradnatS
secnavdA
secnavdA
sAPN
dna
secnavdA
dradnatS
ssorG
2.034,556,7
2.414,804
7.369,54
8.111,532
7.833,721
0.610,742,7
ecnalaB
gninepO
1.019,291
raey
eht
gnirud
snoitiddA
:ddA
)1.573,862(
*raey
eht
gnirud
snoitcudeR
:sseL
4.367,658,8
2.949,233
7.216,07
7.720,771
8.803,58
1.418,325,8
ecnalab
gnisolC
:ot eud
sAPN
ssorG
ni snoitcudeR*
)2.834,401(
noitadargpU
)i
)0.954,26(
)stnuocca
dedargpu
morf
seirevocer
gnidulcxe(
seirevoceR
)ii
)9.795,19(
sffo-etirW
61laitnedurP
/lacinhceT
)iii
)0.088,9(
evoba
)iii(
rednu
esoht
naht
rehto
sffo-etirW
)vi
)snoisivorP
gnitaolF
gnidulcxe(
snoisivorP
4.731,813
7.532,713
7.369,54
4.259,412
6.913,65
7.109
dleh snoisivorp
fo
ecnalab
gninepO
3.388,121
raey
eht
gnirud
edam
snoisivorp
hserF
:ddA
)1.284,571(
snaol
ffo-etirW
/desrever
noisivorp
ssecxE
:sseL
1.755,662
9.636,362
7.216,07
1.489,351
1.040,93
2.029,2
dleh snoisivorp
fo
ecnalab
gnisolC
sAPN
teN
6.671,19
-
4.951,02
2.710,17
ecnalaB
gninepO
3.685,89
raey
eht
gnirud
snoitidda
hserF
:ddA
)5.254,021(
raey
eht
gnirud
snoitcudeR
:sseL
4.013,96
-
6.340,32
8.662,64
ecnalaB
gnisolC
snoisivorP
gnitaolF
9.1
ecnalaB
gninepO
-
raey
eht
gnirud
edam
snoisivorp
lanoitiddA
:ddA
-
raey
eht
gnirud
51nwod
nward
tnuomA
:sseL
9.1
snoisivorp
gnitaolf
fo
ecnalab
gnisolC
noereht
edam
seirevocer
eht
dna
sffo-etirw
lacinhceT
5.224,614
stnuocca
ffo-nettirw
laitnedurP
/lacinhceT
fo
ecnalab
gninepO
9.693,89
raey
eht
gnirud
sffo-etirw
laitnedurP
/lacinhceT
:ddA
laitnedurp/lacinhcet
ylsuoiverp
morf
edam
seirevoceR
:sseL
)7.497,9(
raey
eht
gnirud
stnuocca
ffo-nettirw
)6.544,82(
laitnedurp/lacinhcet
ylsuoiverp
morf
edam
ecifircaS
:sseL
raey
eht
gnirud
stnuocca
ffo-nettirw
1.975,674
ecnalab
gnisolC
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Following table sets forth, for the period indicated, NPA ratios of the Bank.
At At
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Gross NPA to Gross Advances 2.87% 3.76%
Net NPA to Net Advances 0.51% 0.81%
Provision coverage ratio 82.8% 79.2%
In accordance with RBI guidelines, the loans and advances held at the overseas branches that are identified as
impaired as per host country regulations for reasons other than record of recovery, but which are standard as per the
extant RBI guidelines, are classified as NPAs to the extent of amount outstanding in the host country. At March 31,
2023, the Bank classified certain loans as NPAs at overseas branches amounting to ` 8,229.0 million (at March 31,
2022: ` 4,547.6) as per the requirement of these guidelines and made a provision of ` 4,623.0 million (year ended
March 31, 2022: ` 3,975.6 million) on these loans.
18. Divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs
In terms of the RBI circular no. //DBR.BP.BC.No.32/21.04.018/2018-19 dated April 1, 2019, banks are required to
disclose the divergences in asset classification and provisioning consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process
in their notes to accounts to the financial statements, wherever either (a) the additional provisioning requirements
assessed by RBI exceed 10% of the reported net profits before provisions and contingencies or (b) the additional
gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 15% of the published incremental gross NPAs for the reference period, or both.
Based on the condition mentioned in RBI circular, no disclosure on divergence in asset classification and provisioning
for NPAs is required with respect to RBI’s supervisory process for the year ended March 31, 2022 and for the year
ended March 31, 2021
19. General provision on standard assets
The general provision on standard assets held by the Bank at March 31, 2023 was ` 47,022.4 million (March 31,
2022: ` 40,942.9 million). The Bank made general provision on standard assets amounting to ` 5,795.6 million
during the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 4,492.5 million). General provision on standard
assets is made on global loan portfolio as below:
• Farm credit to agricultural activities, individual housing loans sanctioned on or after June 7, 2021 and advances
to Small and Micro Enterprises (SMEs) sectors at 0.25%, advances to Commercial Real Estate sector at 1.00%
and to Commercial Real Estate – Residential Housing Sector at 0.75%, all other loans and advances at 0.40%
• At overseas branches, provision is made at higher of RBI and host country guidelines
• Credit exposures computed as per the current marked-to-market (MTM) value of the contract arising
on account of the interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives, credit default swaps and gold exposures,
provision is made at the rate applicable to respective categories of advances
• Loans and advances to entities with unhedged foreign currency exposures, provision is made ranging from
0.10% to 0.80% depending on likely loss due to exchange rate movement
• Exposures to the wholly owned subsidiaries of the overseas subsidiaries of Indian companies at 2.00%
• Standard advances to stress sectors at 2.00%, based on evaluation of risk and stress in various sectors as per
the Board approved policy of the Bank
• Incremental exposure of the banking system in excess of Normally Permitted Lending Limit (NPLL) on borrowers
classified as specified borrower at 3.00%
198
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
20. Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs)
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, details of PSLCs purchased and sold by the Bank.
` in million
Year ended March 31, 2023 Year ended March 31, 2022
Category
Bought Sold Bought Sold
General - 454,245.0 - 655,300.0
Agriculture 704,965.0 - 673,065.0 -
Micro enterprise 11,500.0 287,005.0 42,060.0 359,100.0
Total 716,465.0 741,250.0 715,125.0 1,014,400.0
21. Sale and acquisition of loans
a) Details of loan not in default sold/acquired by the Bank as per Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Transfer
of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021 dated September 24, 2021.
1. The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, details of loans not in default sold/acquired under
assignment:
` in million
Year ended March 31, 2023 Year ended March 31, 2022
Particulars
Loans acquired Loans sold Loans acquired Loans sold
Amount of loan 94,688.2 1,875.0 45,127.9 4,386.9
Weighted average residual maturity 5.63 0.48 5.30 3.74
(in years)
Weighted average holding period of 1.63 0.01 1.64 2.08
the originator (in years)
Retention of beneficial economic 88,563.8 1,625.0 89,219.6 7,745.3
interest by the originator
Tangible security coverage (times) 4.04 - 1.20 1.20
1. In addition, the Bank acquired unfunded loans amounting to ` 3,278.4 million (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 2,840.0
million) and sold unfunded loans amounting to ` 6,540.0 million (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 1,250.0 million) for
year ended March 31, 2023 through novation.
2. In addition, no loans were acquired by the Bank during the year ended March 31, 2023 through risk participation in
the secondary market (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 2,192.4 million).
2. The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, rating-wise distribution of the loans sold/acquired
under assignment:
` in million
Year ended March 31, 2023 Year ended March 31, 2022
Rating
Loans acquired Loans sold Loans acquired Loans sold
IND A-, A, A+ 9,260.2 - - 493.8
CARE A- - - - 998.3
Moody’s B1 5,998.4 - 1,136.9 -
ICRA A- 5,000.0 - - -
Crisil A+, AA, A 6,410.0 1,875.0 - 2,894.8
Care BBB 838.0 - - -
1. Excluding retail and other unrated loans
199
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
b) Details of stressed loans sold/acquired by the Bank.
1. The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, details of stressed loans classified as NPA sold by
the Bank:
` in million, except number of accounts
Year ended March 31, 2023 Year ended March 31, 2022
Particulars To ARCs To permitted To ARCs To permitted
transferees transferees
Number of accounts 9 1 4 3
Aggregate principal outstanding of
loans transferred2 3,045.4 30.2 3,302.1 1,046.5
Weighted average residual tenor of
the loans transferred3 - - - -
Net book value of loans transferred
(at the time of transfer)4 123.8 - 244.8 188.6
Aggregate consideration 1,606.5 15.7 1,966.3 1,164.1
Additional consideration realized in
respect of accounts transferred in
earlier years - - - -
1. Excess provision reversed in profit and loss account due to sale of NPAs to ARCs was, ` 1,482.7 million and to
other permitted transferees was ` 15.7 million (year ended March 31, 2022: ARCs ` 1,721.5 million and permitted
transferees ` 975.5 million).
2. Net of write-off.
3. For NPAs, the Bank issues loan recall notice and initiates legal proceedings for recovery, due to which the weighted
average residual tenor is not applicable.
4. Net of write-off and provisions.
2. The Bank has not sold/acquired loan classified as Special Mention Account (SMA) during the year ended
March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: Nil).
3. The Bank has not acquired non-performing loans during the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended
March 31, 2022: Nil).
4. The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, rating-wise distribution of SRs held by the bank.
` in million
At At
Rating NAV estimate %
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
RR1 Above 100% 4,286.0 6,798.9
RR2 Above 75% upto 100% 1,615.4 -
RR3 Above 50% upto 75% 2,681.1 4,680.4
RR4 Above 25% upto 50% 1,507.8 4,538.6
RR5 Upto 25% 6,002.2 2,009.7
Total 16,092.5 18,027.6
1. Amount represents net of provisions.
2. Additionally, the Bank holds, marked-to-market loss of ` 4,627.3 million (March 31, 2022: ` 3,660.4 million) and
additional provision of ` 9,353.0 million (March 31, 2022: ` 6,293.3 million) at March 31, 2023.
200
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
22. Securitisation
Following table sets forth, for the period indicated, details of securitisation of standard assets of the Bank
` in million
Sr. Year ended Year ended
Particulars
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
1. Number of SPVs sponsored by the bank for securitisation
transactions during the year - -
2. Total a) No. and b) amount of securitised loans as per books of the
SPVs sponsored by the bank during the year - -
3. Total amount of exposures retained by the Bank to comply with
Minimum Retention Requirement (MRR) during the year
a) Off-balance sheet exposures
• First loss - -
• Others - -
b) On-balance sheet exposures
• First loss - -
• Others - -
4. Amount of exposure to securitisation transactions other than MRR
during the year
Off-balance sheet exposures
a) Exposure to own securitisation
• First loss - -
• Others - -
b) Exposure to third party securitisation
• First loss - -
• Others 941.2 269.3
On-balance sheet exposures
a) Exposure to own securitisation
• First loss - -
• Others - -
b) Exposure to third party securitisation
• First loss - -
• Others - -
5. Sale consideration received for the securitised assets and gain/loss
on sale on account of securitization1 - -
6. Outstanding amount of services provided by way of:
• credit enhancement2 3,345.9 4,064.9
• liquidity support 209.7 209.7
• post-securitisation asset servicing - -
201
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Sr. Year ended Year ended
Particulars
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
7. Performance of facilities provided
a) First loss credit facility
• Amount paid (0.00%)4 - -3
• Repayment received (0.00%)4 - -3
• Outstanding amount 734.9 734.9
b) Second loss credit facility
• Amount paid - -
• Repayment received - -
• Outstanding amount2 2,611.0 3,330.0
c) Liquidity facility
• Amount paid (0.07%)4,5 0.13 - 3
• Repayment received (0.07%)4,5 0.13 0.2
• Outstanding amount 209.7 209.7
8. Average default rate of portfolios observed at the year end
a) MBS deals (cumulative in %) 1.4 1.5
b) ABS deals (cumulative in %) - -
9. Amount and number of additional/top up loan given on same
underlying loans.
a) MBS deals
• Gross Amount 56.3 75.8
• Count 86 115
b) ABS deals
• Gross Amount - -
• Count - -
10. Investor complaints
(a) Directly/Indirectly received and; - -
(b) Complaints outstanding - -
1. I ncludes gain/(loss) on deal closures, gain amortised during the year and expenses related to utilisation of credit enhancement
for all the outstanding deals.
2. I ncludes outstanding credit enhancement in the form of guarantees for third party originated securitisation transactions
amounting to ` 1,920.0 million (for the year ended March 31, 2022: ` 2,639.0 million)
3. Insignificant amount
4. P ercentage has been derived based on opening outstanding balance of the facility.
5. F or the year ended March 31, 2023, amount paid: 0.07% (for the year ended March 31, 2022: 0.02%) and repayment received:
0.07% (for the year ended March 31, 2022: 0.08%)
202
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
23. Accounts restructured under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of accounts restructured under MSME sector
under RBI guidelines issued in January 2019 and subsequent changes thereafter.
` in million, except number of accounts
At March 31, 2023 At March, 2022
Number of accounts Amount Number of accounts Amount
restructured outstanding restructured outstanding
1,908 19,669.8 2,500 28,181.8
24. Resolution of stressed assets
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Bank has implemented resolution plan for seven borrowers amounting
to ` 19,286.3 million (March 31, 2022: five borrowers for ` 10,365.3 million) under the prudential framework for
stressed assets issued by RBI on June 7, 2019.
25. Resolution Framework for Covid-19 related Stress
I. The following table sets forth, details of resolution plans implemented under the Resolution Framework for
Covid-19 related stress of individuals and small borrowers as per RBI circular dated May 5, 2021 (Resolution
Framework 2.0):
` in million, except number of accounts
For six months ended March 31, 2023
Type of borrower Exposure to Of (A), Of (A) Of (A) Exposure
accounts classified aggregate amount amount to accounts
as Standard debt that written paid by the classified as
consequent to slipped into off during borrowers Standard
implementation NPA during six six month during six consequent to
of resolution plan month ended ended month ended implementation
– at September, March 31, March 31, March 31, of resolution plan
2022 (A) 20231 2023 20232 at March 31, 2023
Personal Loans3 24,422.2 1,707.7 75.9 3,106.7 19,607.8
Corporate persons4 17,499.5 7,887.3 - 1,503.2 8,109.0
Of which MSMEs - - - - -
Others 6,113.0 226.2 10.3 199.2 5,687.6
Total 48,034.7 9,821.2 86.2 4,809.1 33,404.4
1. Includes cases which have been written off during the period.
2. Net of increase in exposure during the period.
3. Includes various categories of retail loans.
4. As defined in Section 3(7) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016
203
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million, except number of accounts
For the six months ended September 30, 2022
Type of borrower Exposure to Of (A), Of (A) Of (A) amount Exposure to
accounts classified aggregate amount paid by the accounts classified
as Standard debt that written off borrowers as Standard
consequent to slipped into during six during six consequent to
implementation of NPA during six month ended month ended implementation of
resolution plan – month ended September September resolution plan at
at March 31, 2022 September 30, 30, 2022 30, 20222 September
(A) 20221 30, 2022
Personal Loans3 31,154.8 3,569.0 260.4 3,163.6 24,422.2
Corporate persons 17,037.0 - - (462.5) 17,499.5
Of which, MSMEs - - - - -
Others 7,677.3 747.7 41.4 816.6 6,113.0
Total 55,869.1 4,316.7 301.8 3,517.7 48,034.7
1. Includes cases, which have been written off during the period.
2. Net of increase in exposure during the period.
3. Includes various categories of retail loans
For the year March 31, 2022
Type of borrower Exposure to Of (A), Of (A) Of (A) amount Exposure to
accounts classified aggregate amount paid by the accounts classified
as Standard debt that written off borrowers as Standard
consequent to slipped into during six during six consequent to
implementation of NPA during six month ended month ended implementation of
resolution plan – month ended March 31, March 31, resolution plan at
at September 30, March 31, 2022 20223 March 31, 2022
2021 (A)1 20222
Personal Loans4 43,275.3 6,382.4 232.3 5,738.1 31,154.8
Corporate
persons5 29,001.8 - - 11,964.8 17,037.0
Of which MSMEs - - - - -
Others 8,634.2 1,456.3 17.4 (499.4) 7,677.3
Total 80,911.3 7,838.7 249.7 17,203.5 55,869.1
1. Includes cases where request received till September 30, 2021 and implemented subsequently.
2. Includes cases which have been written off during the period.
3. Net of increase in exposure during the period.
4. Includes various categories of retail loans.
5. As defined in Section 3(7) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016
204
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
26. Concentration of Deposits, Advances, Exposures and NPAs
(I) Concentration of deposits, advances, exposures and NPAs
` in million except percentage
At At
Concentration of deposits
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Total deposits of 20 largest depositors 410,099.2 560,155.0
Deposits of 20 largest depositors as a percentage of total deposits
of the Bank 3.47% 5.26%
` in million except percentage
At At
Concentration of advances1
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Total advances to 20 largest borrowers (including banks) 2,023,084.9 1,908,174.2
Advances to 20 largest borrowers as a percentage of total
advances of the Bank 10.28% 11.84%
1. Represents credit exposure (funded and non-funded) including derivatives exposures as per RBI guidelines on exposure
norms.
` in million except percentage
At At
Concentration of exposures1
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Total exposure to 20 largest borrowers/customers (including banks) 2,069,491.6 2,002,175.1
Exposures to 20 largest borrowers/customers as a percentage of
total exposure of the Bank 10.22% 12.03%
1. Represents credit and investment exposures as per RBI guidelines on exposure norms.
` in million except percentage
At At
Concentration of NPAs
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Total exposure1 to top 20 NPA accounts 159,988.5 175,706.5
Exposure of 20 largest NPA as a percentage of total Gross NPAs. 42.71% 42.30 %
1. Represents credit and investment exposures as per RBI guidelines on exposure norms.
205
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
(II) Sector-wise advances
` in million, except percentages
At March 31, 2023
S Outstanding Gross NPAs1 % of gross NPAs1
Particulars
No. advances to total advances
in that sector
A. Priority sector
1. Agriculture and allied activities 630,585.6 29,272.7 4.64%
2. Advances to industries sector eligible as 758,377.7 5,991.2 0.79%
priority sector lending of which:
3. Services 1,038,753.5 12,951.7 1.25%
of which:
Transport operators 150,076.4 2,642.6 1.76%
Wholesale trade 234,252.1 2,972.6 1.27%
4. Personal loans 414,876.7 6,486.0 1.56%
of which:
Housing 402,748.5 6,427.1 1.60%
Sub-total (A) 2,842,593.5 54,701.7 1.92%
B. Non-priority sector
1. Agriculture and allied activities - - -
2. Advances to industries sector 1,699,823.5 157,301.1 9.25%
of which:
Infrastructure 480,462.6 34,621.6 7.21%
3. Services 1,878,763.6 36,837.5 1.96%
of which:
Wholesale Trade 256,179.9 6,881.6 2.69%
Commercial real estate 620,974.9 13,921.0 2.24%
Financial Intermediation 764,400.9 744.1 0.10%
4. Personal loans2 4,025,346.4 51,020.5 1.27%
of which:
Housing 1,759,930.0 17,044.0 0.97%
Vehicle/Auto Loans 434,159.6 6,465.4 1.49%
Sub-total (B) 7,603,933.5 245,159.1 3.22%
Total (A)+(B) 10,446,527.0 299,860.7 2.87%
1. Represents loans and advances.
2. Excludes commercial business loans and dealer funding.
3. Sub-sectors have been disclosed where advances exceed 10% of total advances in that sector at reporting date.
206
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million, except percentages
At March 31, 2022
Sr. Outstanding Gross NPAs1 % of gross NPAs1
Particulars
No. advances to total advances
in that sector
A. Priority sector
1. Agriculture and allied activities 561,419.3 29,726.4 5.29%
2. Advances to industries sector eligible as
priority sector lending 611,332.1 8,836.5 1.45%
3. Services 967,536.0 20,461.2 2.11%
of which:
Transport operators 154,289.1 5,050.1 3.27%
Wholesale trade 143,318.9 1,665.5 1.16%
4. Personal loans 388,528.4 8,479.9 2.18%
of which:
Housing 381,591.5 8,280.6 2.17%
Sub-total (A) 2,528,815.8 67,504.0 2.67%
B. Non-priority sector
1. Agriculture and allied activities - - -
2. Advances to industries sector 1,652,669.8 180,433.1 10.92%
of which:
Infrastructure 498,441.6 48,380.9 9.71%
Basic metal and metal products 183,179.5 5,901.4 3.22%
3. Services 1,518,441.2 38,150.3 2.51%
of which:
Commercial real estate 453,678.9 13,600.2 3.00%
Financial Intermediation 683,966.0 1,033.8 0.15%
Wholesale Trade 191,622.1 6,661.8 3.48%
4. Personal loans2 3,156,836.6 46,861.8 1.48%
of which:
Housing 1,527,478.5 21,193.0 1.39%
Vehicle/Auto Loans 325,837.0 5,171.5 1.59%
Sub-total (B) 6,327,947.6 265,445.2 4.19%
Total (A)+(B) 8,856,763.4 332,949.2 3.76%
1. Represents loans and advances.
2. Excludes commercial business loans and dealer funding.
3. Sub-sectors have been disclosed where advances exceed 10% of total advances in that sector at reporting date.
207
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
(III) Overseas assets, NPAs1 and revenue
` in million
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Total assets2 731,796.0 865,806.3
Total NPAs (net) 3,790.9 6,236.0
Total revenue2 32,912.3 18,399.6
1. Represents loans and advances.
2. Represents the total assets and total revenue of foreign operations as reported in Schedule 18 of the financial statements,
note no. 5 on information about business and geographical segments.
(IV) Off-balance sheet special purpose vehicles (SPVs) sponsored (which are required to be consolidated
as per accounting norms) for the year ended March 31, 2023
1. The following table sets forth, the names of SPVs/trusts sponsored by the Bank/subsidiaries which are consolidated.
Sr. No. Name of the SPV sponsored1
A. Domestic
1. ICICI Strategic Investments Fund2
2. India Advantage Fund-III2
3. India Advantage Fund-IV2
B. Overseas
None
1. SPVs/Trusts which are consolidated and set-up/sponsored by the Bank/subsidiaries of the Bank.
2. The nature of business of the above entities is venture capital fund.
2. There are no SPVs/trusts which are not sponsored by the Bank/subsidiaries and are consolidated.
27. Intra-group exposure
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of intra-group exposure.
` in million
Sr. At At
Particulars
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
1. Total amount of intra-group exposures 176,612.2 169,408.4
2. Total amount of top 20 intra-group exposures 176,612.2 169,408.0
3. Percentage of intra-group exposure to total exposures of the
Bank on borrowers/customers 0.87% 1.02%
4. Details of breach of limits on intra-group exposures and regulatory
action thereon, if any Nil Nil
208
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
28. Exposure to sensitive sectors
The Bank has exposure to sectors, which are sensitive to asset price fluctuations. The sensitive sectors include
capital markets and real estate.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the position of exposure to capital market sector.
` in million
Sr. At At
Particulars
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
1. Direct investment in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible
debentures and units of equity-oriented mutual funds, the corpus
of which is not exclusively invested in corporate debt 48,803.9 46,902.8
2. Advances against shares/bonds/debentures or other securities or
on clean basis to individuals for investment in shares (including
IPOs/ESOPs), convertible bonds, convertible debentures and units
of equity-oriented mutual funds 1,394.3 1,545.2
3. Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible
bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual
funds are taken as primary security 23,224.9 22,361.0
4. Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by the
collateral security of shares or convertible bonds or convertible
debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds i.e. where the
primary security other than shares/convertible bonds/convertible
debentures/units of equity oriented mutual funds does not fully
cover the advances - -
5. Secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers and guarantees
issued on behalf of stock brokers and market makers 162,337.0 123,510.6
6. Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows/issues - -
7. All exposures to venture capital funds (both registered and 14,440.7 10,181.7
unregistered)
8. Others - -
Total exposure to capital market1 250,200.8 204,501.3
1. At March 31, 2023, excludes investment in equity shares of ` 22,588.5 million (March 31, 2022: ` 21,779.6
million) exempted from the regulatory ceiling, out of which investments of ` 4,650.0 million (March 31, 2022:
` 3,054.6 million) were acquired due to conversion of debt to equity during restructuring process under RBI
circular dated June 7, 2019 on “Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets” and investments of
` 16,330.2 million (March 31, 2022: ` 17,116.6 million) were acquired under other resolution schemes of RBI.
209
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the summary of exposure to real estate sector.
` in million
Sr. At At
Particulars
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
I Direct exposure 4,405,419.9 3,641,419.7
1. Residential mortgages 3,434,920.2 2,897,232.4
of which: individual housing loans eligible for priority sector
advances 418,496.4 397,578.1
2. Commercial real estate1 940,828.6 713,574.3
3. Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other
securitised exposure 29,671.1 30,613.0
a. Residential 25,420.4 26,310.2
b. Commercial real estate 4,250.7 4,302.8
II Indirect exposure 191,342.0 162,163.3
Fund based and non-fund based exposures on National Housing
Bank (NHB) and Housing Finance Companies (HFCs) 191,342.0 162,163.3
Total exposure to real estate sector 4,596,761.9 3,803,583.0
1. C ommercial real estate exposure includes loans to individuals against non-residential premises, loans given to land and building
developers for construction, corporate loans for development of special economic zone, loans to borrowers where servicing of
loans is from a real estate activity and exposures to mutual funds/venture capital funds/private equity funds investing primarily
in the real estate companies.
29. Factoring business
At March 31, 2023, the outstanding receivables acquired by the Bank under factoring business were ` 54,281.8
million (March 31, 2022: ` 39,289.5 million) which are reported under ‘Bills purchased and discounted’ in Schedule
9 – Advances of the balance sheet.
30. Risk category-wise country exposure
As per the extant RBI guidelines, the country exposure of the Bank is categorised into various risk categories listed in
the following table. The funded country exposure (net) of the Bank as a percentage of total funded assets for United
States of America was 2.74% (March 31, 2022: 3.53%). As the net funded exposure to United States of America
at March 31, 2023, exceeded 1% of total funded assets (March 31, 2022: United States of America and United
Kingdom), the Bank held a provision of ` 365.0 million on country exposure at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022:
` 580.0 million) based on RBI guidelines.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of exposure (net) and provision held by the bank.
` in million
Exposure (net) at Provision held at Exposure (net) Provision held at
Risk category
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2023 at March 31, 2022 March 31,2022
Insignificant 1,023,324.6 365.0 1,109,785.2 580.0
Low 225,028.2 - 319,041.5 -
Moderately Low 30,962.3 - 3,540.2 -
Moderate 1,522.5 - 13,686.9 -
Moderately High 10,899.2 - 134.7 -
High 118.0 - - -
Very High - - - -
Total 1,291,854.8 365.0 1,446,188.5 580.0
210
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
31. Unsecured advances against intangible assets
The Bank has not made advances against intangible collaterals of the borrowers, which are classified as ‘Unsecured’
in the financial statements at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: Nil).
32. Revaluation of fixed assets
The Bank follows the revaluation model for its premises (land and buildings) other than improvements to leasehold
property as per AS 10 – ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’. As per the Bank’s policy, annual revaluation is carried out
through external valuers, using methodologies such as direct sales comparison method and income capitalisation
method and the incremental amount has been taken to revaluation reserve. The revalued amount at March 31, 2023
was ` 54,723.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 57,269.6 million) as compared to the historical cost less accumulated
depreciation of ` 24,099.2 million (March 31, 2022: ` 25,313.0 million).
The revaluation reserve is not available for distribution of dividend.
33. Fixed Assets
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in software acquired by the Bank, as included
in fixed assets.
` in million
At At
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
At cost at March 31 of preceding year 29,157.1 25,543.0
Additions during the year 4,466.7 3,922.1
Deductions during the year (2,189.2) (308.1)
Depreciation to date (22,631.2) (21,220.3)
Net block 8,803.4 7,936.7
34. Debt assets swap transactions
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Bank did not acquire any non-banking assets under debt-asset swap
transactions (year ended March 31, 2022: Nil).
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Bank has not sold non-banking assets (year ended March 31, 2022:
` 563.6 million, which were fully provided and sold for consideration of ` 430.5 million)
The net book value of non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims by the Bank outstanding at March 31, 2023
amounted to Nil (March 31, 2022: Nil), net of provision held of ` 29,011.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 29,011.8 million).
35. Lease
I. Assets taken under operating lease
Operating leases primarily comprise office premises which are renewable at the option of the Bank.
i. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of liability for premises taken on non-
cancellable operating leases.
` in million
At At
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Not later than one year 298.9 102.7
Later than one year and not later than five years 180.0 67.3
Later than five years 7.1 9.9
Total 486.0 179.9
211
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
ii. Total of non-cancellable lease payments recognised in the profit and loss account for the year ended March 31,
2023 is ` 552.6 million (year ended March 31, 2022 ` 283.6 million).
II. Assets taken under finance lease
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of assets taken on finance leases.
` in million
At At
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
1. Total Minimum lease payments outstanding
Not later than one year 271.3 269.2
Later than one year and not later than five years 596.1 792.3
Later than five years 14.9 76.4
Total 882.3 1,137.9
2. Interest cost payable
Not later than one year 70.0 92.5
Later than one year and not later than five years 83.3 146.8
Later than five years 0.5 3.8
Total 153.8 243.1
3. Present value of minimum lease payments payable(A-B)
Not later than one year 201.3 176.7
Later than one year and not later than five years 512.8 645.5
Later than five years 14.4 72.6
Total 728.5 894.8
36. Description of contingent liabilities
The following table describes the nature of contingent liabilities of the Bank.
Sr.
Contingent liability Brief Description
no.
1. Claims against This item represents demands made in certain tax and legal matters against the
the Bank, not Bank in the normal course of business and customer claims arising in fraud cases.
acknowledged as In accordance with the Bank’s accounting policy and AS 29, the Bank has reviewed
debts and classified these items as possible obligations based on legal opinion/judicial
precedents/assessment by the Bank.
2. Liability for partly This item represents amounts remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid
paid investments investments. These payment obligations of the Bank do not have any profit/loss
impact.
3. Liability on account The Bank enters into foreign exchange contracts in the normal course of its business,
of outstanding to exchange currencies at a pre-fixed price at a future date. This item represents the
forward exchange notional principal amount of such contracts, which are derivative instruments. With
contracts respect to the transactions entered into with its customers, the Bank generally enters
into off-setting transactions in the inter-bank market. This results in generation of a
higher number of outstanding transactions, and hence a large value of gross notional
principal of the portfolio, while the net market risk is lower.
212
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Sr.
Contingent liability Brief Description
no.
4. Guarantees This item represents the guarantees and documentary credits issued by the Bank in
given on behalf favour of third parties on behalf of its customers, as part of its trade finance banking
of constituents, activities with a view to augment the customers’ credit standing. Through these
acceptances, instruments, the Bank undertakes to make payments for its customers’ obligations,
endorsements and either directly or in case the customers fail to fulfill their financial or performance
other obligations obligations.
5. Currency swaps, This item represents the notional principal amount of various derivative instruments
interest rate swaps, which the Bank undertakes in its normal course of business. The Bank offers these
currency options and products to its customers to enable them to transfer, modify or reduce their foreign
interest rate futures exchange and interest rate risks. The Bank also undertakes these contracts to
manage its own interest rate and foreign exchange positions. With respect to the
transactions entered into with its customers, the Bank generally enters into off-setting
transactions in the inter-bank market. This results in generation of a higher number
of outstanding transactions, and hence a large value of gross notional principal of the
portfolio, while the net market risk is lower.
6. Other items for Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable primarily include the amount
which the Bank is of government securities bought/sold and remaining to be settled on the date
contingently liable of financial statements. This also includes amount transferred to RBI under the
Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (S), commitment towards contribution to
venture fund, the amount that the Bank is obligated to pay under capital contracts
and letter of undertaking and indemnity letters. Capital contracts are job orders of a
capital nature which have been committed.
37. Insurance business
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of income derived from insurance business.
` in million
Sr. Year ended Year ended
Particulars
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
1. Income from selling life insurance policies 3,821.2 5,775.8
2. Income from selling non-life insurance policies 1,030.6 901.9
38. Marketing & Distribution
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, income received from marketing and distribution function.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Income received in respect of the marketing and distribution 4,928.2 4,721.6
1. Includes referral fees, commission and fees received on distribution/cross selling of various products including mutual funds.
213
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
39. Employee benefits
Pension
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for pension benefits.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Opening obligations 18,661.0 20,265.6
Service cost 151.7 204.6
Interest cost 1,150.6 1,145.3
Actuarial (gain)/loss 758.2 (546.5)
Liabilities extinguished on settlement (2,192.6) (2,289.8)
Benefits paid (99.8) (118.2)
Obligations at the end of year 18,429.1 18,661.0
Opening plan assets, at fair value 19,843.3 21,162.2
Expected return on plan assets 1,522.0 1,620.7
Actuarial gain/(loss) (682.0) (331.9)
Assets distributed on settlement (2,436.2) (2,544.2)
Contributions 42.9 54.7
Benefits paid (99.8) (118.2)
Closing plan assets, at fair value 18,190.2 19,843.3
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 18,190.2 19,843.3
Present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year (18,429.1) (18,661.0)
Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in Para 59(b) of AS 15 on
‘employee benefits’) - (401.9)
Asset/(liability) (238.9) 780.4
Cost1
Service cost 151.7 204.6
Interest cost 1,150.6 1,145.3
Expected return on plan assets (1,522.0) (1,620.7)
Actuarial (gain)/loss 1,440.2 (214.6)
Curtailments & settlements (gain)/loss 243.6 254.4
Effect of the limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’ (401.9) 97.1
Net cost 1,062.2 (133.9)
Actual return on plan assets 840.0 1,288.8
Expected employer’s contribution next year 1,000.0 2,000.0
Investment details of plan assets
Government of India securities 41.74% 46.69%
Corporate bonds 48.30% 46.45%
Equity securities in listed companies 7.08% 6.46%
Others 2.87% 0.40%
Assumptions
Discount rate 7.30% 6.30%
Salary escalation rate:
On Basic pay 1.50% 1.50%
On Dearness relief 8.00% 7.00%
Estimated rate of return on plan assets 7.50% 7.50%
1. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule-16 Operating expenses.
214
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Estimated rate of return on plan assets is based on the expected average long-term rate of return on investments of
the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
Experience adjustment
` in million
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019
Plan assets 18,190.2 19,843.3 21,162.2 16,972.1 15,438.8
Defined benefit obligations (18,429.1) (18,661.0) (20,265.6) (19,914.3) (16,540.3)
Amount not recognised as an
asset (limit in para 59(b) of
AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’) - (401.9) (304.8) - -
Surplus/(deficit) (238.9) 780.4 591.8 (2,942.2) (1,101.5)
Experience adjustment on
plan assets (682.0) (331.9) 521.9 741.1 (125.9)
Experience adjustment on
plan liabilities 805.8 809.0 613.4 2,186.1 1,038.6
Gratuity
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for gratuity benefits.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Opening obligations 13,590.0 12,842.8
Add: Adjustment for exchange fluctuation on opening obligations 12.2 6.0
Adjusted opening obligations 13,602.2 12,848.8
Service cost 1,342.3 1,294.5
Interest cost 963.0 875.8
Actuarial (gain)/loss 1,178.0 (112.0)
Past service cost - -
Liability transferred from/to other companies 34.5 1.9
Benefits paid (1,553.6) (1,319.0)
Obligations at the end of the year 15,566.4 13,590.0
Opening plan assets, at fair value 13,577.4 12,934.8
Expected return on plan assets 985.5 945.7
Actuarial gain/(loss) (499.4) (64.9)
Contributions 1,375.9 1,078.9
Asset transferred from/to other companies 34.5 1.9
Benefits paid (1,553.6) (1,319.0)
Closing plan assets, at fair value 13,920.3 13,577.4
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 13,920.3 13,577.4
Present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year (15,566.4) (13,590.0)
Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in Para 59(b) of AS 15 on
‘employee benefits’) - -
Asset/(liability) (1,646.1) (12.6)
215
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Cost1
Service cost 1,342.3 1,294.5
Interest cost 963.0 875.8
Expected return on plan assets (985.5) (945.7)
Actuarial (gain)/loss 1,677.4 (47.1)
Past service cost - -
Exchange fluctuation loss/(gain) 12.2 6.0
Effect of the limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’ - -
Net cost 3,009.4 1,183.6
Actual return on plan assets 486.1 880.7
Expected employer’s contribution next year 1,500.0 800.0
Investment details of plan assets
Insurer managed funds - -
Government of India securities 33.40% 29.29%
Corporate bonds 47.63% 47.96%
Equity 16.71% 20.65%
Others 2.26% 2.10%
Assumptions
Discount rate 7.35% 6.85%
Salary escalation rate 8.00% 7.00%
Estimated rate of return on plan assets 7.50% 7.50%
1. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule-16 Operating expenses.
Estimated rate of return on plan assets is based on the expected average long-term rate of return on investments
of the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
Experience adjustment
` in million
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31,2021 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019
Plan assets 13,920.3 13,577.4 12,934.8 10,877.1 9,821.2
Defined benefit obligations (15,566.4) (13,590.0) (12,842.8) (11,938.7) (10,114.4)
Amount not recognised as an
asset (limit in para 59(b) of
AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’) - - - - -
Surplus/(deficit) (1,646.1) (12.6) 92.0 (1,061.6) (293.2)
Experience adjustment on
plan assets (499.4) (64.9) 720.2 (125.0) (60.3)
Experience adjustment on
plan liabilities 731.6 368.0 (484.5) 181.3 118.4
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take into consideration inflation, seniority,
promotion and other relevant factors.
216
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Provident Fund (PF)
As there is no liability towards interest rate guarantee on exempt provident fund on the basis of actuarial valuation,
the Bank has not made any provision for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: Nil).
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for provident fund.
` in million
Year ended March Year ended
Particulars
31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Opening obligations 43,128.7 39,349.2
Service cost 2,458.4 1,972.5
Interest cost 3,024.7 2,620.3
Actuarial (gain)/loss 862.8 (150.8)
Employees contribution 4,163.2 3,558.4
Liability transferred from/to other companies 934.6 588.8
Benefits paid (5,502.7) (4,809.7)
Obligations at end of the year 49,069.7 43,128.7
Opening plan assets 44,339.6 39,349.2
Expected return on plan assets 3,741.0 3,434.2
Actuarial gain/(loss) (329.0) 246.2
Employer contributions 2,458.4 1,972.5
Employees contributions 4,163.2 3,558.4
Asset transferred from/to other companies 934.6 588.8
Benefits paid (5,502.7) (4,809.7)
Closing plan assets 49,805.1 44,339.6
Plan assets at the end of the year 49,805.1 44,339.6
Present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year (49,069.7) (43,128.7)
Amount not recognised as asset (limit in para 59(b) od AS-15 on
‘employee benefits’)1 (735.4) (1,210.9)
Asset/(liability) - -
Cost2
Service cost 2,458.4 1,972.5
Interest cost 3,024.7 2,620.3
Expected return on plan assets (3,741.0) (3,434.2)
Actuarial (gain)/loss 1,191.8 (397.0)
Effect of the limit in Para 59(b)1 (475.5) 1,210.9
Net cost 2,458.4 1,972.5
Actual return on plan assets 3,412.0 3,680.4
Expected employer’s contribution next year 2,655.0 2,110.6
Investment details of plan assets
Government of India securities 55.17% 53.53%
Corporate bonds 35.12% 36.18%
Special deposit scheme 1.08% 1.22%
Others 8.63% 9.07%
Assumption
Discount rate 7.35% 6.85%
Expected rate of return on assets 7.97% 8.25%
Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of investments 7.40% 6.85%
Average historic yield on the investment 8.01% 8.25%
Guaranteed rate of return 8.15% 8.10%
1. P ursuant to revised Guidance Note 29 on “Valuation of Interest Rate Guaranatees on Exempt Provident Funds under AS15
(Revised)” issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India on February 16, 2022, plan assets held by the PF Trust have been fair
valued. The amount represents the fair value gain on plan assets.
2. I ncluded in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule-16 Operating expenses.
217
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Experience adjustment
` in million
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019
Plan assets 49,805.1 44,339.6 39,349.2 33,424.3 28,757.5
Defined benefit obligations (49,069.7) (43,128.7) (39,349.2) (33,424.3) (28,757.5)
Amount not recognised as an
asset (limit in para 59(b) of
AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’) (735.4) (1,210.9) - - -
Surplus/(deficit) - - - - -
Experience adjustment on
plan assets (329.0) 246.3 530.5 (626.7) 11.8
Experience adjustment on
plan liabilities 476.1 (812.5) 1,467.8 (171.5) 402.6
3. P ursuant to revised Guidance Note 29 on “Valuation of Interest Rate Guaranatees on Exempt Provident Funds under AS15
(Revised)” issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India on February 16, 2022, plan assets held by the PF Trust have been fair
valued. The amount represents the fair value gain on plan assets.
The Bank has contributed ` 3,846.1 million to provident fund for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31,
2022: ` 3,224.9 million), which includes compulsory contribution made towards employee pension scheme under
Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952.
Superannuation Fund
The Bank has contributed ` 302.0 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 255.9
million) to Superannuation Fund for employees who had opted for the scheme.
National Pension Scheme (NPS)
The Bank has contributed ` 279.8 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 224.8
million) to NPS for employees who had opted for the scheme.
Compensated absence
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, movement in provision for compensated absence.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Total actuarial liability 3,079.8 3,081.6
Cost1 694.0 752.2
Assumptions
Discount rate 7.35% 6.85%
Salary escalation rate 8.00% 7.00%
1. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule-16 Operating expenses.
218
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
40. M ovement in provision for credit cards/debit cards/savings accounts and direct marketing agents
reward points
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, movement in provision for credit cards/debit cards/savings
accounts reward points.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Opening provision for reward points 3,278.3 2,612.6
Provision for reward points made during the year 12,377.7 7,877.7
Utilisation/write-back of provision for reward points (10,930.5) (7,212.0)
Closing provision for reward points1 4,725.5 3,278.3
1. T he closing provision is based on the actuarial valuation of accumulated credit cards/debit cards/savings accounts reward
points.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, movement in provision for reward points to direct marketing
agents.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Opening provision for reward points 248.0 172.2
Provision for reward points made during the year 103.3 214.5
Utilisation/write-back of provision for reward points (151.6) (138.7)
Closing provision for reward points 199.7 248.0
41. Provisions and contingencies
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of provisions and contingencies included in
profit and loss account.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Provisions for depreciation of investments 12,995.4 3,771.1
Provision towards non-performing and other assets1 (6,222.9) 61,640.4
Provision towards income tax
1. Current 102,544.8 62,976.8
2. Deferred 2,702.5 9,717.2
Other provisions and contingencies2,3 59,883.3 21,002.7
Total provisions and contingencies 171,903.1 159,108.2
1. Includes provision towards NPA amounting to ` 10,166.1 million (March 31, 2022: ` 37,077.5 million).
2. I ncludes contingency provision made amounting to ` 56,500.0 million on a prudent basis during the year ended March 31, 2023
(March 31, 2022: wrote-back provision ` 250.0 million).
3. I ncludes general provision made towards standard assets, provision on fixed assets acquired under debt-asset swap and non-
fund based facilities.
219
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The Bank has assessed its obligations arising in the normal course of business, including pending litigations,
proceedings pending with tax authorities and other contracts including derivative and long term contracts. In
accordance with the provisions of AS 29 on ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’, the Bank
recognises a provision for material foreseeable losses when it has a present obligation as a result of a past event
and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable
estimate can be made. In cases where the available information indicates that the loss on the contingency is
reasonably possible or the amount of loss cannot be reasonably estimated, a disclosure to this effect is made as
contingent liabilities in the financial statements. The Bank does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have
a materially adverse effect on its financial results.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in provision for legal and fraud cases,
operational risk and other contingencies.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Opening provision 43,991.3 27,527.9
Movement during the year (net) (2,700.3) 16,463.4
Closing provision 41,291.0 43,991.3
1. Excludes provision towards sundry expenses.
42. Provision for income tax
The provision for income tax (including deferred tax) for the year ended March 31, 2023 amounted to ` 105,247.3
million (March 31, 2022: ` 72,693.9 million).
The Bank has a comprehensive system of maintenance of information and documents required by transfer pricing
legislation under section 92-92F of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The Bank is of the opinion that all transactions with
international related parties and specified transactions with domestic related parties are primarily at arm's length
so that the above legislation does not have material impact on the financial statements.
43. Deferred tax
At March 31, 2023, the Bank has recorded net deferred tax assets of ` 75,034.5 million (March 31, 2022: ` 77,732.7
million), which have been included in other assets.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of deferred tax assets and liabilities into major
items.
` in million
At At
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Deferred tax assets
Provision for bad and doubtful debts 104,040.7 104,563.5
Provision for operating expenses 4,026.9 -
Others 8,973.7 8,911.3
Total deferred tax assets 117,041.3 113,474.8
Deferred tax liabilities
Special reserve deduction 36,735.9 30,284.3
Depreciation on fixed assets 4,449.7 4,043.8
Interest on refund of taxes2 206.2 168.4
Foreign currency translation reserve2 615.0 1,245.6
Total deferred tax liabilities 42,006.8 35,742.1
Total net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 75,034.5 77,732.7
1. Tax rate of 25.168% is applied based on the prevailing provisions of the Income tax Act, 1961.
2. These items are considered in accordance with the requirements of Income Computation and Disclosure Standards (ICDS).
220
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
44. Details of provisioning pertaining to fraud accounts
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of provisioning pertaining to fraud accounts.
` in million, except number of frauds
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Number of frauds reported 6,642 5,678
Amount involved in frauds 3,853.9 31,000.5
Provision made1 1,570.8 3,730.3
Unamortised provision debited from balance in profit and loss account
under ‘Reserves and Surplus’ - -
1. Excludes amount written off and interest reversal.
45. Proposed dividend on equity shares
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 22, 2023 has recommended a dividend of ` 8 per equity share for
the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 5 per equity share). The declaration and payment of
dividend is subject to requisite approvals.
46. Related party transactions
The Bank has transactions with its related parties comprising subsidiaries, associates/joint ventures/other related
entities, key management personnel and relatives of key management personnel.
I. Subsidiaries, associates/joint ventures/other related entities
Sr. no. Name of the entity Nature of relationship
1. ICICI Bank Canada Subsidiary
2. ICICI Bank UK PLC Subsidiary
3. ICICI Home Finance Company Limited Subsidiary
4. ICICI International Limited Subsidiary
5. ICICI Investment Management Company Limited Subsidiary
6. ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited Subsidiary
7. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited Subsidiary
8. ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company Limited Subsidiary
9. ICICI Prudential Trust Limited Subsidiary
10. ICICI Securities Holdings Inc. Subsidiary
11. ICICI Securities Inc. Subsidiary
12. ICICI Securities Limited Subsidiary
13. ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited Subsidiary
14. ICICI Trusteeship Services Limited Subsidiary
15. ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited Subsidiary
16. Arteria Technologies Private Limited Associate
17. India Advantage Fund-III Associate
18. India Advantage Fund-IV Associate
19. India Infradebt Limited Associate
20. ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited Associate
21. ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited Associate
22. I-Process Services (India) Private Limited Associate
23. NIIT Institute of Finance, Banking and Insurance Training Limited Associate
24. ICICI Strategic Investments Fund Consolidated as per Accounting
Standard (‘AS’) 21
25. Comm Trade Services Limited Other related entity
26. ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth Other related entity
27. Cheryl Advisory Private Limited Other related entity
221
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Key management personnel
Sr. no. Name of the Key management personnel Relatives of the Key management personnel
1. Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi Ms. Mona Bakhshi
Mr. Shivam Bakhshi
Ms. Aishwarya Bakhshi
Ms. Esha Bakhshi
Ms. Minal Bakhshi
Mr. Sameer Bakhshi
Mr. Ritwik Thakurta
Mr. Ashwin Pradhan
Ms. Radhika Bakhshi
2. Mr. Anup Bagchi Ms. Mitul Bagchi
Mr. Aditya Bagchi
Mr. Shishir Bagchi
Mr. Arun Bagchi
3. Mr. Sandeep Batra Mr. Pranav Batra
Ms. Arushi Batra
Mr. Vivek Batra
Ms. Veena Batra
4. Mr. Rakesh Jha Mr. Narendra Kumar Jha
(w.e.f. September 2, 2022) Mr. Navin Ahuja
Mr. Sharad Bansal
Ms. Aparna Ahuja
Ms. Apoorva Jha Bansal
Ms. Pushpa Jha
Ms. Sanjali Jha
Ms. Swati Jha
5. Ms. Vishakha Mulye Mr. Vivek Mulye
(upto May 31, 2022) Ms. Vriddhi Mulye
Mr. Vighnesh Mulye
Dr. Gauresh Palekar
Ms. Shalaka Gadekar
Dr. Nivedita Palekar
II. Transactions with related parties
T he following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the significant transactions between the Bank and its
related parties.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Items
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Interest income 884.6 779.4
Subsidiaries 448.8 279.3
Associates/joint ventures/others 432.6 494.1
Key management personnel 3.2 6.0
Income from services rendered 6,709.3 8,748.1
Subsidiaries 5,365.9 7,579.2
Associates/joint ventures/others 1,343.4 1,168.9
Key management personnel 0.0 0.0
Relatives of key management personnel 0.0 0.0
222
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Items
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Gain/(loss) on forex and derivative transactions (net)2 (49.0) 45.5
Subsidiaries (99.8) 8.9
Associates/joint ventures/others 50.8 36.6
Dividend income 17,845.6 18,287.9
Subsidiaries 15,498.5 16,294.6
Associates/joint ventures/others 2,347.1 1,993.3
Insurance claims received 1,809.4 948.9
Subsidiaries 1,650.0 719.5
Associates/joint ventures/others 159.4 229.4
Income from shared services 2,568.6 2,225.0
Subsidiaries 2,279.4 1,888.9
Associates/joint ventures/others 289.2 336.1
Interest expense 387.8 116.4
Subsidiaries 303.0 81.4
Associates/joint ventures/others 64.9 28.8
Key management personnel 15.3 4.8
Relatives of key management personnel 4.6 1.4
Expenses for services received 16,446.3 12,941.5
Subsidiaries 745.0 647.3
Associates/joint ventures/others 15,701.3 12,294.2
Insurance premium paid 9,521.8 10,189.9
Subsidiaries 6,717.7 7,537.2
Associates/joint ventures/others 2,804.1 2,652.7
Expenses for shared services and other payments 646.9 456.3
Subsidiaries 646.9 456.3
CSR related reimbursement of expenses 4,441.1 2,239.2
Associates/joint ventures/others 4,441.1 2,239.2
Purchase of investments 16,750.8 8,821.6
Subsidiaries 16,750.8 8,821.6
Investments in the securities issued by related parties - 2,706.8
Subsidiaries - 2,706.8
Capital Infusion by Parent 2,649.9 -
Subsidiaries 2,649.9 -
Sale of investments 56,799.5 20,477.8
Subsidiaries 41,334.4 18,967.1
Associates/joint ventures/others 15,465.1 1,510.7
Redemption/buyback of investments 50.0 28,683.6
Subsidiaries 50.0 28,153.6
Associates/joint ventures/others - 530.0
Purchase of loans 20,574.6 7,296.5
Subsidiaries 20,574.6 7,296.5
Purchase of unfunded risk participation - 861.1
Subsidiaries - 861.1
223
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Items
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Purchase of fixed assets 4.9 4.8
Subsidiaries 1.5 -
Associates/joint ventures/others 3.4 4.8
Remuneration to wholetime directors3 336.6 262.3
Key management personnel 336.6 262.3
Dividend paid 3.8 2.4
Key management personnel 3.1 2.4
Relatives of key management personnel 0.7 0.0
Value of employee stock options exercised 290.6 394.2
Key management personnel 290.6 394.2
Sale of fixed assets 0.2 -
Key management personnel 0.2 -
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2. The Bank undertakes derivative transactions with its subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other related entities. The
Bank manages its foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from these transactions by covering them in the market.
While the Bank, within its overall position limits covers these transactions in the market, the above amounts represent only
the transactions with its subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other related entities and not the offsetting/covering
transactions.
3. Excludes the perquisite value on employee stock options exercised and includes performance bonus paid during the
period.
III. Material transactions with related parties
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the material transactions between the Bank and its
related parties. A specific related party transaction is disclosed as a material related party transaction wherever
it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in that category.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Interest income
1 India Infradebt Limited 419.0 488.7
2 ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 317.0 241.4
3 ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited 116.6 14.9
Income from services rendered
1 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 3,927.8 5,892.2
2 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 1,192.5 1,032.5
3 ICICI Securities Limited 858.2 1,185.4
Gain/(loss) on forex and derivative transactions (net)1
1 ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited 124.2 (45.0)
2 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 50.8 36.6
3 ICICI Home Finance Company Limited (211.3) 74.2
4 ICICI Bank Canada (11.1) (22.7)
224
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Dividend income
1 ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited 6,220.8 6,139.8
2 ICICI Securities Limited 5,437.2 5,980.9
3 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 2,240.5 1,886.8
Insurance claims received
1 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 1,650.0 719.5
2 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 159.4 229.4
Income from shared services
1 ICICI Bank UK PLC 540.8 473.2
2 ICICI Securities Limited 536.4 339.1
3 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 384.0 370.9
4 ICICI Bank Canada 326.8 286.6
5 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 224.7 281.5
Interest expense
1 ICICI Securities Limited 289.8 71.8
Expenses for services received
1 I-Process Services (India) Private Limited 10,406.5 8,450.3
2 ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited 5,225.3 3,787.6
Insurance premium paid
1 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 6,717.7 7,537.2
2 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 2,804.1 2,652.7
Expenses for shared services and other payments
1 ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 599.6 366.7
CSR related reimbursement of expenses
1 ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth 4,441.1 2,239.2
Purchase of investments
1 ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited 16,246.1 7,945.8
Investments in the securities issued by related parties
1 ICICI Home Finance Company Limited - 2,706.8
Capital Infusion by Parent
1 ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 2,500.0 -
Sale of investments
1 ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited 21,625.8 7,319.8
2 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 19,408.7 11,543.5
3 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 8,445.4 -
4 India Infradebt Limited 7,019.7 1,510.7
Redemption/buyback of investments
1 ICICI Securities Limited 50.0 -
2 ICICI Bank UK PLC - 14,846.0
3 ICICI Bank Canada - 13,307.6
225
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Purchase of loans
1 ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 19,290.7 6,766.5
Purchase of unfunded risk participation
1 ICICI Bank UK PLC - 861.1
Purchase of fixed assets
1 Arteria Technologies Private Limited 3.2 1.7
2 ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 1.3 -
3 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 0.1 3.1
Remuneration to wholetime directors2
1 Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi 95.7 70.5
2 Mr. Anup Bagchi 86.5 66.3
3 Mr. Sandeep Batra 85.3 61.9
4 Mr. Rakesh Jha 45.9 N.A.
5 Ms. Vishakha Mulye 23.2 63.6
Dividend paid
1 Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi 1.7 0.4
2 Mr. Sandeep Batra 0.6 0.2
3 Mr. Rakesh Jha 0.7 N.A.
4 Mr. Shivam Bakhshi 0.4 -
5 Ms. Vishakha Mulye N.A. 1.8
Value of employee stock options exercised
1 Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi 27.2 277.1
2 Mr. Anup Bagchi 183.2 56.0
3 Mr. Sandeep Batra 6.4 4.8
4 Ms. Vishakha Mulye 73.8 56.3
Sale of fixed assets
1 Mr. Rakesh Jha 0.1 N.A.
2 Ms. Vishakha Mulye 0.1 -
1. The Bank undertakes derivative transactions with its subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other related entities.
The Bank manages its foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from these transactions by covering them in the
market. While the Bank, within its overall position limits covers these transactions in the market, the above amounts
represent only the transactions with its subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other related entities and not the
offsetting/covering transactions.
2. Excludes the perquisite value on employee stock options exercised and includes performance bonus paid during
the period.
226
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
IV. Related party outstanding balances
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the balances payable to/receivable from related parties.
` in million
Items At At
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Deposits with the Bank 24,829.0 23,987.7
Subsidiaries 21,913.1 20,405.8
Associates/joint ventures/others 2,603.0 3,424.7
Key management personnel 224.6 125.1
Relatives of key management personnel 88.3 32.1
Investments of related parties in the Bank 1.2 50.2
Subsidiaries - 45.7
Key management personnel 1.0 2.0
Relatives of key management personnel 0.2 2.5
Call/term money lent by the Bank 6,000.0 -
Subsidiaries 6,000.0 -
Payables2 3,860.5 3,591.0
Subsidiaries 142.1 108.3
Associates/joint ventures/others 3,717.0 3,482.6
Key management personnel 0.4 0.0
Relatives of key management personnel 1.0 0.1
Deposits by the Bank 1,519.9 628.9
Subsidiaries 1,519.9 628.9
Investments of the Bank 94,344.5 93,105.0
Subsidiaries 69,772.9 68,623.0
Associates/joint ventures/others 24,571.6 24,482.0
Advances by the Bank 3,280.6 4,767.3
Subsidiaries 3,003.2 4,500.2
Associates/joint ventures/others 191.3 127.7
Key management personnel 85.7 139.1
Relatives of key management personnel 0.4 0.3
Receivables2 3,633.8 2,836.8
Subsidiaries 2,190.4 1,116.0
Associates/joint ventures/others 1,443.4 1,720.8
Guarantees/letters of credit/indemnity given by the Bank 2,356.5 6,701.4
Subsidiaries 2,293.4 6,642.4
Associates/joint ventures/others 63.1 59.0
Guarantees/letters of credit/indemnity issued by related parties 12,950.3 9,615.0
Subsidiaries 12,950.3 9,615.0
Swaps/forward contracts (notional amount) 10,648.9 55,104.5
Subsidiaries 10,648.9 55,104.5
Unfunded risk participation 953.3 879.3
Subsidiaries 953.3 879.3
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2. Excludes mark-to-market on outstanding derivative transactions.
227
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
V. Related party maximum balances
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the maximum balances payable to/receivable from related
parties.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Items
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Deposits with the Bank 34,787.5 44,081.7
Subsidiaries 27,024.5 36,999.2
Associates/joint ventures/others 7,119.8 6,637.2
Key management personnel 384.6 277.4
Relatives of key management personnel 258.6 167.9
Investments of related parties in the Bank1 50.9 51.1
Subsidiaries 48.8 45.7
Key management personnel 1.8 2.9
Relatives of key management personnel 0.3 2.5
Call/term money lent by the Bank 11,083.0 8,200.0
Subsidiaries 11,083.0 8,200.0
Payables1,2 6,199.8 5,055.3
Subsidiaries 169.8 150.5
Associates/joint ventures/others 6,028.6 4,904.6
Key management personnel 0.4 0.1
Relatives of key management personnel 1.0 0.1
Deposits by the Bank 3,461.2 3,274.3
Subsidiaries 3,461.2 3,274.3
Investments of the Bank 97,704.9 125,624.0
Subsidiaries 69,772.9 97,565.7
Associates/joint ventures/others 27,932.0 28,058.3
Advances by the Bank 9,945.7 12,458.0
Subsidiaries 9,608.9 12,003.8
Associates/joint ventures/others 195.3 183.1
Key management personnel 139.2 269.2
Relatives of key management personnel 2.3 1.9
Receivables1,2 6,111.7 5,676.0
Subsidiaries 3,930.7 3,499.9
Associates/joint ventures/others 2,181.0 2,176.1
Guarantees/letters of credit/indemnity given by the Bank 4,274.9 12,048.4
Subsidiaries 4,211.8 11,988.1
Associates/joint ventures/others 63.1 60.3
Guarantees/letters of credit/indemnity issued by related parties1 12,950.3 11,422.4
Subsidiaries 12,950.3 11,422.4
Swaps/forward contracts (notional amount) 55,163.8 222,791.6
Subsidiaries 55,163.8 222,791.6
Unfunded risk participation1 959.7 879.3
Subsidiaries 959.7 879.3
1. M aximum balance is determined based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each quarter end during the financial
year.
2. Excludes mark-to-market on outstanding derivative transactions.
228
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Letters of comfort
The Bank has issued letters of comfort on behalf of its banking subsidiary ICICI Bank UK PLC to Financial Services
Authority, UK (now split into two separate regulatory authorities, the Prudential Regulation Authority and the
Financial Conduct Authority) to confirm that the Bank intends to financially support ICICI Bank UK PLC in ensuring
that it meets all of its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Bank has issued an undertaking on behalf of ICICI Securities Inc. Singapore for Singapore dollar 10.0 million
(currently equivalent to ` 617.9 million) (March 31, 2022: ` 559.7 million) to the Monetary Authority of Singapore
(MAS) and has also executed six indemnity agreements on behalf of ICICI Bank Canada to its independent directors
for a sum not exceeding Canadian dollar 2.5 million each (currently equivalent to ` 151.7 million), aggregating to
Canadian dollar 15.0 million (currently equivalent to ` 910.0 million) (March 31, 2022: ` 756.0 million). The aggregate
amount of ` 1,527.9 million at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: ` 1,315.7 million) is included in the contingent
liabilities.
The Bank has issued an undertaking on behalf of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited to the Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority of India in relation to the demerger of the general insurance business of
Bharti AXA General Insurance Company Limited and transferring the same into ICICI Lombard General Insurance
Company Limited through a scheme of arrangement.
The letters of indemnity are issued to IDBI Trusteeship Services Ltd (trustee of ICICI Strategic Investment Fund) on
behalf of ICICI Strategic Investment Fund to indemnify against any potential liabilities.
The letters of comfort in the nature of letters of awareness that were outstanding at March 31, 2023 issued by
the Bank on behalf of its subsidiaries in respect of their borrowings made or proposed to be made, aggregated to
` 11,514.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 16,226.7 million).
In addition to the above, the Bank has also issued letters of comfort in the nature of letters of awareness on behalf
of its subsidiaries for other incidental business purposes. These letters of awareness are in the nature of factual
statements or confirmation of facts and do not create any financial impact on the Bank.
47. Details of amount transferred to The Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (the Fund) of RBI
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in amount transferred to the Fund.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Opening balance 14,398.8 12,184.0
Add: Amounts transferred during the year 2,150.6 2,371.7
Less: Amounts reimbursed by the Fund towards claims during the year (278.8) (156.9)
Closing balance 16,270.6 14,398.8
48. Details of payment of DICGC insurance premium
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the payment of insurance premium and arrears.
` in million
Sr. Year ended Year ended
Particulars
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
1. Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium1 12,673.7 11,166.2
2. Arrears in payment of DICGC premium - -
1. Excludes goods and service tax.
229
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
49. Small and micro enterprises
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, details relating to enterprises covered under the Micro, Small
and Medium Enterprises Development (MSMED) Act, 2006.
` in million
Sr. At March 31, 2023 At March 31, 2022
Particulars
No. Principal Interest Principal Interest
1. The Principal amount and the interest due thereon
remaining unpaid to any supplier - - - -
2. The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of
Section 16, along with the amount of the payment
made to the supplier beyond the due date - - - -
3. The amount of interest due and payable for the period
of delay in making payment (which have been paid
but beyond the due date during the year) but without
adding the interest specified under MSMED Act, 2006 - 0.1 N.A. 0.4
4. The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid - 0.1 N.A. 0.4
5. The amount of further interest remaining due and
payable even in the succeeding years, until such date
when the interest dues as above are actually paid to
the small enterprise, for the purpose of disallowed as
a deductible expenditure under Section 23 - - N.A. -
50. Penalties/fines imposed by RBI and other banking regulatory bodies
There was no penalty imposed by RBI and other overseas banking regulatory bodies during the year ended March 31,
2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 33.0 million).
51. Disclosure on Remuneration
Compensation Policy and practices
(A) Qualitative Disclosures
a) Bodies that oversee remuneration.
• Name, composition and mandate of the main body overseeing remuneration
The Board Governance, Remuneration and Nomination Committee (BGRNC/ Committee) is the body
which oversees the remuneration aspects. The functions of the Committee include recommending
appointments of Directors to the Board, identifying persons who are qualified to become Directors
and who may be appointed in senior management in accordance with the criteria laid down and
recommending to the Board their appointment and removal, formulate a criteria for the evaluation
of the performance of the whole time/ independent Directors and the Board and to extend or
continue the term of appointment of independent Directors on the basis of the report of performance
evaluation of independent Directors, recommending to the Board a policy relating to the remuneration
for the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, Material Risk takers (MRTs) and other employees,
recommending to the Board the remuneration (including performance bonus, share-linked instruments
and perquisites) to wholetime Directors (WTDs) and senior management, approving the policy for
and quantum of variable pay payable to members of the staff including senior management key
managerial personnel, material risk takers and formulating the criteria for determining qualifications,
positive attributes and independence of a Director, framing policies on Board diversity, framing
guidelines for share-linked instruments such as the Employees Stock Option Scheme (ESOS) Scheme
2000), Employees Stock Unit Scheme (Scheme 2022) and deciding on the grant of the Bank’s stock
options/units to employees and WTDs of the Bank and its subsidiary companies as applicable
230
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
• External consultants whose advice has been sought, the body by which they were commissioned,
and in what areas of the remuneration process
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Bank employed the services of a reputed consulting firm
for market benchmarking in the area of compensation, including executive compensation.
• Scope of the Bank’s remuneration policy (eg. by regions, business lines), including the extent to
which it is applicable to foreign subsidiaries and branches
The Compensation Policy of the Bank, as last amended by the BGRNC in its meeting dated October 21,
2022 and the Board at its meeting held on October 22, 2022 covers all employees of the Bank,
including those in overseas branches of the Bank. In addition to the Bank’s Compensation Policy
guidelines, the overseas branches also adhere to relevant local regulations.
• Type of employees covered and number of such employees
All employees of the Bank are governed by the Compensation Policy. The total number of permanent
employees of the Bank at March 31, 2023 was 126,660.
b) Design and structure of remuneration processes
• Key features and objectives of remuneration policy
The Bank has under the guidance of the Board and the BGRNC, followed compensation practices
intended to drive performance within the framework of prudent risk management. This approach has
been incorporated in the Compensation Policy, the key elements of which are given below.
o Effective governance of compensation: The BGRNC has oversight over compensation. The
Committee defines Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for WTDs and equivalent positions and
the organisational performance norms for variable pay based on the financial and strategic plan
approved by the Board. The KPIs include both quantitative and qualitative aspects defined with
sub parameters. The BGRNC assesses organisational performance and based on its assessment,
it makes recommendations to the Board the compensation for WTDs, & equivalent positions and
senior management subject to necessary approvals, wherever applicable.
• A lignment of compensation philosophy with prudent risk taking: The Bank seeks to achieve a
prudent mix of fixed and variable pay, with a higher proportion of variable pay at senior levels and
no guaranteed bonuses. Compensation is sought to be aligned to both financial and non- financial
indicators of performance including aspects like risk management, other assurance areas and
customer service. The Bank’s Employees stock option scheme and Employees stock unit scheme aim
at aligning compensation to long-term performance through grants that vest over a period of time.
Compensation of staff in audit, compliance and risk control functions is independent of the business
areas they oversee.
Changes, if any, made by the remuneration committee in the firm’s remuneration policy during the
past year, and if so, an overview of any changes that were made
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Bank’s Compensation Policy was reviewed by the BGRNC
and the Board as below:
BGRNC date Board date Overview of Changes
April 23, April 23, Change in criteria for MRT identification
2022 2022
October 21, October 22, Incorporate ‘Employees Stock Unit Scheme’ in the compensation policy.
2022 2022 Extend malus/clawback coverage to employees transferred or deputed
or resigned to join a subsidiary/ associate company/ holding company.
To include that bonus clawback survives the resignation, retirement,
early retirement or termination of services of the employee as per the
terms mentioned in the compensation policy.
231
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
• Process followed by the Bank to ensure that the risk and compliance employees are remunerated
independently of the businesses they oversee
The compensation of staff engaged in control functions like Audit, Risk and Compliance depends on
their performance, which is based on achievement of the key goals of their respective functions. They
are not assessed on business targets.
c) Ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the remuneration processes.
• Key risks that the Bank takes into account when implementing remuneration measures
The Board approves the Enterprise Risk Management framework (ERM) for the Bank. The business
activities of the Bank are undertaken within this framework. The r RAF includes the definition of risk
capacity, risk appetite statements and drill down of the same into limits /thresholds for various risk
categories. The Bank’s KPIs which are applicable to WTDs & equivalent positions as well as employees
(excluding control functions), incorporate relevant risk management related aspects. For example, in
FY2023 in addition to performance indicators in areas such as risk calibrated core operating profit
(profit before provisions and tax excluding treasury income), performance indicators included aspects
such as asset quality, risk management framework, stakeholder relationships, customer service and
leadership development. The BGRNC takes into consideration all the above aspects while assessing
organisational performance and making compensation-related recommendations to the Board.
• Nature and type of key measures used to take account of these risks, including risk difficult to measure
The annual Key Performance Indicators and performance evaluation incorporated both qualitative
and quantitative aspects including asset quality and provisioning, risk management framework,
stakeholder relationships, customer service and leadership development.
• Ways in which these measures affect remuneration
Every year, the financial plan/targets are formulated in conjunction with a risk framework with limit
structures for various areas of risk/lines of business, within which the Bank operates. To ensure
effective alignment of compensation with prudent risk taking, the BGRNC takes into account adherence
to the risk framework in conjunction with which the financial plan/targets have been formulated.
The Bank’s KPIs which are applicable to WTDs and equivalent positions as well as employees
(excluding control functions), incorporate relevant risk management related aspects and regulatory
compliance. For example in FY2023, in addition to risk calibrated core operating profit, performance
indicators also included aspects such as asset quality risk management framework, stakeholder
relationships, customer service and leadership development. The BGRNC takes into consideration all
the above aspects while assessing organisational performance and making compensation-related
recommendations to the Board.
• The nature and type of these measures that have changed over the past year and reasons for the
changes, as well as the impact of changes on remuneration.
The nature and type of these measures have not changed over the past year and hence, there is no
impact on remuneration.
d) W ays in whic h the Bank seeks to link performance during a performance measurement period with
levels of remuneration
• Main performance metrics for Bank, top level business lines and individuals
The main performance metrics for FY2023 included risk calibrated core operating profit (profit before
provisions and tax, excluding treasury income), asset quality metrics (such as provisions in absolute
terms and as a percentage of core operating profit), regulatory compliance, risk management
processes, stakeholder relationships, customer service and leadership development.
232
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
• Methodology followed whereby individual remuneration is linked to the Bank-wide and individual
performance
The BGRNC takes into consideration above mentioned aspects while assessing performance and
making compensation-related recommendations to the Board regarding the performance assessment
of WTDs and equivalent positions.
• T he measures that the Bank will in general implement to adjust remuneration in the event that
performance metrics are weak, including the Bank’s criteria for determining ‘weak’ performance metrics
The Bank’s Compensation Policy outlines the measures the Bank will implement in the event of a
reasonable evidence of deterioration in financial performance. Should such an event occur in the
manner outlined in the policy, the BGRNC may decide to apply malus/clawback on none, part or all of
the relevant variable compensation
e) Ways in which the Bank seeks to adjust remuneration to take account of the longer term performance
• The Bank’s policy on deferral and vesting of variable remuneration and, if the fraction of variable
remuneration that is deferred differs across employees or groups of employees, a description of the
factors that determine the fraction and their relative importance
The variable compensation is in the form of share-linked instruments) or cash or a mix of cash and
share-linked instruments (The quantum of variable pay for an employee does not exceed a certain
percentage (as stipulated in the compensation policy) of the total fixed pay in a year. The proportion
of variable pay to total compensation is higher at senior levels and lower at junior levels. At least 50%
of the compensation is variable for WTDs, CEO and MRTs as a design. However, they can earn lesser
variable pay based on various performance criteria. For WTDs, CEO and MRTs, a minimum of 60%
of the total variable pay is under deferral arrangement (deferment). Additionally, at least 50% of the
cash component of the variable pay is under deferment. If the cash component is under ` 2.5 million,
the deferment is not applicable.
• The Bank’s policy and criteria for adjusting deferred remuneration before vesting and (if permitted by
national law) after vesting through claw back arrangements
The deferred portion of variable pay pertaining to the assessment year or previous year/s (as defined
in the policy) is subject to malus, under which the Bank prevents vesting of all or part or none of the
unvested variable pay in the event of the assessed divergence in the Bank’s provisioning for NPAs
or in the event of a reasonable evidence of deterioration in financial performance or in the event of
gross misconduct and/or other acts as mentioned in the policy. In such cases (other than assessed
divergence), variable pay already paid out may also be subjected to clawback arrangements, as
defined in the compensation policy.
f) Different forms of variable remuneration that the Bank utilises and the rationale for using these
different forms
• Forms of variable remuneration offered. A discussion of the use of different forms of variable
remuneration and, if the mix of different forms of variable remuneration differs across employees or
group of employees, a description of the factors that determine the mix and their relative importance
The variable compensation is in the form of share-linked instruments or cash or a mix of cash and
share-linked instruments. The Bank pays performance linked retention pay (PLRP) to its front-line
staff and junior management. PLRP aims to reward front line and junior managers, mainly on the
basis of skill maturity attained through experience and continuity in role which is a key differentiator
for customer service. The Bank pays performance bonus and share-linked instruments to relevant
employees in its middle and senior management. The variable pay payout schedules are sensitive to
the time horizon of risks as defined in the policy.
The Bank ensures higher proportion of variable pay at senior levels and lower variable pay for front-
line staff and junior management levels.
233
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
(B) Quantitative disclosures
T he following table sets forth, for the period indicated, the details of quantitative disclosure for remuneration of
WTDs (including MD & CEO) and other Material Risk Takers.
` in million, except numbers
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
1. Number of meetings held by the BGRNC during the financial year 5 4
Remuneration paid to its members during the financial year (sitting 1.5 0.8
fees)
2. Number of employees having received a variable remuneration 48 50
award during the financial year1
3. Number and total amount of sign-on/joining bonus made during the - -
financial year
4. Details of severance pay, in addition to accrued benefits, if any - -
5. Breakdown of amount of remuneration awards for the financial year
Fixed2 1,142.9 1,216.3
Variable3 485.6 426.1
- Deferred 246.6 211.1
- Non-deferred 239.0 215.0
Share-linked instruments3(nos.) 4,277,800 5,977,650
- Deferred (nos.) 4,277,800 5,977,650
- Non-deferred (nos.) - -
6. Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out during the year
- Bonus4 68.0 -
- Share-linked instruments4 (nos.) 8,015,135 9,529,100
7. Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration
Cash5 381.8 211.1
Shares (nos) - -
Shares-linked instruments5 (nos.) 10,311,910 16,098,240
Other - -
8. Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration and retained
remuneration exposed to ex-post explicit and/or implicit adjustments
- Bonus 381.8 211.1
- Share-linked instruments (nos.) 10,311,910 12,187,480
9. Total amount of reductions during the year due to ex-post explicit
adjustments6 N.A. N.A.
10. Total amount of reductions during the year due to ex-post implicit
adjustments N.A. N.A.
11. Number of MRTs identified7 42 48
12. Number of cases where malus has been exercised - -
Number of cases where clawback has been exercised6 - -
Number of cases where malus and clawback have been exercised - -
The mean pay for the bank as a whole (excluding sub-staff) and the
deviation of the pay of each of its WTDs from the mean pay
Mean pay of the bank8 790,345 755,429
Deviation - MD&CEO9 74,214,867 59,094,291
Deviation - WTD19 52,075,390 54,049,788
Deviation - WTD29 67,836,208 54,788,776
Deviation - WTD39 65,872,493 51,573,500
1. Includes MD & CEO, WTDs and other Material Risk Takers (MRTs) based on the revised criteria given by RBI in its guideline
dated November 4, 2019. Also includes MRTs who have resigned, retired or transferred to group companies (separated)
who were paid bonus or stock options granted/vested during the year. Variable remuneration includes cash bonus and
stock options (as per RBI guideline dated November 4, 2019) that are paid/ granted/ vested during the year.
234
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
2. Fixed pay includes basic salary, supplementary allowances, superannuation, contribution to provident fund, gratuity fund
and value of perquisites The value of perquisite is calculated as cost to the Bank. The salaries of separated MRTs have
been considered for the period they were in service with the Bank. For FY2022, the remuneration approved for FY2021 (as
paid during FY2022) has been considered for MD & CEO and WTDs. For FY2023, the remuneration also includes arrear
payments pertaining to increments of MD & CEO and WTDs for FY2022.
3. Variable and share-linked instruments represent amounts/options awarded for the year ended March 31, 2021 and
March 31, 2022 respectively as per RBI approvals wherever applicable.
4. Includes bonus/options that was paid/vested during the year.
5. Includes outstanding bonus/options at the end of the financial year.
6. Excludes ` 74.1 million variable pay to the former MD & CEO for past years which has been directed for claw-back in
respect of which the Bank has filed a recovery suit against the former MD & CEO.
7. Includes MD & CEO/WTDs/and other MRTs based on the revised criteria given by RBI in its guidelines dated
November 4, 2019.
8. Mean pay is computed on annualised fixed pay that includes basic salary, supplementary allowances, superannuation,
contribution to provident fund, gratuity fund and value of perquisites. The value of perquisite is calculated as cost to
the Bank.
9. The remuneration includes arrear payments made during FY2023 pertaining to increments of MD & CEO and WTDs for
FY2022.
Payment of compensation in the form of profit related commission to the non-executive directors
The Bank pursuant to RBI circular dated April 26, 2021, has discontinued paying profit related commission to Non-
Executive Directors/Independent Directors (other than part-time chairman) from April 1, 2021 and instead fixed
remuneration of ` 14.0 million has been paid for the year ended March 31, 2023 (FY2023). Mr. Girish Chandra
Chaturvedi (part-time Chairman) was paid a remuneration of ` 3.5 million during FY2023. This is excluding sitting
fees.
For the year ended March 31, 2022, fixed remuneration of ` 14.0 million had been paid to Non-Executive Directors/
Independent Directors (other than part-time chairman) and Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi (part-time Chairman)
was paid a remuneration of ` 3.5 million. Further, profit related commission of ` 7.0 million pertaining to FY2021 was
paid to Non-Executive Directors/Independent Directors (other than part-time chairman) in FY2022.
52. Corporate Social Responsibility
The gross amount required to be spent by the Bank on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) related activities during
the year ended March 31, 2023 was ` 4,008.5 million (March 31, 2022: ` 2,617.2 million).
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amount spent by the Bank on CSR related activities.
` in million
Year ended March 31, 2023 Year ended March 31, 2022
Sr.
Particulars Yet to be Yet to be
No. In cash Total In cash Total
paid in cash paid in cash
1. Construction/acquisition of any
asset - - - - - -
2. On purposes other than (1)
above1 4,626.6 - 4,626.6 2,641.3 24.9 2,666.2
1. C SR activities were in the areas of affordable and accessible healthcare, environmental and ecological projects like afforestation,
rain water harvesting and climate smart agriculture, urban and rural livelihood projects, rural development, social awareness
programme and Har Ghar Tiranga programme.
235
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
As required under the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021, surplus of
` 171.2 million during the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 139.9 million), from CSR
activities transferred to the unspent CSR account.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of related party transactions pertaining to CSR
related activities.
` in million
Sr. Year ended Year ended
Related Party
No. March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
1. ICICI Foundation for inclusive Growth1 4,401.1 2,239.2
Total 4,401.1 2,239.2
1. T he above excludes ` 40.0 million of surplus during the year ended March 31, 2022 from CSR activities, transferred to unspent
CSR account and spent by September 30, 2022, as required by law.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of movement in provision pertaining to CSR
related activities.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Opening balance of provision 24.9 119.2
Add: Provision for expenses during the year - 24.9
Less: payment out of opening balance 24.9 119.2
Closing balance - 24.9
53. Disclosure of customer complaints
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement of complaints received by the Bank from its
customers.
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
1. No. of complaints pending at the beginning of the year 10,401 30,096
2. No. of complaints received during the year 248,337 409,670
3. No. of complaints disposed during the year 244,309 429,365
3a. Of which, number of complaints rejected by the Bank 101,227 164,458
4. No. of complaints pending at the end of the year 14,429 10,401
1. Complaints do not include complaints redressed by the Bank within one working day.
236
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of maintainable complaints received.
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
i. Number of maintainable complaints received by the Bank from Office 12,114 12,174
of Banking Ombudsmans (OBOs)1
Of (i), number of complaints resolved in favour of the Bank by Banking 5,627 5,566
Ombudsmans (BOs)
Of (i), number of complaints resolved through conciliation/mediation/ 6,487 6,608
advisories issued by BOs2
Of (i), number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by - -
BOs against the Bank
ii. Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other - -
than those appealed)
1. Maintainable complaints are as per data received from RBI.
2. F or year ended March 31, 2023, 432 complaints (March 31, 2022: 361 complaints) were resolved based on advisories received
from BOs.
The following table sets forth, top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from customers for the year
ended March 31, 2023.
Grounds of complaints No. of No. of % increase/ No. of Of 5, No. of
complaints complaints decrease in the complaints complaints
pending at the received no. of complaints pending at pending
beginning of during the received over the end of the beyond 30
the year year previous year year days
1 2 3 4 5 6
ATM/Debit Cards 3,655 76,049 (50.4%) 1,343 148
Credit Cards 3,312 70,225 (49.1%) 2,618 367
Internet/Mobile/ Electronic
Banking 2,018 53,011 25.9% 9,109 3,546
Loans and advances 270 11,026 (30.3%) 211 3
Account opening/difficulty
in operation of accounts 144 7,708 (27.4%) 184 5
Others 1,002 30,318 (39.3%) 964 56
Total 10,401 248,337 (39.4%) 14,429 4,125
237
Annual Report 2022-23
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from customers for the year
ended March 31, 2022.
Grounds of complaints No. of No. of % increase/ No. of Of 5, No. of
complaints complaints decrease in the complaints complaints
pending at received no. of complaints pending at pending
the beginning during the received over the end of the beyond 30
of the year year previous year year days
1 2 3 4 5 6
ATM/Debit Cards 11,760 153,340 (37.2%) 3,655 742
Credit Cards 10,107 137,857 12.5% 3,312 525
Internet/Mobile/ Electronic 6,877 42,091 0.0% 2,018 130
Banking
Loans and advances 268 15,817 7.9% 270 2
Account opening/ difficulty 257 10,614 (3.3%) 144 0
in operation of accounts
Others 827 49,951 4.4% 1,002 64
Total 30,096 409,670 (15.0%) 10,401 1,463
54. Drawdown from reserves
The Bank has not drawn any amount from reserves during the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31,
2022: Nil).
55. Investor Education and Protection Fund
The unclaimed dividend amount, due for transfer to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) during the
year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, has been transferred without any delay.
56. Implementation of IFRS converged Indian Accounting Standards
In January 2016, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs issued the roadmap for implementation of new Indian Accounting
Standards (Ind AS), converged with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), for scheduled commercial
banks, insurance companies and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs). However, currently the implementation
of Ind AS for banks has been deferred by RBI till further notice pending the consideration of some recommended
legislative amendments by the Government of India. The Bank is in an advanced stage of preparedness for
implementation of Ind AS, as and when these are made applicable to the Indian banks. Further, there may be new
regulatory guidelines and clarifications in some critical areas of Ind AS application, which the Bank will need to
suitably incorporate in its implementation.
57. Disclosure on lending and borrowing activities
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances, makes investment, provides guarantees
to and accept deposits and borrowings from its customers, other entities and persons. These transactions are part
of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted ensuring adherence to all regulatory requirements.
238
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Other than the transactions described above, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from
borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank to or in any other persons or
entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”) with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise,
that the Intermediary shall lend or invest in party identified by or on behalf of the Bank (Ultimate Beneficiaries). The
Bank has also not received any fund from any parties (Funding Party) with the understanding that the Bank shall
whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified by or on behalf of the Funding Party
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
58. Comparative Figures
Figures of the previous year have been re-grouped to conform to the current year presentation.
Signatures to Schedules 1 to 18
As per our Report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Uday M. Chitale Sandeep Bakhshi
Chartered Accountants Chairman Director Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration no.: DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
105047W
Tushar Kurani Anup Bagchi Rakesh Jha Sandeep Batra
Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director
Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00105962 DIN-00042075 DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP Anindya Banerjee Prachiti Lalingkar Rajendra Khandelwal
Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
UDIN :
Mumbai
April 22, 2023
239
Annual Report 2022-23
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of
ICICI Bank Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
1. We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of ICICI Bank Limited (hereinafter referred to
as the “Bank” or ‘Holding Company’) and its subsidiaries (Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred
to as “the Group”), and its associates, which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2023, the
Consolidated Profit and Loss account, and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and
notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
2. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and based on
consideration of the reports of the other auditors on separate financial statements and the other financial information
of subsidiaries and associates, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the information required by the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), and circulars and guidelines issued
by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) from time to time (‘RBI Guidelines’) in the manner so required for banking
companies and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Accounting Standards prescribed under Section 133
of the Act read with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 and other and other accounting principles
generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group and its associates as at 31 March 2023,
and their consolidated profit, and their consolidated cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (‘SAs’) specified under section 143(10) of
the Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of
the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group and its associates
in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements
in India in terms of the Code of Ethics issued by Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (‘ICAI’), and the relevant
provisions of the Act and the rules thereunder and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance
with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained along with the consideration of audit
reports of other auditors referred to in the “Other Matters” paragraph below is sufficient and appropriate to provide
a basis for our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Key Audit Matters
4. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, and based on the consideration of the
reports of the other auditors on separate financial statements and other financial information of the subsidiaries and
associates, as referred to in paragraph 17 below, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial
statements of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on
these matters.
240
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
5. We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
Identification and provisioning of non-performing advances (NPA):
Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at 31 March 2023: ` 10,838,663,147 (in ‘000s) Provision for
NPA as at 31 March 2023: ` 256,291,070 (in ‘000s) of which Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at
31 March 2023: ` 10,196,383,053 (in ‘000s)* & Provision for NPA as at 31 March 2023: ` 248,358,100
(in ‘000s)* relates to Bank.
(Refer Schedule 9, Schedule 17(13))
* the amounts relating to the Bank are before consolidation adjustments including intercompany eliminations, if any.
The Reserve Bank of India’s (“RBI”) guidelines Our audit procedures with respect to this matter
on Income recognition and asset classification & included:
Provisioning (“IRAC”) and other circulars and directives
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of
issued by the RBI from time to time, which prescribe the
key controls (including application controls) over
prudential norms for identification and classification of
approval, recording, monitoring and recovery of loans,
performing & non-performing assets (“NPA”) and the
monitoring overdue / stressed accounts, identification
minimum provision required for such assets. The Bank
of NPA, provision for NPA and valuation of security and
is required to have Board approved policy as per IRAC
collateral on a test check basis. Further obtained an
guidelines for NPA identification & classification of
understanding of the contingency provision carried by
advances and provision thereon.
the Bank and verified the underlying assumptions used
The provision on NPA is estimated based on ageing by the Bank for such estimate.
and classification of NPAs, recovery estimates, nature
Tested application controls included test of automated
of loan product, value of security and other qualitative
controls, reports and system reconciliations.
factors and is subject to the minimum provisioning
norms specified by RBI and approved policy of the Reviewed existence and effectiveness of monitoring
Bank in this regard. mechanisms such as Internal Audit, Systems Audit, and
Concurrent Audit as per the policies and procedures of
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to
the Bank;
determine the identification and provision required
against NPAs by applying quantitative as well as Evaluated the governance process and review controls
qualitative factors. The risk of identification of NPAs is over calculations of provision of non-performing
affected by factors like stress and liquidity concerns in advances, basis of provisioning in accordance with the
certain sectors. Board approved policy.
Additionally, the Bank makes provisions on exposures Selected a sample of borrowers based on quantitative
that are not classified as NPA including advances and qualitative risk factors for their assessment of
to certain sectors and identified advances or group appropriate identification & classification as NPA
advances. These are classified as contingency including computation of overdue ageing to assess
provisions. its correct classification and provision amount as per
extant IRAC norms and the Bank policy.
Since the identification of NPAs and provisioning for
advances require significant level of estimation and Performed other substantive procedures included and
given its significance to the overall audit including not limited to the following:
possible observation by RBI which could result into
 Selected samples of performing loans and
disclosure in the financial statements, we have
assessed independently as to whether those
ascertained identification and provisioning for NPAs as
should be classified as NPA;
a key audit matter.
241
Annual Report 2022-23
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
 For samples selected, reviewed the collateral
valuations, financial statements and other
qualitative information
 Considered the accounts reported by the Bank
and other Banks as Special Mention Accounts
(“SMA”) in RBI’s Central Repository of Information
on Large Credits (CRILC) to identify stress.
 For selected samples, assessed independently,
the accounts that can potentially be classified as
NPA and Red flagged accounts.
 Inquired with the credit and risk departments to
ascertain if there were indicators of stress or an
occurrence of an event of default in a particular
loan account or any product category which
needed to be considered as NPA.
 Examined the accounts under watchlist report
provided by the risk department.
 Discussed with the management of the Bank on
sectors where there is a perceived credit risk and
the steps taken to mitigate the risks to identified
sectors.
 Selected and tested samples for accounts which
are restructured as per RBI Master Circular -
Prudential norms on Income Recognition, Asset
Classification and Provisioning pertaining to
Advances; and
 Assessed appropriateness & the adequacy of
disclosures against the relevant accounting
standards and RBI requirements relating to NPAs.
Evaluation of Litigations included in Contingent Liabilities
As at 31 March 2023, the Group has reported ‘Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts’ of
` 88,006,837 (in ‘000s) (31 March 2022 – ` 89,527,688 (in ‘000s)), of which the following relate to the Bank:
(Included under contingent liabilities) (in ‘000)
As at As at
Particulars
31 March 2023 31 March 2022
Legal Cases 3,027,295 3,201,365
Taxes 78,935,723 79,637,364
Total Claims against Bank not acknowledged as Debt 81,963,018 82,838,729
((Refer Schedule 12 and Schedule 17(10))
242
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Bank has material open tax litigations including Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter
matters under dispute which involve significant included:
judgement to determine the possible outcome of these
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of the
disputes.
Bank’s key controls over the estimation, monitoring
Significant management judgement is needed in and disclosure of provisions and contingent liabilities
determining whether an obligation exists and whether on test check basis.
a provision should be recognised as at the reporting Our substantive audit procedures included and were
date, in accordance with the accounting criteria set not limited to the following:
under Accounting Standard 29 - Provisions, Contingent
 Obtained an understanding of Bank’s process
Liabilities and Contingent Assets (‘AS 29’), or whether it
for determining tax liabilities, tax provisions
needs to be disclosed as a contingent liability. Further,
and contingent liabilities pertaining to legal and
significant judgements are also involved in measuring
taxation matters;
such obligations, the most significant of which are:
 Obtained a list of cases /matters in respect of
 Assessment of Liability: Judgement is involved in
which the litigations were outstanding as at
determination of whether outflow in respect of
reporting date:
identified material matters are probable and can
be estimated reliably. • For significant legal matters, we obtained
external confirmations and corroborated
 Adequacy of provisions: The appropriateness of with management’s documented conclusions
assumption and judgements used in estimation of on the assessment of outstanding litigations
significant provisions; and against the Bank;
 Adequacy of disclosures of provision for liabilities • For significant taxation matters, we involved
and charges, and contingent liabilities. our tax specialists to gain an understanding
of status of the litigations including
The Bank’s assessment is supported by the facts of
understanding of various orders/ notices
matter, their own judgement, experience, and advises
received by the Bank and management’s
from legal and independent tax consultants wherever
grounds of appeals before the relevant
considered necessary.
appellate authorities.
Since the assessment of these open litigations requires
 Evaluated the merit of the subject matter under
significant level of judgement in interpretation of law,
consideration with reference to the grounds
we have included this as a key audit matter.
presented therein and available independent legal
/ tax advice;
 Inquired with appropriate level of the management
including status update, expectation of outcomes
with the basis, and the future course of action
contemplated by the Bank;
 Reviewed minutes of meetings with Board, and
Audit committee in this regard
 Agreed underlying tax balances to supporting
documentation including correspondence with the
Tax authorities; and
 Assessed the appropriateness & adequacy
of disclosures within the standalone financial
statements in accordance with the applicable
accounting standards and requirements of RBI in
this regard.
243
Annual Report 2022-23
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
Information Technology (‘IT’) systems and controls impacting financial controls.
The Bank has a complex IT architecture to support Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter
its day-to-day business operations. High volume of included:
transactions is processed and recorded on single or
For testing the IT general controls, application controls
multiple applications.
and IT dependent manual controls, we involved IT
The reliability and security of IT systems plays a key specialists as part of the audit. The team also assisted
role in the business operations of the Bank. Since in testing the accuracy of the information produced by
large volume of transactions are processed daily, the the Bank’s IT systems.
IT controls are required to ensure that applications
Obtained a comprehensive understanding of IT
process data as expected and that changes are made
applications landscape implemented at the Bank. It
in an appropriate manner.
was followed by process understanding, mapping of
Appropriate IT general controls and application controls applications to the same and understanding financial
are required to ensure that such IT systems are able to risks posed by people-process and technology.
process the data, as required, completely, accurately
Key IT audit procedures includes testing design and
and consistently for reliable financial reporting.
operating effectiveness of key controls operating over
We have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as key user access management (which includes user access
audit matter because of the high level automation, provisioning, de-provisioning, access review, password
significant number of systems being used by the configuration review, segregation of duties and privilege
management and the complexity of the IT architecture access), change management (which include change
and its impact on the financial reporting system. release in production environment are compliant to the
defined procedures and segregation of environment is
ensured), program development (which include review
of data migration activity), computer operations (which
includes testing of key controls pertaining to, backup,
Batch processing (including interface testing), incident
management and data centre security), System
interface controls. This included testing that requests
for access to systems were appropriately logged,
reviewed, and authorized.
In addition to the above, the design and operating
effectiveness of certain automated controls, that were
considered as key internal system controls over financial
reporting were tested. Using various techniques such
as inquiry, review of documentation / record / reports,
observation, and re-performance. We also tested few
controls using negative testing technique.
Tested compensating controls and performed alternate
procedures, where necessary. In addition, understood
where relevant changes made to the IT landscape
during the audit period.
244
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
Valuation of Derivatives:
As at 31 March 2023, the Group has reported notional value of derivatives of ` 48,498,441,596 (in ‘000)
(31 March 2022 – ` 43,893,514,404 (in ‘000s)), of which the following relate to the Bank:
(Included under contingent liabilities) (in ‘000)
As at As at
Particulars
31 March 2023 31 March 2022
Notional amounts * 40,984,024,707 37,056,016,613
(Refer Schedule 12.III, 12.VI, 12.VII, Schedule 18(14) to the standalone financial statements)
* the amounts relating to the Bank are before consolidation adjustments including intercompany eliminations, if any.
Derivatives are valued through models with external Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to,
inputs. The derivatives portfolio of the Bank primarily the following:
includes transactions which are carried out on behalf
 We obtained an understanding, evaluated the
of its clients (and are covered on a back-to-back basis)
design, and tested the operating effectiveness
and transactions to hedge the Bank’s interest and
of the key controls over the valuation processes,
foreign currency risk.
including: - independent price verification
A significant degree of management judgement is performed by a management expert; and model
involved in the application of valuation techniques governance and validation.
through which the value of the Bank’s derivatives
On a sample basis, we performed an independent
is determined. The financial statement risk arises
reassessment of the valuation of derivatives and
particularly with respect to complex valuation models,
evaluated significant models and methodologies used
valuation parameters, and inputs that are used in
in valuation, to ensure compliance with the relevant
determining fair values.
RBI regulations, reasonableness of the valuation
Considering the significance of the above matter to methodology and the inputs used.
the financial statements, significant management
estimates and judgements, and auditor attention
required to test such estimates and judgements, we
have identified this as a key audit matter for current
year audit.
245
Annual Report 2022-23
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
The joint auditors of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, vide their audit report dated 20 April 2023,
have expressed an unmodified opinion on the financial statements. Based on consideration of their report, the
following Key Audit Matter was included in the audit report.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
Information Technology (IT) systems relating to ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
The Company is highly dependent on information Involvement of IT specialists in assessment of the
technology systems and controls to process and record IT systems and controls over financial reporting,
large volume of transactions, such that there exists a which included carrying out the following key audit
risk that gaps in the IT control environment could result procedures:
in the financial accounting and reporting records being
 Understood General IT Controls (GITC) over key
materially misstated.
financial accounting and reporting systems
Further, IT systems are accessible to employees
(referred to as “in-scope systems”) which covered
on a remote basis which could result in increasing
access controls, program/ system changes,
challenges around the data protection.
program development and computer operations
Due to the pervasive nature, complexity and i.e. job processing, data/ system backup and
importance of the impact of the IT systems and related incident management;
control environment on the Company’s financial
 Tested controls over IT infrastructure covering
statements, testing of such IT systems and related
user access including privilege users and system
control environment has been identified as a key audit
changes;
matter for the current year audit.
 Evaluated design and operating effectiveness for
in-scope systems and application controls which
covered segregation of duties, system interfaces,
completeness and accuracy of data feeds and
system reconciliation controls;
 Evaluated policies and strategies adopted by
the Company in relation to operational security
of key information infrastructure, data and client
information management and monitoring and
crisis management; and
 Assessed whether controls have remained
unchanged during the year or were changed after
considering controls around change management
process.
Valuation and Impairment determination of Investments relating to ICICI Prudential Life
Insurance Company Limited (31 March 2023 : ` 2,482,204,207 (in ‘000s)
(31 March 2022 : ` 2,381,077,786 (in ‘000s))
(Refer Schedule 8, Schedule 17(12))
* the amounts relating to ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited are before consolidation adjustments including
intercompany eliminations, if any.
246
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Company’s investment portfolio consists of Carried out the following key audit procedures:
Policyholders investments (unit linked and non-linked)
 Understood the Company’s process and tested
and Shareholders investments. Total investment
the controls on the valuation of investments;
portfolio represents 99 percent of the Company’s total
assets as at 31 March 2023.  Tested the design, implementation and operating
effectiveness of key controls over the valuation
Investments are valued in accordance with the
process, including the Company’s assessment
provisions of the Insurance Act, the IRDA Financial
and approval of assumptions used for valuation,
Statements Regulations, IRDAI (Investment)
including key authorization and data input controls
Regulations, 2016 orders/ directions/ circulars issued
thereof;
by IRDAI and / or policies as approved by the Board of
Directors of the Company (collectively the “Accounting  Assessed valuation methodologies with reference
Policy”). to the Accounting Policy and the Company’s Board
approved valuation policy;
Investments in unit linked portfolio of ` 1,440,580,565
(in ‘000s) are valued based on observable inputs as per  For selected samples of listed investments,
their accounting policy and gains/losses are recognized performed independent price checks using
in Revenue account. These unit linked portfolio external quoted prices and by agreeing the inputs
investments do not represent higher risk of material which were used in the Company’s valuation
misstatement however, are considered to be a key techniques to external data;
audit matter due to their materiality to the standalone
 For selected samples of cost measured
financial statements.
investments, tested Company’s assessment of
Investments in non-linked and shareholders portfolio impairment and evaluated whether the same
of ` 1,041,623,642 (in ‘000s) are valued as per their was in accordance with the Company’s updated
accounting policy, based on which: impairment policy; and
 the unrealized gains/ losses arising due to changes  Evaluated how the Company has factored the
in fair value of listed equity shares and mutual impact of economic stress in investment valuation
fund units are recorded in the “Fair Value Change process (including impairment assessment).
Account” in the Balance Sheet; and
 debt securities and unlisted equity shares are
valued at historical cost.
Further, investments in the non-linked and
shareholders portfolio are assessed for impairment as
per the Company’s investment policy which involves
significant management judgement. There is increased
economic stress on account of external factors, which
may impact the valuation of these investments.
Accordingly, valuation of investments (including
impairment assessment) was considered to be one of
the areas which required significant auditor attention
and was one of the matter of most significance in the
standalone financial statements.
247
Annual Report 2022-23
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
The joint auditors of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited, vide their audit report dated 18 April 2023,
have expressed an unmodified opinion on the financial statements. Based on consideration of their report, the
following Key Audit Matter was included in the audit report.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
Information Technology (IT) systems relating to ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
The company is highly dependent on its complex IT Key audit procedures included but were not limited to
architecture comprising hardware, software, multiple the following:
applications, automated interfaces and controls in
Obtained an understanding of the entity's IT related
systems for recording, storing and reporting financial
control environment. Furthermore, conducted a risk
transactions.
assessment and identified IT applications that are key
for the Company’s financial reporting.
Large volume of transactions that are processed on For the key IT systems relevant to reporting of financial
daily basis as part of its operations, which impacts information, areas of audit focus included access,
key financial accounting and reporting items such as program change management, automated transaction
premium income, claims, commission expenses and and interface controls. In particular:
investments among others.
 Obtained an understanding of the entity's IT
There exists a risk that, gaps in the IT control environment environment and key changes if any during the
could result in the financial accounting and reporting audit period that may be relevant to the audit.
records being materially misstated.
 On sample basis tested the design, implementation
The controls implemented by the entity in its IT and operating effectiveness of the General IT
environment determine the integrity, accuracy, controls over the key IT systems that are critical
completeness, and the validity of the data that is to financial reporting. This included evaluation of
processed by the applications and is ultimately used entity's controls to ensure segregation of duties
for financial reporting. These controls contribute to and appropriate access rights.
mitigating risk of potential misstatements caused by
 Controls over changes to software applications
fraud or errors.
were evaluated to verify whether the changes
Audit approach relies on automated controls and were approved, tested in an environment that
therefore procedures are designed to test control over was segregated from operation and moved to
IT systems, segregation of duties, interface and system production by appropriate users.
application controls over key financial accounting and
 Evaluated the design and tested the operating
reporting systems.
effectiveness of critical & key automated controls
within various business processes around the
Software system. This included testing the
integrity of system interfaces, the completeness
and accuracy of data feeds, system reconciliation
controls and automated calculations.
 Reviewed the Information System Audit Reports
and Key audit findings of Internal Audit to assess
the impact of observations and management’s
response if any on financial reporting.
Results of the tests has provided audit evidence
which have been used to draw conclusions including
reporting.
248
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
Investments of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
The Company’s investments represent 78% of the Audit procedures on Investments included the following:
assets as at 31 March 2023 which are to be valued in
 Understood Management’s process and controls
accordance with accounting policy framed as per the
to ensure proper classification and valuation of
extant regulatory guidelines.
Investment.
The valuation of all investments should be as per the
 Verified and obtained appropriate external
investment policy framed by the Company which in turn
confirmation for availability and ownership rights
should be in line with IRDAI Investment Regulations
related to these investments.
and Preparation of Financial Statement Regulations.
The valuation methodology specified in the regulation  Tested the design, implementation, management
is to be used for each class of investment. oversight and operating effectiveness of key
controls over the classification and valuation
The Company has a policy framework for Valuation and
process of investments.
impairment of Investments. The Company performs an
impairment review of its investments periodically and  Test-checked valuation of different class of
recognizes impairment charge when the investments investments to assess appropriateness of the
meet the trigger/s for impairment provision as per the valuation methodologies with reference to IRDAI
criteria set out in the investment policy of the Company. Investment Regulations along with Company’s
Further, the assessment of impairment involves own investment policy.
significant management judgment.
 Examining the rating downgrades by credit rating
The classification and valuation of these investments agencies and assessing the risk of impairments to
was considered one of the matters of material various investments.
significance in the financial statements due to the
 Reviewed the Company’s impairment policy and
materiality of the total value of investments to the
assessed the adequacy of its impairment charge
financial statements.
on investments outstanding at the year end.
Based on procedures above, found the Company’s
impairment, valuation and classification of investments
in its financial statements in all material respects to be
fair.
249
Annual Report 2022-23
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
Migration of databases used by erstwhile Bharti Axa General Insurance Limited's insurance
business ("Insurance Undertaking") with the ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
During the year the Company formulated a plan and Audit procedures included following;
started migrating the historical and as well currently
 Obtained understanding of internally approved
active, Policy, claims and other relevant electronic data
migration strategy and timelines, which also includes
as part of the integration of the Insurance Undertaking.
business criteria for identifying data that needs to be
Data Migration involves carefully planning the cutover migrated
and data movement strategy, controls to ensure
 Obtained understanding of controls designed and
accuracy, completeness, system of validation and a
implemented as part of migration strategy at various
process for handling errors in Data Migration. Data
stages of migration and evaluated their adequacy.
Migration is crucial to ensuring integrity and accuracy of
the data flowing into financial accounting system that  Test the checked the operating effectiveness of the
generates the Financial Statements of the Company. designed controls
Being a one-time activity carrying an important audit risk  Enquired and reviewed the process of error handling
which required appropriate response as critical part of including their ultimate resolution Designed and
audit strategy. executed few audit tests to validate accuracy and
completeness of the Migrated data
Results of tests has provided audit evidence which have
used to draw conclusions including our reporting.
Information Other than the Consolidated Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
6. The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises
the information included in the Annual Report but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our
auditor’s report thereon. The Annual Report is expected to be made available to us after that date of this auditor’s
report.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we will not express
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other
information identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information
is materially inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to
communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the
relevant laws and regulations.
250
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial
Statements
7. The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with
respect to the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair
view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated financial performance and consolidated cash flows of the
Group including its associates in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including
the Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Accounting Standard)
Rules, 2021, provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and circulars and guidelines issued by the
Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) from time to time (‘RBI Guidelines’). The respective Board of Directors of the Holding
Company and the subsidiary companies included in the Group and of its associate companies are responsible for
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI guidelines
for safeguarding of the assets of the Group and of its associates and for preventing and detecting frauds and other
irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls,
that were operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the
preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of
the consolidated financial statements by the Management and Directors of the Bank, as aforesaid.
8. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in
the Group and of its associates are responsible for assessing the ability of the respective companies included in
the Group and of its associates to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the respective Board of Directors either intends to
liquidate the companies included in the Group and its associates or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative
but to do so.
9. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates are also responsible
for overseeing the financial reporting process of the subsidiary companies included in the Group and of its associates.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
10. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted
in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
11. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism
throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our
opinion on whether the Bank has adequate internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls;
251
Annual Report 2022-23
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the Management;
• Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group and its associates to continue as a going concern. If we
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the
related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify
our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and its associates to cease to continue as a going
concern;
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including
the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation;
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities within the Group
and its associates to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the
direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the
consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent auditors. For the other entities included in
the consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors remain
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain solely
responsible for our audit opinion.
12. We communicate with those charged with governance of the Bank and such other entities included in the
consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters,
the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in
internal control that we identify during our audit.
13. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
14. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of
most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current year and are therefore the key
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public
interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
15. The joint statutory auditors of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited (‘ICICI Life’), vide their audit report
dated 20 April 2023 have expressed an unmodified opinion and have reported in the 'Other Matter' section that
‘The actuarial valuation of liabilities for life policies in force and policies in respect of which premium has been
discontinued but liability exists as at 31 March 2023 is the responsibility of the Company’s Appointed Actuary (the
"Appointed Actuary"). The actuarial valuation of these liabilities for life policies in force and for policies in respect
of which premium has been discontinued but liability exists as at 31 March 2023 has been duly certified by the
Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, the assumptions for such valuation are in accordance with the guidelines
and norms issued by the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the Authority. Accordingly,
the joint auditors have relied upon the Appointed Actuary’s certificate in this regard for forming their opinion on the
252
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
valuation of liabilities for life policies in force and for policies in respect of which premium has been discontinued but
liability exists in the standalone financial statements of the Company’. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this
matter based on the opinion expressed by the joint statutory auditors of ICICI Life.
16. The joint statutory auditors of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited (‘ICICI General’), vide their audit
report dated 18 April 2023, have expressed an unmodified opinion and have reported in the 'Other Matter' section
that, 'The actuarial valuation of liabilities in respect of Incurred But Not Reported (‘IBNR'), Incurred But Not Enough
Reported ('IBNER') and the Premium Deficiency Reserve ('PDR') is the responsibility of the Company's Appointed
Actuary (the 'Appointed Actuary'). The actuarial valuation of these liabilities, that are estimated using statistical
methods as at 31 March 2023 has been duly certified by the Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, the assumptions
considered by him for such valuation are in accordance with the guidelines and norms issued by the IRDAI and the
Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with IRDAI. The joint auditors have relied upon the Appointed Actuary's
certificate in this regard for forming their opinion on the valuation of liabilities for outstanding claims reserves and
the PDR contained exists in the financial statements of the Company’. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this
matter based on the opinion expressed by the joint statutory auditors of ICICI General.
17. We did not audit the financial Statement of fifteen subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total assets of
` 3,44,94,39,942(in ‘000s) (before consolidation adjustments) as at 31 March 2023, total revenue of ` 58,35,04,685
(in ‘000s) (before consolidation adjustments), total net profit after tax of ` 4,06,07,417 (in ‘000s) (before consolidation
adjustments) and total net cash flows of ` 2,19,71,269 (in ‘000s) respectively for the year ended 31 March 2023,
which have been audited by their respective independent auditors. The consolidated financial Statement includes
the Group's share of net profit of ` 98,63,014 (in ‘000s) (before consolidation adjustments) for year ended 31
March 2023 in respect of four associates whose financial statements have not been audited by us. These financial
statements have been audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the management and
our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included
in respect of these subsidiaries and associates, and our report in terms of section 143(3) of the Act, in so far as it
relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries and associates, is based solely on the reports of the other auditors. Further, of
these subsidiaries, two subsidiaries are located outside India whose financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their respective country and which have been audited
by their respective auditors under generally accepted auditing standards applicable in their respective countries.
Our audit report in so far as it relates to the balances and affairs of such subsidiaries located outside India, is based
on the report of other auditors. According to the information and explanations given to us by the management, the
financial statements of these subsidiaries are not material to the Group. Our opinion is not modified in respect of
these matters.
18. We did not audit the financial Statement of one subsidiary, whose financial statements reflect total assets of
` 36,34,64,682 (in ‘000s) (before consolidation adjustments), total revenue of ` 1,40,60,301 (in ‘000s) (before
consolidation adjustments), total net profit after tax of ` 28,18,931 (in ‘000s) (before consolidation adjustments) and
total net cashflows of ` 31,01,992 (in ‘000s) for the year ended 31 March 2023. Further, this subsidiary is located
outside India whose financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in their respective country. The Statement also includes the Group's share of net profit of ` 1,19,062 (in
‘000s) (before consolidation adjustments) for the year ended 31 March 2023 respectively in respect of four associates
whose financial statements have not been audited. These financial statements / financial information are unaudited
and have been furnished to us by the management and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in
so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries and associates and our
report in terms of section 143(3) of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries and associates, is based
solely on such unaudited financial statements / financial information. In our opinion and according to the information
and explanations given to us by the Management, these financial statements / financial information are not material
to the Group. Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters.
253
Annual Report 2022-23
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
19. Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
below, is not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports
of the other auditors and the financial statements / financial information certified by the management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
20. The Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account have been drawn up in accordance
with the provisions of section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and section 133 of the Act and the relevant
rules issued thereunder.
21. In our opinion and according to the information and explanation given to us and based on reports of the statutory
auditors of such subsidiary companies and associates companies incorporated in India which were not audited
by us, the remuneration paid during the current year by the subsidiaries and associate companies incorporated
in India to its directors is in accordance with the provisions of and the limits laid down under section 197 read
with Schedule V of the Act. Further, for four associates, as referred to in paragraph 18 above, whose financial
statements/information have not been audited, in absence of reporting of such entities with respect to compliance of
the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act during the year ended 31 March 2023, we are unable
to comment on such compliance for the said entities as required to be reported by us under section 197(16) of the
Act. Further, since the Holding Company is a banking company, as defined under Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the
reporting under section 197(16) in relation to whether the remuneration paid by the Bank is in accordance with the
provisions of section 197 of the Act and whether any excess remuneration has been paid in accordance with the
aforesaid section, is not applicable.
22. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other auditor
on separate financial statements and the other financial information of the the subsidiaries and associates we
report, to the extent applicable, that:
a. We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
b. In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated
financial statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports
of the other auditors.
c. The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, and the Consolidated Cash Flow
Statement dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the
purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
d. In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified
under Section 133 of the Act read with relevant rules issued thereunder, to the extent they are not inconsistent
with the guidelines prescribed by RBI.
e. On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Bank as on 31 March 2023 taken
on record by the Board of Directors of the Bank and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary
companies and associate companies incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Group companies and
its associate companies incorporated in India are disqualified as on 31 March 2023 from being appointed as a
director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
f. With respect to the adequacy of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements
of the Group and its associates and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in
“Annexure A”.
254
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
g. With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the
Companies (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014 as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and
according to the explanations given to us based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other
auditor on separate financial statements of such subsidiaries and associates as noted in the ‘Other Matters’
paragraph:
i. The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2023 on
the consolidated financial position of the Group and its associates. (Refer Schedule 12, Schedule 17(10) and
Schedule 18(6) to the consolidated financial statements)
ii. Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements as at 31 March 2023, as required under the
applicable law or accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including
derivative contracts – (Refer Schedule 17(10) and Schedule 18(6) to the consolidated financial statements), in
respect of such items as it relates to the Group and its associates and the Group’s share of net profit in respect
of its associates.
iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and
Protection Fund by the Bank and its subsidiary companies, associate companies incorporated in India.
iv. (1) T he respective Managements of the Bank, subsidiaries and its associates which are companies incorporated
in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us, and the other
auditors of such subsidiaries and associates respectively that, to the best of their knowledge and belief,
as disclosed in schedule 18(16) to the consolidated financial statements, no funds (which are material
either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed
funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank or any of such subsidiaries and
associates to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly,
lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank
or any of such subsidiaries and associates (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or
the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
(2) T he respective Managements of the Bank, its subsidiaries and associate which are companies incorporated
in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and the
other auditors of such subsidiaries and associates respectively that, as disclosed in schedule 18(16) to the
consolidated financial statements, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material
either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the Company or any of such subsidiaries
and associates from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with the
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Bank or any of such subsidiaries and
associates shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee,
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(3) B ased on the audit procedures, that which we have has been considered reasonable and appropriate in the
circumstances, performed by us and those performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries and associates
which are companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act,
nothing has come to our or other auditor’s notice that has caused us or the other auditors to believe that
the representations under sub-clause (1) and (2) of Rule 11(e) contain any material misstatement.
255
Annual Report 2022-23
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
v. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the dividend declared and / or
paid during the year the Group is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
vi. As the proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 (as amended), which provides for the
accounting software used by the Group and its associate companies for maintaining their books of account to
have the feature for recording of audit trail (edit log) facility and related matters, is applicable for the Group and
its associate companies only with effect from financial year beginning 01 April 2023, the reporting under clause
(g) of Rule 11 is currently not applicable.
For M S K A & Associates For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No.105047W (Formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.105146W/W100621
Tushar Kurani Gautam Shah
Partner Partner
Membership Number.: 118580 Membership Number.: 117348
UDIN: 23118580BGXROZ3409 UDIN: 23117348BGSZHP2495
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai
Date: 22 April 2023 Date: 22 April 2023
256
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’ Report on the Consolidated
Financial Statements Of ICICI Bank Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023
(Referred to in paragraph “22f” under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of
even date)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the aforesaid Consolidated Financial
Statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
Opinion
1. In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Bank as of and for the year ended 31
March 2023, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of
ICICI Bank Limited (“the Holding Company”) and its subsidiary companies and its associate companies, which are
companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
2. In our opinion, and based on the consideration of the reports of the other auditors on internal financial controls
with reference to the consolidated financial statements, to the best of our information and according to the
explanations given to us, the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies and its associate companies, which
are companies incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls with
reference to consolidated financial statements and such internal financial controls with reference to consolidated
financial statements were operating effectively as at 31 March 2023, based on the internal control with reference
to consolidated financial statements criteria established by the respective companies considering the essential
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial
Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“the ICAI”).
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for Internal Financial Controls
3. The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies and its associate companies,
to whom reporting under clause (i) of sub-section 143 of the Act in respect of adequacy of the internal control
with reference to financial statements is applicable, which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible for
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control with reference to consolidated
financial statements criteria established by the respective companies considering the essential components of
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (‘the
Guidance Note’) issued by the ICAI. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of
adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of
its business, including adherence to the respective Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation
of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Consolidated
Financial Statements
4. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements of the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies and its associate companies, which are companies
incorporated in India, based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note issued
by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to
an audit of internal financial controls. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements were established and maintained and if such
controls operated effectively in all material respects.
5. Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements included obtaining an understanding of such
internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
257
Annual Report 2022-23
Annexure A (Contd.)
assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
6. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms
of their reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of the Holding
Company, its subsidiary companies and its associate companies, which are companies incorporated in India.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements
7. A Bank's internal financial control with reference to the consolidated financial statements is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
Bank's internal financial control with reference to consolidated financial statements includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Bank are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the Bank; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Bank's assets that could have a
material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to the Consolidated Financial
Statements
8. Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to
error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls
with reference to consolidated financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Other Matters
9. The auditors of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited have reported, ‘The actuarial valuation of liabilities
for life policies in force and policies in respect of which premium has been discontinued but liability exists as at
31 March 2023 has been certified by the Appointed Actuary as per the IRDA Financial Statements Regulations,
and has been relied upon by us, as mentioned in “Other Matters” of our audit report on the standalone financial
statements for the year ended 31 March 2023. Accordingly, our opinion on the internal financial controls with
reference to standalone financial statements does not include reporting on the design and operating effectiveness
of the management’s internal controls over the valuation and accuracy of the aforesaid actuarial valuation’.
10. The auditors of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited have reported, ‘The actuarial valuation of
liabilities in respect of Incurred But Not Reported (the “IBNR”), Incurred But Not Enough Reported (the “IBNER”) and
Premium Deficiency Reserve (the “PDR”) is the responsibility of the Company’s Appointed Actuary (the “Appointed
Actuary”). The actuarial valuation of these liabilities, that are estimated using statistical methods as at 31 March 2023
has been duly certified by the Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, the assumptions considered by him for such
valuation are in accordance with the guidelines and norms issued by the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India
in concurrence with the IRDAI.
The said actuarial valuations of liabilities for outstanding claims reserves and the PDR have been relied upon by
them as mentioned in “Other Matters” paragraph in our Audit Report on the financial statements for the year ended
31 March 2023. Accordingly, our opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial reporting
258
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
Annexure A (Contd.)
does not include reporting on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls over the
valuation and accuracy of the aforesaid actuarial liabilities’.
11. Our report on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with reference to financial
statements for the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, and its associate companies, as aforesaid, under
Section 143(3)(i) of the Act in so far as it relates to such subsidiary companies, and associate company, is based
solely on the reports of the auditors of such companies. Our opinion is not modified in respect of the matters with
respect to our reliance on the work done by and on the reports of the other auditors.
12. Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal
financial controls system with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements in so far as it relates to ten
subsidiary companies and two associate company, which are companies incorporated in India, is based on the
corresponding reports of the auditors of such subsidiaries and associates incorporated in India.
For M S K A & Associates For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No.105047W (Formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.105146W/W100621
Tushar Kurani Gautam Shah
Partner Partner
Membership Number.: 118580 Membership Number.: 117348
UDIN: 23118580BGXROZ3409 UDIN: 23117348BGSZHP2495
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai
Date: 22 April 2023 Date: 22 April 2023
259
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
at March 31, 2023
` in ‘000s
At At
Schedule
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital 1 13,967,750 13,899,662
Employees stock options outstanding 1A 7,608,859 2,664,141
Reserves and surplus 2 2,123,401,284 1,803,961,070
Minority interest 2A 66,867,526 59,808,935
Deposits 3 12,108,321,521 10,913,657,932
Borrowings 4 1,890,618,073 1,616,026,828
Liabilities on policies in force 2,388,673,665 2,288,271,963
Other liabilities and provisions 5 985,446,292 828,083,306
TOTAL CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES 19,584,904,970 17,526,373,837
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India 6 686,489,413 1,096,307,069
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 7 678,075,515 734,952,763
Investments 8 6,395,519,671 5,670,977,180
Advances 9 10,838,663,147 9,203,081,390
Fixed assets 10 109,690,036 106,054,107
Other assets 11 875,453,870 713,988,010
Goodwill on consolidation 1,013,318 1,013,318
TOTAL ASSETS 19,584,904,970 17,526,373,837
Contingent liabilities 12 50,359,511,032 45,523,411,167
Bills for collection 864,576,684 752,325,958
Significant accounting policies and notes to accounts 17 & 18
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
As per our Report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Uday M. Chitale Sandeep Bakhshi
Chartered Accountants Chairman Director Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration no.: DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
105047W
Tushar Kurani Anup Bagchi Rakesh Jha Sandeep Batra
Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director
Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00105962 DIN-00042075 DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP Anindya Banerjee Prachiti Lalingkar Rajendra Khandelwal
Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
Mumbai
April 22, 2023
260
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
for the year ended March 31, 2023
` in ‘000s
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
I. INCOME
Interest earned 13 1,210,668,098 954,068,654
Other income 14 651,119,912 621,294,514
TOTAL INCOME 1,861,788,010 1,575,363,168
II. EXPENDITURE
Interest expended 15 505,433,879 411,666,711
Operating expenses 16 824,390,232 731,517,275
Provisions and contingencies (refer note 18.6) 187,333,629 174,340,856
TOTAL EXPENDITURE 1,517,157,740 1,317,524,842
III. PROFIT/(LOSS)
Net profit for the year (before share in profit of associates 344,630,270 257,838,326
and minority interest)
Add: Share of profit in associates 9,982,876 7,544,279
Net profit for the year before minority interest 354,613,146 265,382,605
Less: Minority interest 14,246,738 14,281,645
Net profit after minority interest 340,366,408 251,100,960
Profit brought forward 508,988,514 385,155,990
TOTAL PROFIT/(LOSS) 849,354,922 636,256,950
IV. APPROPRIATIONS/TRANSFERS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve 79,742,000 58,349,000
Transfer to/(from) Reserve Fund - -
Transfer to Capital Reserve 878,200 15,742,037
Transfer to Capital Redemption Reserve - -
Transfer to/(from) Investment Reserve Account - -
Transfer to/(from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve 1,043,810 3,828,798
Transfer to Special Reserve 26,254,000 15,328,500
Transfer to/(from) Revenue and other reserves 50,255,680 657,420
Dividend paid during the year 34,794,463 13,852,335
Balance carried over to balance sheet 656,386,769 528,498,860
TOTAL 849,354,922 636,256,950
Significant accounting policies and notes to accounts 17 & 18
Earnings per share (refer note 18.1)
Basic (`) 48.86 36.21
Diluted (`) 47.84 35.44
Face value per share (`) 2.00 2.00
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
As per our Report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Uday M. Chitale Sandeep Bakhshi
Chartered Accountants Chairman Director Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration no.: DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
105047W
Tushar Kurani Anup Bagchi Rakesh Jha Sandeep Batra
Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director
Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00105962 DIN-00042075 DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP Anindya Banerjee Prachiti Lalingkar Rajendra Khandelwal
Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
Mumbai
April 22, 2023
261
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended March 31, 2023
` in ‘000s
Year ended Year ended
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
Cash flow from/(used in) operating activities
Profit/(loss) before taxes 458,300,782 335,675,367
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation 16,455,886 14,794,572
Net (appreciation)/depreciation on investments 27,053,455 18,320,870
Provision in respect of non-performing and other assets (3,653,501) 63,775,215
General provision for standard assets 4,898,941 4,065,438
Provision for contingencies & others 54,236,861 16,513,472
(Profit)/loss on sale of fixed assets (542,579) (56,635)
Employees stock options expense 5,180,508 2,669,253
(i) 561,930,353 455,757,552
Adjustments for:
(Increase)/decrease in investments (158,286,285) (166,685,392)
(Increase)/decrease in advances (1,638,931,648) (1,349,047,011)
Increase/(decrease) in deposits 1,194,663,589 1,314,257,752
(Increase)/decrease in other assets (166,076,201) 46,655,269
Increase/(decrease) in other liabilities and provisions 277,742,529 329,993,864
(ii) (490,888,016) 175,174,482
Refund/(payment) of direct taxes (iii) (108,754,258) (49,817,733)
Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities (i)+(ii)+(iii) (A) (37,711,921) 581,114,301
Cash flow from/(used in) investing activities
Purchase of fixed assets (24,676,808) (18,599,746)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 2,874,176 1,174,397
(Purchase)/sale of held to maturity securities (658,250,590) (375,789,070)
Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities (B) (680,053,222) (393,214,419)
Cash flow from/(used in) financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital (including ESOPs) 9,420,691 7,979,764
Proceeds from long-term borrowings 417,361,966 356,976,668
Repayment of long-term borrowings (268,917,978) (346,030,278)
Net proceeds/(repayment) of short-term borrowings 124,836,960 169,436,188
Dividend paid (34,794,463) (13,852,335)
Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities (C) 247,907,176 174,510,007
Effect of exchange fluctuation on translation reserve (D) 3,163,063 (1,268,443)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (466,694,904) 361,141,446
(A) + (B) + (C) + (D)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1,831,259,832 1,470,118,386
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 1,364,564,928 1,831,259,832
1. Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances with RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and short notice.
As per our Report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Uday M. Chitale Sandeep Bakhshi
Chartered Accountants Chairman Director Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration no.: DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
105047W
Tushar Kurani Anup Bagchi Rakesh Jha Sandeep Batra
Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director
Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00105962 DIN-00042075 DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP Anindya Banerjee Prachiti Lalingkar Rajendra Khandelwal
Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
Mumbai
April 22, 2023
262
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 1 - CAPITAL
Authorised capital
12,500,000,000 equity shares of ` 2 each
(March 31, 2022: 12,500,000,000 equity shares of ` 2 each) 25,000,000 25,000,000
Equity share capital
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital
6,948,771,375 equity shares of ` 2 each
(March 31, 2022: 6,915,992,387 equity shares) 13,897,543 13,831,985
Add: 34,044,356 equity shares of ` 2 each
(March 31, 2022: 32,778,988 equity shares) issued during the year 68,088 65,558
13,965,631 13,897,543
Add: Forfeited equity shares1 2,119 2,119
TOTAL CAPITAL 13,967,750 13,899,662
1. On account of forfeiture of 266,089 equity shares of ` 10 each.
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 1A - EMPLOYEES STOCK OPTIONS OUTSTANDING
Opening balance 2,664,141 31,010
Additions during the year1 5,172,383 2,642,190
Deductions during the year2 (227,665) (9,059)
Closing balance 7,608,859 2,664,141
1. Represents cost of stock options amortised over the vesting period recognised during the year.
2. R epresents amount transferred to Securities Premium on account of exercise of employee stock options and to General Reserve on
lapses of employee stock options during the year.
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 2 - RESERVES AND SURPLUS
I. Statutory reserve
Opening balance 356,036,519 297,687,519
Additions during the year 79,742,000 58,349,000
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance 435,778,519 356,036,519
II. Special Reserve
Opening balance 133,978,000 118,649,500
Additions during the year 26,254,000 15,328,500
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance 160,232,000 133,978,000
III. Securities premium
Opening balance 497,645,058 489,694,731
Additions during the year1 9,584,456 7,950,327
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance 507,229,514 497,645,058
263
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
IV. Investment reserve account
Opening balance - -
Additions during the year - -
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance - -
V. Investment fluctuation reserve2
Opening balance 20,714,999 16,886,201
Additions during the year 1,043,810 3,828,798
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance 21,758,809 20,714,999
VI. Unrealised investment reserve3
Opening balance (358,641) (56,658)
Additions during the year 3,620 -
Deductions during the year (874) (301,983)
Closing balance (355,895) (358,641)
VII. Capital reserve
Opening balance 149,784,353 134,042,316
Additions during the year4,5 878,200 15,742,037
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance6 150,662,553 149,784,353
VIII. Capital redemption reserve
Opening balance 3,500,000 3,500,000
Additions during the year - -
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance 3,500,000 3,500,000
IX. Foreign currency translation reserve
Opening balance 12,431,431 13,699,874
Additions during the year 3,163,063 599,449
Deductions during the year - (1,867,892)
Closing balance 15,594,494 12,431,431
X. Revaluation reserve
Opening balance 32,284,975 31,252,824
Additions during the year7 839,517 1,742,847
Deductions during the year8 (2,206,076) (710,696)
Closing balance 30,918,416 32,284,975
XI. Revenue and other reserves
Opening balance 88,955,862 71,497,594
Additions during the year9 52,795,238 20,297,813
Deductions during the year9 (54,995) (2,839,545)
Closing balance10 141,696,105 88,955,862
XII. Balance in profit and loss account5 656,386,769 528,498,860
Deductions during the year11 - (19,510,346)
Balance in profit and loss account 656,386,769 508,988,514
TOTAL RESERVES AND SURPLUS 2,123,401,284 1,803,961,070
1. Includes ` 9,576.3 million (March 31, 2022: ` 7,923.3 million) on exercise of employee stock options.
2. R epresents amount transferred by the Bank to Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR) on net profit on sale of AFS and HFT investments
during the period. The amount not less than the lower of net profit on sale of AFS and HFT category investments during the period
or net profit for the period less mandatory appropriations is required to be transferred to IFR, until the amount of IFR is at least 2% of
the HFT and AFS portfolio.
264
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
3. Represents unrealised profit/(loss) pertaining to the investments of venture capital funds.
4. I ncludes appropriations made by the Bank for profit on sale of investments in held-to-maturity category, net of taxes and transfer to
Statutory Reserve and profit on sale of land and buildings, net of taxes and transfer to Statutory Reserve.
5. T he Bank had shifted certain securities from held-to-maturity category to available-for-sale category on May 3, 2017. RBI through
its order dated May 3, 2021 has directed the Bank to appropriate the net profit made on sale of these investments during FY2018 to
Capital Reserve. Accordingly, an amount of ` 15,091.1 million was transferred by the Bank from Balance in Profit and Loss account
to Capital Reserve during FY2022.
6. Includes capital reserve on consolidation amounting to ` 79.1 million (March 31, 2022: ` 79.1 million).
7. Represents gain on revaluation of premises carried out by the Bank and ICICI Home Finance Company Limited.
8. R epresents amount transferred from Revaluation Reserve to General Reserve on account of incremental depreciation charge on
revaluation, revaluation surplus on premises sold or loss on revaluation on account of certain assets which were held for sale.
9. Includes ` 1,482.1 million towards addition in fair value change account (March 31, 2022: reduction amounting to ` 2,471.4 million) of
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited.
10. Includes unrealised profit/(loss), net of tax, of ` 161.5 million (March 31, 2022: ` 206.4 million) pertaining to the investments in the
available-for-sale category of ICICI Bank UK PLC.
11. Represents reduction due to discontinuation of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited from consolidation during FY2022.
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 2A - MINORITY INTEREST
Opening minority interest 59,808,935 95,883,393
Subsequent increase/(decrease) during the year1 7,058,591 (36,074,458)
CLOSING MINORITY INTEREST 66,867,526 59,808,935
1. F Y2022 includes deduction of minority interest of ` 39,052.5 million relating to ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
subsequent to ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited being ceased to be a subsidiary.
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 3 - DEPOSITS
A. I. Demand deposits
i) From banks 49,978,962 79,321,836
ii) From others 1,608,349,299 1,554,865,124
II. Savings bank deposits 3,848,298,564 3,670,305,566
III. Term deposits
i) From banks 113,475,314 71,532,495
ii) From others 6,488,219,382 5,537,632,911
TOTAL DEPOSITS 12,108,321,521 10,913,657,932
B. I. Deposits of branches in India 11,638,079,242 10,527,203,264
II. Deposits of branches/subsidiaries outside India 470,242,279 386,454,668
TOTAL DEPOSITS 12,108,321,521 10,913,657,932
265
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 4 - BORROWINGS
I. Borrowings in India
i) Reserve Bank of India1 18,899,200 -
ii) Other banks 71,911,178 50,892,853
iii) Financial institutions2 608,942,331 323,264,820
iv) Borrowings in the form of
a) Deposits 36,624,470 31,004,597
b) Commercial paper 98,022,849 90,353,072
c) Bonds and debentures (excluding subordinated debt) 506,782,072 430,564,188
v) Capital instruments
a) Innovative Perpetual Debt Instruments (IPDI)
(qualifying as additional Tier 1 capital) 51,400,000 66,950,000
b) Unsecured redeemable debentures/bonds
(subordinated debt included in Tier 2 capital) 53,206,653 93,504,927
TOTAL BORROWINGS IN INDIA 1,445,788,753 1,086,534,457
II. Borrowings outside India
i) Capital instruments
U nsecured redeemable debentures/bonds
(subordinated debt included in Tier 2 capital) 5,962,274 5,529,406
ii) Bonds and notes 133,419,412 181,504,693
iii) Other borrowings 305,447,634 342,458,272
TOTAL BORROWINGS OUTSIDE INDIA 444,829,320 529,492,371
TOTAL BORROWINGS 1,890,618,073 1,616,026,828
1. Represents borrowings made under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) and Standing Liquidity Facility (SLF).
2. Includes borrowings made by the Group under repo and refinance.
3. S ecured borrowings in I and II above amounting to ` 239,969.1 million (March 31, 2022: ` 232,515.3 million) other than the borrowings
under collateralised borrowing and lending obligation, market repurchase transactions (including tri-party repo) with banks and
financial institutions and transactions under liquidity adjustment facility and marginal standing facility.
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
I. Bills payable 136,037,076 130,686,122
II. Inter-office adjustments (net) 3,228,016 4,418,106
III. Interest accrued 33,390,137 27,524,211
IV. Sundry creditors 242,830,603 206,506,321
V. General provision for standard assets 49,946,771 44,586,271
VI. Unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts 183,764,747 112,918,929
VII. Others (including provisions)1 336,248,942 301,443,346
TOTAL OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS 985,446,292 828,083,306
1. I ncludes contingency provision of the Bank amounting to ` 131,000.0 million (March 31, 2022: ` 74,500.0 million) and specific provision
for standard loans amounting to ` 14,946.9 million (March 31, 2022: ` 30,203.0 million) by the Bank.
266
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 6 - CASH AND BALANCES WITH RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
I. Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes) 86,812,982 72,274,785
II. Balances with Reserve Bank of India
(a) in current account 480,256,431 530,012,284
(b) in other accounts1 119,420,000 494,020,000
TOTAL CASH AND BALANCES WITH RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 686,489,413 1,096,307,069
1. Represents lending under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) and Standing Deposit Facility (SDF).
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND
SHORT NOTICE
I. In India
i) Balances with banks
a) In current accounts 3,103,280 2,150,158
b) In other deposit accounts 107,287,660 58,739,519
ii) Money at call and short notice
a) With banks 8,217,000 -
b) With other institutions1 59,652,392 58,284,515
TOTAL 178,260,332 119,174,192
II. Outside India
i) In current accounts 310,635,743 332,048,410
ii) In other deposit accounts 26,782,094 179,630,804
iii) Money at call and short notice 162,397,346 104,099,357
TOTAL 499,815,183 615,778,571
TOTAL BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE 678,075,515 734,952,763
1. Includes lending under reverse repo.
267
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 8 - INVESTMENTS
I. Investments in India [net of provisions]
i) Government securities 3,960,623,208 3,255,021,732
ii) Other approved securities - -
iii) Shares (includes equity and preference shares) 127,225,123 131,221,761
iv) Debentures and bonds (including commercial paper and certificate 526,539,870 415,992,085
of deposits)
v) Assets held to cover linked liabilities of life insurance business1 1,440,580,565 1,508,663,020
vi) Cost of equity investment in associates2 20,040,640 20,040,640
vii) Others (mutual fund units, pass through certificates, security 172,557,780 134,270,515
receipts and other related investments)3
TOTAL INVESTMENTS IN INDIA 6,247,567,186 5,465,209,753
II. Investments outside India [net of provisions]
i) Government securities 89,972,472 152,078,246
ii) Others (equity shares, bonds and certificate of deposits) 57,980,013 53,689,181
TOTAL INVESTMENTS OUTSIDE INDIA 147,952,485 205,767,427
TOTAL INVESTMENTS 6,395,519,671 5,670,977,180
A. Investments in India
Gross value of investments1 6,275,011,504 5,486,621,394
Less: Aggregate of provision/depreciation/(appreciation) 27,444,318 21,411,641
Net investments 6,247,567,186 5,465,209,753
B. Investments outside India
Gross value of investments 153,368,477 208,954,192
Less: Aggregate of provision/depreciation/(appreciation) 5,415,992 3,186,765
Net investments 147,952,485 205,767,427
TOTAL INVESTMENTS 6,395,519,671 5,670,977,180
1. I ncludes net appreciation amounting to ` 169,588.6 million (March 31, 2022: ` 244,271.4 million) on investments held to cover linked
liabilities of life insurance business.
2. Includes goodwill on consolidation of associates amounting to ` 221.9 million (March 31, 2022: ` 221.9 million).
3. Includes share in networth of associates as per equity method as prescibed by AS 23.
268
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 9 - ADVANCES [net of provisions]
A. i) Bills purchased and discounted1 497,557,667 482,956,949
ii) Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand 2,866,747,206 2,342,314,744
iii) Term loans 7,474,358,274 6,377,809,697
TOTAL ADVANCES 10,838,663,147 9,203,081,390
B. i) Secured by tangible assets (includes advances against book debts) 7,713,019,424 6,701,716,660
ii) Covered by bank/government guarantees 159,202,710 185,673,079
iii) Unsecured 2,966,441,013 2,315,691,651
TOTAL ADVANCES 10,838,663,147 9,203,081,390
C. I. Advances in India
i) Priority sector 2,807,812,582 2,491,680,887
ii) Public sector 516,152,443 483,782,406
iii) Banks 7,698,171 432,346
iv) Others 6,769,499,593 5,417,164,764
TOTAL ADVANCES IN INDIA 10,101,162,789 8,393,060,403
II. Advances outside India
i) Due from banks 8,076,480 7,165,905
ii) Due from others
a) Bills purchased and discounted 152,553,948 175,464,049
b) Syndicated and term loans 245,267,859 235,061,192
c) Others 331,602,071 392,329,841
TOTAL ADVANCES OUTSIDE INDIA 737,500,358 810,020,987
TOTAL ADVANCES 10,838,663,147 9,203,081,390
1. Net of bills re-discounted amounting to ` 10,000.0 million (March 31, 2022: Nil).
269
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 10 - FIXED ASSETS
I. Premises
Gross block
At cost at March 31 of preceding year 94,345,827 95,782,081
Additions during the year1 2,793,216 3,334,955
Deductions during the year (2,798,606) (4,771,209)
Closing balance 94,340,437 94,345,827
Depreciation
At March 31 of preceding year 23,514,011 21,854,971
Charge during the year2 2,486,973 2,375,067
Deductions during the year (455,659) (716,027)
Total depreciation 25,545,325 23,514,011
Net block3 68,795,112 70,831,816
II. Other fixed assets (including furniture and fixtures)
Gross block
At cost at March 31 of preceding year 98,784,940 97,137,491
Additions during the year 18,437,437 15,252,194
Deductions during the year (6,219,745) (13,604,745)
Closing balance 111,002,632 98,784,940
Depreciation
At March 31 of preceding year 66,817,309 66,259,069
Charge during the year 12,459,081 10,737,093
Deductions during the year (6,101,926) (10,178,853)
Total depreciation 73,174,464 66,817,309
Net block 37,828,168 31,967,631
III. Lease assets
Gross block
At cost at March 31 of preceding year 17,890,746 17,735,221
Additions during the year 11,660 155,525
Deductions during the year - -
Closing balance4 17,902,406 17,890,746
Depreciation
At March 31 of preceding year 14,636,086 14,448,172
Charge during the year 199,564 187,914
Deductions during the year - -
Total depreciation, accumulated lease adjustment and provisions 14,835,650 14,636,086
Net block 3,066,756 3,254,660
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS 109,690,036 106,054,107
1. I ncludes net revaluation gain amounting to ` 811.7 million (March 31, 2022: ` 1,742.8 million) on account of revaluation carried out by
the Bank and its housing finance subsidiary.
2. I ncluding depreciation charge on account of revaluation of ` 755.2 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31,
2022: ` 703.1 million).
3. Includes assets amounting to ` 428.8 million of the Bank (March 31, 2022: ` 558.5 million) which are held for sale.
4. Includes assets taken on lease by the Bank amounting to ` 1,187.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 1,176.1 million).
270
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 11 - OTHER ASSETS
I. Inter-office adjustments (net) - -
II. Interest accrued 151,100,647 108,389,915
III. Tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net) 20,372,701 26,241,723
IV. Stationery and stamps 379,124 337,907
V. Non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims1,2 - -
VI. Advance for capital assets 9,009,963 4,460,876
VII. Deposits 54,892,587 40,100,556
VIII. Deferred tax asset (net) (refer note 18.9) 76,194,441 79,484,847
IX. Deposits in Rural Infrastructure and Development Fund 216,216,187 264,194,161
X. Unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts 178,022,993 105,347,160
XI. Others 169,265,227 85,430,865
TOTAL OTHER ASSETS 875,453,870 713,988,010
1. No assets were sold by the Bank during the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 563.6 million).
2. Net of provision held by the Bank amounting to ` 29,011.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 29,011.8 million).
` in ‘000s
At At
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 12 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
I. Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts 88,006,837 89,527,688
II. Liability for partly paid investments 4,790,087 7,009,157
III. Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts1 15,492,543,076 10,757,369,659
IV. Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
a) In India 1,102,115,003 877,490,076
b) Outside India 134,004,861 158,594,796
V. Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations 435,202,811 458,778,736
VI. Currency swaps1 570,626,929 502,108,785
VII. Interest rate swaps, currency options and interest rate futures1 32,435,271,591 32,634,035,960
VIII. Other items for which the Group is contingently liable 96,949,837 38,496,310
TOTAL CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 50,359,511,032 45,523,411,167
1. Represents notional amount.
271
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
` in ‘000s
Year ended Year ended
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED
I. Interest/discount on advances/bills 879,292,351 668,865,377
II. Income on investments (including dividend) 279,050,297 219,906,420
III. Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and other inter-bank
funds 23,054,570 18,195,960
IV. Others1,2 29,270,880 47,100,897
TOTAL INTEREST EARNED 1,210,668,098 954,068,654
1. Includes interest on income tax refunds amounting to ` 1,203.2 million (March 31, 2022: ` 2,434.3 million).
2. Includes interest and amortisation of premium on non-trading interest rate swaps and foreign currency swaps.
` in ‘000s
Year ended Year ended
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 14 - OTHER INCOME
I. Commission, exchange and brokerage 196,484,672 172,883,870
II. Profit/(loss) on sale of investments (net) 12,730,117 23,145,295
III. Profit/(loss) on revaluation of investments (net) (1,317,590) 1,981,586
IV. Profit/(loss) on sale of land, buildings and other assets (net)1 542,579 56,635
V. Profit/(loss) on exchange/derivative transactions (net) 30,509,008 29,933,143
VI. Premium and other operating income from insurance business 411,367,848 389,595,741
VII. Miscellaneous income (including lease income) 803,278 3,698,244
TOTAL OTHER INCOME 651,119,912 621,294,514
1. Includes profit/(loss) on sale of assets given on lease.
` in ‘000s
Year ended Year ended
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 15 - INTEREST EXPENDED
I. Interest on deposits 394,765,407 336,132,833
II. Interest on Reserve Bank of India/inter-bank borrowings 13,380,975 4,402,009
III. Others (including interest on borrowings of erstwhile ICICI Limited) 97,287,497 71,131,869
TOTAL INTEREST EXPENDED 505,433,879 411,666,711
272
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
Year ended Year ended
31.03.2023 31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 16 - OPERATING EXPENSES
I. Payments to and provisions for employees 152,341,687 123,416,025
II. Rent, taxes and lighting1 15,846,567 14,085,917
III. Printing and stationery 2,713,187 2,232,877
IV. Advertisement and publicity 32,807,911 23,313,796
V. Depreciation on property 14,946,054 13,112,160
VI. Depreciation (including lease equalisation) on leased assets 199,538 187,914
VII. Directors' fees, allowances and expenses 137,405 123,496
VIII. Auditors' fees and expenses 248,666 219,598
IX. Law charges 1,771,894 1,707,140
X. Postages, courier, telephones, etc. 7,475,175 7,092,062
XI. Repairs and maintenance 34,644,161 26,994,748
XII. Insurance 14,788,575 13,025,817
XIII. Direct marketing agency expenses 32,599,179 25,697,664
XIV. Claims and benefits paid pertaining to insurance business 53,426,955 59,037,802
XV. Other expenses pertaining to insurance business2 363,124,210 339,724,982
XVI. Other expenditure3 97,319,068 81,545,277
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES 824,390,232 731,517,275
1. Includes lease expense amounting to ` 12,512.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 11,389.0 million).
2. I ncludes commission expenses and reserves for actuarial liabilities (including the investible portion of the premium on the unit-linked
policies).
3. I ncludes expenses on purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLC) for the Bank amounting to ` 15,035.2 million (March 31,
2022: ` 13,206.1 million).
273
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts
SCHEDULE 17
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Overview
ICICI Bank Limited, together with its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (collectively, the Group), is a diversified
financial services group providing a wide range of banking and financial services including commercial banking, retail
banking, project and corporate finance, working capital finance, insurance, venture capital and private equity, investment
banking, broking and treasury products and services.
ICICI Bank Limited (the Bank), incorporated in Vadodara, India is a publicly held banking company governed by the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
Principles of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the financials of ICICI Bank, its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
Entities, in which the Bank holds, directly or indirectly, through subsidiaries and other consolidating entities, more than
50.00% of the voting rights or where it exercises control, over the composition of board of directors/governing body,
are fully consolidated on a line-by-line basis in accordance with the provisions of AS 21 on ‘Consolidated Financial
Statements’. Investments in entities where the Bank has the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for
under the equity method of accounting and the pro-rata share of their profit/(loss) is included in the consolidated profit
and loss account. Assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of jointly controlled entities are consolidated using the
proportionate consolidation method. Under this method, the Bank’s share of each of the assets, liabilities, income and
expenses of the jointly controlled entity is reported in separate line items in the consolidated financial statements. The
Bank does not consolidate entities where the significant influence/control is intended to be temporary or entities which
operate under severe long-term restrictions that impair their ability to transfer funds to parent/investing entity or where
the objective of control is not to obtain economic benefit from their activities. All significant inter-company balances and
transactions with subsidiaries and entities consolidated as per AS 21 have been eliminated on consolidation.
Basis of preparation
The accounting and reporting policies of the Group used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements
conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (Indian GAAP), the guidelines issued by the Reserve
Bank of India (RBI), Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
of India (IRDAI) from time to time and the Accounting Standards notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act,
2013 read together with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, as applicable to relevant companies and
practices generally prevalent in the banking industry in India. In the case of the foreign subsidiaries, Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles as applicable to the respective foreign subsidiaries are followed. The Group follows the accrual
method of accounting except where otherwise stated, and the historical cost convention. In case the accounting policies
followed by a subsidiary or joint venture are different from those followed by the Bank, the same have been disclosed in
the respective accounting policy.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
are considered in the reported amounts of assets and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as of the date of the
consolidated financial statements and the reported income and expenses during the reporting period. Management
believes that the estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prudent and reasonable.
Actual results could differ from these estimates. The impact of any revision in these estimates is recognised prospectively
from the period of change.
274
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
The consolidated financial statements include the results of the following entities in addition to the Bank.
Sr. Name of the entity Country of Nature of Nature of business Ownership
no. incorporation relationship interest
1. ICICI Bank UK PLC United Kingdom Subsidiary Banking 100.00%
2. ICICI Bank Canada Canada Subsidiary Banking 100.00%
3. ICICI Securities Limited India Subsidiary Securities broking and 74.85%
merchant banking
4. ICICI Securities Holdings Inc.1 USA Subsidiary Holding company 100.00%
5. ICICI Securities Inc.1 USA Subsidiary Securities broking 100.00%
6. ICICI Securities Primary Dealership India Subsidiary Securities investment, 100.00%
Limited trading and underwriting
7. ICICI Venture Funds Management India Subsidiary Private equity/venture 100.00%
Company Limited capital fund management
8. ICICI Home Finance Company Limited India Subsidiary Housing finance 100.00%
9. ICICI Trusteeship Services Limited India Subsidiary Trusteeship services 100.00%
10. ICICI Investment Management India Subsidiary Asset management and 100.00%
Company Limited Investment advisory
11. ICICI International Limited Mauritius Subsidiary Asset management 100.00%
12. ICICI Prudential Pension Funds India Subsidiary Pension fund 100.00%
Management Company Limited2 management and Points
of Presence
13. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance India Subsidiary Life insurance 51.27%
Company Limited
14. ICICI Prudential Asset Management India Subsidiary Asset management 51.00%
Company Limited
15. ICICI Prudential Trust Limited India Subsidiary Trusteeship services 50.80%
16. ICICI Strategic Investments Fund India Consolidated Venture capital fund 100.00%
as per AS 21
17. ICICI Lombard General Insurance India Associate General insurance 48.02%
Company Limited3
18. I-Process Services (India) Private India Associate Services related to back 19.00%
Limited3 end operations
19. NIIT Institute of Finance Banking and India Associate Education and 18.79%
Insurance Training Limited3 training in banking,
finance and insurance
20. ICICI Merchant Services Private India Associate Merchant acquiring and 19.01%
Limited3 servicing
21. India Infradebt Limited3 India Associate Infrastructure finance 42.33%
22. India Advantage Fund-III3 India Associate Venture capital fund 24.10%
23. India Advantage Fund-IV3 India Associate Venture capital fund 47.14%
24. Arteria Technologies Private Limited3 India Associate Software company 19.98%
1. I CICI Securities Holding Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of ICICI Securities Limited. ICICI Securities Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary
of ICICI Securities Holding Inc.
2. I CICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance
Company Limited.
3. T hese entities have been accounted as per the equity method as prescribed by AS 23 on ‘Accounting for Investments in Associates in
Consolidated Financial Statements’.
275
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
Comm Trade Services Limited has not been consolidated under AS 21, since the investment is temporary in nature.
Falcon Tyres Limited, in which the Bank holds 26.39% equity shares has not been accounted as per equity method under
AS 23, since the investment is temporary in nature.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1. Translation of foreign currency items
The consolidated financial statements of the Group are reported in Indian rupees (`), the national currency of
India. Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic operations are translated at the exchange rates
prevailing on the date of the transaction. Income and expenditure items of integral foreign operations (representative
offices) are translated at daily closing rates, and income and expenditure items of non-integral foreign operations
(foreign branches, offshore banking units, foreign subsidiaries) are translated at quarterly average closing rates.
Monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities of domestic and integral foreign operations are translated at closing
exchange rates notified by Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) relevant to the balance sheet
date and the resulting gains/losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations are
translated at relevant closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI at the balance sheet date and the resulting gains/
losses from exchange differences are accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve until the disposal of
the net investment in the non-integral foreign operations. Pursuant to RBI guideline, the Bank does not recognise the
cumulative/proportionate amount of such exchange differences as income or expenses, which relate to repatriation
of accumulated retained earnings from overseas operations, in the profit and loss account.
Contingent liabilities on account of guarantees, endorsements and other obligations denominated in foreign
currencies are disclosed at the closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI relevant to the balance sheet date.
2. Revenue recognition
a) Interest income is recognised in the profit and loss account as it accrues, except in the case of non-performing
assets (NPAs) where it is recognised upon realisation, as per the income recognition and asset classification
norms of RBI/NHB/other applicable guidelines.
b) Income on discounted instruments is recognised over the tenure of the instrument.
c) Dividend income is accounted on an accrual basis when the right to receive the dividend is established.
d) Loan processing fee is accounted for upfront when it becomes due except in the case of foreign banking
subsidiaries, where it is amortised over the period of the loan.
e) Project appraisal/structuring fee is accounted for on the completion of the agreed service.
f) Arranger fee is accounted for as income when a significant portion of the arrangement is completed and right
to receive is established.
g) Commission received on guarantees and letters of credit issued is amortised on a straight-line basis over the
period of the guarantee/letters of credit.
h) Fund management and portfolio management fees are recognised on an accrual basis.
i) The annual/renewal fee on credit cards, debit cards and prepaid cards are amortised on a straight line basis
over one year.
j) All other fees are accounted for as and when they become due where the Group is reasonably certain of
ultimate collection.
k) Fees paid/received for priority sector lending certificates (PSLC) is amortised on straight-line basis over the
period of the certificate.
276
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
l) Income from securities brokerage activities is recognised as income on the trade date of the transaction.
Brokerage income in relation to public or other issuances of securities is recognised based on mobilisation and
terms of agreement with the client.
m) Life insurance premium for non-linked policies is recognised as income (net of goods and service tax) when
due from policyholders. For unit linked business, premium is recognised when the associated units are created.
Premium on lapsed policies is recognised as income when such policies are reinstated. Top-up premiums paid by
unit linked policyholders’ are considered as single premium and recognised as income when the associated units
are created. Income from unit linked policies, which includes fund management charges, policy administration
charges, mortality charges and other charges, if any, are recovered from the linked funds in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the policy and are recognised when due.
n) In case of life insurance business, reinsurance premium ceded/accepted is accounted in accordance with the
terms of the relevant treaties/arrangements with the reinsurer/insurer. Profit commission on reinsurance ceded
is netted off against premium ceded on reinsurance.
3. Stock based compensation
The following entities within the group have granted stock options to their employees:
• ICICI Bank Limited
• ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
• ICICI Securities Limited
The Employees Stock Option Scheme (the Scheme) of the Bank provides for grant of options on the Bank’s equity
shares to wholetime directors and employees of the Bank and its subsidiaries. The options granted vest in a graded
manner and may be exercised within a specified period.
Till March 31, 2021, the Bank recognised cost of stock options granted under Employee Stock Option Scheme, using
intrinsic value method. Under Intrinsic value method, options cost is measured as the excess, if any, of the fair market
price of the underlying stock over the exercise price on the grant date.
Pursuant to RBI clarification dated August 30, 2021, the cost of stock options granted after March 31, 2021 is
recognised based on fair value method. The cost of stock options granted up to March 31, 2021 continues to be
recognised on intrinsic value method. The Bank uses Black-Scholes model to fair value the options on the grant
date and the inputs used in the valuation model include assumptions such as the expected life of the share option,
volatility, risk free rate and dividend yield.
The cost of stock options is recognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period.
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited and ICICI Securities Limited have also formulated similar stock
option schemes for their employees for grant of equity shares of their respective companies. The intrinsic value
method is followed by them to account for their stock-based employee compensation plans. Compensation cost is
measured as the excess, if any, of the fair market price of the underlying stock over the exercise price on the grant
date and amortised over the vesting period. The fair market price is the closing price on the stock exchange with the
highest trading volume of the underlying shares of the Bank, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited and
ICICI Securities Limited, immediately prior to the grant date.
The banking subsidiaries namely, ICICI Bank UK PLC and ICICI Bank Canada, account for the cost of the options
granted to employees by ICICI Bank using the fair value method as followed by the Bank.
4. Income taxes
Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current tax and deferred tax expense incurred by the Group. The
current tax expense and deferred tax expense is determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act,
277
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
1961 and as per Accounting Standard 22 - Accounting for Taxes on Income respectively. Deferred tax adjustments
comprise changes in the deferred tax assets or liabilities during the year and change in tax rate.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised by considering the impact of timing differences between taxable
income and accounting income for the current year, and carry forward losses. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The impact of changes in the deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Deferred tax assets are recognised and re-assessed at each reporting date, based upon the management’s judgement
as to whether their realisation is considered as reasonably certain. However, in case of domestic companies, where
there is unabsorbed depreciation or carried forward loss under taxation laws, deferred tax assets are recognised
only if there is virtual certainty of realisation of such assets.
In the consolidated financial statements, deferred tax assets and liabilities are computed at an individual entity level
and aggregated for consolidated reporting.
Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) credit is recognised as an asset to the extent there is convincing evidence that the
Group will pay normal income tax during specified period, i.e., the period for which MAT credit is allowed to be
carried forward as per prevailing provisions of the Income Tax Act 1961. In accordance with the recommendation
contained in the guidance note issued by ICAI, MAT credit is to be recognised as an asset in the year in which it
becomes eligible for set off against normal income tax. The Group reviews MAT credit entitlements at each balance
sheet date and writes down the carrying amount to the extent there is no longer convincing evidence to the effect
that the Group will pay normal income tax during the specified period.
5. Claims and benefits paid
In the case of life insurance business, benefits paid comprise policy benefits and claim settlement costs, if any. Death
and rider claims are accounted for on receipt of intimation. Survival and maturity benefits are accounted when
due. Withdrawals and surrenders under non linked policies are accounted on the receipt of intimation. Amount
payable on lapsed/discontinued policies are accounted for on expiry of lock-in-period of these policies. Surrenders,
withdrawals and lapsation are disclosed at net of charges recoverable. Claim settlement cost, legal and other fees
form part of claim cost wherever applicable. Reinsurance claims receivable are accounted for in the period in which
the claim is intimated. Repudiated claims and other claims disputed before the judicial authorities are provided for
on prudent basis as considered appropriate by the management.
6. Liability for life policies in force
In the case of life insurance business, the actuarial liabilities for life policies in force and policies where premiums
are discontinued but a liability exists as at the valuation date, are calculated in accordance with accepted actuarial
practice, requirements of Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time, and regulations notified by the Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority of India, relevant Guidance Notes and Actuarial Practice Standards of the
Institute of Actuaries of India.
7. Actuarial method and valuation
In the case of life insurance business, the actuarial liability on both participating and non-participating policies
is calculated using the gross premium method, using assumptions for interest, mortality, morbidity, expense and
inflation, and in the case of participating policies, future bonuses together with allowance for taxation and allocation
of profits to shareholders. These assumptions are determined as prudent estimates at the date of valuation with
allowances for adverse deviations.
The liability for the unexpired portion of the risk for the non-unit liabilities of linked business and attached riders is
the higher of liability calculated using discounted cash flows and unearned premium reserves.
The unit liability in respect of linked business has been taken as the value of the units standing to the credit of
policyholders, using the Net Asset Value (NAV) prevailing at the valuation date.
278
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
An unexpired risk reserve and a reserve in respect of claims incurred but not reported are created, for one year
renewable group term insurance.
The interest rates used for valuing the liabilities are in the range of 4.99% to 6.58% per annum (previous year –
3.67% to 6.30% per annum).
Mortality rates used are based on the published “Indian Assured Lives Mortality (2012-2014) Ult.” mortality table
for assurances and “Indian Individual Annuitant’s Mortality Table (2012-15)” table for annuities, adjusted to reflect
expected experience while morbidity rates used are based on CIBT 93 table, adjusted for expected experience, or on
risk rates supplied by reinsurers.
Expenses are provided for at least at current levels, in respect of renewal expenses, with no allowance for future
improvements. Per policy renewal expenses for regular premium policies are assumed to inflate at 4.90% per annum
(previous year – 4.59%).
8. Acquisition costs for insurance business
Acquisition costs are those costs that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of insurance contracts
and are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
9. Employee benefits
Gratuity
The Group pays gratuity, a defined benefit plan, to employees who retire or resign after a minimum prescribed
period of continuous service and in case of employees at overseas locations as per the rules in force in the respective
countries. The Group makes contribution to recognised trusts which administer the funds on their own account or
through insurance companies.
Actuarial valuation of the gratuity liability is determined by an independent actuary appointed by the Group. Actuarial
valuation of gratuity liability is determined based on certain assumptions regarding rate of interest, salary growth,
mortality and staff attrition as per the projected unit credit method. The actuarial gains or losses arising during the
year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
S uperannuation Fund and National Pension Scheme
The Bank has a superannuation fund, a defined contribution plan, which is administered by trustees and managed
by insurance companies. The Bank contributes 15.0% of the total annual basic salary for certain employees to
superannuation funds. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, ICICI Prudential Asset Management
Company Limited, ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited and ICICI Investment Management Company
Limited have accrued for superannuation liability based on a percentage of basic salary payable to eligible employees
for the period of service.
The Group contributes upto 10.0% of the total basic salary of certain employees to National Pension Scheme (NPS),
a defined contribution plan, which is managed and administered by pension fund management companies. The
employees are given an option to receive the amount in cash in lieu of such contributions along with their monthly
salary during their employment.
The amounts so contributed/paid by the Group to the superannuation fund and NPS or to employees during the year
are recognised in the profit and loss account. The Group has no liability towards future benefits under superannuation
fund and national pension scheme other than its annual contribution.
Pension
The Bank provides for pension, a defined benefit plan covering eligible employees of erstwhile Bank of Madura,
erstwhile Sangli Bank and erstwhile Bank of Rajasthan. The Bank makes contribution to a trust which administers
the funds on its own account or through insurance companies. The plan provides for pension payment including
279
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
dearness relief on a monthly basis to these employees on their retirement based on the respective employee’s years
of service with the Bank and applicable salary.
Actuarial valuation of the pension liability is determined by an independent actuary appointed by the Bank. Actuarial
valuation of pension liability is calculated based on certain assumptions regarding rate of interest, salary growth,
mortality and staff attrition as per the projected unit credit method.
The actuarial gains or losses arising during the year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Employees covered by the pension plan are not eligible for employer’s contribution under the provident fund plan.
P rovident fund
The Group is statutorily required to maintain a provident fund, a defined benefit plan, as a part of retirement
benefits to its employees. Each employee contributes a certain percentage of his or her basic salary and the Group
contributes an equal amount for eligible employees. The Group makes contribution as required by The Employees’
Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 to Employees’ Pension Scheme administered by the
Regional Provident Fund Commissioner and the balance contributions are transferred to funds administered by
trustees. The funds are invested according to the rules prescribed by the Government of India. The Group recognises
such contribution as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Interest payable on provident fund should not be lower than the statutory rate of interest declared by the Central
Government under the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. Actuarial valuation for
the interest obligation on the provident fund balances is determined by an actuary appointed by the Group.
The actuarial gains or losses arising during the year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
The overseas branches of the Bank and its eligible employees contribute a certain percentage of their salary towards
respective government schemes as per local regulatory guidelines. The contribution made by the overseas branches
is recognised in profit and loss account at the time of contribution.
C ompensated absences
The Group provides for compensated absences based on actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary.
10. Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
The Group estimates the probability of any loss that might be incurred on outcome of contingencies on the basis
of information available upto the date on which the consolidated financial statements are prepared. A provision is
recognised when an enterprise has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow
of resources will be required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. Provisions
are determined based on management estimates of amounts required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet
date, supplemented by experience of similar transactions. These are reviewed at each balance sheet date and
adjusted to reflect the current management estimates. In cases where the available information indicates that the
loss on the contingency is reasonably possible but the amount of loss cannot be reasonably estimated, a disclosure
to this effect is made in the consolidated financial statements. In case of remote possibility, neither provision nor
disclosure is made in the consolidated financial statements. The Group does not account for or disclose contingent
assets, if any.
The Bank estimates the probability of redemption of customer loyalty reward points using an actuarial method by
employing an independent actuary and accordingly makes provision for these reward points. Actuarial valuation is
determined based on certain assumptions regarding mortality rate, discount rate, cancellation rate and redemption rate.
11. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances with RBI, balances with other banks and money at call
and short notice.
280
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
12. Investments
i) Investments of the Bank are accounted for in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines on investment classification
and valuation.
a. The Bank follows trade date method of accounting for purchase and sale of investments, except for government
of India and state government securities where settlement date method of accounting is followed in accordance
with RBI guidelines.
b. All investments are classified into ‘Held to Maturity’ (HTM), ‘Available for Sale’ (AFS) and ‘Held for Trading’
(HFT) on the date of purchase as per the extant RBI guidelines on investment classification and valuation.
Reclassifications, if any, in any category are accounted for as per the RBI guidelines. Under each classification,
the investments are further categorised as (a) government securities, (b) other approved securities, (c) shares,
(d) bonds and debentures and (e) others.
c. Investments that are held principally for resale within 90 days from the date of purchase are classified as HFT
securities. Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity are classified as HTM securities. Investments
which are not classified in either of the above categories are classified under AFS securities.
d. Costs including brokerage and commission pertaining to investments paid at the time of acquisition and broken
period interest (the amount of interest from the previous interest payment date till the date of purchase of
instruments) on debt instruments are charged to the profit and loss account.
e. Securities are valued scrip-wise. Depreciation/appreciation on securities, other than those acquired by way
of conversion of outstanding loans, is aggregated for each category. Net appreciation in each category under
each investment classification, if any, being unrealised, is ignored, while net depreciation is provided. The
depreciation on securities acquired by way of conversion of outstanding loans is fully provided. Non-performing
investments are identified based on the RBI guidelines.
f. HTM securities are carried at their acquisition cost or at amortised cost, if acquired at a premium over the face
value. Any premium over the face value of fixed rate and floating rate securities acquired is amortised over the
remaining period to maturity on a constant yield basis and straight line basis respectively.
g. AFS and HFT securities are valued periodically as per RBI guidelines. Any premium over the face value of fixed
rate and floating rate investments in government securities, classified as AFS, is amortised over the remaining
period to maturity on constant yield basis and straight line basis respectively. Quoted investments are valued
based on the closing quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or prices declared by Primary Dealers
Association of India (PDAI) jointly with Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association (FIMMDA)/
Financial Benchmark India Private Limited (FBIL), periodically.
h. The market/fair value of unquoted government securities which are in the nature of Statutory Liquidity Ratio
(SLR) securities included in the ‘AFS’ and ‘HFT’ categories is as per the rates published by FBIL. The valuation
of other unquoted fixed income securities, including Pass Through Certificates, wherever linked to the Yield-
to-Maturity (YTM) rates, is computed with a mark-up (reflecting associated credit risk) over the YTM rates for
government securities published by FIMMDA. The sovereign foreign securities and non-INR India linked bonds
are valued on the basis of prices published by the sovereign regulator or counterparty quotes.
i. Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of deposits being discounted instruments, are valued at
carrying cost.
j. The units of mutual funds are valued at the latest repurchase price/net asset value declared by the mutual fund.
Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-up value, if the latest balance sheet is available, or at ` 1, as
per RBI guidelines.
k. The units of Venture Capital Funds (VCFs) are valued at the net asset value (NAV) declared by the VCF. If the
latest balance sheet is not available continuously for more than 18 months, the units of VCF are valued at ` 1,
as per RBI guidelines.
281
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
l. At the end of each reporting period, security receipts issued by the asset reconstruction companies are valued in
accordance with the guidelines applicable to such instruments, prescribed by RBI from time to time. Accordingly,
in cases where the cash flows from security receipts issued by the asset reconstruction companies are limited
to the actual realisation of the financial assets assigned to the instruments in the concerned scheme, the Bank
reckons the net asset value obtained from the asset reconstruction company from time to time, for valuation of
such investments at each reporting period end. The Bank makes additional provisions on the security receipts
based on the remaining period to end. The security receipts which are outstanding and not redeemed as at the
end of the resolution period are treated as loss assets and are fully provided.
m. Depreciation/provision on non-performing investments is made as per internal provisioning norms, subject to
minimum provisioning requirements of RBI.
n. Gain/loss on sale of investments is recognised in the profit and loss account. Cost of investments is computed
based on the First-In-First-Out (FIFO) method. The profit from sale of investment under HTM category, net of
taxes and transfer to statutory reserve is transferred to “Capital Reserve” in accordance with the RBI Guidelines.
o. The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in dated central government securities in accordance with RBI
guidelines. The short positions are categorised under HFT category and are marked-to-market. The mark-to-
market loss is charged to profit and loss account and gain, if any, is ignored as per RBI guidelines.
p. Market repurchase, reverse repurchase and transactions with RBI under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) are
accounted for as borrowing and lending transactions in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines.
ii) The Bank’s consolidating venture capital fund carries investments at fair values, with unrealised gains and temporary
losses on investments recognised as components of investors’ equity and accounted for in the unrealised investment
reserve account. The realised gains and losses on investments and units in mutual funds and unrealised gains or
losses on revaluation of units in mutual funds are accounted for in the profit and loss account. Provisions are made in
respect of accrued income considered doubtful. Such provisions as well as any subsequent recoveries are recorded
through the profit and loss account. Subscription to/purchase of investments are accounted at the cost of acquisition
inclusive of brokerage, commission and stamp duty.
iii) The Bank’s primary dealership and securities broking subsidiaries classify the securities held with the intention of
holding for short-term and trading as stock-in-trade which are valued at lower of cost or market value. The securities
classified by primary dealership subsidiary as held-to-maturity, as permitted by RBI, are carried at amortised cost.
Appropriate provision is made for other than temporary diminution in the value of investments. Commission earned
in respect of securities acquired upon devolvement is reduced from the cost of acquisition.
iv) The Bank’s housing finance subsidiary classifies its investments as current investments and long-term investments.
Investments that are readily realisable and intended to be held for not more than a year are classified as current
investments, which are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. All other investments are classified as
long-term investments, which are carried at their acquisition cost or at amortised cost, if acquired at a premium over
the face value. Any premium over the face value of the securities acquired is amortised over the remaining period to
maturity on a constant yield basis. However, a provision for diminution in value is made to recognise any other than
temporary decline in the value of such long-term investments.
v) The Bank’s overseas banking subsidiaries account for unrealised gain/loss, net of tax, on investment in ‘AFS’/‘Fair
Value Through Other Comprehensive Income’ (FVOCI) category directly in their reserves. Further unrealised gain/
loss on investment in ‘HFT’/‘Fair Value Through Profit and Loss’ (FVTPL) category is accounted directly in the profit
and loss account. Investments in ‘HTM’/‘amortised cost’ category are carried at amortised cost.
In the case of life insurance business, investments are made in accordance with the Insurance Act, 1938 (amended
by the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015), the IRDA (Investment) Regulations, 2016, and various other
circulars/notifications issued by the IRDAI in this context from time to time.
282
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
vi) Valuation of investments (other than linked business) is done on the following basis:
a. All debt securities including government securities and redeemable preference shares are considered as ‘held
to maturity’ and stated at historical cost, subject to amortisation of premium or accretion of discount over the
period of maturity/holding on a constant yield basis.
b. Listed equity shares and equity exchange traded funds (ETF) are stated at fair value being the last quoted closing
price on the National Stock Exchange (NSE) (or BSE, in case the investments are not listed on NSE). Unlisted
equity shares are stated at acquisition cost less impairment, if any. Equity shares lent under the Securities
Lending and Borrowing scheme (SLB) continue to be recognised in the Balance Sheet as the Company retains
all the associated risks and rewards of these securities. Non-traded and thinly traded equity share are valued at
last available price on NSE/BSE or the value derived using valuation principle of net worth per share, whichever
is lower.
c. Mutual fund units are valued based on the previous day’s net asset value.
U nrealised gains/losses arising due to changes in the fair value of listed equity shares and mutual fund units are
taken to ‘Revenue and other reserves’ and ‘Liabilities on policies in force’ in the balance sheet for Shareholders’
fund and Policyholders’ fund respectively for life insurance business.
T he Bank’s life insurance subsidiary assess at each balance sheet date whether there is any indication that
any investment may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the carrying value of such investment is reduced
to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised in the revenue(s)/profit and loss account. The
previously impaired loss is also reversed on disposal/realisation of securities and results thereon are recognised.
The total proportion of investments for which subsidiaries have applied accounting policies different from the Bank
as mentioned above, is approximately 21.95% of the total investments at March 31, 2023.
13. Provisions/write-offs on loans and other credit facilities
i) Loans and other credit facilities of the Bank are accounted for in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines as
given below:
T he Bank classifies its loans and investments, including at overseas branches and overdues arising from
crystallised derivative contracts, into performing and NPAs in accordance with RBI guidelines. Loans and
advances held at the overseas branches that are identified as impaired as per host country regulations but
which are standard as per the extant RBI guidelines, are classified as NPAs to the extent of amount outstanding
in the respective host country. Further, NPAs are classified into sub-standard, doubtful and loss assets based
on the criteria stipulated by RBI. Interest on non-performing advances is transferred to an interest suspense
account and not recognised in profit and loss account until received.
T he Bank considers an account as restructured, where for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s
financial difficulty, the Bank grants concessions to the borrower, that the Bank would not otherwise consider.
The moratorium granted to the borrowers based on RBI guidelines is not accounted as restructuring of loan.
The RBI guidelines on ‘Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress’ provide a prudential framework for
resolution plan of certain loans. The borrowers where resolution plan was implemented under these guidelines
are classified as standard restructured.
I n the case of corporate loans and advances, provisions are made for sub-standard and doubtful assets as
per internal provisioning norms, subject to minimum provisioning requirements of RBI. Loss assets and the
unsecured portion of doubtful assets are fully provided. For impaired loans and advances held in overseas
branches, which are performing as per RBI guidelines, provisions are made as per the host country regulations.
For loans and advances held in overseas branches, which are NPAs both as per RBI guidelines and host
country guidelines, provisions are made at the higher of the provisions required as per internal provisioning
283
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
norms and host country regulations. Provisions on homogeneous non-performing retail loans and advances,
subject to minimum provisioning requirements of RBI, are made on the basis of the ageing of the loan. The
specific provisions on non-performing retail loans and advances held by the Bank are higher than the minimum
regulatory requirements.
I n respect of non-retail loans reported as fraud to RBI, the entire amount is provided over a period not exceeding
four quarters starting from the quarter in which fraud has been detected. In respect of non-retail loans where
there has been delay in reporting the fraud to the RBI or which are classified as loss accounts, the entire amount
is provided immediately. In case of fraud in retail accounts, the entire amount is provided immediately. In
respect of borrowers classified as non-cooperative borrowers or willful defaulters, the Bank makes accelerated
provisions as per RBI guidelines.
T he Bank holds specific provisions against non-performing loans and advances, and against certain performing
loans and advances in accordance with RBI directions.
T he Bank makes provision on restructured loans subject to minimum requirements as per RBI guidelines.
Provision due to diminution in the fair value of restructured/rescheduled loans and advances is made in
accordance with the applicable RBI guidelines.
N on-performing and restructured loans are upgraded to standard as per the extant RBI guidelines or host
country regulations, as applicable.
I n terms of RBI guideline, the NPAs are written-off in accordance with the Bank’s policy. Amounts recovered
against bad debts written-off are recognised in the profit and loss account.
T he Bank maintains general provision on performing loans and advances in accordance with the RBI
guidelines, including provisions on loans to borrowers having unhedged foreign currency exposure, provisions
on loans to specific borrowers in specific stressed sector, provision on exposures to step-down subsidiaries of
Indian companies and provision on incremental exposure to borrowers identified as per RBI’s large exposure
framework. For performing loans and advances in overseas branches, the general provision is made at higher
of aggregate provision required as per host country regulations and RBI requirement.
I n addition to the provisions required to be held according to the asset classification status, provisions are
held for individual country exposures including indirect country risk (other than for home country exposure).
The countries are categorised into seven risk categories namely insignificant, low, moderately low, moderate,
moderately high, high and very high, and provisioning is made on exposures exceeding 180 days on a graded
scale ranging from 0.25% to 25%. For exposures with contractual maturity of less than 180 days, provision is
required to be held at 25% of the rates applicable to exposures exceeding 180 days. The indirect exposure is
reckoned at 50% of the exposure. If the country exposure (net) of the Bank in respect of each country does not
exceed 1% of the total funded assets, no provision is required on such country exposure.
T he Bank makes additional provisions as per RBI guidelines for the cases where viable resolution plan has
not been implemented within the timelines prescribed by the RBI from the date of default. These additional
provisions are written-back on satisfying the conditions for reversal as per RBI guidelines.
T he Bank, on prudent basis, has made contingency provision on certain loan portfolios, including borrowers
who had taken moratorium at any time during FY2021 under the extant RBI guidelines related to Covid-19
regulatory package. The Bank also makes additional contingency provision on certain standard assets. The
contingency provision is included in ‘Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities and Provisions’.
T he Bank has a Board approved policy for making floating provision, which is in addition to the specific and
general provisions made by the Bank. The floating provision is utilised, with the approval of Board and RBI,
in case of contingencies which do not arise in the normal course of business and are exceptional and non-
recurring in nature and for making specific provision for impaired loans as per the requirement of extant RBI
guidelines or any regulatory guidance/instructions. The floating provision is netted-off from advances.
284
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
ii) In the case of the Bank’s housing finance subsidiary, loans and other credit facilities are classified as per the
Master Directions – Non Banking Financial Company – Housing Finance Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions,
2021 issued by Reserve Bank of India (‘Master Direction’). Further, NPAs are classified into sub-standard,
doubtful and loss assets based on criteria stipulated in the Master Direction. Additional provisions are made
against specific non-performing assets over and above what is stated above, if in the opinion of management,
increased provisions are necessary. General provision on restructured loans is made as per RBI guidelines.
iii) In the case of the Bank’s UK subsidiary, loans are stated net of allowance for credit losses. Loans are classified
as impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result
of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition on the loan (a loss event) and that loss event
(or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the loans that can be reliably estimated. An
allowance for impairment losses is maintained at a level that management considers adequate to absorb
identified credit related losses as well as losses that have occurred but have not yet been identified.
iv) The Bank’s Canadian subsidiary measures impairment loss on all financial assets using expected credit loss
(ECL) model based on a three-stage approach. The ECL for financial assets that are not credit-impaired and
for which there is no significant increase in credit risk since origination, is computed using 12-month probability
of default (PD), and represents the lifetime cash shortfalls that will result if a default occurs in next 12 months.
The ECL for financial assets, that are not credit-impaired but have experienced a significant increase in credit
risk since origination, is computed using a life time PD, and represents lifetime cash shortfalls that will result if a
default occurs during the expected life of financial assets. A financial asset is considered credit-impaired when
one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of that financial asset
have occurred. The allowance for credit losses for impaired financial assets is computed based on individual
assessment of expected cash flows from such assets.
The total proportion of loans for which subsidiaries have applied accounting policies different from the Bank as
mentioned above, is approximately 5.95% of the total loans at March 31, 2023.
14. Transfer and servicing of assets
The Bank transfers commercial and consumer loans through securitisation transactions. The transferred loans are
de-recognised and gains/losses are accounted, only if the Bank surrenders the rights to benefits specified in the
underlying securitised loan contract. Recourse and servicing obligations are accounted for net of provisions.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines for securitisation of standard assets, with effect from February 1, 2006,
the profit/premium arising from securitisation is amortised over the life of the securities issued or to be issued by
the special purpose vehicle to which the assets are sold. With effect from May 7, 2012, the RBI guidelines require
the profit/premium arising from securitisation to be amortised based on the method prescribed in the guidelines.
As per the RBI guidelines issued on September 24, 2021, gain realised at the time of securitisation of loans is
accounted through profit and loss account on completion of transaction. The Bank accounts for any loss arising from
securitisation immediately at the time of sale.
The unrealised gains, associated with expected future margin income is recognised in profit and loss account on
receipt of cash, after absorbing losses, if any.
Net income arising from sale of loan assets through direct assignment with recourse obligation is amortised over
the life of underlying assets sold and net income from sale of loan assets through direct assignment, without any
recourse obligation, is recognised at the time of sale. Net loss arising on account of direct assignment of loan assets
is recognised at the time of sale. As per the RBI guidelines issued on September 24, 2021, any loss or realised gain
from sale of loan assets through direct assignment is accounted through profit and loss account on completion of
transaction.
The acquired loans is carried at acquisition cost. In case premium is paid on a loan acquired, premium is amortised
over the loan tenure.
285
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
In accordance with RBI guidelines, in case of non-performing loans sold to Asset Reconstruction Companies (ARCs),
the Bank reverses the excess provision in profit and loss account in the year in which amounts are received. Any
shortfall of sale value over the net book value on sale of such assets is recognised by the Bank in the year in which
the loan is sold.
The Canadian subsidiary has entered into securitisation arrangements in respect of its originated and purchased
mortgages. ICICI Bank Canada either retains substantially all the risk and rewards or retains control over these
mortgages, hence these arrangements do not qualify for de-recognition accounting under their local accounting
standards. It continues to recognise the mortgages securitised as “Loans and Advances” and the amounts received
through securitisation are recognised as “Other borrowings”.
15. Fixed assets
Fixed assets, other than premises of the Bank and its housing finance subsidiary are carried at cost less accumulated
depreciation and impairment, if any. In case of the Bank and its housing finance subsidiary, premises are carried at
revalued amount, being fair value at the date of revaluation less accumulated depreciation. Cost includes freight,
duties, taxes and incidental expenses related to the acquisition and installation of the asset. Depreciation is charged
over the estimated useful life of fixed assets on a straight-line basis. The useful life of the groups of fixed assets for
domestic group companies is based on past experience and expectation of usage, which for some categories of
fixed assets, is different from the useful life as prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013.
Assets purchased/sold during the year are depreciated on a pro-rata basis for the actual number of days the asset
has been capitalised.
In case of the Bank, assets individually costing up to ` 5,000/- are depreciated fully in the year of acquisition. Further,
profit on sale of premises by the Bank is appropriated to capital reserve, net of transfer to Statutory Reserve and
taxes, in accordance with RBI guidelines.
In case of revalued/impaired assets, depreciation is provided over the remaining useful life of the assets with
reference to revised asset values. In case of premises, which are carried at revalued amounts, the depreciation on the
excess of revalued amount over historical cost is transferred from Revaluation Reserve to General Reserve annually.
N on-banking assets
Non-banking assets (NBAs) acquired in satisfaction of claims are valued at the market value on a distress sale
basis or value of loan, whichever is lower. Further, the Bank creates provision on these assets as per the extant RBI
guidelines or specific RBI directions.
16. Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
The forward exchange contracts that are not intended for trading and are entered into to establish the amount of
reporting currency required or available at the settlement date of a transaction are effectively valued at closing spot
rate. The premium or discount arising on inception of such forward exchange contracts is amortised over the life
of the contract as interest income/expense. All other outstanding forward exchange contracts are revalued based
on the exchange rates notified by FEDAI for specified maturities and at interpolated rates for contracts of interim
maturities. The contracts of longer maturities where exchange rates are not notified by FEDAI are revalued based on
the forward exchange rates implied by the swap curves in respective currencies. The resultant gains or losses are
recognised in the profit and loss account.
The swap contracts entered to hedge on-balance sheet assets and liabilities are structured such that they bear an
opposite and offsetting impact with the underlying on-balance sheet items. The impact of such derivative instruments
is correlated with the movement of underlying assets and liabilities and accounted pursuant to the principles of
hedge accounting. The Group identifies the hedged item (asset or liability) at the inception of the transaction itself.
Hedge effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception of the hedge and periodically thereafter. Based on
RBI circular issued on June 26, 2019, the accounting of hedge relationships established after June 26, 2019 is in
286
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
accordance with the Guidance note on Accounting for Derivative Contracts issued by ICAI. The swaps under hedge
relationships established prior to that date are accounted for on an accrual basis and are not marked to market
unless their underlying transaction is marked-to-market. Gains or losses arising from hedge ineffectiveness, if any,
are recognised in the profit and loss account except in the case of the Bank’s overseas banking subsidiaries.
In overseas subsidiaries, in case of fair value hedge, the hedging transactions and the hedged items (for the risks
being hedged) are measured at fair value with changes recognised in the profit and loss account and in case of cash
flow hedges, changes in the fair value of effective portion of the cash flow hedge are taken to ‘Revenue and other
reserves’ and ineffective portion, if any, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
The derivative contracts entered into for trading purposes are marked to market and the resulting gain or loss is
accounted for in the profit and loss account. Pursuant to RBI guidelines, any receivables under derivative contracts
which remain overdue for more than 90 days and mark-to-market gains on other derivative contracts with the same
counter-parties are reversed through the profit and loss account.
17. Impairment of assets
The immovable fixed assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An asset is treated as impaired when its carrying
amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The impairment is recognised by debiting the profit and loss account and is
measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the impaired assets exceeds their recoverable value. The
Bank and its housing finance subsidiary follows revaluation model of accounting for its premises and the recoverable
amount of the revalued assets is considered to be close to its revalued amount. Accordingly, separate assessment
for impairment of premises is not required.
For assets other than premises, the Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any indication that
an asset may be impaired. Impairment loss, if any, is provided in the profit and loss account to the extent the carrying
amount of assets exceeds their estimated recoverable amount.
18. Lease transactions
Lease payments including cost escalations for assets taken on operating lease are recognised as an expense in the
profit and loss account over the lease term on straight line basis. The leases of property, plant and equipment, where
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Bank are classified as finance lease.
Minimum lease payments under finance lease are apportioned between the finance costs and outstanding liability.
19. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss after tax for the year attributable to equity
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year.
Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if contracts to issue equity shares were
exercised or converted during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed using the weighted average
number of equity shares and dilutive potential equity shares issued by the group outstanding during the year, except
where the results are anti-dilutive.
20. Bullion transaction
The Bank deals in bullion business on a consignment basis. The bullion is priced to the customers based on the price
quoted by the supplier. The difference between price recovered from customers and cost of bullion is accounted for
as commission at the time of sales to the customers. The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending basis
and the interest expense/income is accounted on accrual basis.
21. Share issue expenses
Share issue expenses are deducted from Share Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013
287
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
SCHEDULE 18
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE ACCOUNTS
The following additional disclosures have been made taking into account the requirements of Accounting Standards
(ASs) and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines.
1. Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per equity share are computed in accordance with AS 20 - Earnings per share. Basic
earnings per equity share is computed by dividing net profit/(loss) after tax by the weighted average number of
equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed using the weighted
average number of equity shares and weighted average number of dilutive potential equity shares outstanding
during the year.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the computation of earnings per share.
` in million, except per share data
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Net profit/(loss) attributable to equity share holders 340,366.4 251,101.0
Nominal value per share (`) 2.00 2.00
Basic earnings per share (`) 48.86 36.21
Effect of potential equity shares (`) (1.02) (0.77)
Diluted earnings per share (`)1 47.84 35.44
Reconciliation between weighted shares used in computation of basic and diluted earnings per share
Basic weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 6,966,305,957 6,933,652,636
Add: Effect of potential equity shares 138,684,400 142,291,212
Diluted weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 7,104,990,357 7,075,943,848
1. The dilutive impact is due to options granted to employees by the Group.
2. Related party transactions
The Group has transactions with its related parties comprising associates/other related entities and key management
personnel and relatives of key management personnel.
I. Related parties
Associates/other related entities
Sr. no. Name of the entity Nature of relationship
1. ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited Associate
2. Arteria Technologies Private Limited Associate
3. India Advantage Fund-III Associate
4. India Advantage Fund-IV Associate
5. India Infradebt Limited Associate
6. ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited Associate
7. I-Process Services (India) Private Limited Associate
8. NIIT Institute of Finance, Banking and Insurance Training Limited Associate
9. Comm Trade Services Limited Other related entity
10. ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth Other related entity
11. Cheryl Advisory Private Limited Other related entity
288
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
Key management personnel
Sr. no. Name of the Key management personnel Relatives of the Key management personnel
1. Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi • Ms. Mona Bakhshi
• Mr. Shivam Bakhshi
• Ms. Aishwarya Bakshi
• Ms. Esha Bakhshi
• Ms. Minal Bakhshi
• Mr. Sameer Bakhshi
• Mr. Ritwik Thakurta
• Mr. Ashwin Pradhan
• Ms. Radhika Bakhshi
2. Mr. Anup Bagchi • Ms. Mitul Bagchi
• Mr. Aditya Bagchi
• Mr. Shishir Bagchi
• Mr. Arun Bagchi
3. Mr. Sandeep Batra • Mr. Pranav Batra
• Ms. Arushi Batra
• Mr. Vivek Batra
• Ms. Veena Batra
4. Mr. Rakesh Jha • Mr. Narendra Kumar Jha
(w.e.f September 2, 2022) • Mr. Navin Ahuja
• Mr. Sharad Bansal
• Ms. Aparna Ahuja
• Ms. Apoorva Jha Bansal
• Ms. Pushpa Jha
• Ms. Sanjali Jha
• Ms. Swati Jha
5. Ms. Vishakha Mulye • Mr. Vivek Mulye
(upto May 31, 2022) • Ms. Vriddhi Mulye
• Mr. Vighnesh Mulye
• Dr. Gauresh Palekar
• Ms. Shalaka Gadekar
• Dr. Nivedita Palekar
II. Transactions with related parties
T he following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the significant transactions between the Group and its
related parties.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Interest income 438.0 516.9
Associates/others 434.8 510.9
Key management personnel 3.2 6.0
Income from services rendered 1,422.7 1,215.7
Associates/others 1,419.9 1,214.0
Key management personnel 0.9 1.2
Relatives of key management personnel 1.9 0.5
289
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Gain/(loss) on forex and derivative transactions (net) 50.8 36.6
Associates/others 50.8 36.6
Income from shared services 326.5 369.2
Associates/others 326.5 369.2
Dividend income 2,347.1 1,993.3
Associates/others 2,347.1 1,993.3
Insurance claims received 163.0 229.6
Associates/others 163.0 229.6
Interest expense 225.7 199.0
Associates/others 205.2 192.2
Key management personnel 15.3 4.8
Relatives of key management personnel 5.2 2.0
Expenses for services received 15,702.6 12,297.3
Associates/others 15,702.6 12,297.3
Insurance premium paid 3,544.6 3,222.4
Associates/others 3,544.6 3,222.4
Expenses for shared services and other payments 0.8 0.8
Associates/others 0.8 0.8
Insurance claims paid 19.0 42.6
Associates/others 18.5 42.1
Key management personnel 0.5 0.5
CSR related reimbursement of expenses 4,441.1 2,239.2
Associates/others 4,441.1 2,239.2
Donation given 564.5 486.4
Associates/others 564.5 486.4
Purchase of investments 1,634.0 1,766.5
Associates/others 1,634.0 1,766.5
Sale of Investments 31,667.3 8,286.9
Associates/others 31,667.3 8,286.9
Investments in the securities issued by related parties 1,850.0 1,000.0
Associates/others 1,850.0 1,000.0
Issuance of securities to related parties 1,000.0 -
Associates/others 1,000.0 -
Redemption/buyback of Investments 1,615.5 -
Associates/others 1,615.5 -
Purchase of fixed assets 3.4 4.8
Associates/others 3.4 4.8
Insurance premium received 58.7 75.8
Associates/others 55.3 67.1
Key management personnel 2.6 3.5
Relatives of key management personnel 0.8 5.2
290
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Remuneration to wholetime directors2 336.6 267.6
Key management personnel 336.6 267.6
Dividend paid 3.9 2.5
Key management personnel 3.2 2.5
Relatives of key management personnel 0.7 0.0
Value of ESOPs exercised 306.2 394.2
Key management personnel 306.2 394.2
Sale of fixed assets 0.2 -
Key management personnel 0.2 -
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2. Excludes the perquisite value on employee stock options exercised and includes performance bonus paid during the period.
III. Material transactions with related parties
T he following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the material transactions between the Group and
its related parties. A specific related party transaction is disclosed as a material related party transaction
wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in that category.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Interest income
1 India Infradebt Limited 421.2 505.4
Income from services rendered
1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 1,267.5 1,066.5
Gain/(loss) on forex and derivative transactions (net)
1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 50.8 36.6
Income from shared services
1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 262.0 314.6
2 ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth 37.2 38.7
Dividend income
1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 2,240.5 1,886.8
Insurance claims received
1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 163.0 229.6
Interest expense
1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 140.5 163.6
2 ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited 25.9 8.3
Expenses for services received
1 I-Process Services (India) Private Limited 10,406.6 8,450.4
2 ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited 5,226.6 3,790.0
Insurance Premium paid
1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 3,544.6 3,222.4
291
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Expenses for shared services and other payments
1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 0.8 0.8
Insurance claims paid
1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 16.2 42.1
2 ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth 2.3 -
CSR related reimbursement of expenses
1 ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth 4,441.1 2,239.2
Donation given
1 ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth 564.5 486.4
Purchase of investments
1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 1,634.0 1,766.5
Sale of Investments
1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 24,647.6 6,776.2
2 India Infradebt Limited 7,019.7 1,510.7
Investments in the securities issued by related parties
1 India Infradebt Limited 1,850.0 1,000.0
Issuance of securities to related parties
1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 1,000.0 -
Redemption/buyback of investments
1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 1,615.5 -
Purchase of fixed assets
1 Arteria Technologies Private Limited 3.2 1.7
2 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 0.1 3.1
Insurance premium received
1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 54.1 47.9
2 ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth 0.7 18.6
Remuneration to wholetime directors2
1 Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi3 95.7 73.7
2 Mr. Anup Bagchi 86.5 66.3
3 Mr. Sandeep Batra3 85.3 64.0
4 Mr. Rakesh Jha 45.9 N.A.
5 Ms. Vishakha Mulye 23.2 63.6
Dividend paid
1 Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi 1.8 0.4
2 Mr. Anup Bagchi 0.0 0.1
3 Mr. Sandeep Batra 0.6 0.2
4 Mr. Rakesh Jha 0.7 N.A.
5 Ms. Vishakha Mulye N.A. 1.8
6 Mr. Shivam Bakhshi 0.4 0.0
292
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Value of ESOPs exercised
1 Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi 27.2 277.1
2 Mr. Anup Bagchi 183.2 56.0
3 Mr. Sandeep Batra 22.0 4.8
4 Ms. Vishakha Mulye 73.8 56.3
Sale of fixed assets
1 Mr. Rakesh Jha 0.1 -
2 Ms. Vishakha Mulye 0.1 -
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2. Excludes the perquisite value on employee stock options exercised and includes performance bonus paid during the period.
3. Includes remuneration received from ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited relating to the period of his service
with that company.
IV. Related party outstanding balances
T he following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the outstanding balances payable to/receivable from
related parties.
` in million
At At
Items
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Deposits with the Group 2,960.0 3,591.0
Associates/others 2,603.0 3,424.7
Key management personnel 260.7 125.1
Relatives of key management personnel 96.3 41.2
Payables 3,718.3 3,482.7
Associates/others 3,716.9 3,482.6
Key management personnel 0.4 0.0
Relatives of key management personnel 1.0 0.1
Investments of the Group 24,863.5 24,773.8
Associates/others 24,863.5 24,773.8
Investments of related parties in the Group 1,601.3 2,104.6
Associates/others 1,600.0 2,100.0
Key management personnel 1.1 2.1
Relatives of key management personnel 0.2 2.5
Advances by the Group 277.4 267.1
Associates/others 191.3 127.7
Key management personnel 85.7 139.1
Relatives of key management personnel 0.4 0.3
Receivables 1,538.9 1,927.9
Associates/others 1,538.9 1,927.9
Guarantees issued by the Group 63.1 59.0
Associates/others 63.1 59.0
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
293
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
V. Related party maximum balances
T he following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the maximum balances payable to/receivable from
related parties.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Items
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Deposits with the Group
Key management personnel 420.7 277.4
Relatives of key management personnel 266.6 176.5
Payables1
Key management personnel 0.4 0.1
Relatives of key management personnel 1.0 0.1
Investments of related parties in the Group1
Key management personnel 1.9 3.0
Relatives of key management personnel 0.3 2.5
Advances by the Group
Key management personnel 139.2 269.2
Relatives of key management personnel 2.3 1.9
1. Maximum balance is determined based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each quarter end during the
financial year.
3. Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)
I CICI Bank:
In terms of the ESOS, as amended, the maximum number of options granted to any eligible employee in a financial
year shall not exceed 0.05% of the issued equity shares of the Bank at the time of grant of the options and aggregate
of all such options granted to the eligible employees shall not exceed 10.0% of the aggregate number of the issued
equity shares of the Bank on the date(s) of the grant of options in line with SEBI Regulations. Under the stock option
scheme, eligible employees are entitled to apply for equity shares. In April 2016, exercise period was modified from
10 years from the date of grant or five years from the date of vesting, whichever is later, to 10 years from the date of
vesting. In June 2017, exercise period was further modified to not exceed 10 years from the date of vesting of options
as may be determined by the Board Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee to be applicable for future
grants. In May 2018, exercise period was further modified to not exceed 5 years from the date of vesting of options
as may be determined by the Board Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee to be applicable for future
grants.
Options granted after March 2014 vest in a graded manner over a three-year period with 30%, 30% and 40% of the
grant vesting in each year, commencing from the end of 12 months from the date of grant other than certain options
granted in April 2014 which vested to the extent of 50% on April 30, 2017 and the balance on April 30, 2018 and
option granted in September 2015 which vested to the extent of 50% on April 30, 2018 and balance 50% vested
on April 30, 2019. Options granted in January 2018 vested at the end of four years from the date of grant. Certain
options granted in May 2018, vested to the extent of 50% on May 2021 and balance 50% on May 2022.
Options granted prior to March 2014 except mentioned below, vested in a graded manner over a four-year period,
with 20%, 20%, 30% and 30% of the grants vesting in each year, commencing from the end of 12 months from the
date of grant. Options granted in April 2009 vested in a graded manner over a five-year period with 20%, 20%,
30% and 30% of grant vesting each year, commencing from the end of 24 months from the date of grant. Options
granted in September 2011 vested in a graded manner over a five-year period with 15%, 20%, 20% and 45% of
grant vesting each year, commencing from the end of 24 months from the date of the grant.
294
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
The exercise price of the Bank’s options, except mentioned below, is the last closing price on the stock exchange,
which recorded highest trading volume preceding the date of grant of options. In February 2011, the Bank granted
16,692,500 options to eligible employees and whole-time Directors of the Bank and certain of its subsidiaries at
an exercise price of ` 175.82. This exercise price was the average closing price on the stock exchange during the
six months ended October 28, 2010. Of these options granted, 50% vested on April 30, 2014 and the balance 50%
vested on April 30, 2015.
The weighted average fair value, based on Black-Scholes model, of options granted during the year ended March 31,
2023 was ` 291.15 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 227.75).
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the key assumptions used to estimate the fair value of
options granted.
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Risk-free interest rate 5.99% to 7.37% 5.34% to 6.53%
Expected term 3.23 to 5.23 years 3.55 to 5.55 years
Expected volatility 34.79% to 38.98% 35.38% to 39.41%
Expected dividend yield 0.27% to 0.72% 0.18% to 0.30%
Risk free interest rates over the expected term of the option are based on the government securities yield in
effect at the time of the grant. The expected term of an option is estimated based on the vesting term as well as
expected exercise behavior of the employees who receive the option. Expected exercise behavior is estimated
based on the historical stock option exercise pattern of the Bank. Expected volatility during the estimated
expected term of the option is based on historical volatility determined based on observed market prices of the
Bank's publicly traded equity shares. Expected dividends during the estimated expected term of the option are
based on recent dividend activity.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the summary of the status of the Bank’s stock option plan.
` except number of options
Stock options outstanding
Year ended March 31, 2023 Year ended March 31, 2022
Particulars Weighted Weighted
Number of average Number of average
options exercise price options exercise price
(` per share) (` per share)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 237,197,999 310.82 246,590,972 276.14
Add: Granted during the year 25,793,500 747.92 25,550,350 570.43
Less: Lapsed during the year, net of re- 3,921,340 568.36 2,164,335 444.41
issuance
Less: Exercised during the year 34,044,356 276.72 32,778,988 243.44
Outstanding at the end of the year 225,025,803 361.60 237,197,999 310.82
Options exercisable 172,938,533 289.69 177,170,739 264.69
295
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, the summary of stock options outstanding at March 31, 2023.
Weighted average Weighted average
Range of exercise Number of
exercise price remaining contractual life
price (` per share) options
(` per share) (Number of years)
60-199 7,202,993 160.84 1.85
200-399 145,129,078 267.52 4.37
400-599 48,347,432 479.32 4.15
600-799 24,274,900 747.62 6.17
800-899 71,400 862.88 6.58
The following table sets forth, the summary of stock options outstanding at March 31, 2022.
Weighted average Weighted average
Range of exercise Number of
exercise price remaining contractual life
price (` per share) options
(` per share) (Number of years)
60-199 11,245,113 160.69 2.52
200-399 171,000,375 267.10 5.30
400-599 54,887,211 477.26 5.11
600-799 46,300 737.63 6.63
800-899 19,000 810.25 6.92
The options were exercised regularly throughout the period and weighted average share price as per National Stock
Exchange price volume data during the year ended March 31, 2023 was ` 832.00 (Year ended March 31, 2022:
` 703.14).
ICICI Life:
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company has formulated ESOS for their employees. There is no compensation cost
for the year ended March 31, 2023 based on the intrinsic value of options.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a summary of the status of the stock option plan of ICICI
Prudential Life Insurance Company.
` except number of options
Stock options outstanding
Year ended March 31, 2023 Year ended March 31, 2022
Particulars Weighted Weighted
Number of average Number of average
options exercise price options exercise price
(` per share) (` per share)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 20,184,630 404.87 17,175,700 389.25
Add: Granted during the year 5,227,730 541.00 5,061,600 453.05
Less: Forfeited/lapsed during the year 199,690 461.18 735,800 412.86
Less: Exercised during the year 1,270,555 384.94 1,316,870 381.95
Outstanding at the end of the year 23,942,115 435.18 20,184,630 404.87
Options exercisable 13,559,815 395.34 7,991,235 390.40
296
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, summary of stock options outstanding of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company at
March 31, 2023.
Weighted average Weighted average
Range of exercise
Number of options exercise price remaining contractual life
price (` per share)
(` per share) (Number of years)
300-399 8,825,615 379.70 3.20
400-499 9,896,370 428.41 5.27
500-599 5,165,630 541.00 6.10
600-699 54,500 619.43 5.06
The following table sets forth, summary of stock options outstanding of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company
at March 31, 2022.
Weighted average Weighted average
Range of exercise
Number of options exercise price remaining contractual life
price (` per share)
(` per share) (Number of years)
300-399 10,048,090 379.99 4.20
400-499 10,076,540 428.40 6.30
600-699 60,000 620.05 6.80
I CICI Securities:
ICICI Securities Limited has formulated ESOS for their employees. There is no compensation cost for the year
ended March 31, 2023 based on the intrinsic value of options.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a summary of the status of the stock option plan of ICICI
Securities Limited.
` except number of options
Stock options outstanding
Year ended March 31, 2023 Year ended March 31, 2022
Particulars Weighted Weighted
Number of average Number of average
options exercise price options exercise price
(` per share) (` per share)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2,939,279 342.43 2,528,350 295.92
Add: Granted during the year 1,657,700 624.68 953,000 426.91
Less: Forfeited/lapsed during the year 263,980 514.77 93,000 389.72
Less: Exercised during the year 186,455 305.89 449,071 250.08
Outstanding at the end of the year 4,146,544 445.94 2,939,279 342.43
Options exercisable 1,588,294 306.03 2,041,139 305.12
297
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, summary of stock options outstanding of ICICI Securities Limited at March 31, 2023.
Weighted average Weighted average
Range of exercise
Number of options exercise price remaining contractual life
price (` per share)
(` per share) (Number of years)
200-249 696,230 221.45 3.10
250-299 37,730 256.55 2.98
350-399 1,127,904 361.00 4.13
400-449 749,880 424.60 5.10
500-549 4,700 512.10 6.81
600-649 1,523,800 625.00 6.05
750-799 6,300 774.60 5.30
The following table sets forth, summary of stock options outstanding of ICICI Securities Limited at March 31, 2022.
Weighted average Weighted average
Range of exercise
Number of options exercise price remaining contractual life
price (` per share)
(` per share) (Number of years)
200-249 790,000 221.45 5.06
250-299 37,730 256.55 4.55
300-399 1,212,149 361.00 6.10
400-449 888,900 424.60 7.06
450-499 4,200 468.10 6.58
750-799 6,300 774.60 7.30
4. Fixed assets
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in software acquired by the Group, as included
in fixed assets.
` in million
At At
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
At cost at March 31 of preceding year 33,010.5 35,196.2
Less: Reduction on account of discontinuation of ICICI Lombard General
Insurance Company Limited from consolidation - (6,470.5)
Adjusted cost at March 31 of preceding year 33,010.5 28,725.7
Additions during the year 5,480.1 4,658.3
Deductions during the year (2,258.2) (373.5)
Depreciation to date (26,065.1) (24,086.0)
Net block 10,167.3 8,924.5
298
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
5. Assets on lease
5.1 Assets taken under operating lease
O perating leases primarily comprise office premises which are renewable at the option of the Group.
(i) The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of liability for premises taken on non-
cancellable operating leases.
` in million
At At
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Not later than one year 924.1 681.4
Later than one year and not later than five years 1,443.2 1,501.9
Later than five years 396.2 567.0
Total 2,763.5 2,750.3
The terms of renewal are those normally prevalent in similar agreements and there are no undue restrictions in the
agreements.
(ii) Total of non-cancellable lease payments recognised in the profit and loss account for the year is ` 1,064.3
million (year ended March 31, 2022 ` 993.4 million).
5.2 Assets taken under finance lease
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of assets taken on finance leases.
` in million
At At
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
A. Total minimum lease payments outstanding
Not later than one year 271.3 269.2
Later than one year and not later than five years 596.1 792.3
Later than five years 14.9 76.4
Total 882.3 1,137.9
B. Interest cost payable
Not later than one year 70.0 92.5
Later than one year and not later than five years 83.3 146.8
Later than five years 0.5 3.8
Total 153.8 243.1
C. Present value of minimum lease payments payable (A-B)
Not later than one year 201.3 176.7
Later than one year and not later than five years 512.8 645.5
Later than five years 14.4 72.6
Total 728.5 894.8
299
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
5.3 Assets given under finance lease
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of finance leases.
` in million
At At
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Future minimum lease receipts
Present value of lease receipts 50.2 416.5
Unmatured finance charges 2.0 13.9
Sub total 52.2 430.4
Less: collective provision (0.2) (0.5)
Total 52.0 429.9
Maturity profile of future minimum lease receipts
- Not later than one year 19.0 237.8
- Later than one year and not later than five years 33.2 192.6
- Later than five years - -
Total 52.2 430.4
Less: collective provision (0.2) (0.5)
Total 52.0 429.9
Maturity profile of present value of lease rentals
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of maturity profile of present value of
finance lease receipts.
` in million
At At
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Maturity profile of future present value of finance lease receipts
- Not later than one year 17.7 229.6
- Later than one year and not later than five years 32.5 186.9
- Later than five years - -
Total 50.2 416.5
Less: collective provision (0.2) (0.5)
Total 50.0 416.0
6. Provisions and contingencies
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of provisions and contingencies included in the
profit and loss account.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Provision for depreciation of investments 13,917.0 5,412.3
Provision towards non-performing and other assets (3,653.5) 63,775.2
Provision towards income tax
a) Current 114,564.4 74,044.5
b) Deferred 3,370.0 10,529.9
Other provisions and contingencies1,2 59,135.7 20,579.0
Total provisions and contingencies 187,333.6 174,340.9
1. Includes contingency provision made amounting to ` 56,500.0 million made by the Bank on a prudent basis (March 31, 2022:
write-back of provision of ` 250.0 million).
2. Includes general provision made towards standard assets, provision on fixed assets acquired under debt-asset swap and non-
fund based facilities.
300
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
The Group has assessed its obligations arising in the normal course of business, including pending litigations,
proceedings pending with tax authorities and other contracts including derivative and long-term contracts. In
accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standard - 29 on ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent
Assets’, the Group recognises a provision for material foreseeable losses when it has a present obligation as a
result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, in
respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. In cases where the available information indicates that the loss
on the contingency is reasonably possible or the amount of loss cannot be reasonably estimated, a disclosure to
this effect is made as contingent liabilities in the financial statements. The Group does not expect the outcome of
these proceedings to have a materially adverse effect on its financial results. For insurance contracts booked in its
life insurance subsidiary, reliance has been placed on the Appointed Actuary for actuarial valuation of ‘liabilities
for policies in force’. The Appointed Actuary has confirmed that the assumptions used in valuation of liabilities for
policies in force are in accordance with the guidelines and norms issued by the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries
of India in concurrence with the IRDAI.
During the year, the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) initiated an inquiry in to goods and service tax
(GST) credit availed on certain expenses incurred by the ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd. (the Company).
During the course of the inquiry, the Company has deposited an amount, without acceptance of liability on account
of denial of credit, with GST authorities. Subsequently, the Company has received an intimation of tax from DGGI.
However, the Company is yet to receive a show cause notice from DGGI providing specific details/reasons for the
intimation. Hence, the Company is currently unable to assess the likelihood of the outcome in the matter as well as
its financial effect.
7. Staff retirement benefits
Pension
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for pension benefits.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Opening obligations 18,661.0 20,265.6
Service cost 151.7 204.6
Interest cost 1,150.6 1,145.3
Actuarial (gain)/loss 758.2 (546.5)
Liabilities extinguished on settlement (2,192.6) (2,289.8)
Benefits paid (99.8) (118.2)
Obligations at the end of year 18,429.1 18,661.0
Opening plan assets, at fair value 19,843.3 21,162.2
Expected return on plan assets 1,522.0 1,620.7
Actuarial gain/(loss) (682.0) (331.9)
Assets distributed on settlement (2,436.2) (2,544.2)
Contributions 42.9 54.7
Benefits paid (99.8) (118.2)
Closing plan assets, at fair value 18,190.2 19,843.3
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 18,190.2 19,843.3
Present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year (18,429.1) (18,661.0)
Amount not recognised as an asset
(limit in Para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’) - (401.9)
Asset/(liability) (238.9) 780.4
301
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Cost1
Service cost 151.7 204.6
Interest cost 1,150.6 1,145.3
Expected return on plan assets (1,522.0) (1,620.7)
Actuarial (gain)/loss 1,440.2 (214.6)
Curtailments & settlements (gain)/loss 243.6 254.4
Effect of the limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’ (401.9) 97.1
Net cost 1,062.2 (133.9)
Actual return on plan assets 840.0 1,288.8
Expected employer’s contribution next year 1,000.0 2,000.0
Investment details of plan assets
Government of India securities 41.74% 46.69%
Corporate bonds 48.30% 46.45%
Equity securities in listed companies 7.08% 6.46%
Others 2.88% 0.40%
Assumptions
Discount rate 7.30% 6.30%
Salary escalation rate:
On Basic pay 1.50% 1.50%
On Dearness relief 8.00% 7.00%
Estimated rate of return on plan assets 7.50% 7.50%
1. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule 16- Operating expenses.
Estimated rate of return on plan assets is based on the expected average long-term rate of return on investments of
the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
E xperience adjustment
` in million
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019
Plan assets 18,190.2 19,843.3 21,162.2 16,972.1 15,438.8
Defined benefit
obligations (18,429.1) (18,661.0) (20,265.6) (19,914.3) (16,540.3)
Amount not recognised
as an asset (limit in
para 59(b) of AS 15 on
‘employee benefits’) - (401.9) (304.8) - -
Surplus/(deficit) (238.9) 780.4 591.8 (2,942.2) (1,101.5)
Experience adjustment
on plan assets (682.0) (331.9) 521.9 741.1 (125.9)
Experience adjustment
on plan liabilities 805.8 809.0 613.4 2,186.1 1,038.6
302
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
Gratuity
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for gratuity benefits of the Group.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Opening obligations 16,895.1 16,954.5
Add: Adjustment for exchange fluctuation on opening obligation 12.2 6.0
Less: Adjustment1 - (1,037.6)
Adjusted opening obligations 16,907.3 15,923.1
Service cost 1,643.8 1,581.7
Interest cost 1,166.7 1,058.8
Actuarial (gain)/loss 1,108.1 (114.1)
Past service cost (72.2) -
Liability transferred from/to other companies 21.9 (0.1)
Benefits paid (1,877.8) (1,554.3)
Obligations at the end of the year 18,896.8 16,895.1
Opening plan assets, at fair value 16,738.3 16,541.6
Less: Adjustment1 - (1,080.6)
Adjusted opening plan assets at fair value 16,738.3 15,461.0
Expected return on plan assets 1,197.7 1,116.6
Actuarial gain/(loss) (577.3) (33.1)
Contributions 1,544.4 1,748.2
Assets transferred from/to other companies 36.5 (0.1)
Benefits paid (1,877.8) (1,554.3)
Closing plan assets, at fair value 17,061.6 16,738.3
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 17,061.6 16,738.3
Present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year (18,896.8) (16,895.1)
Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on
‘employee benefits’) - -
Asset/(liability) (1,835.2) (156.8)
Cost2
Service cost 1,643.8 1,581.7
Interest cost 1,166.7 1,058.8
Expected return on plan assets (1,197.7) (1,116.6)
Actuarial (gain)/loss 1,685.4 (81.0)
Past service cost (72.2) -
Exchange fluctuation loss/(gain) 12.2 6.0
Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on
‘employee benefits’) - -
Net cost 3,238.2 1,448.9
Actual return on plan assets 620.4 1,083.4
Expected employer’s contribution next year 1,731.0 1,030.0
303
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Investment details of plan assets
Insurer managed funds 9.97% 18.88%
Government of India securities 30.07% 23.76%
Corporate bonds 42.87% 38.90%
Special Deposit schemes - -
Equity 15.04% 16.75%
Others 2.05% 1.71%
Assumptions
Discount rate 7.30%-7.50% 5.80%-7.30%
Salary escalation rate 7.00%-10.00% 7.00%-10.00%
Estimated rate of return on plan assets 7.00%-8.00% 7.00%-8.00%
1. Represents reduction on account of discontinuation of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited from consolidation.
2. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule 16- Operating expenses.
Estimated rate of return on plan assets is based on the expected average long-term rate of return on investments of
the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
Experience adjustment
` in million
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019
Plan assets 17,061.6 16,738.3 16,541.6 13,636.8 12,112.4
Defined benefit
obligations (18,896.8) (16,895.1) (16,954.5) (15,743.6) (13,317.1)
Amount not recognised
as an asset (limit in
para 59(b) of AS 15 on
‘employee benefits’) - - - - -
Surplus/(deficit) (1,835.2) (156.8) (412.9) (2,106.8) (1,204.7)
Experience adjustment
on plan assets (577.3) (33.1) 892.1 (167.4) (62.0)
Experience adjustment
on plan liabilities 869.4 464.7 (548.2) 253.6 243.7
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take into consideration inflation, seniority,
promotion and other relevant factors.
Provident Fund (PF)
The Group does not have any liability towards interest rate guarantee on exempt provident fund on the basis of
actuarial valuation at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: Nil).
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for provident fund of the Group.
304
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Opening obligations 49,411.5 45,617.9
Less: Adjustments1 (655.3) (711.1)
Adjusted opening balance 48,756.2 44,906.8
Service cost 2,747.6 2,202.0
Interest cost 3,367.1 2,947.1
Actuarial (gain)/loss 1,032.8 (15.9)
Employees contribution 4,707.4 4,049.0
Liability transferred from/to other companies 805.2 546.1
Benefits paid (6,048.6) (5,223.6)
Obligations at end of the year 55,367.7 49,411.5
Opening plan assets 50,656.3 45,615.2
Less: Adjustments1 (407.5) (708.4)
Adjusted opening balance 50,248.8 44,906.8
Expected return on plan assets 4,100.3 3,761.0
Actuarial gain/(loss) (432.8) 415.0
Employer contributions 2,747.6 2,202.0
Employees contributions 4,707.4 4,049.0
Assets transfer from/to other companies 805.4 546.1
Benefits paid (6,048.6) (5,223.6)
Closing plan assets 56,128.1 50,656.3
Plan assets at the end of the year 56,128.1 50,656.3
Present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year (55,367.7) (49,411.5)
Amount not recognised as an asset (Limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on
‘employee benefits’)2 (760.4) (1,244.8)
Asset/(liability) - -
Cost3
Service cost 2,747.6 2,202.0
Interest cost 3,367.1 2,947.1
Expected return on plan assets (4,100.3) (3,761.0)
Actuarial (gain)/loss 1,465.6 (430.9)
Effect of limit in para 59(b)2 (732.4) 1,244.8
Net cost 2,747.6 2,202.0
Actual return on plan assets 3,667.5 4,176.0
Expected employer's contribution next year 2,965.9 2,357.2
Investment details of plan assets
Government of India securities 55.20% 53.56%
Corporate Bonds 34.83% 35.56%
Special deposit scheme 0.96% 1.07%
Others 9.01% 9.81%
Assumptions
Discount rate 7.35%-7.40% 6.00%-6.85%
Expected rate of return on assets 7.97%-8.76% 7.54%-8.25%
305
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of investments 7.40%-7.60% 6.75%-7.15%
Average historic yield on the investment 8.01%-8.96% 8.25%-8.87%
Guaranteed rate of return 8.15%-8.15% 8.10%-8.10%
1. a. During the year ended March 31, 2023, ICICI Home Finance Company Limited realised and transferred assets and liabilities
of Employee Provident Fund Trust to Central Provident Fund.
b. During the year ended March 31, 2022, ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited realised and transferred assets
and liabilities of Employee Provident Fund Trust to Central Provident Fund.
2. Pursuant to revised Guidance Note 29 on “Valuation of Interest Rate Guarantees on Exempt Provident Funds under AS 15
(Revised)” issued by ‘Institute of Actuaries of India’ on February 16, 2022, plan assets held by PF Trust have been fair valued.
The amount represents the fair value gain on plan assets.
3. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule 16- Operating expenses.
Experience adjustment
` in million
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019
Plan assets 56,128.1 50,656.3 45,615.2 38,682.6 33,282.4
Defined benefit
obligations (55,367.7) (49,411.5) (45,617.9) (38,703.4) (33,282.4)
Amount not recognised
as an asset (limit in
para 59(b) AS 15 on
‘employee benefits’)1 (760.4) (1,244.8) - - -
Surplus/(deficit) - - (2.7) (20.8) -
Experience adjustment
on plan assets (432.8) 415.1 663.8 (662.0) 13.0
Experience adjustment
on plan liabilities 753.2 (684.8) 1,703.3 (129.9) 447.4
1. Pursuant to revised Guidance Note 29 on “Valuation of Interest Rate Guarantees on Exempt Provident Funds under AS 15
(Revised)” issued by ‘Institute of Actuaries of India’ on February 16, 2022, plan assets held by PF Trust have been fair valued.
The amount represents the fair value gain on plan assets.
The Group has contributed ` 4,344.2 million to provident fund including Government of India managed employees
provident fund for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 4,018.3 million), which includes
compulsory contribution made towards employee pension scheme under Employees Provident Fund and
Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952.
S uperannuation Fund
The Group has contributed ` 321.8 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 274.0
million) to Superannuation Fund for employees who had opted for the scheme.
N ational Pension Scheme (NPS)
The Group has contributed ` 361.1 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: ` 291.8 million) to
NPS for employees who had opted for the scheme.
306
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
Compensated absence
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, cost for compensated absence.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Total actuarial liability 3,629.6 3,616.9
Cost1 884.9 874.9
Assumptions
Discount rate 7.30%-7.55% 5.80%-7.30%
Salary escalation rate 7.00%-10.00% 7.00%-10.00%
1. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule- 16 Operating expenses.
8. Provision for income tax
The provision for income tax (including deferred tax) for the year ended March 31, 2023 amounted to ` 117,934.4
million (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 84,574.4 million).
The Group has a comprehensive system of maintenance of information and documents required by transfer pricing
legislation under sections 92-92F of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The management is of the opinion that all transactions
with international related parties and specified transactions with domestic related parties are primarily at arm's
length so that the above legislation does not have material impact on the financial statements.
9. Deferred tax
At March 31, 2023, the Group has recorded net deferred tax asset of ` 76,194.4 million (March 31, 2022: ` 79,484.8
million), which has been included in other assets.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of deferred tax assets and liabilities into
major items.
` in million
At At
Particulars
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Deferred tax assets
Provision for bad and doubtful debts 104,780.1 105,637.7
Provision for operating expenses 4,026.9 -
Others 11,096.4 11,024.8
Total deferred tax assets 119,903.4 116,662.5
Deferred tax liabilities
Special reserve deduction 37,695.4 31,118.6
Foreign currency translation reserve1 615.0 1,245.6
Mark-to-market gains1 490.0 278.6
Depreciation on fixed assets 4,476.7 4,093.8
Interest on refund of taxes1 206.2 168.4
Others 225.7 272.7
Total deferred tax liabilities 43,709.0 37,177.7
Total net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 76,194.4 79,484.8
1. These items are considered in accordance with the requirements of Income Computation and Disclosure Standards (ICDS).
307
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
10. Information about business and geographical segments
A. Business Segments
P ursuant to the guidelines issued by RBI on AS 17 – Segment Reporting, the following business segments of
the Group have been reported.
i. Retail banking includes exposures of the Bank which satisfy the four criteria of orientation, product,
granularity and low value of individual exposures for retail exposures laid down in Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision (BCBS) document “International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital
Standards: A Revised Framework”. This segment also includes income from credit cards, debit cards, third
party product distribution and the associated costs.
ii. Wholesale banking includes all advances to trusts, partnership firms, companies and statutory bodies, by
the Bank which are not included under Retail banking.
iii. Treasury primarily includes the entire investment and derivative portfolio of the Bank.
iv. Other banking includes leasing operations and other items not attributable to any particular business
segment of the Bank. Further, it includes the Bank’s banking subsidiaries i.e. ICICI Bank UK PLC and ICICI
Bank Canada.
v. Life insurance represents results of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited.
vi. Others includes ICICI Home Finance Company Limited, ICICI Venture Funds Management Company
Limited, ICICI International Limited, ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited, ICICI Securities Limited,
ICICI Securities Holdings Inc., ICICI Securities Inc., ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited,
ICICI Prudential Trust Limited, ICICI Investment Management Company Limited, ICICI Trusteeship Services
Limited and ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company Limited.
vii. Unallocated includes items such as tax paid in advance net of provision, deferred tax and provisions to the
extent reckoned at the entity level.
I ncome, expenses, assets and liabilities are either specifically identified with individual segments or are
allocated to segments on a systematic basis.
A ll liabilities of the Bank are transfer priced to a central treasury unit, which pools all funds and lends to the
business units at appropriate rates based on the relevant maturity of assets being funded after adjusting
for regulatory reserve requirements.
T he transfer pricing mechanism of the Bank is periodically reviewed. The segment results are determined
based on the transfer pricing mechanism prevailing for the respective reporting periods.
308
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
309
.3202
,13
hcraM
dedne
raey
eht
rof
stluser
tnemges
ssenisub
eht
,htrof
stes
elbat
gniwollof
ehT
noillim
ni
`
latoT
-retnI
srehtO
efiL
rehtO
yrusaerT
elaselohW
liateR
sralucitraP
.rS
tnemges
ecnarusni
gniknab
gniknab
gniknab
.on
stnemtsujda
ssenisub
0.887,168,1
)6.486,841,1(
8.952,79
7.103,974
0.046,44
2.963,548
5.841,605
4.357,730,1
euneveR
1
6.460,915
)2.905,51(
7.320,24
9.869,8
5.410,01
1.273,041
8.758,751
8.633,571
1stluser
tnemgeS
2
0.005,65
sesnepxe
detacollanU
3
morf
tiforp
fo erahS
4
9.289,9
setaicossa
tiforp
gnitarepO
5
5.745,274
1)4(
+ )3(
–
)2(
sesnepxe
xat emocnI
6
xat
derrefed
ten(/)ten(
4.439,711
)tiderc
1.316,453
)6(
–
)5(
2tiforp
teN
7
noitamrofni
rehtO
8.733,884,91
)3.216,411(
4.843,117
0.998,655,2
5.069,638
0.504,921,5
5.347,823,4
7.395,930,6
stessa
tnemgeS
8
2.765,69
stessa
detacollanU
9
0.509,485,91
)9(
+
)8(
stessa latoT
01
0.509,354,91
3)3.216,411(
38.976,417
30.274,855,2
36.977,465
36.572,443,3
9.467,274,3
4.545,319,8
seitilibail
tnemgeS
11
0.000,131
seitilibail
detacollanU
21
seitilibail
latoT
31
0.509,485,91
)21( +
)11(
3.242,12
-
8.488,1
0.753,1
2.554
6.016
8.152,5
9.286,11
erutidnepxe
latipaC
41
6.541,51
)4.61(
2.488
1.538
2.504
8.533
2.724,3
5.472,9
noitaicerpeD
51
.tseretni
ytironim
dna
xat erofeb
tiforP
.1
.sredloherahs
ytironim
fo
tiforp
ten
fo erahs
sedulcnI
.2
.sulprus
dna
sevreser
dna
latipac
erahs
sedulcnI
.3
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
310
.2202
,13
hcraM
dedne
raey
eht
rof
stluser
tnemges
ssenisub
eht
,htrof
stes
elbat
gniwollof
ehT
noillim
ni
`
latoT
-retnI
srehtO
efiL
rehtO
yrusaerT
elaselohW
liateR
sralucitraP
.rS
tnemges
ecnarusni
gniknab
gniknab
gniknab
.on
stnemtsujda
ssenisub
2.363,575,1
)8.374,219(
5.233,78
4.204,354
1.487,72
9.012,376
9.417,993
2.293,648
euneveR
1
7.261,243
)0.297,61(
9.994,34
6.509,7
2.172,6
8.447,69
3.925,09
9.300,411
1stluser
tnemgeS
2
)0.052(
sesnepxe
detacollanU
3
morf
tiforp
fo erahS
3.445,7
setaicossa
4
tiforp
gnitarepO
0.759,943
1)4(
+ )3(
–
)2(
5
sesnepxe
xat emocnI
xat derrefed
ten(/)ten(
4.475,48
)tiderc
6
6.283,562
)6(
–
)5(
2tiforp
teN
7
noitamrofni
rehtO
2.746,024,71
)9.612,501(
8.435,615
2.460,044,2
9.668,286
9.069,812,5
0.819,097,3
3.915,678,4
stessa
tnemgeS
8
6.627,501
stessa
detacollanU
9
8.373,625,71
)9( +
)8(
stessa latoT
01
2.910,464,71
3)9.612,501(
34.682,025
32.345,144,2
31.341,145
39.314,339,2
0.709,312,3
5.249,819,7
seitilibail
tnemgeS
11
6.453,26
seitilibail
detacollanU
21
seitilibail
latoT
8.373,625,71
)21( +
)11(
31
9.999,61
-
8.349
3.237
7.543
1.326
3.354,4
7.109,9
erutidnepxe
latipaC
41
1.003,31
)4.61(
3.627
1.966
9.123
6.993
8.031,3
8.860,8
noitaicerpeD
51
.tseretni
ytironim
dna
xat erofeb
tiforP
.1
.sredloherahs
ytironim
fo
tiforp
ten
fo erahs
sedulcnI
.2
.sulprus
dna
sevreser
dna
latipac
erahs
sedulcnI
.3
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
B. Geographical segments
The Group reports its operations under the following geographical segments.
• Domestic operations comprise branches and subsidiaries/joint ventures in India.
• F oreign operations comprise branches and subsidiaries/joint ventures outside India and offshore banking
units in India.
T he Group conducts transactions with its customers on a global basis in accordance with their business
requirements, which may span across various geographies.
T he following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the geographical segment results.
` in million
Year ended Year ended
Revenue
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Domestic operations1 1,819,445.3 1,550,493.6
Foreign operations 52,325.6 32,413.9
Total 1,871,770.9 1,582,907.5
1. Includes share of profit from associates of ` 9,982.9 million (March 31, 2022: ` 7,544.3 million).
` in million
At At
Assets
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Domestic operations 18,242,212.3 16,060,154.4
Foreign operations 1,246,125.5 1,360,492.8
Total 19,488,337.8 17,420,647.2
1. Segment assets do not include tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net) and deferred tax assets (net).
T he following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, capital expenditure and depreciation thereon for the
geographical segments.
` in million
Capital expenditure Depreciation
incurred during the provided during the
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022
Domestic operations 20,914.1 16,765.8 14,867.2 13,012.5
Foreign operations 328.2 234.1 278.4 287.6
Total 21,242.3 16,999.9 15,145.6 13,300.1
11. Penalties/fines imposed by banking regulatory bodies
There was no penalty imposed by RBI and other overseas banking regulatory bodies during the year ended March 31,
2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 33.0 million).
311
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
12. Additional information to consolidated accounts
Additional information to consolidated accounts at March 31, 2023 (Pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013)
` in million
Net assets2 Share in profit or loss
Name of the entity % of total % of total
Amount Amount
net assets net profit
Parent
ICICI Bank Limited 93.6% 2,007,153.8 93.7% 318,965.0
Subsidiaries
Indian
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited 0.7% 15,815.5 0.4% 1,277.8
ICICI Securities Limited 1.3% 28,219.2 3.3% 11,334.7
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 1.1% 22,998.6 1.1% 3,653.1
ICICI Trusteeship Services Limited 0.0% 8.7 0.0% 0.1
ICICI Investment Management Company Limited 0.0% 187.0 (0.0%) (58.7)
ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited 0.1% 2,473.3 0.0% 61.9
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 4.7% 100,915.8 2.4% 8,106.6
ICICI Prudential Trust Limited 0.0% 16.9 0.0% 2.2
ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited 1.0% 21,478.8 4.4% 15,077.0
ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company
Limited 0.0% 577.5 0.0% 28.3
Foreign
ICICI Bank UK PLC 1.2% 26,158.3 0.3% 1,045.9
ICICI Bank Canada 1.2% 25,256.2 0.8% 2,818.9
ICICI International Limited 0.0% 122.0 0.0% 8.9
ICICI Securities Holdings Inc. 0.0% 132.7 0.0% 2.0
ICICI Securities Inc. 0.0% 364.8 0.0% 58.3
Other consolidated entities
Indian
ICICI Strategic Investments Fund 0.0% 119.4 0.0% 3.7
Foreign
NIL - - - -
Minority Interests (3.1%) (66,867.5) (4.2%) (14,246.7)
Associates
Indian
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited - - 2.4% 8,303.1
I-Process Services (India) Private Limited - - 0.0% 37.7
NIIT Institute of Finance Banking and Insurance
Training Limited - - 0.0% 3.3
ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited - - 0.0% 63.0
India Infradebt Limited - - 0.5% 1,560.2
India Advantage Fund III - - 0.0% 0.0
India Advantage Fund IV - - (0.0%) (0.2)
Arteria Technologies Private Limited - - 0.0% 15.7
Foreign
NIL - - - -
Joint Ventures
NIL - - - -
Inter-company adjustments (1.8%) (40,153.1) (5.1%) (17,755.4)
TOTAL 100.0% 2,144,977.9 100.0% 340,366.4
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2. Total assets minus total liabilities.
312
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
Additional information to consolidated accounts at March 31, 2022 (Pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013)
` in million
Net assets2 Share in profit or loss
Name of the entity % of total % of total
Amount Amount
net assets net profit
Parent
ICICI Bank Limited 93.7% 1,705,119.7 92.9% 233,394.9
Subsidiaries
Indian
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited 0.9% 15,897.8 1.3% 3,301.6
ICICI Securities Limited 1.3% 24,087.2 5.6% 13,948.1
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 0.9% 17,038.1 0.4% 934.4
ICICI Trusteeship Services Limited 0.0% 8.6 0.0% 0.5
ICICI Investment Management Company Limited 0.0% 95.8 0.0% 12.8
ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited 0.1% 2,461.3 0.0% 2.2
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 5.0% 91,630.6 3.0% 7,541.3
ICICI Prudential Trust Limited 0.0% 17.7 0.0% 3.7
ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited 1.0% 18,599.4 5.7% 14,363.4
ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company
Limited 0.0% 549.2 0.0% 50.7
Foreign
ICICI Bank UK PLC 1.3% 23,940.8 0.3% 812.2
ICICI Bank Canada 1.3% 23,436.9 0.7% 1,737.3
ICICI International Limited 0.0% 104.1 0.0% 0.8
ICICI Securities Holdings Inc. 0.0% 130.8 0.0% 0.3
ICICI Securities Inc. 0.0% 303.8 0.0% 30.0
Other consolidated entities
Indian
ICICI Strategic Investments Fund 0.0% 112.1 0.2% 535.9
Foreign
NIL - - - -
Minority interests (3.3%) (59,808.9) (5.7%) (14,281.6)
Associates
Indian
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited - - 2.4% 6,106.5
I-Process Services (India) Private Limited - - 0.0% 34.3
NIIT Institute of Finance Banking and Insurance
Training Limited - - 0.0% 2.3
ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited - - (0.0%) (4.6)
India Infradebt Limited - - 0.6% 1,396.5
India Advantage Fund III - - (0.0%) (0.2)
India Advantage Fund IV - - (0.0%) (2.4)
Arteria Technologies Private Limited - - 0.0% 12.0
Foreign
NIL - - - -
Joint Ventures
NIL - - - -
Inter-company adjustments (2.2%) (43,200.1) (7.4%) (18,831.9)
Total net assets/net profit 100.0% 1,820,524.9 100.0% 251,101.0
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2. Total assets minus total liabilities.
313
Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
13. Revaluation of fixed assets
The Bank and its housing finance subsidiary follows the revaluation model for their premises (land and buildings)
other than improvements to leasehold property as per AS 10 – ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’. The Bank had initially
revalued its premises at March 31, 2016 and its housing finance subsidiary revalued its premises at March 31, 2017.
In accordance with the policy, annual revaluation is carried out through external valuers, using methodologies such
as direct sales comparison method and income generation method and the incremental amount has been taken to
revaluation reserve. The revalued amount at March 31, 2023 was ` 55,500.0 million (March 31, 2022: ` 58,090.8
million) as compared to the historical cost less accumulated depreciation of ` 24,581.6 million (March 31, 2022:
` 25,805.8 million).
The revaluation reserve is not available for distribution of dividend.
14. Proposed dividend on equity shares
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 22, 2023 has recommended a dividend of ` 8.00 per equity
share for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 5.00 per equity share). The declaration and
payment of dividend is subject to requisite approvals.
15. Divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs
In terms of the RBI circular no. //DBR.BP.BC.No.32/21.04.018/2018-19 dated April 1, 2019, banks are required to
disclose the divergences in asset classification and provisioning consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process
in their notes to accounts to the financial statements, wherever either (a) the additional provisioning requirements
assessed by RBI exceed 10% of the reported net profits before provisions and contingencies or (b) the additional
gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 15% of the published incremental gross NPAs for the reference period, or both.
Based on the condition mentioned in RBI circular, no disclosure on divergence in asset classification and provisioning
for NPAs is required with respect to RBI’s supervisory process for the year ended March 31, 2022 and for the year
ended March 31, 2021.
16. D isclosure on lending and borrowing activities under Rule 11(e) of the Companies (Audit and
Auditors) Rules, 2014
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances, makes investment, provides guarantees
to and accept deposits and borrowings from its customers, other entities and persons. These transactions are part
of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted ensuring adherence to all regulatory requirements.
Other than the transactions described above, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from
borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank and other subsidiaries
incorporated in India to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”) with the
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall lend or invest in party identified
by or on behalf of the Bank and other subsidiaries incorporated in India (Ultimate Beneficiaries). The Bank and
other subsidiaries incorporated in India have also not received any fund from any parties (Funding Party) with the
understanding that the Bank and other subsidiaries incorporated in India shall whether, directly or indirectly lend or
invest in other persons or entities identified by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
17. Other disclosures
Additional statutory information disclosed in the separate financial statements of the Bank and subsidiaries having
no material bearing on the true and fair view on the consolidated financial statements and the information pertaining
to the items which are not material have not been disclosed in the consolidated financial statements.
314
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
18. Comparative figures
Figures of the previous year have been re-grouped to conform to the current year presentation.
Signatures to Schedules 1 to 18
As per our Report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Uday M. Chitale Sandeep Bakhshi
Chartered Accountants Chairman Director Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration no.: DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
105047W
Tushar Kurani Anup Bagchi Rakesh Jha Sandeep Batra
Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director
Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00105962 DIN-00042075 DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP Anindya Banerjee Prachiti Lalingkar Rajendra Khandelwal
Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
Mumbai
April 22, 2023
315
Annual Report 2022-23
316
,SEIRAIDISBUS
FO
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
EHT
FO SERUTAEF
TNEILAS
GNINIATNOC
TNEMETATS
SERUTNEV
TNIOJ
DNA
SEINAPMOC
ETAICOSSA
seiraidisbuS
:”A“
traP
noillim
ni
`
ICICI
ICICI
ICICI
erutneV
ICICI
ICICI
ICICI
laitnedurP
laitnedurP
ICICI
laitnedurP
ICICI
emoH
ICICI
ICICI
ICICI
sdnuF
tnemtsevnI
ICICI
ICICI
seitiruceS
sdnuF
noisneP
tessA
laitnedurP
knaB
ICICI
knaB
ICICI
efiL
pihseetsurT
ecnaniF
seitiruceS
lanoitanretnI
tnemeganaM
tnemeganaM
seitiruceS
seitiruceS
yramirP
sralucitraP
tnemeganaM
tnemeganaM
tsurT
5,4adanaC
3CLP
KU
ecnarusnI
secivreS
ynapmoC
sgnidloH
3detimiL
ynapmoC
ynapmoC
2,1.cnI
1detimiL
pihsrelaeD
ynapmoC
ynapmoC
detimiL
ynapmoC
detimiL
1detimiL
2,1.cnI
detimiL
detimiL
1detimiL
2detimiL
2detimiL
detimiL
nehw
ecnis etad ehT
lirpA
tsuguA
tsuguA
rebotcO
tsuguA
yraurbeF
rebotcO
hcraM
hcraM
rebmetpeS
,1 rebmevoN
enuJ
enuJ
hcraM
,51
rebmetpeS
saw yraidisbus
9002
,22
5002
,62
5002
,62
3002
,31
3002
,91
8991
,72
0002
,1
8991
,52
0002
,9
9991
,1
9991
0002
,31
0002
,21
5991
,9
3991
deriuqca
0.006
5.671
0.1
6.232,51
2.580,81
0.47
7.583,41
0.01
9.942
5.0
3.530,21
7.175
2.827
3.416,1
4.365,1
6latipac
erahs pu-diaP
)5.22(
1.459,22
9.51
3.631,01
1.370,8
0.84
1.035,68
6.364,2
)9.26(
1.8
3.430,61
)9.602(
)5.595(
6.636,62
0.952,41
sulpruS
& sevreseR
7.156
6.740,82
7.91
9.050,073
1.310,671
1.921
0.274,855,2
7.610,3
0.832
2.9
7.844,981
5.534
5.331
9.463,551
7.036,443
stessa latoT seitilibail latoT
dna
latipac
gnidulcxe(
2.47
0.719,4
8.2
0.286,443
8.458,941
1.7
2.455,754,2
9.245
0.15
5.0
1.973,161
7.07
8.0
0.411,721
3.808,823
)sevreser
gnidulcni(
stnemtsevnI ni tnemtsevni
6.155
9.478,22
1.71
7.118,54
9.834,25
#
2.402,284,2
6.814,1
9.651
8.8
6.199,4
liN
5.49
8.863,9
4.538,742
7)seiraidisbus revonruT
morf
emocni ssorG(
3.521
8.198,62
2.01
2.952,21
2.998,6
9.24
8.723,993
9.805
0.811
6.1
4.394,91
1.491
liN
0.351,43
0.247,31
)snoitarepo
erofeb
)ssol(/tiforP
2.43
7.170,02
4.2
2.429,2
5.892,1
1.9
9.869,8
2.97
)4.16(
1.0
2.868,3
1.65
0.2
1.359,41
6.447,1
noitaxat
9.5
9.319,4
2.0
7.287
4.922
liN
2.268
3.71
)7.2(
#
0.058
)2.2(
#
1.738,3
2.664
noitaxat
rof noisivorP
retfa
)ssol(/tiforP
3.82
8.751,51
2.2
5.141,2
1.960,1
1.9
7.601,8
9.16
)7.85(
1.0
2.810,3
3.85
0.2
0.611,11
4.872,1
noitaxat
liN
6.791,21
0.3
8.519
7.128
liN
6.097
0.05
liN
liN
7.461
liN
liN
0.362,7
2.063,1
diap dnediviD
%00.001
%00.15
%08.05
%00.001
%00.001
%00.001
%72.15
%00.001
%00.001
%00.001
%00.001
%00.001
%00.001
%58.47
%00.001
gnidloherahs
fo
%
noillim
1.0
naht
ssel tnuoma
#
:setoN
.seititne
eseht
yb
SA dnI ot
noitargim
ot
tnausrup
stnemetats
laicnanif
SA dnI
ytitne
evitcepser
rep
sa
noitamrofni
laicnaniF
.1
.cnI
sgnidloH
seitiruceS
ICICI
fo yraidisbus
denwo
yllohw
a si .cnI
seitiruceS
ICICI
.detimiL
seitiruceS
ICICI
fo yraidisbus
denwo
yllohw
a si .cnI
sgnidloH
seitiruceS
ICICI
.2
.detimiL
ynapmoC
ecnarusnI
efiL
laitnedurP
ICICI
fo yraidisbus
denwo
yllohw
a
si detimiL
ynapmoC
tnemeganaM
sdnuF
noisneP
laitnedurP
ICICI
.0071.28
`
=
DSU
1
fo
3202
,13
hcraM
ta
etar
gnisolc
eht
ta
seepuR
naidnI
otni detalsnart
neeb
sah
detimiL
lanoitanretnI
ICICI
dna
CLP
KU
knaB
ICICI fo
noitamrofni
laicnanif ehT
.3
.raey
laicnanif
rieht
gnieb
,2202
,13
rebmeceD
ot 2202
,1 yraunaJ
doirep
eht
rof si
adanaC
knaB
ICICI fo
noitamrofni
laicnanif ehT
.4
.5250.16
`
=
DAC
1 fo 2202
,13
rebmeceD
ta
etar gnisolc
eht
ta
seepuR
naidnI
otni
detalsnart
neeb
sah
adanaC
knaB
ICICI fo
noitamrofni
laicnanif ehT
.5
.yenom
noitacilppa
erahs
edulcni
ton seod
latipac
erahs
pu-diaP
.6
.edart
ni
kcots
sa
dleh
seitiruces
edulcni
stnemtsevnI
.7
enoN
:snoitarepo
ecnemmoc
ot
tey
era hcihw
seiraidisbus
fo semaN
.8
enoN
:raey
eht
gnirud
dlos
ro detadiuqil
neeb
evah
hcihw
seiraidisbus
fo semaN
.9
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 129
OF COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
317
serutnev
tnioj
dna
seinapmoc
etaicossA
:"B"
traP
noillim
ni
`
fo
etutitsnI
TIIN
airetrA
tnahcreM
ICICI
secivreS
ssecorP-I
drabmoL
ICICI
seryT
noclaF
tbedarfnI
aidnI
gniknaB
ecnaniF
seigolonhceT
etavirP
secivreS
etavirP
)aidnI(
ecnarusnI
lareneG
serutnev
tnioj/seinapmoc
etaicossa fo
emaN
detimiL
detimiL
ecnarusnI
dna
detimiL
etavirP
detimiL
detimiL
detimiL
ynapmoC
detimiL
gniniarT
6102
,13
hcraM
2202 ,13
hcraM
3202
,13
hcraM
2202
,13 hcraM
2202
,13
hcraM
2202
,13
hcraM
3202
,13
hcraM
etad teehs
ecnalab detidua tsetaL
1
,72
rebmevoN
tnioJ ro etaicossA
eht hcihw no etaD
2
4102
,4
rebmeceD
8102 ,92
yaM
2102
9002
,13 rebmeceD
6002
,7
tsuguA
5002
,4
rebotcO
1002
,1
yluJ
deriuqca
ro detaicossa saw erutneV
tnioj/seinapmoc
etaicossa fo serahS
,13
hcraM
ta puorG
ICICI yb dleh serutnev
3
3202
771,544,02
000,099,9
700,163,763
000,285,57
000,009,1
088,9
608,348,532
serahs ytiuqe fo rebmuN
etaicossa
ni tnemtsevni fo tnuomA
liN
7.631
6.019,11
6.848
0.73
4.98
7.889,05
2serutnev tnioj/seinapmoc
%93.62
%89.91
%33.24
%10.91
%97.81
%00.91
%20.84
)%( gnidloh fo tnetxE
4
etoN
3 etoN
4
etoN
3
etoN
3
etoN
3
etoN
4 etoN
ecneulfni
tnacifingis fo noitpircseD
4
eht fo noitadilosnoc-non
fo nosaeR
5
5
etoN
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
erutnev tnioj/etaicossa
sa
gnidloherahs
ot elbatubirtta htrowteN
6
.A.N
7.15
9.978,11
1.350,1
6.62
6.15
1.929,05
teehs
ecnalab detidua tsetal rep
,13
hcraM
dedne
raey eht rof )ssol(/tiforP
7
3202
.A.N
7.41
2.065,1
1.151
6.3
8.73
1.303,8
noitadilosnoc ni deredisnoC
i
.A.N
0.95
7.521,2
9.346
5.51
3.161
6.789,8
noitadilosnoc
ni deredisnoc toN
ii
:setoN
eht
yb
deussi
,stnemetatS
laicnaniF
detadilosnoC
ni setaicossA
ni
stnemtsevnI
rof
gnitnuoccA
- 32
)SA(
dradnatS
gnitnuoccA
fo selpicnirp
eht
no
desab
deraperp
neeb
sah tnemetats evoba
ehT
1
puorg
eht
hguohtla
,32
SA rednu
denifed
sa
ecneulfni
tnacifingis
yna
evah
ton
seod
puorG
ICICI
erehw
seinapmoc
eht
edulcni
ton
seod erofereht
dna
,)IACI(
aidnI
fo stnatnuoccA
deretrahC fo etutitsnI
.seinapmoc
esoht
ni
latipac
erahs latot
fo %00.02 naht erom sdloh .eulav gniyrrac stneserpeR
2
.ynapmoc
eetsevni
eht
fo
srotcerid
fo
draoB
eht
no
noitatneserper
dna
rewop
gnitov
sti
hguorht
ecneulfni
tnacifingis
evah
ot
demeed
si
puorG
ICICI ,IACI
yb deussi ,32 SA fo smret
nI
3
.ynapmoc
eetsevni
eht
ni
rewop
gnitov
eht
fo %00.02
naht
erom
gnieb
gnidloh
sti
ot
eud
ecneulfni
tnacifingis
evah
ot
demeed
si
puorG
ICICI ,IACI
yb deussi ,32 SA fo smret
nI
4
.erutan
ni
yraropmet
si
detimiL seryT
noclaF ni tnemtsevni
ehT
5
enoN
:snoitarepo
ecnemmoc
ot
tey
era
hcihw
serutnev
tnioj ro setaicossa fo semaN
6
enoN
:raey
eht
gnirud
dlos
ro detadiuqil
neeb
evah
hcihw
serutnev
tnioj ro setaicossa fo semaN
7
srotceriD
fo
draoB
eht
fo
flaheb
no dna
roF
ihshkaB
peednaS
elatihC
.M
yadU
idevrutahC
ardnahC
hsiriG
OEC
&
rotceriD
gniganaM
rotceriD
namriahC
60290100-NID
86234000-NID
69901100-NID
artaB
peednaS
ahJ
hsekaR
ihcgaB
punA
rotceriD
evitucexE
rotceriD
evitucexE
rotceriD
evitucexE
31902630-NID
57024000-NID
26950100-NID
lawlednahK
ardnejaR
rakgnilaL
itihcarP
eejrenaB
aydninA
iabmuM
tnatnuoccA
feihC
yraterceS
ynapmoC
recfifO
laicnaniF
feihC
puorG
3202 ,22
lirpA
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 129
OF COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Annual Report 2022-23
BASEL PILLAR 3 DISCLOSURES
at March 31, 2023
Pillar 3 disclosures at March 31, 2023 as per Basel III guidelines of RBI have been disclosed separately on the Bank’s
website under ‘Regulatory Disclosures Section’ on the home page.
The link to this section is http://www.icicibank.com/regulatory-disclosure.page.
The section contains the following disclosures:
• Qualitative and quantitative disclosures at March 31, 2023
• Scope of application
• Capital adequacy
• Credit risk
• Securitisation exposures
• Market risk
• Operational risk
• Interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB)
• Liquidity risk
• Counterparty credit risk
• Risk management framework of non-banking group companies
• Disclosure requirements for remuneration
• Equities – Disclosure for banking book positions
• Leverage ratio
• Composition of capital
• Composition of capital - reconciliation requirements
• Main features of regulatory capital instruments
• Full terms and conditions of regulatory capital instruments
318
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Terms Definition
Average assets For the purpose of performance analysis, represents averages of daily balances
Average cost of funds Cost of interest bearing liabilities
Average equity Quarterly average of equity share capital and reserves and surplus
Average yield Yield on interest earning assets
Book value per share Share capital plus reserves and surplus divided by outstanding number of equity
shares
Capital (for CRAR) Capital includes share capital, reserves and surplus (revaluation reserve and
foreign currency translation reserve are considered at discounted amount), capital
instruments and general provisions as per the RBI Basel III guidelines
Capital to risk weighted assets Capital (for CRAR) divided by Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs)
ratio (CRAR)
Core operating profit Profit before provisions and contingencies, excluding treasury income
Cost to income Operating expenses divided by net interest income and non-interest income
Earnings per share Net profit after tax divided by weighted average number of equity shares outstanding
during the year
High quality liquid assets Stock of liquid assets which can be readily sold at little or no loss of value or used as
collateral to obtain funds
Interest spread Average yield less average cost of funds
Liquidity coverage ratio Ratio of unencumbered high quality liquid assets to total net cash outflows estimated
for the next 30 calendar days
Net interest income Total interest earned less total interest expended
Net interest margin Total interest earned less total interest expended divided by average interest earning
assets
Net worth Total of equity share capital, employees stock options outstanding and reserves and
surplus
Operating profit Profit before provisions and contingencies
Provision coverage ratio Provision for non-performing advances divided by gross non-performing advances
Provisions to core operating profit Provisions and contingencies (excluding taxation) divided by core operating profit
Return on average assets Net profit after tax divided by average assets
Return on average equity Net profit after tax divided by average equity
Risk weighted assets (RWAs) RWAs are computed by assigning risk weights as per the RBI Basel III guidelines
to various on-balance sheet exposure, off-balance sheet exposures and undrawn
exposures
319
REGISTERED OFFICE CORPORATE OFFICE
ICICI Bank Tower, ICICI Bank Towers,
Near Chakli Circle, Old Padra Road, Bandra-Kurla Complex,
Vadodara 390 007 Mumbai 400 051
Tel: +91-265-6722286 Tel: +91-22-40088111
CIN: L65190GJ1994PLC021012
STATUTORY AUDITORS
M S K A & Associates KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
602, Floor 6, Raheja Titanium, (formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Western Express Highway, Sunshine Tower, Level 19,
Geetanjali Railway Colony, Senapati Bapat Marg,
Ram Nagar, Goregaon East, Elphinstone Road,
Mumbai 400 063 Mumbai 400 013
REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENTS
Equity Shares: Bonds/Debentures:
KFin Technologies Limited 3i Infotech Limited
Unit : ICICI Bank Limited, International Infotech Park,
Selenium Building, Tower-B, Tower # 5, 3rd Floor,
Plot No. 31 & 32, Financial District, Vashi Railway Station Complex,
Nanakramguda, Serlingampally, Vashi, Navi Mumbai 400 703
Hyderabad 500 032, Rangareddy, Telangana
OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING
ABOUT THIS REPORT SAFE HARBOUR
This is ICICI Bank’s Annual Report for the year ended Certain statements in this Annual Report relating to
March 31, 2023. It has been prepared in accordance a future period of time (including inter alia concerning
with Indian regulatory reporting requirements as our future business plans or growth prospects) are
well as the principles of the International Integrated forward-looking statements intended to qualify for
Reporting Framework as developed by the the ‘safe harbour’ under applicable securities laws
International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). including the US Private Securities Litigation Reform
Through this report, the Bank aims to provide its Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements
stakeholders a comprehensive view of its operations, involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could
performance, its financial and non-financial cause actual results to differ materially from those in
resources and strategy to create long-term value. such forward-looking statements. These risks and
The report provides insights into the Bank’s primary uncertainties include, but are not limited to statutory
activities, its strategic priorities, risks and mitigants, and regulatory changes, international economic and
governance structure, and the manner in which it has business conditions; political or economic instability in
leveraged the six capitals, namely Financial, Human, the jurisdictions where we have operations, increase
Intellectual, Manufactured, Social and Relationship, in non-performing loans, unanticipated changes in
and Natural. interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices
or other rates or prices, our growth and expansion
REPORTING BOUNDARY in business, the adequacy of our allowance for
credit losses, the actual growth in demand for
The non-financial information in the Integrated banking products and services, investment income,
Report largely covers data on the India operations of cash flow projections, our exposure to market risks,
ICICI Bank Limited and ICICI Foundation for Inclusive changes in India’s sovereign rating, and the impact
Growth. of the Covid-19 pandemic which could result in
fewer business opportunities, lower revenues, and
an increase in the levels of non-performing assets
REPORTING PERIOD
and provisions, depending among other factors upon
the period of time for which the pandemic extends,
The Annual Report provides material information
the remedial measures adopted by governments
relating to the Bank’s strategy and business model,
and central banks, and the time taken for economic
operating context, performance and statutory
activity to resume at normal levels after the pandemic,
disclosures covering the financial year April 1, 2022 to
as well as other risks detailed in the reports filed by
March 31, 2023.
us with the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission. Any forward-looking statements
contained herein are based on assumptions that
we believe to be reasonable as of the date of this
release. ICICI Bank undertakes no obligation to
update forward-looking statements to reflect events
or circumstances after the date thereof. Additional
risks that could affect our future operating results
are more fully described in our filings with the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission. These
filings are available at www.sec.gov.
RECOGNISED AS
'COMPANY
OF THE YEAR'
BY
THE ECONOMIC TIMES
'BANK OF 'BEST COMPANY
THE YEAR' TO WORK FOR*'
BY BY
BUSINESS TODAY – BUSINESS TODAY
KPMG BEST BANKS AWARDS
*in the BFSI sector in India
ICICI Bank Limited, ICICI Bank Towers, Bandra-Kurla Complex,
Mumbai 400 051 | www.icicibank.com
facebook.com/icicibank twitter.com/icicibank
youtube.com/icicibank linkedin.com/company/icici-bank
instagram.com/icicibank


ICICI Bank has adopted a 360° approach to meet 
evolving needs of its customers by decongesting its 
processes, re-orienting its technologies and making 
its HR practices more agile. Named ‘Customer 360°’, 
the objective of this multi-dimensional approach is 
to bring the entire Bank to the customer and offer 
solutions to them as well as their ecosystems as per 
their requirements.
We have products and services to meet banking 
requirements of an individual customer at every life 
stage. Likewise, we offer a complete suite of financial 
products to the entire ecosystem of a corporate 
or an institution comprising employees, dealers 
and vendors. We strive to become the primary 
banking service provider to each of our customers – 
individuals, institutions or corporates.
We leverage our network of business centres, digital 
channels, partnerships and presence across various 
ecosystems to expand our customer base. Our 
ecosystem branches house multi-functional teams 
required to nurture relationships and bring the entire 
bouquet of services of the Bank to the corporates and 
their ecosystems.
The foundation of the Bank’s customer-centric and 
service-oriented approach has been to develop 
a granular profiling of markets through analytics, 
market intelligence and creating an efficient 
distribution and resource allocation to identify 
opportunities across the country.
The three main pillars of ‘Customer 360°’ are Process 
Decongestion, Bank to BankTech and HR Measures.
FAIR TO CUSTOMER, FAIR TO BANK
Process Decongestion
Improving operational efficiencies through digitised 
processes and removing redundancies has helped 
the Bank to reduce its response time for customers. 
We continue to focus on reimagining processes to 
deliver customer delight and enhance advocacy. 
We are leveraging the power of subtraction in our 
service delivery framework through simplification, 
decongestion, 
abolition 
of 
non-value 
adding 
processes, and digitisation of customer journeys and 
processes. ‘Less is more’ is our mantra.
Through initiatives such as iLens (end-to-end loan 
journey platform), onboarding of digital current 
account using Video KYC, single enterprise level 
CRM platform and Virtual Relationship Manager 
(VRM) platform among others, we have improved 
the servicing experience for customers. New-age 
technologies and platforms such as TradeIntelli, 
Neo Remittance System, next-gen phone banking 
experience and digitisation of card life cycle are 
empowering the Bank to serve customers with 
simplicity.
We have taken several initiatives like digitisation 
of the entire underwriting process with instant 
loan approvals to provide better convenience and 
smooth experience to our customers. Our growth in 
the deposit franchise is supported by our continued 
efforts to strengthen digital platforms and to simplify 
various processes to provide a seamless banking 
experience to customers.
The Bank has empowered frontline teams to 
identify and leverage local opportunities. We 
have also reduced the layers of management. The 
objective of the combined approach is to make the 
operating teams more flexible and agile in order 
to offer improved services to customers while 
operating within the guardrails of compliance 
and risk.
Bank to BankTech
As the Bank is transforming itself from Bank to 
BankTech, technology is assuming an integral role in 
its business strategy. Our digital platforms – iMobile 
Pay, iLens, InstaBIZ and Trade Online – provide 
end-to-end seamless digital journeys, personalised 
solutions and value-added services to customers 
and enable more data-driven cross-sell and 
Process 
Decongestion
Bank to 
BankTech
HR 
Measures

Contents
Bank at a Glance	
2
Financial Highlights	
4
Message from the Chairman	
6
Board of Directors	
8
Message from the Wholetime Directors	
9
Business Model	
10
Our Business Strategy	
14
Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank	
30
Our Values 	
34
Risk Governance Framework	
36
Responding to Risks and Opportunities	
42
Materiality Assessment 	
44
Human Capital	
52
Social and Relationship Capital	
58
Environment and Sustainability	
66
INTEGRATED REPORT
Directors’ Report	
71
Auditors’ Certificate on Corporate 
Governance	
116 
Management Discussion & Analysis 	
117
Key Financial Indicators: Last 10 Years	
137
STATUTORY REPORTS
Independent Auditors' Report – 
Financial Statements	
138
Financial Statements of  
ICICI Bank Limited 	
150
Independent Auditors' Report – 
Consolidated Financial Statements	
240
Consolidated Financial Statements of 	
 
ICICI Bank Limited and its Subsidiaries 	
260
Statement Pursuant to Section 129 	
 
of Companies Act, 2013	
316
Basel Pillar 3 Disclosures 	
318
Glossary of Terms	
319
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
To view this report online, please visit
Investor Relations section on the ICICI Bank
website at www.icicibank.com
up-sell. iMobile Pay and InstaBIZ also have open 
architecture, enabling customers of other banks 
to onboard seamlessly. We continue to enhance 
our cybersecurity and invest in technology to 
improve our offerings to customers.
We have enabled efficiency across business 
and operational functions by adopting intelligent 
automation 
platforms 
including 
robotic 
processes. They have reduced our turnaround 
time, and increased our capacity for handling 
transaction volumes and customer requirements.
HR Measures 
We have taken steps to organise and structure 
teams in a way to facilitate Customer 360°. 
We invest in our employees to prepare them 
to 
take 
up 
challenging 
assignments 
and 
responsibilities early in their career, and not 
restrict themselves to specific areas. This helps 
them to learn and develop expertise in different 
domains through job rotations and moving 
across roles. The Bank continues to invest in 
capability building through in-house functional 
academies, industry academia initiatives as well 
as specialised programmes.
We have created cross-functional teams to 
tap into key customer and market segments 
across ecosystems, enabling 360° coverage 
of customers. We enable ‘Customer 360°’ by 
working as one team across various departments 
of the Bank by bringing together the strength 
and expertise of our employees.
We have placed strong emphasis on ethics and 
integrity as core values. We live the trust – the 
most important currency – by giving the best 
solutions to our customers. We expect all our 
employees to act in accordance with the highest 
professional and ethical standards.

2
Annual Report 2022-23 
BANK AT A GLANCE
* During fiscal 2023; others at March 31, 2023
4.48%
Net Interest Margin*
`15,842.07 billion
Standalone Total Assets
Profit After Tax*
`318.96 billion
Profit Before Tax  
Excluding Treasury Gains*
`424.73 billion
Total Capital Adequacy Ratio
18.34%
Net Interest Income*
`621.29 billion
Total Deposits 
`11,808.41 billion
Total Advances
`10,196.38 billion

More than 28 million users on 
iMobile Pay
iMobile 
Pay, 
ICICI 
Bank's 
mobile 
banking 
application, has more than 28 million users. The 
total value of transactions done through this app 
stood at close to `9,000 billion in fiscal 2023.
Close to 29% market share in 
FASTag
ICICI Bank continues to be one of the leading bank 
in electronic toll collections through FASTag with 
a market share of close to 29%. Our electronic toll 
collections through FASTag increased by 28% in 
fiscal 2023.
Credit card spends grew by 
60%
Retail credit card spends grew by 60% in 
fiscal 2023 compared to the previous year.
Supporting over 400 
hospitals 
ICICI 
Bank 
supported 
over 
400 
hospitals 
benefitting 1.5 million people by strengthening 
healthcare infrastructure and improving health 
facilities till date. 
Over 51% business centres in 
rural and semi-urban areas
More than half of the Bank's business centres, and 
one-fourth of ATMs and Cash Recycler Machines 
are based in rural and semi-urban areas.
Over 1.5 million users  
on InstaBIZ
ICICI Bank has over 1.5 million active users on its 
business banking app, InstaBIZ. Around 225,000 
non-ICICI Bank account holders registered on this 
app. Value of financial transactions on InstaBIZ 
grew by 22% in fiscal 2023.
`
UPI P2M transactions doubled
Value of UPI Person to Merchant (P2M) 
transactions grew more than 100% in fiscal 2023 
on the back of a 55% growth in volume of these 
transactions.
`
Trade Online transactions 
grew by 47%
The value of transactions on the Trade Online 
platform of the Bank grew by 47% in fiscal 2023.
`
Financial assistance provided 
to 10 million rural women
The Bank provided credit to 10 million rural 
women through over 785,000 SHG loans at 
March 31, 2023. 
Presence across the country
ICICI Bank has a nationwide network of 5,900 
business centres (branches), 16,650 ATMs 
and Cash Recycler Machines, and 1,102 Insta 
Banking Kiosks, at March 31, 2023.
IGBC certification
One-third of the Bank’s premises spanning over 
4.42 million square feet was IGBC# certified as 
at March 31, 2023.
Supply Chain finance grew by 
56%
The outstanding book of supply chain finance 
business, including structured trade, grew 56% in 
fiscal 2023.
#The Indian Green Building Council (IGBC), part of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), is the country’s premier body for green 
building certification. The ratings are awarded based on assessment of energy efficiency, use of renewable energy, water conservation, 
waste management, indoor air quality and sustainable sourcing of material. 
3
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

TOTAL ADVANCES
March
2019
March
2020
March
2021
March
2022
March 
2023
6,529.20
7,709.69
9,325.22
10,645.72
11,808.41
962.70
3,289.79
2,276.71
1,022.27
4,231.51
2,455.91
1,361.70
5,008.99
2,954.53
1,584.80
5,461.35
3,599.57
TOTAL DEPOSITS
 Current Account (` in billion) 
 Savings Account (` in billion)
 Term Deposit (` in billion) 
 Total (` in billion)
March
2019
March
2020
March
2021
March
2022
March 
2023
 5,866.47 
10,196.38
 8,590.20 
 7,337.29 
 6,452.90 
10.7% 
3.3%
4.8% 
5.1% 
8.4% 
29.2%
26.3%
27.2%
28.2%
28.4%
7.1%
6.2%
4.1%
48.4%
54.7%
52.9%
51.8%
50.3%
8.5%
3.2%
8.6%
8.9%
9.8%
5.1%
8.8%
 Retail 
 Business Banking
 Domestic Corporate & SME
 Overseas
 Rural Loans 
 Total (` in billion)
3,797.76
6,395.79
1,614.86
March
2019
March
2020
March
2021
March
2022
March 
2023
NET WORTH
1,083.68 
1,165.04 
 1,475.09 
 1,705.12 
2,007.16 
 Net Worth (Equity Share Capital, Reserves and Surplus) 
(` in billion) 
17.60%
18.06%
14.72%
15.09%
0.81%
0.74%
1.80%
16.89%
1.39%
16.11%
1.06%
19.12%
19.16%
18.34%
March
2019
March
2020
March
2021
March
2022
March 
2023
CAPITAL ADEQUACY
18.35%
13.63%
13.39%
16.80%
17.60%
17.12%
 Tier I 
 Tier II 
 Common Equity Tier 1
 Total
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
4
Annual Report 2022-23 

33.63
24.11
79.31
127.55
161.93
151.37
233.39
297.06
318.96
424.73
March
2019
FY2019 
March
2020
FY2020
March
2021
FY2021
March
2022
FY2022
March 
2023
FY2023
270.15 
70.6%
332.67 
75.7%
389.89 
77.7%
 474.66 
79.2%
 621.29 
82.8%
3.42%
3.73%
3.69%
3.96%
4.48%
 Provision coverage ratio (specific provisions as a percentage of gross NPAs)
FY2019 
FY2019 
FY2020
FY2020
FY2021
FY2021
FY2022
FY2022
FY2023
FY2023
 Standalone Net Profit (` in billion)
 
 Net Interest Income (NII) (` in billion)
Net Interest Margin (NIM)
 Profit Before Tax (` in billion)
2.1%
1.4%
1.1%
0.8%
0.5%
Net NPA Ratio (based on customer assets)
STANDALONE NET PROFIT
PROVISION COVERAGE RATIO 
& NET NPA RATIO
NII & NIM
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
EXCLUDING TREASURY GAINS
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
5
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

In fiscal 2023, the Indian economy continued to be 
resilient despite slowdown in the global economy 
impacted by commodity prices, lockdown in China, surge 
in global inflation and resultant monetary tightening by 
global central banks. India’s GDP grew with sustained 
improvement in underlying economic activity across 
sectors along with higher credit off-take, buoyant 
tax collection and continuation of government-led 
investments. The services sector, including services 
exports, rebounded and witnessed growth momentum. 
However, global and domestic inflationary pressures, 
especially in the wake of the situation in Ukraine, and 
sharp tightening of monetary policy by central banks 
globally led to monetary tightening by the Reserve Bank 
of India with a series of repo rate hikes and withdrawal 
of excess liquidity. Overall, the Indian financial sector has 
been stable and resilient, as reflected in the improved 
performance of banks, lower non-performing assets and 
adequate capital and liquidity buffers.
During fiscal 2023, the Bank continued to focus on 
profitable growth in business while maintaining a strong 
balance sheet and robust liquidity. The Bank delivered 
a healthy growth in profit along with improvement in 
asset quality parameters. The Bank strengthened its 
balance sheet with prudent provisioning, healthy capital 
and optimal asset-liability management. The growth in 
business was underpinned by the strategy to increase 
market share across key segments while focussing on 
micromarkets and ecosystems. The Bank aimed to grow 
its franchise by leveraging its strong financial position 
and well-recognised brand.
The focus on a 360º customer-centric approach with an 
objective to serve customers in a holistic manner has 
underpinned the Bank’s operations. The principle of ‘Fair 
to Customer, Fair to Bank’ has further strengthened the 
focus on customer-oriented initiatives and on long-term 
value creation. Fairness, transparency and ethics are 
core values in our dealings with all our stakeholders and 
employees are required to exhibit desired behaviours 
aligned to these ethos. The principle of ‘One Bank, One 
Team, One ROE’ has enabled growth in key business 
segments and increase in the Bank’s market share. Our 
continued belief in these value drivers reflected in the 
improved return to shareholders during fiscal 2023.
 
During fiscal 2023, the 
Bank continued to focus on 
profitable growth in business 
while maintaining a strong 
balance sheet and robust 
liquidity. The Bank delivered a 
healthy growth in profit along 
with improvement in asset 
quality parameters. 
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN
6
Annual Report 2022-23 

Continuing on the journey from Bank to BankTech, the Bank 
is constantly upgrading and strengthening the technology 
infrastructure with a goal to make it secure, stable and 
resilient. The Bank has undertaken multiple projects 
across digital engagement platforms, which will provide 
a competitive edge across business and operational 
capabilities. The Bank seeks to be adaptable to digital 
developments, innovations and evolving cybersecurity 
issues. The Bank has shown agility in adopting and 
adapting to new emerging trends and addressing risks 
and opportunities.
The Bank’s commitment towards Environmental, Social 
and Governance (ESG) was evidenced during fiscal 
2023, with several initiatives taken as part of the 
journey to achieving its sustainability objectives. The 
focussed approach overseen by the Risk Committee 
of the Board ensured consistent progress being made 
across various areas. An important step was taken by 
developing the Framework for Sustainable Financing, 
which provides guidance on areas of sustainable and 
sustainability-linked lending. Creating awareness and 
capability building among all stakeholders is an ongoing 
priority for the Bank. The focus on enhancing practices 
and disclosures on ESG-related aspects has led to 
improvement in the Bank’s ESG ratings.
The Bank strongly believes in creating a positive impact 
on society, through its business as well as through its 
corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities. The reach 
of efforts made through the ICICI Foundation for Inclusive 
Growth, touching every state and union territory of India, 
is remarkable. The efforts are in areas critical to the 
country’s development, including healthcare, environment 
& biodiversity, livelihoods and societal development. 
The Bank is committed to continuing these initiatives that 
have so far impacted about 10.9 million lives. 
Governance and stability are top priorities for the 
Board, 
underpinning 
the 
articulated 
objective 
of 
growing within the guardrails of risk and compliance. 
In this regard, the Board has focussed on ensuring 
competency and independence to contribute objectively 
and responsibly towards the Bank’s progress. Ensuring 
quality discussions and information sharing at the Board 
level, and transparency in the disclosures of the Bank, 
has been a priority for the Board. With a commitment 
to the highest levels of corporate governance, the Board 
continuously endeavours to strengthen various policies 
and frameworks, and maintain oversight over risk 
management, audit and compliances through various 
Committees. The Board ensures that the assurance 
functions have adequate independence and stature 
to establish values and culture that are integral to 
sustainable banking.
Looking ahead, global economic conditions continue to 
remain uncertain, with monetary tightening by advanced 
economies and unevenness in growth prospects in 
various markets. However, India is well poised to grow 
sustainably, benefitting from the results of reforms 
undertaken and the vast potential of its economy. The 
Bank will continue to focus on participating in profitable 
opportunities and enhancing its franchise, underlined by 
risk-calibrated growth and a focus on value creation for 
all stakeholders.
We would like to thank all our stakeholders and look 
forward to your continued support.
With best wishes,
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Chairman
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN
7
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Non-Executive (part-time) 
Chairman
BOARD MEMBERS
Radhakrishnan Nair
Independent Director
Vibha Paul Rishi
Independent Director
Rakesh Jha
Executive Director
B. Sriram
Independent Director
Neelam Dhawan
Independent Director
Uday Chitale
Independent Director
S. Madhavan
Independent Director
Sandeep Bakhshi
Managing Director & 
CEO
Hari L. Mundra
Independent Director
Sandeep Batra 
Executive Director
KEY PERSONNEL
Anindya Banerjee
Group Chief Financial Officer
Prachiti Lalingkar
Company Secretary
BOARD COMMITTEES
Board Governance, Remuneration & 
Nomination Committee
Neelam Dhawan, Chairperson 
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi 
B. Sriram
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi, Chairman
Radhakrishnan Nair
Uday Chitale
Vibha Paul Rishi
Rakesh Jha 
Customer Service Committee
Vibha Paul Rishi, Chairperson
Hari L. Mundra
Sandeep Bakhshi
Rakesh Jha 
Credit Committee
Sandeep Bakhshi, Chairman
Hari L. Mundra
B. Sriram 
Rakesh Jha
Fraud Monitoring Committee
Radhakrishnan Nair, Chairman
S. Madhavan 
Neelam Dhawan 
Sandeep Bakhshi 
Rakesh Jha
Information Technology Strategy 
Committee
B. Sriram, Chairman
Neelam Dhawan
Rakesh Jha
Sandeep Batra
Risk Committee
S. Madhavan, Chairman
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Vibha Paul Rishi 
Sandeep Batra 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Hari L. Mundra, Chairman
Uday Chitale 
Sandeep Batra 
Audit Committee
Uday Chitale, Chairman
S. Madhavan
Radhakrishnan Nair
8
Annual Report 2022-23 

Sandeep Bakhshi
Managing Director & CEO
Rakesh Jha
Executive Director
Sandeep Batra
Executive Director
Our business strategy was led by a 360º customer-centric approach with an aspiration to 
serve customers seamlessly across ecosystems, customer segments and micromarkets while 
fostering a strong risk and compliance culture. We have further empowered our employees 
with enablers for seamless engagement and better delivery of services to customers. The 
Bank will continue to invest in process decongestion, digital capabilities, technology platforms, 
distribution and security features to respond to the evolving opportunities and risks.
Our efforts will continue to be founded on the pillars of ‘One Bank, One Team, One ROE’, 
‘Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank’ and paramountcy of return of capital. We strive to build a 
culture of collaboration and teamwork wherein each employee upholds the ICICI values to 
enhance Customer 360º propositions. Our goal is to serve customers with transparency and 
integrity while creating value for our shareholders.
The Indian economy continued to show resilience amidst a volatile global environment in 
fiscal 2023. During the year, we remained focussed on our strategic objective of growing our 
risk-calibrated core operating profit through the 360° customer-centric approach, which was 
supported by our process, technology, and HR measures. We continued to operate within our 
strategic framework and strengthened our franchise, enhanced our delivery and servicing 
capabilities, and expanded our technology and digital offerings. 
We enabled our Customer 360° approach by working as one team across various 
departments of the Bank, and bringing together the strength and expertise of our employees. 
In fiscal 2023, we continued to implement suitable initiatives to reduce the carbon footprint 
of the Bank. Through our philanthropic arm, ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth, we aim to 
create an enduring impact on the society and environment. Our efforts on providing affordable 
and accessible healthcare, creating rural livelihoods and supporting societal development 
have made a difference to nearly 10.9 million lives till date.
The Bank continues its strategy of 360° customer-centric approach through innovation 
and adapting to the ever-evolving customer needs across segments and ecosystems. As 
our business modes evolve digitally, trust, reliability and security remain the key anchors 
that underpin our long-term profitable growth strategy. The principle of ‘One Bank, One 
Team’ enhances the Customer 360° approach with key focus on execution. The Bank has 
undertaken various initiatives to scale the franchise in terms of capacity, capability, 
empowerment and deepening its presence in key micromarkets. 
To enhance the corporate relationship including its stakeholders, the Bank focussed on 
capturing opportunities across entire value chain by deep diving into the customer journeys 
and providing integrated industry-specific solutions. The Bank offered new STACKS 
additions of real estate, GIFT City, capital markets and custody, and a one-stop platform 
for trade transactions. The Bank continued its approach of choosing right counterparty, 
multi-channel distribution and taking entire Bank to the customer with a transparent and 
best-in-class banking experience.
MESSAGE FROM THE WHOLETIME 
DIRECTORS
9
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

BUSINESS MODEL
CAPITALS
VISION
To be the trusted financial services provider of choice for our customers,  
thereby creating sustainable value for our stakeholders.
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
HUMAN CAPITAL
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
NATURAL CAPITAL
Our ability to maintain a strong balance sheet and 
enable business continuity, sustained growth, and 
shareholder returns.
For further details, please refer to the Management 
Discussion and Analysis section on page 117
Our competent workforce with diverse skill sets and 
valuable experience.
For further details, please refer to the section on 
Human Capital on page 52
Our ability to stay innovative and develop products 
and services that provide superior experiences to our 
customers.
For further details, please refer to the section on 
Our Business Strategy on page 14
Our technology architecture along with the network of 
branches, ATMs, cash recycler machines and digital channels 
facilitates seamless delivery of services to customers. 
For further details, please refer to the section on Our 
Business Strategy on page 14
Our commitment towards social empowerment and a 
financial ecosystem accessible to all. 
For further details, please refer to the section on 
Social and Relationship Capital on page 58
Our focus on minimising the impact on natural resources 
through our operations and business.
For further details, please refer to the section on 
Environment and Sustainability on page 66
10
Annual Report 2022-23 

BUSINESS MODEL
MISSION
To grow our risk-calibrated core operating profit by:
• Delivering products and services that create value for customers
• Bringing together all our capabilities to seamlessly meet customer needs
• Conducting our business within well-defined risk tolerance levels
Co
mp
lia
nc
e
Re
pu
ta
tio
n
Le
ga
l
Cy
be
r
In
fo
rm
ati
on
Op
er
ati
on
al
Liq
ui
dit
y
Ma
rk
et
Cr
ed
it
Te
ch
no
lo
gy
Provide credit 
to support 
consumption 
and economic 
activity
Enable 
financial inclusion 
Facilitate
payments and
transactions
Enable wealth  
creation and  
management
Provide 
savings
products
Ri
sk
 a
nd
Co
m
pli
an
ce
 C
ul
tu
re
Pr
oc
es
s 
De
co
ng
es
tio
n
Le
ve
ra
gin
g 
Te
ch
no
lo
gy
Cr
os
s-
fu
nc
tio
na
l
Pa
rt
ne
rs
hi
ps
Co
lla
bo
ra
ti
on
Ec
os
ys
te
ms
Mi
cr
o
ma
rk
et
s
Cu
st
om
er
-C
en
tri
cit
y
	
In
no
va
tio
n
Int
egr
ity
On
e B
an
k, 
On
e T
ea
m, 
On
e R
OE
Fai
r t
o C
us
to
me
r, 
Fai
r t
o 
Ba
nk
Re
tu
rn
 o
f 
Ca
pit
al
11
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

BUSINESS MODEL
FINANCIAL 
CAPITAL
HUMAN 
CAPITAL
INTELLECTUAL 
CAPITAL
MANUFACTURED 
CAPITAL
SOCIAL AND 
RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
NATURAL 
CAPITAL
VALUE DRIVERS
•	 Ensure a resilient balance sheet and strong capital levels
•	 Maintain robust funding profile
•	 Continue to strengthen portfolio quality
•	 Create value for shareholders
• 	Guided by ‘One Bank, One Team, One ROE’
• 	Enabling cross-functional collaboration
• 	Job rotation
• 	Continuous skill training and capability building
• 	Employee engagement
• Transforming Bank to BankTech
• Early adoption of emerging technologies enabling innovation
• Partnership with fintechs
• Focus on cybersecurity and data privacy
• Decongesting processes and improving customer experience
• 	A combination of physical and digital channels enabling 
seamless service delivery
• 	Strengthening digital capabilities for cost efficiency, 
process efficiency and enhancing customer experience
• 	Core and supporting IT systems that are responsive and 
scalable
• Engagement with customers, society and other stakeholders
• Participating in development efforts through the  
ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth
• Empowering rural women entrepreneurs
• Financial inclusion
•	 Supporting environment-friendly projects, subject to 
appropriate risk‑return assessment
•	 Efficient energy management in the Bank’s operations
•	 Use of renewable energy
•	 Environment-friendly initiatives
12
Annual Report 2022-23 

BUSINESS MODEL
OUTPUTS
OUTCOMES
Profit After Tax:
`318.96 
billion 
in fiscal 2023
Profit Before Tax 
Excluding Treasury 
Gains:
`424.73 
billion 
in fiscal 2023
Loans and Advances:
`10,196.38 
billion 
 at March 31, 2023
Deposits:
`11,808.41 
billion 
 at March 31, 2023
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
•	 Profit before tax excluding treasury gains grew by 43.0% and profit after tax by 36.7% on 
y-o-y basis
•	 Granular portfolio mix with 73.5% of corporate loans to entities internally rated A-  
and above 
•	 Net NPA ratio decreased from 0.76% at March 31, 2022 to 0.48% at March 31, 2023
•	 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of 17.12% at March 31, 2023
•	 Consolidated return on equity of 17.3% in fiscal 2023
HUMAN CAPITAL
•	 Frontline teams reorganised and empowered for enabling 360º customer engagement 
and leveraging local opportunities 
•	 Women comprised 32% of total employees at March 31, 2023
•	 Average person learning days of 12.2 days in fiscal 2023
•	 Diversity, equity and inclusion policy and human rights policy established to promote 
a culture of no discrimination
•	 Strong industry-academia engagement to create a steady group of bankers with diverse skills
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL 
•	 Value propositions launched for ecosystem of start-ups, capital market participants and 
students 
•	 STACK for real estate sector launched in fiscal 2023; over 20 industry-specific STACKS 
developed providing bespoke solutions to customers
•	 Over four million Amazon Pay credit cards issued till March 31, 2023
•	 More than 2,000 APIs for retail banking and 180 APIs for corporate banking introduced; 
over 100 million financial and non-financial transactions per day 
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL 
•	 Transformed branches into business centres for enabling Customer 360º
•	 482 business centres added during the year
•	 13 exclusive business centres for ecosystem banking across Mumbai, National Capital 
Region (NCR) and Kolkata
•	 Several initiatives towards enhancing and decongesting the onboarding and servicing 
experience of customers undertaken during the year
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL 
•	 The ‘Orange Book’ series introduced in English and Hindi for educating customers about 
personal finance
•	 Improvement in Bank’s Net Promoter Score continued across products and services
•	 `4.63 billion spent towards corporate social responsibility initiatives; focussed on 
healthcare, environment and ecology, sustainable livelihood and societal development
•	 Continuing support to self-help groups and promoting women entrepreneurship
NATURAL CAPITAL 
•	 Outstanding portfolio of `556 billion towards sustainable sector, of which 21.4% was 
green financing to sectors like renewable energy, electric vehicles, green buildings and 
water management at March 31, 2023
•	 Framework for Sustainable Financing, Supplier Code of Conduct and Green procurement 
standards developed to strengthen the focus on environment
•	 Green certification of Bank’s premises increased from 23% of total area in fiscal 2022 to 
34% in fiscal 2023 
13
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
One of the leading private sector banks in India, ICICI Bank 
continues to focus on reimagining banking and leveraging digital 
capabilities, anchored to our commitment to be a trusted financial 
partner for our customers. 
Fiscal 2023 saw the Bank continue to achieve profitable 
growth in its business, strengthen its franchise and 
invest in building capabilities for the future. The Bank 
continued to grow its core operating profit less provisions 
(i.e. profit before tax excluding treasury gains) led 
by a 360º customer-centric approach and exploring 
opportunities across ecosystems and micromarkets, 
within 
the 
guardrails 
of 
compliance 
and 
risk 
management. The Bank’s core operating profit less 
provisions grew by 43.0% during fiscal 2023 to 
`424.73 billion. The Bank continued to grow its 
business with a focus on granularity and increased 
the domestic loan portfolio by 20.5% year-on-year to 
`9,855.29 billion. The Bank focussed on further 
enhancing the liability franchise, maintaining a stable 
and healthy funding profile and a competitive advantage 
in cost of funds. During fiscal 2023, the Bank continued 
to maintain a strong balance sheet, with robust liquidity, 
prudent provisioning and healthy capital adequacy. 
The Bank’s capital adequacy ratios were significantly 
above regulatory requirements as at March 31, 2023.
Financial 
parameters 
of 
return 
of 
capital 
and 
containment of provisions within targeted levels are 
boundary conditions in the pursuit of opportunities and 
growth. The Bank is also fostering a strong risk and 
compliance culture to ensure a balance of risks and 
rewards. Building trust with all stakeholders is critical to 
the Bank’s growth. 
The Bank’s efforts towards building a sustainable 
business continued to be anchored by the principles of 
'Return of Capital', 'Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank' and 
'One Bank, One Team, One ROE'. The Bank lays strong 
emphasis on serving customers with transparency and 
offering suitable banking solutions, while maintaining 
stringency in counterparty selection. As the Bank 
strengthens its digital capabilities and builds robust 
technology platforms to support growth at scale, it 
also focusses on investing in technology resilience and 
responsible practices.
360
o 
Customer- 
centric 
Approach
Focus on 
Micromarkets
Return of Capital
Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank
One Bank, One Team, One ROE
Focus on 
Ecosystems
Collaboration 
and External 
Partnerships
Bank to 
BankTech 
Leveraging 
Technology 
and Digital
Process 
Decongestion 
and 
Operational 
Flexibility
Risk and 
Compliance 
Culture
OUR APPROACH
Maximising Profit Before Tax1
1 Excluding treasury gains
14
Annual Report 2022-23 

OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
Our investments in digital capabilities, enriched with 
efficient delivery, strong franchise and institutional 
knowledge have enabled the Bank to gain market 
share, and create new markets through ecosystems. 
Attracting new customers and deepening wallet share 
among existing customers to capture profit pools across 
segments, sectors and ecosystems is an important 
focus. Creating end-to-end digital journeys on ‘Insta’ 
products along with the open-architecture design of 
mobile applications and digital partnerships have enabled 
the Bank to differentiate its franchise and achieve 
profitable growth.
I.	 APPROACH TO CUSTOMERS
a.	 Focus on Customer 360º 
Customer-centricity is a key element underpinning our 
strategy to grow our business. Our approach begins 
with developing a deep understanding of customer 
needs, expectations and experiences. This understanding 
translates into products and solutions that offer a 
holistic banking experience, and beyond. The approach 
is to take the entire bank to the customer and offer 
solutions that meet the current and future needs of the 
customers and their ecosystems.
Delivering on the Customer 360º approach also requires 
strengthening and streamlining processes for better 
outcomes. The Bank is continuously making efforts to 
redesign processes and leverage tech-based solutions 
for more meaningful customer engagement. Underscored 
by strong governance, controls and risk management, 
the endeavour of the Bank is to deliver products and 
services to customers in an appropriate manner. As 
part of our Customer 360º approach, the Bank has 
strengthened 
its 
branches 
in 
terms 
of 
enabling 
constructive customer engagement, decision-making 
and accountability, thereby transforming branches into 
business centres.
In the last three years, the Bank has made significant 
strides in developing digital customer journeys and 
platforms offering comprehensive banking services. 
ICICI STACK was one such initiative that was launched 
during the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic, enabling 
customers to continue availing uninterrupted banking 
services. This has been enhanced over the years, 
and using ICICI STACK, the Bank is offering solutions 
on digital platforms ensuring uninterrupted banking 
experience for all types of customers. The Bank has 
been creating intuitive customer journeys and offering 
personalised solutions to suit their life stage and 
business needs. Services offered include instant digital 
account opening, loan solutions, payment solutions, 
investments and insurance solutions. 
To tap vibrant ecosystems, 
engage with all key 
stakeholders and deliver 
customised solutions; to be 
preferred banking partner
To leverage digital platforms 
to offer best-in-class 
experience to our customers 
and to enable and empower 
our teams
To identify micromarkets 
which hold high potential 
& increase market share by 
serving customers with 360º 
solutions of high relevance
Micromarket
Approach
Digital as
Force
Multiplier
Ecosystem
Coverage
BALANCED APPROACH WITH LONG-TERM COMMITMENT AND VALUE FOCUS
15
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

b.	 Focus on Micromarkets
At the core of ICICI Bank’s customer-centric and service-
oriented approach lies the in-depth profiling of each 
micromarket. Key anchors of the micromarket approach 
are data analytics, focus on aligned distribution, digital-first 
and relevant delivery model. The research and knowledge 
through analytics are used in conjunction with other factors 
for planning, resourcing, channel and product alignment, 
capability building and marketing and alliances. This helps 
the frontline teams to understand the markets in which 
they operate, and plan localised strategies with tailored 
propositions for customers. Through this approach, the 
Bank aims to realise the full potential of opportunities 
across segments and sectors in each micromarket. 
Micromarket 
insights 
have 
helped 
the 
Bank 
in 
identifying optimal locations for opening new business 
centres and realigning the ATM and distribution network 
based on customer needs and market opportunity. The 
layouts, branding elements, staffing and capability 
building in these business centres are based on various 
market affinities. This has also helped the Bank to 
launch focussed marketing campaigns targeted at 
specific customer segments and establishing alliances 
with locally relevant partners who add value to 
our customers. 
The Bank has further sharpened its approach to 
enhance 
relationship 
management 
across 
markets 
using Virtual Relationship Management (VRM). VRM 
is a cloud-based AI-powered platform providing a 
one-stop ecosystem for robust relationship building 
with customers and thereby improving the efficiency 
of relationship managers. The platform helps in relevant 
and meaningful customer interaction with the help of 
service and solution-based engagement.
In order to capture the growing markets in non-metro 
locations, the Bank has merged the retail and rural 
business groups. The organisational structure has been 
strengthened with ‘State Business Heads’ to capture the 
360° opportunity in these geographies. Cities with large 
concentrated market opportunities have been organised 
under ‘City Business Heads’ covering the full spectrum of 
the ecosystem. All functions other than credit have been 
aligned with the state/city business head to enhance our 
on-field presence. Micromarket insights have also helped 
in setting up Credit Business Centres (CBC) closer to 
important markets for faster processing.
5,900 
1,102 
16,650
Business Centres 
(Branches)
Insta Banking Kiosks
ATMs and Cash  
Recycler Machines
ICICI Bank's network at March 31, 2023
c.	 Focus on Ecosystems
In order to further strengthen Customer 360º solutions, 
during 
fiscal 
2023 
specific 
customer 
ecosystem 
propositions were launched for start-ups, capital market 
participants and students.
The Bank launched start-up ecosystem banking to 
cater to the banking needs of start-ups across their life 
stages through its domestic and international network, 
and business centre at Gujarat International Finance 
Tec-City (GIFT City). The Bank offers comprehensive 
solutions in the areas of treasury, transaction banking, 
lending, managing foreign direct investments and 
regulatory compliances along with personal banking 
services for employees and founders. 
The Bank launched an array of digital solutions for 
capital market participants and clients of custody 
services. The solutions enable various participants 
including 
brokers, 
portfolio 
management 
service 
providers, Foreign Portfolio Investors, Foreign Direct 
Investors 
and 
Alternative 
Investment 
Funds 
to 
seamlessly meet all their banking requirements.
The Bank launched Campus Power, an online platform 
providing various banking solutions such as loans, 
bank accounts, foreign exchange remittances and value- 
added services to the student ecosystem for higher 
education in India and abroad.
The Bank has created over 20 industry-specific STACKS 
which provide bespoke solutions to meet specific needs 
of these industries. The Bank aims to serve the entire 
value chain of corporates ranging from channel partners, 
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
16
Annual Report 2022-23 

dealers, vendors, employees and other stakeholders, 
thereby taking the full bank to the customer. During fiscal 
2023, the Bank launched STACKs for export and real 
estate sectors. The export STACK, 'Digital solutions for 
Exporters', is a comprehensive set of banking and value-
added services on a single platform. It aims to digitise the 
entire export life cycle – from discovery of export markets, 
export finance, foreign exchange services to receipt of 
export incentives. The digital set of solutions include 
services like Instant Export Packing Credit (InstaEPC), 
trade accounts (Exchange Earners’ Foreign Currency 
Account and One Globe Trade Account), paperless exports 
solutions like e-Docs and e-Softex, foreign exchange 
solutions, digital letter of credit facility (e-LC), electronic 
bill of lading (e-BL), value-added services and Trade APIs.
The Real Estate STACK provides 360° banking solutions 
for builders, non-banking financial companies, buyers 
and Alternative Investment Fund / Real Estate Investment 
Trusts. It offers banking solutions such as digital opening 
of bank accounts and providing account number for 
Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) registration, 
construction finance, inventory funding and lease rental 
discounting to cater to their financial needs, depending 
on the life cycle stage of a project. In addition, it enables 
clients to manage their payment obligations to vendors, 
employees, utility providers and statutory payments 
efficiently. Further, it helps builders to manage their digital 
collection, reconciliation, surplus distribution, custodial 
services, collect rent through lease income and distribute 
the surplus to the investors.
The Bank’s strategy in the merchant ecosystem space 
involves 
onboarding 
merchants 
through 
acquiring 
platforms or by providing them payment gateways and 
then cross-selling other financial products and services 
seamlessly. The Merchant STACK offers a bouquet of 
banking services, digital store management and other 
value-added services to customers. The number of 
active merchants grew by 43% year-on-year as at 
March 31, 2023.
As at March 31, 2023, the Bank had 13 exclusive 
business centres for ecosystem banking across Mumbai, 
National Capital Region (NCR) and Kolkata. These 
ecosystem business centres are full service centres that 
house multi-functional teams with expertise required to 
meet the needs of corporate customers and bringing the 
entire bouquet of services of the Bank to these corporates 
and their ecosystem.
APPROACH TO ECOSYSTEM
Execution Lever
Value Creation
Multiple Large Ecosystems
Leveraging 
Interlinkages in 
Ecosystem
Capturing 
Customer 360°
Lowering Cost  
of Acquisition
Capital Market
City
Others
Education
E-Commerce
Healthcare
Trade
Merchant
Start-up
Omnichannel 
Distribution
Technology 
and Data
Customer 
Journey
Organisational 
 Levers
Customer
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
17
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

d.	 Collaborations and Partnerships
Collaborating within the organisation and building 
partnerships across the value chain is a key focus area. 
Partnerships with technology companies and platforms 
with large customer bases and operational excellence 
offer unique opportunities for growth and enhancing 
service delivery and customer experience.
The 
Bank 
has 
key 
partnerships 
with 
Amazon, 
MakeMyTrip and Emirates to offer co-branded credit 
cards. Amazon Pay credit cards continued to see 
healthy traction with over four million credit cards 
issued till March 31, 2023. The Bank aims to provide 
360° solutions to the new-to-bank customers that 
have been acquired through Amazon Pay credit cards. 
•	
The value of credit card transactions in fiscal 2023 was 1.3 times the value in fiscal 2022 
•	
A leader in FASTag with a market share of about 29% in fiscal 2023; collections through FASTag higher 
by 28% year-on-year in fiscal 2023
START-UP ENGAGEMENTS
Co-creating Innovative 
Products in Key Focus Areas
Drivers for Growth
Enhance risk-taking 
ability & experimentation
Build a culture of innovation
Create New Business Opportunities
Increase Efficiency
Risk Mitigation
Enhance Customer Experience
The growth in credit card transactions was driven by 
higher activation rate through digital onboarding of 
customers, acquiring progressive profile customers, 
automated 
and 
effective 
portfolio 
management. 
The Bank has not only pioneered the usage of FASTag 
for payments at various national, state highway, 
toll plazas but also expanded use cases to parking 
payments at airports, malls, hospitals and tech parks 
across the country. The Bank has also continued its 
growth in value of UPI acquiring transactions by growing 
faster than the ecosystem.
The Reserve Bank of India launched the first pilot for 
retail digital rupee in December 2022, and ICICI Bank 
was one of the banks to participate in this pilot.
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
Lending
Payments
Customer Experience
Enablers
Risk Management
18
Annual Report 2022-23 

The Bank collaborates with and invests in fintech 
start-ups and co-develops products aligned with the 
Bank’s digital roadmap. The Bank’s Start-up Engagement 
and Investment team has been at the forefront to leverage 
innovation in the start-up and technology ecosystem. 
The engagements with the start-ups are focussed on 
payments, digital lending, customer experience, risk 
management and platforms. The Bank is also offering a 
host of APIs and Software Developer Kits (SDKs) which 
facilitate third-party apps to offer payment solutions for 
their retail customers. 
With opportunities arising out of digital adoption, 
government’s push and creation of large scale digital 
public infrastructure, the Bank envisions banking and 
financial services becoming omnipresent and centrepiece 
of every transaction. Partnerships with start-ups help 
enable quicker adoption of new-age technologies at 
scale such as Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, 
blockchain, computer vision, cloud computing and more. 
Additionally, new-age tools and solutions help mitigate 
risks such as cyber threats and social frauds, arising 
out of the growing digital ecosystem. In this context, 
the Bank has adopted a technological approach that 
enables it to respond to the changing dynamics in an 
agile and responsive manner.
II.	 APPROACH TO DIGITAL, 
TECHNOLOGY AND PROCESSES
a.	 Digital Platforms and Solutions
The Bank has endeavoured to help customers to 
transact on digital platforms by launching many 
user-friendly payment solutions. The Bank continued on 
its journey to strengthen its position by designing 
seamless, simple and secure experiences for customers, 
facilitating higher volumes of transactions and prompting 
recurrent digital transactions. The open architecture 
platforms have enabled the Bank to extend banking 
services to non-ICICI Bank account holders. Digital 
channels continue to account for over 90% of financial 
and non-financial transactions.
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
FXOnline
InstaBIZ
iLens
iMobile Pay
Trade Emerge
OneSCF (Supply Chain)
Insta EPC
API Banking
SOLUTIONS
CUSTOMISED
19
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

iMobile Pay: One App Strategy
The Bank’s iMobile Pay open architecture based mobile 
application provides seamless and end-to-end digital 
journeys. It is centred on providing a comprehensive 
and unified banking experience to customers through 
a single mobile application. This strategy entails 
integrating various banking services, features and 
functionalities into one cohesive app, allowing customers 
to 
access 
and 
manage 
their 
accounts, 
perform 
transactions, avail of financial products and services 
and engage with the Bank seamlessly. The coverage 
of iMobile Pay app has expanded to standalone asset 
customers, credit card customers and non-ICICI Bank 
account holders. Video KYC continued to empower 
retail customers to complete ‘Know Your Customer’ 
(KYC) process through video interaction within a few 
minutes. Video KYC is live for 16 products, including 
re-KYC.
The features ‘Pay to Contact’ and ‘Scan to Pay’ 
introduced in fiscal 2022 continued to drive payments 
growth in fiscal 2023. Other features introduced on 
iMobile Pay include the personal finance management 
solution, a unique personal finance, expense and budget 
management tool to engage with customers digitally 
and help them manage their finances effectively. The app 
also introduced a ‘One view card’, a dedicated card in 
the app, where customers can see all pre-approved 
loans and card offers in one click. There are over 400+ 
services on the app, with a unique voice search that makes 
navigation across these services quick and convenient.
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
iMOBILE PAY – BUILT FOR ALL, BUILT FOR SCALE
Banking Services
Loan
Cards
Demat
Savings Account 
Payment Services
Bill Payment
Pay to Contact
Scan to Pay
Recharges
FASTag
9 million+
Activations from
Non-ICICI Bank
account holders
•	
The volume of UPI Person to Merchant (P2M) transactions increased by 55.0% year-on-year in 
fiscal 2023 and the value of these transactions was 2.1 times the value in fiscal 2022 
•	
The Bank has increased its market share in value of UPI P2M transactions to 19.3% in March 2023
20
Annual Report 2022-23 

OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
iLens 
iLens is an industry-first end-to-end digital lending 
platform covering all stages, starting from application 
to disbursement with the objective of providing superior 
transaction 
experience 
and 
enhanced 
operational 
efficiency. It is built on the Bank’s philosophy of open 
architecture. It is a future-ready solution which harnesses 
digital collaborations from fintech ecosystem. It is a device 
responsive platform with flexibility to access from mobile/
tablet (Android and iOS both) and provide on-the-go 
retail lending solution with its mobile application.
It offers a wide range of digital solutions like instant 
sanctions to existing as well as new-to-bank customers, 
digital disbursements (e-sign and e-stamp) and digital 
KYC verifications. It is enabled with an in-house robust 
rule engine facilitating efficient decisioning and standard 
implementation of various policy, process and regulatory 
norms.
iLens has an inbuilt customer interface 'TrackMyLoan' 
through which the customers can track real-time status 
of their loan application, submit documents, respond 
to queries and access various communications and 
documents like sanction letter, fees acknowledgement.
Mortgage is the first retail product which went live 
on iLens platform and other retail products are in the 
process of being onboarded. This is expected to further 
enable the Bank to provide enhanced customer experience 
and increase its ability to capture the entire Customer 
360° ecosystem in a frictionless and digital way, thereby 
creating value for customer and the Bank.
InstaBIZ: Universal App for Small Businesses
InstaBIZ is a one-stop solution for all banking needs 
catering to small and medium enterprises (SME), 
individuals, proprietors and merchants. The Bank has 
seen an increase in the engagement level of customers 
on the InstaBIZ app. 
In line with evolving trends of shift towards open 
architecture, the InstaBIZ app is interoperable and 
is available to both ICICI Bank customers and non-
customers for availing the multiple product offerings. 
Any customer can now open current account instantly 
through video KYC via seamless paperless journey. 
The digital process uses the private lender’s APIs that 
auto fills the account opening form, instantly validates 
PAN/Aadhaar number and allows the opening of 
account through Video KYC. Non-ICICI Bank customers 
iLENS – DIGITAL LOAN MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 
 Leveraging Digital Collaborations
 Access Through Mobile App 
 Real-Time Loan Status Tracker
Operational Efficiency
Enhanced Customer 
Experience
Robust Risk  
Management  
Framework
V
e
r
i
fi
c
a
t
i
o
n
s
D
e
c
i
s
i
o
n
i
n
g
O
n
b
o
a
r
d
i
n
g
D
i
s
b
u
r
s
a
l
iLENS
21
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
Individual/ 
Proprietors
SME
Exporters
New to Bank
(NTB)
Merchant
(EazyPay)
InstaBIZ – BUSINESS BANKING SUPER APP
using feature of InstaOD plus can get instant sanction 
of collateral-free loan up to `2.5 million, which can be 
availed post opening of current account. 
Customers can also access the digital platform, Trade 
Emerge which offers solutions beyond banking for cross-
border trade. Through alliance partners, it provides 
services like business incorporation, regulatory guidelines, 
partner discovery and logistics and cargo tracking. The 
‘Manage and Grow your Business’ section within InstaBIZ 
is powered by multiple banking partners for accounting, 
taxation, analytics and networking. Customers can enjoy 
the feature of auto-reconciliation with accounting partners, 
which gives the customer a single click experience for all 
his business needs without having to manage between 
different platforms.
Digital Platforms and Solutions for Corporate 
Customers
ICICI Bank offers digital products and services for large 
corporates and their ecosystems including platforms for 
domestic and international trade and industry-specific 
solutions across the value chain. The Bank has created 
more than 20 industry-specific STACKs which provide 
bespoke and purpose-based digital solutions to corporate 
clients and their ecosystems. The four main pillars of 
ICICI STACK for corporates includes digital banking 
solutions for companies; digital banking services for 
channel partners, dealers and vendors; digital banking 
services for employees; and curated services for senior 
client personnel.
During the year, ICICI Bank launched Instant Export 
Packing Credit (Insta EPC) an industry-first product aimed 
at instantly and digitally meeting the export finance 
requirements of exporters and ensuring no disruptions in 
supply chain. The process automates the entire scrutiny 
cycle through integrations with various internal and 
external applications. This ensures that disbursement 
happens ‘@click’. Electronic Bank Guarantee (eBG) is an 
Application Programming Interface (API) based digital 
workflow, in partnership with National E-Governance 
Services Limited, which eliminates physical issuance, 
stamping, authentication and paper intensive record 
maintenance of bank guarantees. eBG will revolutionise 
the way bank guarantees are traditionally being issued 
and stored. The Bank’s Trade Online platform allows 
•	
Over 1.5 million active users as of March 31, 2023
•	
About 225,000 registration by non-ICICI Bank account holders
22
Annual Report 2022-23 

Digital banking 
solutions for entire 
exports life cycle
Comprehensive set 
of banking solutions 
for Builders, NBFC, 
Buyers, AIF/REITs
An array of digital 
solutions for participants 
of the capital market and 
clients of custody services
Banking solutions for 
Start-ups and Funds 
from GIFT City
Set of digital banking 
solutions for end-to-
end requirements of 
IT/ITES companies
Offering suite of digital 
banking solutions for 
pharma companies 
across value chain
Exports
GIFT City
Software 
Services
Pharma
Real  
Estate
Capital  
Markets & 
Custody 
CORPORATE 
STACK
20+ STACKs providing bespoke & purpose-based digital solutions to corporate clients in their ecosystem
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
customers to perform most of their trade finance and 
foreign exchange transactions digitally. The value of 
transactions on the Trade Online platform grew by 
47% year-on-year in fiscal 2023.
Supply chain financing is a focus area towards 
deepening the Bank's coverage of the corporate 
ecosystem. The wide range of supply chain and 
structured trade products offer a one-stop solution to 
corporate clients and their supply chain partners, helping 
in optimising their working capital needs and increasing 
efficiencies in their ecosystem. These supply chain 
solutions are offered digitally through various platforms 
namely OneSCF, FSCM, CorpConnect and DigitalLite, 
wherein corporates can seamlessly manage their supply 
chain requirements of payments, collections, data 
reconciliation and customised dashboards in a paperless 
environment thereby bringing in efficiencies in the 
corporates supply chain management. 
The Bank has a strong focus on integrating banking with 
corporate ERP system using API not only for financial 
transactions but also for non-financial transactions. 
Few 
of 
these 
are 
fixed 
deposit 
creation, 
bank 
reconciliations, holding collections then validating with 
ERP and confirming before crediting to corporate bank 
accounts. To give a one-stop solution for all statutory 
requirements of the customer, the Bank facilitates 
various online solutions for central and state mandate 
like direct tax, Goods and Services Tax (GST), custom 
duty and various other tax payments.
Digital Solutions for Non-Resident Indians 
Non-Resident 
Indians 
(NRI) 
banking 
continues 
to 
be a key growth driver for the Bank’s international 
banking business. The Bank launched the NRI Program 
Banking framework to renew the perspective from a 
liabilities based approach only to a more comprehensive 
Customer 360° approach. The framework encompasses 
various aspects of financial and non-financial needs for 
the entire family.
The Bank introduced a new bouquet of credit cards 
for NRI customers to enable them with their international 
and domestic spends while meeting their aspirations. 
Smart-Wire (for SWIFT based online transfers) has 
been made live for customers on Retail Internet Banking 
and iMobile Pay, enabling the customers to submit the 
declarations digitally, book the foreign exchange deal 
and track the remittance status.
23
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) 
enabled payment platform, Unified Payments Interface 
(UPI) has been leveraged to enable cross-border 
remittances for the India-Singapore corridor, with 
ICICI Bank being one of the six banks identified by RBI 
for this pilot project. This enables seamless and instant 
payment to and from Singapore for transactions up 
to SGD 1,000 in a day for family maintenance and gift. 
The Bank continued leveraging iMobile Pay channel 
for outward remittances by focussing on existing and 
new-to-product customers with the initiative of sending 
confirmation to the remitters for credit to beneficiaries 
making it easy for tracking the update on the outward 
remittance transactions. 
During 
fiscal 
2023, 
the 
Bank 
launched 
a 
new 
platform, Neo Remittance System (NRS) for outward 
remittances 
by 
business 
centres 
with 
advanced 
functionalities like rate booking and smart repeat 
transactions for transfers by both, residents (including 
non-account holders) and non-residents.
b.	 Transforming into BankTech
In fiscal 2023, the Bank continued to progress on its 
journey from Bank to BankTech with data serving as 
the foundation for informed decision-making leading 
to the creation of comprehensive value propositions 
and enhanced experience for customers. ICICI Bank is 
constantly upgrading and strengthening the technology 
infrastructure with a goal to make it secure, stable and 
resilient. This encompasses expanding online banking 
services, leveraging data analytics to extract valuable 
insights and improve decision-making and embracing 
emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence (AI) and 
Blockchain. The Bank’s wide range of digital offerings 
including the rapidly growing digital transactions, the web 
of interconnected platforms, applications and databases 
requires a robust technology architecture, which revolves 
around the four pillars of scalability, availability, resiliency 
and security. 
The key priorities that dominate the Bank’s technology 
requirements include its technology platforms, embedded 
banking, cloud adoption and data platforms and analytics. 
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
Data and 
Intelligence
 Core System
 Enterprise Platforms
 Portfolio Management
 'Hollow the Core'
Records  
Layer
Federation  
Layer
Engagement 
Layer
THE BANK
tech 
ARCHITECTURE
 Document Intelligence
 Conversational Intelligence
 Robotic Process Automation
 Generative Al
 API Gateway
 Micro-Services
 Workflows
 Rules & Logic
 Digital Engagement Hub
 Payments
 Direct & Embedded
 Omnichannel Experience
 Hyper-Personalised
 Consistent UX
 Enterprise Data Platform
 Master Data Management
 Marketing Technology
 Data Democratisation
24
Annual Report 2022-23 

The Bank has over 2,000 APIs for retail banking and 
nearly 200 APIs for corporate banking, with over 
100 million financial and non-financial transactions 
per day.
As a part of the Bank’s technology strategy, it is creating 
an enterprise architecture framework across digital 
platforms, data and analytics, micro services based 
architecture, cloud computing, cognitive intelligence and 
other emerging technologies.
Each facet of the architecture considers basic foundational 
elements of scalability, modularity, agility, availability and 
resilience besides being cloud native and digitally native. 
Technology advancements in cloud computing, data 
sciences and generative AI are redefining customer 
engagement opportunities. Business process optimisation 
through adoption of intelligent automation platforms 
including robotic processes have enabled efficiency 
across business and operational functions. These have 
brought about faster turnaround time besides enabling 
increased capacity for handling transaction volumes and 
customer requirements.
The changing technology landscape along with increased 
channels of interaction also mean increased focus on 
information security across various aspects of technology 
beginning from data centre to the cloud to the entire 
technology supply chain. While speed and quality continue 
to remain focus of technology delivery, DevSecOps has 
enabled integrate information security along the life cycle. 
The integrated approach to security enables the Bank to 
respond to changing dynamics in an agile and responsive 
manner.
The Bank has a dedicated data science and analytics 
team that works across business areas on projects 
relating to business analytics, decision strategies, 
forecasting models, machine learning, rule engines and 
performance monitoring. We maintain a comprehensive 
enterprise-wide data warehouse and employ statistical 
and modelling tools for leading-edge analytics.
c.	 Building Efficiencies and Flexibility
Improving operational efficiencies through digitised 
processes 
and 
removing 
redundancies 
in 
serving 
customers has been providing significant opportunities for 
the Bank to strengthen the response time to customers. In 
fiscal 2023, the Bank increasingly focussed on delivering 
customer delight and enhancing advocacy by reimagining 
processes and customer experiences. The Bank aimed to 
leverage the power of subtraction in its service delivery 
framework 
through 
deletion 
of 
non-value 
adding 
processes, simplification, decongestion and digitisation 
of customer journeys and processes. The onboarding and 
servicing experience has been enhanced through initiatives 
such as iLens (end-to-end loan journey platform), digital 
current account onboarding using video KYC, single 
enterprise level CRM platform, Virtual Relationship 
Manager (VRM) platform etc. In addition, new-age 
technologies and platforms such as TradeIntelli, Neo 
Remittance System, next-gen phone banking experience 
and digitisation of card life cycle are being harnessed to 
enable the Bank to serve customers with simplicity. 
For more details refer to page 30 
III.	APPROACH TO CULTURE
a.	 One Bank, One Team, One ROE
The principle of 'One Bank, One Team, One ROE', 
emphasises the need to maximise the Bank’s share of 
the target opportunity across all products and services. 
The Bank has taken steps to organise and structure 
teams in a way which facilitates the Bank’s approach to 
Customer 360°. The Bank has also invested in aligning 
the organisation around micromarkets and customer 
ecosystems by increasing the density of leadership 
in key markets. The cash component of variable pay 
(performance bonus) is aligned to the philosophy of 'One 
Bank One Team' as it is based on overall performance 
of the Bank and reflects reward for team performance. 
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
2,000 
100 million 
180
APIs for Retail Banking 
Financial and non-financial transactions per day
APIs for Corporate Banking 
Over
Over
Over
25
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
The Bank’s focus on Customer 360° banking requires 
employees 
to 
have 
multi-product 
knowledge 
and 
skills. The Bank has invested in training its employees 
and enhancing their ability to comprehensively serve 
customers. The Bank has a capability building architecture 
spanning 
across 
functional 
training, 
leadership 
development, digital and industry-academia programmes 
to 
equip 
employees 
with 
the 
required 
skillsets. 
Additionally, job rotation enables employees to seek a 
wider perspective of banking products and services, and 
go beyond their defined roles to spot opportunities for 
360° customer experiences. The Bank continues to expand 
business opportunities across all customer segments 
within the guardrails of the Bank’s risk and compliance 
framework.
For more details refer to page 52 
b.	 Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank
The principle of ‘Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank’ 
emphasises the need to deliver fair value to customers 
while creating value for shareholders, which would guide 
the Bank’s operations. The Bank seeks to sell products 
and offer services which meet societal needs and are 
in the interest of our customers. The Bank also strives 
to enable its employees to keep delivering a seamless 
customer experience. 
For more details refer to page 30 
c.	 Risk and Compliance Culture
ICICI Bank recognises the importance of establishing an 
effective framework and supporting processes so that 
all employees seek to exhibit values aligned to the risk 
and compliance culture policy. The aim is to uphold a 
strong risk and compliance culture throughout the Bank. 
The Risk and Compliance Culture Policy establishes the 
guiding principles and the framework for implementation 
of the same.
For more details refer to page 34 
KEY AREAS OF BUSINESS
Retail
The retail business continued to be a key driver of growth 
in fiscal 2023, as we pursued a strategy of building a 
diversified and granular loan portfolio. The Bank’s retail 
portfolio grew by 22.7% year-on-year to `5,578.17 billion 
at March 31, 2023. Retail loans accounted for 53.9% of 
total loans, and including non-fund based outstanding, 
the share was 45.7% in the total portfolio. The Bank has 
undertaken several initiatives to offer a convenient and 
frictionless experience to customers by digitising the entire 
underwriting process, with instant loan approvals. 
The Bank continued to maintain a robust funding profile 
with strong growth in the deposit base. Total deposits 
increased by 10.9% year-on-year to `11,808.41 billion 
at March 31, 2023. Savings account deposits, on a daily 
average basis, grew by 13.3% year-on-year in fiscal 
2023. Current account deposits, on a daily average 
basis, grew by 13.5% year-on-year in fiscal 2023. 
Term 
deposits 
grew 
by 
17.1% 
year-on-year 
to 
`6,395.79 billion at March 31, 2023. The growth in the 
deposit franchise was supported by ongoing efforts to 
strengthen the Bank’s digital platforms and process 
simplification to provide a seamless banking experience 
to customers.
Rural and Inclusive Banking
The Bank's strategy to serve the rural segment of 
economy is based on the integrated nature of the rural 
ecosystem. The operational structure and offerings put 
the Bank in a unique position to leverage opportunities 
in different ecosystems within the rural markets. 
The Bank offers a diverse set of products catering to end-
to-end needs in the value chain. These products include 
working capital loans for growing crops and financing 
of post-harvest activities, term loans including farm 
equipment loans, financing against warehouse receipts, 
loans against gold jewellery, along with personal loans, 
affordable housing finance and auto and two-wheeler 
loans. The Bank also provides consumption loans for 
low-income customers. Financial solutions are offered to 
micro-finance institutions, self-help groups, co-operatives 
constituted by farmers and corporations and Small 
and Medium Enterprises engaged in agriculture-linked 
businesses. The Bank’s rural portfolio grew by 13.8% 
year-on-year to `874.31 billion at March 31, 2023.
The Bank has identified four main ecosystems in the rural 
market, which include farmers, dealers, self-employed 
persons and micro-entrepreneurs with comprehensive 
banking solutions offered across these ecosystems. 
26
Annual Report 2022-23 

The Bank’s reach in rural areas comprises a network 
of business centres, ATMs, field staff and business 
correspondents providing last-mile access in remote 
areas. Of the Bank’s network of 5,900 business centres, 
51% are in rural and semi-urban areas with 651 business 
centres in villages that were previously unbanked. 
There were 4,299 ATMs and cash recycler machines at 
semi-urban and rural centres at March 31, 2023 having 
a proportion of 25.8% of pan India ATMs and cash 
recycler machines.
For information on the Bank’s financial inclusion and rural 
development initiatives refer to page 58 
Small and Medium Enterprises and 
Business Banking
The Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) portfolio 
comprises exposures to companies with a turnover 
of up to `2.50 billion. The Bank’s business banking 
portfolio comprises small business customers with 
an average loan ticket size of `10.0-15.0 million. 
The business banking portfolio grew by 34.9% to 
`721.12 billion and accounted for 7.0% of the overall 
portfolio at March 31, 2023. The Small and Medium 
Enterprises segment grew by 19.2% to `482.21 billion 
and accounted for 4.7% of the overall portfolio.
The growth in the portfolio was driven by the Bank’s 
approach of catering to 360° needs of customers across 
business life cycle ranging from onboarding, payment 
& 
collection, 
cross-borders, 
account 
reconciliation 
besides working capital requirements. Envisaging these 
customer requirements, the Bank devised comprehensive 
digital solutions & platforms which are also fulfilled 
through Do-it-Yourself and Do-It-for-Me through our 
business centres, InstaBIZ mobile apps and the Bank’s 
website and also partner websites. In addition, a 
dedicated Relationship Manager also provides the 
customers full 360° solutions.
The Bank’s focus in these businesses continues on 
parameterised and programme-based lending, which is 
granular and well-collateralised. The Bank has devised 
an integrated underwriting approach which is scorecard 
driven. Leveraging digital tools and data analytics, the 
Bank has built various scorecards namely Unicore and 
Infinity, which caters across customers, turn ranges 
and loan ticket size. A combination of qualitative and 
quantitative assessment tools are utilised to arrive at 
the final credit decision. Additionally to cater specifically 
to the micro segment, the Bank has a surrogate 
programme-based underwriting which considers non-
financial documents such as bank statement and Goods 
and Services Tax (GST) returns for credit assessment.
The 
Bank 
maintains 
a 
robust 
risk 
management 
framework to manage the SME and business banking 
portfolio. The Bank has established strong practices 
to fuel growth by collateralised-lending and reduce 
concentration risks by focussing on granular lending. 
Using a combination of qualitative and quantitative 
assessment tools, the Bank aims to arrive at a score 
to determine the lending criteria. The Bank constantly 
monitors and analyses cases to detect stress, thus 
enabling the Bank to take early action and ensuring 
a healthy portfolio quality. The Bank has further 
strengthened its underwriting process by integrating 
various digital tools like bank statement analyser, 
automatic fetching of bureau reports and enhanced 
business rule engine to generate probability of default 
scores for score-based analysis into one single ecosystem 
called 'Infinity'.
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
The growth in the SMEs portfolio is driven by the Bank’s 
approach of catering to 360° need of customers across 
business life cycle.
27
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

Wholesale Banking
The Bank’s wholesale banking customers include large 
private sector business houses and companies, financial 
institutions and banks, public sector undertakings and 
Central and State government entities. The Bank also has 
a strong franchise among Multi-National Corporations 
(MNCs), real estate companies, IT & ITES and new-age 
services companies, along with a strong franchise in the 
financial sponsors space with special focus on private 
equity funds and their investee companies. Additionally, 
the Bank also caters to the requirements of the capital 
market and custody participants through unique digital 
solutions improving their operational efficiency.
The Bank’s approach has been to deepen its partnership 
and provide support to clients through their entire life 
cycle. The Bank caters to all needs of the clients across 
trade, treasury, bonds and commercial papers through 
its comprehensive and technologically-advanced delivery 
platforms while also catering to the needs of their supply 
chain network. 
The Bank aims to become a business partner to its 
clients instead of being merely a capital provider. With 
the client at the centre, all the teams across the Bank 
are well-aligned to offer the entire Bank’s offerings to 
wholesale clients and their ecosystems. This has not 
only made client servicing more effective, but also helped 
in deepening the Bank’s relations in high-value retail 
accounts of senior client personnel and employees through 
a suite of retail products like salary, private and wealth 
banking, home loans, personal loans, vehicle loans, etc. 
Supply chain financing is an integral part of the 
corporate ecosystem and solutions like CorpConnect 
and DigitalLite enable corporates to seamlessly manage 
supply 
chain 
financing, 
payments, 
collection 
and 
reconciliation requirements of their dealers and vendors 
in a convenient and paperless process. These solutions 
also automatically assess the eligibility of the client’s 
dealers and vendors for credit through a business 
rule engine, Goods and Services Tax (GST) returns, 
intelligent algorithm with automated bureau checks and 
dedupe checks. 
The Bank has extensively leveraged analytics to 
monitor 
transactions 
and 
portfolio 
quality. 
While 
new credit is extended in a granular manner to 
well-established 
and 
high-rated 
business 
groups, 
data analytics is used for portfolio monitoring and 
identification of early warning signals in the existing 
portfolio. This has led to enhancement of the overall 
quality of the corporate portfolio.
International Business
ICICI 
Bank’s 
international 
presence 
consists 
of 
business 
centres 
in 
six 
overseas 
locations 
and 
representative offices in nine locations outside India. The 
Bank has Offshore Banking Unit (OBU) in Mumbai and 
IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) in GIFT City, and wholly-owned 
subsidiaries in the United Kingdom (UK) and Canada. 
ICICI Bank UK also has a business centre in Germany. 
The Bank’s international franchise focusses on four 
strategic pillars, namely the NRI ecosystem comprising 
deposits, remittances, investments and asset products; 
the MNC ecosystem comprising both foreign MNCs 
investing in India and Indian MNCs for their foreign 
currency and other India related requirements as well as 
Global Capability Centres (GCC), which are back-offices 
of MNCs created to serve the world; trade ecosystem, 
comprising primarily India-linked trade transactions 
which are self-liquidating in nature; and funds ecosystem, 
to capture fund flows into India through the Foreign 
Portfolio Investment (FPI) and Foreign Direct Investment 
(FDI) route.
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
Solutions like CorpConnect and DigitalLite enable corporates 
to seamlessly manage supply chain financing, payments, 
collection and reconciliation requirements of their dealers and 
vendors in a convenient and paperless process. 
28
Annual Report 2022-23 

The Bank continued to progress in its strategic 
objective of reducing the non-India linked exposures in a 
planned manner. The non-India linked corporate portfolio 
reduced by 52.3% year-on-year or by USD 0.34 billion 
during fiscal 2023.
The Bank’s IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) in GIFT City 
attempts to capture global banking requirements of 
ICICI Bank India's client base to enhance Customer 
360° 
banking 
experience. 
IBU 
business 
centre 
complements our domestic business by providing foreign 
currency banking solutions across corporate banking, 
funds, wealth management, global markets business and 
start-up ecosystem. ICICI Bank is a settlement banker 
to all three exchanges in GIFT City – NSE IFSC, India 
INX & IIBX. The Bank has also obtained clearing, custody 
and depository participant licence. On the Start-up 
ecosystem front, GIFT City is focussing on onboarding 
the overseas holding and subsidiaries of Indian start-ups.
Government Banking
Government is transitioning towards efficient financial 
management and transparency in transactions through 
digitisation and direct benefit transfer (DBT). ICICI Bank 
has been providing a range of banking services to 
government departments and their ecosystem through a 
network of physical and digital channels.
The Bank offers its government customers integrated and 
plug-n-play digital solutions, to assist them in effective 
delivery of services to stakeholders including citizens. 
The Bank is assisting state-level agencies and last-mile 
implementing agencies for adoption of Single Nodal 
Agency (SNA) payment model and DBT payments for 
management of Government of India scheme funds.
ICICI Bank's digital platforms provide simple online tax 
payment options to customers. The Bank is assisting 
the government for collection of central taxes, state 
taxes, customs duty, GST payments through authorised 
business centres and digital platforms. The Bank has also 
integrated its payment services with the e-governance 
initiative of government like Government e-Marketplace 
(GeM), e-tendering and e-treasury.
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY 
29
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

FAIR TO CUSTOMER, FAIR TO BANK
As our customer engagement deepened, the Bank aimed to 
further enhance digital delivery of products and services, offering 
comprehensive banking solutions with a sharp focus on efficiency 
and risks. 
In fiscal 2023, the Bank increased its focus on delivering 
value and enhancing customer delight and advocacy 
by continuously reimagining processes and customer 
experience. The power of subtraction was leveraged 
in our service delivery framework, by streamlining 
processes and decongesting or digitising customer 
journeys. New-age technologies and platforms have 
been harnessed to enable ease of serving customers. 
The philosophy of ‘Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank’ 
underpinned the efforts to drive mutually beneficial 
customer relationships and build trust in our brand, 
while creating value across the customer life cycle.
The Bank continues to deepen its engagement with 
customers to understand their needs and expectations. 
Based on the insights gathered from proactive product 
and process walkthroughs, like the Net Promoter Score 
(NPS), Voice of Customer (VOCs), customer complaints 
and Root Cause Analysis (RCAs), key customer service 
initiatives are implemented on an ongoing basis. 
Some of the key initiatives towards enhancing and 
decongesting the onboarding and servicing experience 
of customers taken during fiscal 2023 included:
•	
A complete digital journey has been enabled for 
faster current account onboarding for individuals 
and proprietors using Video KYC. A similar digital 
journey is being enabled for authorised signatory and 
beneficial owner.
•	
Virtual Relationship Manager (VRM) platform has 
been implemented to enable Relationship Managers 
to receive analytics-driven nudges when engaging 
with customers using a universal access number, 
thus providing end-to-end servicing support and 
enhancing the transaction experience of customers.
•	
Dedicated 
operations 
manpower 
have 
been 
co-located at high footfall business centres for 
transaction processing through the Digi Serve 
initiative.
•	
TradeIntelli, 
an 
AI-ML-OCR1 
led 
system, 
has 
been implemented to intelligently process trade 
finance transactions without human intervention. 
It significantly reduces processing time in trade 
transactions with higher accuracy and delivers 
enhanced customer experience.
•	
Neo Remittance System, the new retail outward 
remittance platform, has been created to make 
the process of remitting funds outside India faster, 
seamless and convenient. The platform harnesses 
capabilities such as instant SWIFT generation for 
payment, providing real-time updates to customers, 
being 
volume 
agnostic 
and 
requires 
minimal 
processing time.
•	
Implementation 
of 
iCRM, 
a 
single 
customer 
relationship management system at an enterprise 
level is underway for lead management, onboarding 
and servicing.
ICICI Bank increased its focus on delivering value and enhancing 
customer delight and advocacy by continuously reimagining 
processes and customer experience.
1. AI: Artificial Intelligence, ML: Machine Learning, 
OCR: Optical Character Recognition
30
Annual Report 2022-23 

FAIR TO CUSTOMER, FAIR TO BANK
2. NLP: Natural Language Processing
3. RPA: Robotic Process Automation
REIMAGINING END-TO-END 
CUSTOMER LIFE CYCLE
Next-gen Phone Banking Experience
Various initiatives rooted in new-age technologies 
were implemented for smoothening the customer 
interactions on the phone banking channel. This 
included 
introducing 
a 
single 
toll 
free 
number 
(1800 1080) for servicing different products and customer 
segments, 24x7 servicing for retail liabilities and credit 
cards, voice bot processing calls to reduce the IVR wait 
time by ~60%, and voice biometric-based authentication.
Digitisation of Cards Life Cycle
Enhancing 
credit 
card 
customer 
experience 
was 
another focus area, and an industry-first large-scale 
implementation of new-age technologies was undertaken 
like Document Intelligence, Conversational AI, NLP2, 
Text Intelligence, Intelligent RPA3, etc. in areas across 
onboarding and servicing. 
NEW DIGITAL EXPERIENCES
Various services were introduced and improvements 
made across digital channels to enhance customer 
experience. Features on iMobile Pay App were enhanced 
to enable re-KYC through Video KYC process, UPI-related 
features 
and 
enhancements, 
hyper-personalisation 
through Discover 2.0, PayLater feature, enhancements in 
credit card reward points journey, among others. Features 
on Retail Internet Banking were also enhanced. These 
included re-KYC through Video KYC process, option to 
activate 3D secure for NRI customers, etc.
SERVICE ENABLERS FOR 
EMPLOYEES
Empowering employees for a seamless engagement with 
customers is an ongoing endeavour at the Bank. During 
fiscal 2023, V-Serv was launched as an enabler for 
employees by providing assistance on processes across 
products and services, and supporting quick resolution of 
queries. Another initiative was iTrack, introduced in select 
business centres, to handle uncommon queries that may 
be received from customers. The objective of this initiative 
was to assist business centres to handle such queries 
and provide first-contact-resolution, thereby eliminating 
repeated visits by customers. GIB Buddy has been 
designed to respond to queries related to products and 
solutions and process for government and institutional 
banking customers. 
The emphasis on Customer 360º and the leading 
digital capabilities have strengthened the Bank’s value 
proposition for customers and created a positive 
customer experience. Actively listening to our customers 
by continuously engaging through various channels like 
surveys, social media, business centre touchpoints and 
query resolution, are also supplementing the Bank’s 
efforts to improve customer journeys and service 
response. During fiscal 2023, the Bank saw a sustained 
improvement in the Net Promoter Score (NPS) across 
products and services, reflecting customer value creation 
and advocacy.
CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT 
BEYOND BANKING
Recognising customers’ need to understand personal 
finance better, the Bank launched a unique digital initiative 
'The Orange Book' in fiscal 2022. This is a monthly 
e-magazine that educates customers about personal 
JUNE 2023 | VOL. 25
ORANGE
BOOK
THE
Leverage your FINANCIAL QUOTIENT
Two years of simplifying personal finance!
Leverage your FINANCIAL QUOTIENT
ORANGE
BOOK
THE
NOVEMBER 2022 | VOL. 18
Starting Small for their Big Future
Orange Book is a monthly e-magazine that educates 
customers about personal finance in a simple and easy-to-
understand manner.
31
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

finance in a simple, easy-to-understand manner using 
contextual examples and infographics and helps them to 
take better financial decisions. The Orange Book covers 
an array of financial topics from investment planning, 
safe banking to tax savings, financial preparedness and 
much more. To improve the accessibility of the Book, the 
Bank has launched the book in English and Hindi. This 
initiative has been well-received by customers.
The Bank believes that a deeper and more meaningful 
connect with customers is possible particularly if the 
engagement is in the areas of their interest such as their 
hobbies or passions. With this belief, the Bank launched 
a pan-India customer engagement programme called 
ICICI Bank iShine where customers and their immediate 
families could showcase their talent across eight 
categories namely art, body and mind, dancing, food, 
performing arts, photography, singing and travel. The 
programme saw an overwhelming response with 
1.8 million website visitors and 185,000 programme 
registrations. While Customer 360° banking, service 
orientation and humility form the basic tenets for serving 
our customers, engaging with our customers beyond 
banking is helping us build a stronger and deeper connect 
with them.
CUSTOMER SERVICE AND 
GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL
The Bank has a well-defined framework to monitor key 
customer service metrics and complaints. The Customer 
Service Committee of the Board and the Standing 
Committee on Customer Service meet regularly to 
deliberate on various facets of customer service and 
the initiatives undertaken by the Bank for enhancing 
the same.
The Bank complies with the 'Customer Rights Policy' which 
enshrines the basic rights of customers. These rights 
include Right to Fair Treatment; Right to Transparency, 
Fair and Honest Dealing; Right to Suitability; Right to 
Privacy; Right to Grievance Redress and Compensation. 
These policies can be accessed on the Bank’s website.
The Bank seeks to treat its customers fairly and provide 
transparency in product and service offerings. Continuous 
efforts are made to educate customers to enable them to 
make informed choices regarding banking products and 
services. The Bank also seeks to ensure that the products 
offered are based on an assessment of the customer’s 
financial needs. 
The Bank’s grievance redressal mechanism is well-
defined and comprehensive, with clear turnaround times 
for providing resolution to customers. The Bank provides 
multiple channels to customers to complain including 
the business centres, call centre and digital channels. 
All complaints received by the Bank are recorded in 
a Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system 
and tracked for end-to-end resolution. The Bank has an 
escalation matrix built in the CRM system to ensure that 
customer requirements are appropriately addressed within 
stipulated timelines. The Bank also conducts detailed 
Root Cause Analysis (RCAs) of the issues highlighted in 
customer feedback, complaints, etc. and insights from 
the same are implemented to improve the products and 
processes and enhance the services of the Bank.
Further, as recommended by the Reserve Bank of 
India, the Bank has appointed senior retired bankers as 
Internal Ombudsmen of the Bank. The Customer Service 
Committee of the Board, the Standing Committee on 
Customer Service and the business centre level Customer 
Service Committees monitor customer service at different 
levels.
During fiscal 2023, the number of complaints received 
from customers declined. 
For details refer to page 236 on customer complaints
DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY 
ICICI Bank is committed to protecting the privacy of 
individuals whose personal data it holds, and processing 
such personal data in a way that is consistent with 
applicable laws. It is important for employees and 
businesses to protect customer data and follow the 
FAIR TO CUSTOMER, FAIR TO BANK
32
Annual Report 2022-23 

FAIR TO CUSTOMER, FAIR TO BANK
applicable privacy laws in India and overseas locations to 
ensure safety and security of data. We believe that the 
data privacy framework should be in line with the evolving 
regulatory changes and digital transformation. 
The Bank has a global presence in several jurisdictions 
including 
Hong 
Kong, 
Singapore, 
United 
States, 
United Kingdom, Canada, China, Dubai International 
Financial Centre and Bahrain. The Bank is committed to 
ensuring compliance with applicable laws across these 
jurisdictions. It has an integrated and centralised 
strategy for achieving data privacy compliance across all 
jurisdictions. A set of principles have been defined with 
respect to handling customer data. There is a mechanism 
in place, which is accessible to all employees in the Bank, 
for reporting any form of personal data incident. The 
Personal Data Incident Handling Forum (PDIHF) comprises 
the Data Protection Officer (DPO) and senior members 
from the Information Security Group, Operational Risk 
Management Group, Fraud Management Group, Human 
Resources, Compliance and the Legal Team. Any kind 
of personal data related incidents reported through the 
service request undergoes detailed investigation and a 
report is presented to PDIHF on a monthly basis.
As per the Personal Data Protection Standard of 
the Bank, it ensures that all personal data it processes is 
kept secure using appropriate technical and organisational 
measures 
including 
necessary 
policies, 
processes 
and controls which includes physical access control, 
encryption or pseudonymisation, stress testing, risk 
assessment, data protection impact assessment and 
providing training to the Bank's employees. The Bank 
periodically updates the Personal Data Protection 
Standard 
to 
cover 
the 
personal 
data 
protection 
regulatory requirements as applicable to the Bank in India 
and its overseas offices to reflect the changes in data 
protection laws and regulations. An external review of 
the privacy maturity assessment was conducted in fiscal 
2023, which placed the Bank’s data privacy practices to 
be above industry benchmarks. 
Privacy regulations require the personal data of 
customers to be protected throughout its entire life 
cycle. Accordingly, the Bank has undertaken several 
comprehensive measures such as categorising all 
personal data and sensitive personal data as ‘Confidential 
Information’, keeping record of all its processing 
activities, entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality 
agreements with employees and third parties who are 
privy to personal data of the customers and providing 
customers the option to exercise various rights which they 
enjoy under applicable data protection regulations and 
incident handling procedures. 
There are e-learning modules specifically on the concept 
of personal data and its protection to build awareness 
among employees. Periodic trainings are provided and 
various data privacy awareness initiatives are taken up by 
the Data Privacy team for employees to help them get an 
overview of data privacy and its importance in day-to-day 
work. Periodic mailers are also sent to the employees to 
create awareness about data privacy.
The 
Bank 
has 
established 
a 
strong 
governance 
framework for data privacy management. The Bank’s 
Data Protection Officer (DPO) oversees all privacy related 
developments for the Bank as a data processor for 
international banking business and as a data controller for 
NRI and remittance businesses. The Bank has designated 
data protection managers/representatives from each 
business function and at every overseas location to 
ensure the proper implementation of the privacy standard.
A Privacy Steering Committee meets every six months, 
and oversees various privacy related initiatives. Further, 
the Bank’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics covers 
guidelines on customer privacy and confidentiality of data.
33
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

OUR VALUES
The Bank lays strong emphasis on risk and compliance, and creating 
awareness among employees on the core values and desired 
behaviour. Employees are expected to act in accordance with the 
highest professional and ethical standards. 
ICICI Bank is committed to strengthening its culture 
and encouraging adoption of values and code of 
conduct among employees and appropriate ways 
of doing business, where every action is in the 
interest of customers and the Bank. There is also a 
continuous endeavour to embed relevant principles and 
communicate the organisations culture on an ongoing 
basis. The Bank adopted the Risk and Compliance 
Culture Policy in fiscal 2022, as we recognise the 
importance of establishing effective frameworks and 
supporting processes that encourage employees to 
exhibit the desired ethos of the Bank. 
The Risk and Compliance Culture Policy articulates 
the guiding principles and aspects for effective 
implementation of these principles. 
The effective implementation of the policy includes a 
governance framework with roles and responsibilities 
of the Board, MD & CEO and Executive Directors and 
the Risk and Compliance Culture Council. Consistent 
Return of 
Capital is 
Paramount 
Agile Risk 
Management 
One Bank,  
One Team 
Compliance 
with 
Conscience
Fair to 
Customer,  
Fair to Bank 
THE GUIDING PRINCIPLES
and continuous communication of these principles in 
interactions with employees is considered an effective 
mechanism to establish these values that are core to 
the Bank. In addition, business compliance officers 
have been appointed within functional teams to 
strengthen compliance practices. All employees are 
encouraged to align with the guiding principles while 
conducting their activities.
The Bank is committed to act professionally and fairly 
in all its dealings. The ICICI Group Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics provides the values, principles and 
standards that should drive decisions and actions of 
employees of the Bank. The Code is also the Bank’s 
commitment to its stakeholders for adhering to the highest 
ethical standards and dealing with integrity. All new 
employees are required to complete mandatory training/
e-learning modules pertaining to Code of Conduct, 
Information Security, Anti-Money Laundering and other 
compliance-related areas that are critical and sensitive.
34
Annual Report 2022-23 

OUR VALUES
As a global bank, the Bank is subjected to Prevention of 
Corruption Act, 1988 (POCA) in India, Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act (FCPA) in the United States of America and 
similar applicable anti-bribery regulations as amended 
from time to time in other jurisdictions where the Bank 
does business and as may be applicable. The Bank has 
a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. The 
Bank has a well-defined Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 
policy articulating the obligations of employees in these 
matters. The Bank’s third-party vendors are also required 
to adhere to the Bank’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 
policy, including providing an annual self-declaration 
confirming their compliance. Apart from an annual review 
of the policy, the Bank also undertakes periodic external 
risk assessment of the policy at least once in three years. 
The last risk assessment was conducted in fiscal 2021, 
and no material gaps were identified. The Bank’s Vigilance 
Committee reviews matters pertaining to bribery and 
corruption. 
The Bank has a Board-approved Group Anti-Money 
Laundering (AML) and Combating Financing of Terrorism 
(CFT) Policy. The policy specifies a risk-based approach 
in implementing the AML framework. AML standards 
of the Bank are primarily based on two pillars, namely, 
Know-Your-Customer (KYC) and monitoring/reporting of 
suspicious transactions (MSTR). The policy also specifies 
monitoring of transactions on pre-defined rules as per 
the regulatory guidelines and any suspicious transactions 
found are required to be submitted to the concerned 
reporting authorities. The Bank through name screening 
procedure ensures that the identity of the customer 
does not match with any person with known criminal 
background or with banned entities. For the purpose of 
avoiding proliferation financing/terrorism financing, the 
Bank shall maintain lists of individuals or entities issued 
by Reserve Bank of India, United Nations Security Council, 
other regulatory and enforcement agencies, legislation, 
internal lists as the Bank may decide from time to time. 
Further, 
while 
handling 
cross-border 
transactions, 
the Bank carries out screening of names involved in a 
transaction against sanctions lists and other negative 
lists, as applicable.
The Bank continuously focusses on effectiveness of 
financial controls and assesses compliance with all 
relevant regulatory requirements. All the key policies of 
the Bank are regularly reviewed and enhanced to ensure 
relevance, adherence to regulations and adoption of best 
practices on an ongoing basis. The Board-approved Group 
Compliance Policy lays down the compliance framework 
with emphasis on ensuring that products, customer 
offerings and activities conform to rules and regulations 
and adheres to the Bank's ethos of 'Fair to Customer, 
Fair to Bank'. 
The Bank undertakes periodic training sessions and 
sends information mailers, as part of knowledge-
enhancement and awareness, to employees. The frequency 
of messages are high with regard to areas like fraud risk 
management, data privacy, cybersecurity, compliance 
policies, conflict of interest, sexual harassment, etc. The 
Bank is committed to constantly reviewing its governance 
practices and frameworks, with a focus on staying 
updated and responsive to the dynamic and evolving 
landscape, and acting in the best interest of all 
stakeholders. 
Key Standards of the Group Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 2023
•	
Conflict of interest
•	
Privacy/confidentiality
•	
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption/gifts  
and entertainment
•	
Personal investment
•	
Accuracy of company records and reporting
•	
Know-your-customer/anti-money laundering
•	
Workplace responsibilities & social media
35
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
With a focus on responsible and sustainable growth, the Bank 
continuously endeavours to maintain effective governance, a strong 
risk culture and robust enterprise risk management framework.
As a financial intermediary, the Bank is exposed to 
various risks, primarily credit risk, market risk, liquidity 
risk, operational risk, technology risk, cyber risk, 
compliance risk, legal risk and reputation risk. The Bank 
is committed to managing material risks and participating 
in opportunities as part of the strategic approach 
of risk-calibrated growth in core operating profit 
less provisions. 
The Board of Directors of the Bank has oversight of 
all risks in the Bank with specific Committees of the 
Board constituted to facilitate focussed oversight. Most 
Committees are chaired by Independent Directors 
and there is adequate representation of Independent 
Directors on each of these Committees. The Board 
has framed specific mandate for each of these 
Committees. The proceedings and the decision taken 
by these Committees are reported to the Board. 
The policies approved by the Board of Directors or 
Committees of the Board, from time to time constitute 
the governing framework within which business activities 
are undertaken.
The roles of specific committees of the Board constituted 
to facilitate focussed oversight of various risks are:
Credit Committee
Review of developments in key industrial sectors, major 
credit portfolios and approval of credit proposals as per 
the authorisation approved by the Board.
Audit Committee
Provides direction to the audit function and monitors the 
quality of internal and statutory audit; responsibilities 
include examining the financial statements and auditors’ 
report and overseeing the financial reporting process to 
ensure fairness, sufficiency and credibility of financial 
statements.
Information Technology Strategy Committee
Approve strategy for IT and policy documents, ensure 
that the IT strategy is aligned with business strategy, 
review IT risks, ensure proper balance of IT investments 
for sustaining the Bank's growth, oversee the aggregate 
funding of IT at Bank-level, ascertain if the management 
has resources to ensure the proper management of IT 
risks, review contribution of IT to business, oversee the 
activities of Digital Council, review technology from a 
future readiness perspective, overseeing key projects 
progress and critical IT systems performance and the 
review of special IT initiatives.
Risk Committee
Review risk management policies pertaining to credit, 
market, liquidity, operational, outsourcing, reputation 
risks, business continuity plan and disaster recovery 
plan and approve Broker Empanelment Policy and any 
amendments thereto. The functions of the Committee also 
include setting limits for industry or country exposures, 
review 
the 
Bank's 
Enterprise 
Risk 
Management 
Framework, Risk Appetite Framework, Stress Testing 
Framework, Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process and Framework for Capital Allocation; review the 
status of Basel implementation, risk dashboard covering 
various risks, outsourcing activities and the activities of the 
Asset Liability Management Committee. The Committee 
has oversight on risks of subsidiaries covered under the 
Group Risk Management Framework. The Committee 
also reviews the cybersecurity risk assessment.
The Bank also has a Financial Crime Prevention Group 
(FCPG) to oversee/handle fraud prevention, detection, 
investigation, 
monitoring, 
reporting 
and 
creating 
awareness about fraud risk management.
The Bank has put in place an Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) and Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) 
that articulates the risk appetite and drills down the 
36
Annual Report 2022-23 

same into a limit framework for various risk categories 
under which various business lines operate. In addition to 
the ERM and RAF, portfolio reviews are carried out and 
presented to the Credit and Risk Committees as per the 
approved calendar of reviews. As part of the reviews, the 
prevalent trends across various economic indicators and 
their impact on the Bank’s portfolio are presented to the 
Risk Committee. Industry analysis are also carried out 
and outcomes are presented to the Credit Committee for 
review and guidance. 
The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process 
(ICAAP) encompasses capital planning for a four-
year time horizon, assessment of material risks and 
the relationship between risk and capital. The capital 
management framework is complemented by the risk 
management framework, which covers the policies, 
processes, methodologies and frameworks established 
for the management of material risks. Stress testing, 
which is a key aspect of the ICAAP and the risk 
management framework, provides an insight on the 
impact of extreme but plausible scenarios on the Bank’s 
risk profile and capital position.
Several groups and sub-groups have been constituted 
to facilitate independent evaluation, monitoring and 
reporting of risks. These groups function independently of 
the business groups.
The Risk Management Group is further organised into 
the Credit Risk Management Group, Market Risk 
Management Group, Operational Risk Management 
Group and Information Security Group. The Group is 
headed by the Chief Risk Officer who reports to the Risk 
Committee of the Board of Directors.
The Compliance Group, headed by the Group Chief 
Compliance Officer, oversees regulatory compliance of 
the Bank, both at the policy and procedures level and 
at the level of implementation by the respective groups. 
The Group has unrestricted access to information 
within the Bank to assess compliance with the 
regulatory guidelines.
The Reputation Management Forum, comprising executive 
director and leadership members, oversees reputation 
risk assessment at the Bank. The Forum has adopted a 
framework for conducting periodic reviews and ensuring 
adequate processes and systems to identify, assess and 
manage reputation related risks. This includes evaluating 
key risk indicators and events like complaints, frauds, 
media news flow, legal matters, and others that could 
potentially pose a reputation risk. There are also response 
mechanisms in place for managing reputation related 
issues. The risk and control assessment is presented to the 
Board Risk Committee on a quarterly basis.
The Internal Audit Group, being the third line of defence, 
provides independent assurance that the aforesaid 
independent groups monitoring the risks in the Bank, are 
operating in line with policies, regulations and internal 
standards defined for management of the various risks 
in the Bank.
The Compliance Group and the Internal Audit Group 
report to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 
The Risk Management, Compliance and Internal Audit 
Groups have administrative reporting to the Executive 
Director responsible for Corporate Centre. 
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
INDEPENDENT GROUPS FOR MONITORING RISKS
Risk 
Management 
Group
Compliance 
Group
Internal  
Audit Group
Financial Crime 
Prevention and 
Reputation Risk 
Management 
Group
37
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

With 
increasing 
digitisation, 
ensuring 
effective 
management and governance of data has become a 
critical business enabler. To further strengthen data 
quality, data standardisation and governance around 
data, a Chief Data Officer (CDO) was appointed in 
fiscal 2023. The role of the CDO includes creating the 
governance and processes around data generation and 
processing and compliance with regulations across all 
aspects of its operations. The CDO is also responsible 
for implementation of the Bank's Data Governance Policy.
CYBERSECURITY GOVERNANCE
Cyber risks form an integral part of the Bank’s enterprise 
risk management framework. The Bank is committed 
to work towards aligning itself with the changing 
threat landscape and has a dedicated team for cyber/
information risk management. There is robust oversight 
by the Board, and takes regular updates from the 
Information Security Group (ISG) of the Bank. A monthly 
risk-based detailed CISO dashboard capturing the 
various Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and Key Risk 
Indicators (KRIs) associated with SOC operations and 
offences summary for the month is prepared which is 
reviewed by the CISO and the CRO.
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
Board of Directors
Information & 
Cybersecurity 
Committee
Risk Committee
Business Continuity 
Management (BCM) 
Steering Committee
Information Technology 
(IT) Steering Committee
Executive Committees
Board  
Sub-Committees
I
T
 S
tr
a
t
e
g
y
  
C
o
m
m
it
t
e
e
 
A
u
di
t 
C
o
m
m
it
te
e
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
The Bank has an information and cybersecurity 
governance 
framework 
consisting 
of 
leadership, 
organisational structures and processes that help 
us in mitigation of growing cybersecurity threats. 
Our cybersecurity governance encompasses management 
oversight at various levels with the ultimate responsibility 
assumed by the Board of Directors. 
The 
Executive 
Committees 
have 
diverse 
cross-
functional members and well-defined terms of reference. 
Proceedings of these Committees are reported to the IT 
Strategy Committee. Additionally, the Bank has multiple 
KRIs/dashboard to review system stability, continuity and 
availability and network uptime. The Bank also has a 
well-defined 
Information 
Security 
Policy, 
Cyber 
Security Policy and Information Security Standards 
and Procedures. These policies have been designed by 
drawing from several standards and regulations including 
the RBI Cyber Security Framework, NCIIPC Guidelines 
for Protection, FFIEC Cybersecurity Assessment Tool, the 
SEBI Cyber Security and Resilience Framework for Stock 
Brokers/Depository participants, IRDA Guidelines on 
Information and Cyber Security for insurers, Unusual 
Cyber Security Incidents framework. The Bank has also 
incorporated industry best practices such as the National 
38
Annual Report 2022-23 

Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the 
regulatory requirements of some other jurisdictions in 
which the Bank operates. Further, periodic internal and 
external audits are undertaken and inputs from these 
assessments are incorporated. The Bank’s Data Centre is 
ISO 270011 certified.
The Bank has a Disaster Recovery plan to ensure 
continuity 
of 
critical 
services 
to 
customers 
and 
availability 
of 
identified 
critical 
systems 
during 
significant disruptions. In the event of a disaster, the 
Bank endeavours to resume business and operations 
to an acceptable level as per the Recovery Time 
Objectives (RTOs) for the application. The efficacy of the 
DR plan is established through periodic DR drills.
Preventive Control
Detective Control
Responsive Control
	y
Application Security 
Life Cycle (ASLC), 
Vulnerability Assessment 
and Penetration Testing 
(VAPT), Antivirus, Vendor 
Risk
	y
Assessment, Firewall, 
Intrusion Detection 
System (IDS)
	y
Access Management
	y
Distributed Denial of 
Service (DDoS) mitigation
	y
Security Operation Centre 
(SOC) Monitoring
	y
Web Application Firewall 
	y
Network Operation 
Centre (NOC) Monitoring 
	y
RED teaming exercises
	y
Incident Response Plan
	y
Cyber Crisis Management 
Plan (CCMP) 
	y
Forensic Agreements 
with partners
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
PARTICIPATION IN EXTERNAL 
CYBERATTACK SIMULATIONS
The 
Bank 
conducts 
and 
participates 
in 
several 
cybersecurity attack simulation drills such as spear 
phishing drills on employees, Distributed Denial of Service 
(DDoS) attack drills for Internet Service Providers (ISPs), 
social engineering-based attacks on data centre staff 
to gain physical access etc. Business continuity and 
recovery drills are conducted to assess the Bank’s ability 
and readiness to combat disasters, to ensure continuity 
of critical business processes at an acceptable level and 
limit the impact of the disaster on people, processes 
and infrastructure. The Bank periodically conducts cyber 
maturity assessments through a third-party, which is 
a comprehensive risk assessment of the cybersecurity 
posture of the Bank. The last such assessment and 
benchmarking with global banks was undertaken in 
fiscal 2022, and the Bank’s cyber posture was at par with 
global banks.
CONTROLS FOR IT INFRASTRUCTURE
1 ISO 27001 is an international standard for information security management.
39
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

The Bank believes in providing services to its customers 
in the safest and in a secure manner keeping in mind that 
protection of data of its customers is as important as 
providing quality banking services across the spectrum. 
The Bank also undertakes campaigns to create awareness 
among customers on security aspects while banking 
through digital channels. 
There were no material incidents of security breaches or 
data loss during fiscal 2023.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND 
GOVERNANCE (ESG)
The Risk Committee and the Board reviewed material 
ESG matters during fiscal 2023, and were provided 
updates on progress made on various ESG-related 
initiatives at the Bank. The Board-approved ESG Policy 
was reviewed and updated largely to reflect the progress 
on ESG made by the Bank during fiscal 2023 and the 
requirements 
under 
the 
SEBI-mandated 
Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR). 
ESG RATINGS
The improvement in the Bank’s ESG ratings by external 
agencies is evidence of the progress being made across 
various areas. The ESG rating by MSCI improved from 
BBB to A and the ESG score by Sustainalytics improved 
from High Risk to Medium Risk category. During 
fiscal 2023, the Bank responded to the climate change 
questionnaire by CDP Worldwide for the first time. The 
Bank received a rating of C, which was same as the Asian 
regional average.
Board of Directors 
Risk Committee 
ESG Steering Committee
Overarching Environmental, Social and  
Governance Policy
•	 Broad focus areas
•	 Responsible financing
•	 Environmental sensitivity in the Bank’s operations 
•	 Customers
•	 Employees society
•	 Corporate governance
•	 Cybersecurity and data privacy governance 
framework
•	 Stakeholder engagement and accountability
•	 Policy available on the Bank’s website
Dedicated Team within CFO’s Office 
tracks ESG and CSR initiatives
Governance Structure
ESG GOVERNANCE
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
40
Annual Report 2022-23 

RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
ESG-Related Developments During Fiscal 2023
The Bank’s efforts in ESG were further strengthened during the year with setting up of a dedicated team 
to lead the Bank's ESG-related actions and initiatives. The management-level ESG Steering Committee 
provides regular oversight and guidance to the ESG team. Key actions and focus areas were:
•	
Continuous engagement with internal stakeholders to build awareness and create capabilities. 
•	
Facilitate training sessions for Board members and senior personnel.
•	
Track key developments in India and global markets with objective to develop internal targets for 
reduction in carbon footprint in the Bank’s own operations.
•	
A framework for Sustainable Financing was developed aimed at providing guidance on Green/Social 
(Sustainable)/Sustainability-linked lending.
•	
Strengthen engagement with vendors on ESG and sustainability, develop a Suppliers’ Code of 
Conduct, guidelines for green procurement and alignment of vendors' action plan with that of 
the Bank.
•	
Adoption of green power, wherever available and feasible, is enabling the Bank manage its Scope 2 
emissions. This is part of the internal two-year roadmap for bringing down the overall Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emission intensity.
•	
Initiate evaluation of Bank’s Scope 3 emissions in own operations and take up various pilot projects to 
assess key data and information requirements for calculating carbon and GHG emissions in accordance 
with established protocols.
•	
Improve water and waste management, and initiate monitoring and measurement of these aspects. 
The Bank is committed to minimising the environmental impact of its operations and business. The Bank 
is working towards setting a time-bound target for reduction in emissions/reduction in emissions intensity/
carbon neutrality. 
More details are available in the Bank’s ESG Report, and Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) for fiscal 2023 on 
the Bank's website.
41
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

RESPONDING TO RISKS AND 
OPPORTUNITIES
The Bank recognises the importance of adopting a rigorous approach 
to understanding and responding to risks and opportunities that 
enables long-term value creation for all stakeholders.
The Bank has a robust process to identify and monitor 
risks and respond appropriately. The Bank continuously 
reviews and enhances the methods for identification and 
assessment of risks, and sets appropriate metrics and 
controls, and mitigants for managing significant risks. 
This is further strengthened by investing in capability 
building and using Artificial Intelligence (AI)/Machine 
Learning (ML) techniques to enhance credit underwriting 
and early warning capabilities.
In fiscal 2023, the Bank continued to monitor the risks 
it is exposed to, including economic, credit, market, 
liquidity, cyber, information technology and employee 
related risks. Apart from these traditional risks, the Bank 
is also cognisant of emerging new-age risks like climate 
change. The Bank has initiated steps to embed climate 
risk assessment and climate risk management as part 
of the Bank’s risk management framework. A dedicated 
team within the Risk Management Group has been 
set up to develop a framework to assess the physical 
and transition risks of companies in the Bank’s portfolio, 
and manage these risks as part of the credit evaluation 
process. The Bank has also been participating in 
policy-making by providing inputs and supporting the 
regulator in assessing impact of climate change risks on 
specific sectors. 
RISKS IMPACTING THE BANK’S BUSINESS
Risk Type
Key Risks
Our Response
Economic Risk
Volatile economic environment 
driven by rising inflation, global 
monetary policy stance and 
geopolitical tensions.
Continuously monitored developments in the 
global and Indian economy, including country 
risk and sector-specific risks and responded 
accordingly.
Credit Risk
Volatile market conditions and  
rising interest rates posed 
challenges for customers.
Ensured effective risk management across 
business segments, strengthened by ongoing 
reviews for early identification and stress 
testing; the Bank maintained strong capital 
and liquidity positions, which were significantly 
above regulatory requirements.
Market and 
Liquidity Risk
Challenges posed by tightening 
monetary policy, withdrawal of 
liquidity by the central bank and 
exchange rate movements. 
Robust policies, and periodic reviews at the 
level of Board and sub committees; strategic 
priority towards asset liability management and 
strengthening the Bank's liability franchise. 
42
Annual Report 2022-23 

RESPONDING TO RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Risk Type
Key Risks
Our Response
Cyber Risk
Growing threat of cyberattacks 
combined with increasing 
digitisation of banking products and  
services could expose the Bank 
to security risks. The Bank also 
leverages partnerships with third 
parties and these could also be a 
source for information security risks.
Investing on building resilience and effectively  
respond to cyberattacks; the Bank has laid 
significant focus on data privacy and data loss 
prevention mechanisms. There were no material 
incidents of security breaches or data loss 
during fiscal 2023.
Technology Risk
The growing customer dependence 
on digital transactions and the 
rising volumes of such transactions 
requires banks to focus on the 
availability and scalability of our 
systems. Misalignment between 
business and IT strategies is a 
formidable risk.
The Bank is proactively investing in technology 
and improving its response to changing 
technological dynamics. The governance 
framework and Board-level oversight ensures 
that information technology strategy is aligned 
with the business strategy with appropriate 
policies and control frameworks. The Bank’s IT 
systems were stable and largely uninterrupted 
during fiscal 2023.
Employee Risk
Retention of employees and ability 
to attract and motivate talented 
professionals is critical for the 
successful implementation of the 
Bank’s strategy and competing 
effectively.
Provide opportunity for job rotation and  
enhance career growth and development; 
employee well-being and upskilling are  
key priorities.
Compliance Risk
As a systemically important bank in 
India, compliance with regulations 
and preparedness to evolving 
developments is a key priority for 
the Bank.
The Bank has established well-articulated 
policies and controls to ensure compliance with 
laws and regulations. Continuous evaluation 
and updating the policies to remain relevant and 
adopt best practices is an ongoing effort.  
A strong compliance culture driven by the 
Bank’s leadership is enabling timely action. 
43
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
In fiscal 2022, the Bank conducted its first materiality assessment 
exercise to identify key material topics for our stakeholders and 
business. 
Five-step approach for assessing material issues involved:
Developed a materiality matrix to prioritise the topics into high, medium and low 
categories based on the order of preference listed by stakeholders
Calibration of results
Process for capturing internal and external perspectives by identifying key internal 
and external stakeholders by mapping their interests and role for the organisation
Stakeholder identification
List of 23 topics identified based on discussions with internal stakeholders, peer 
review and benchmarking, sector research, media reports and secondary sources
Identifying the universe of relevant ESG topics
Developed a survey for capturing responses from diverse stakeholders
Stakeholder consultation
Analysed the data and level of priority of every material topic for every stakeholder
Data collection and analytics
44
Annual Report 2022-23 

MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
MATERIALITY MATRIX
13
12
11
2
7
6
10
9
8
5
4
1
3
Importance to Internal Stakeholders
Environmental 
Social
Governance
Importance to External Stakeholders
1 	 Compliance with regulations and other laws
2 	 Digital innovation/transformation
3 	 Data privacy and cybersecurity
4 	 Corporate governance and business ethics
5 	 Transparency and disclosures
6 	 Improving customer experience and 
satisfaction
7 	 Customer fairness and right-selling
8 	 Financial performance
9 	 Stability of risk management and risk outcomes
10 	 Leadership development and succession 
planning
11 	 Promoting environment-positive projects  
(e.g. lending to 'green' sectors)
12 	 Carbon emissions & resource efficiency in the 
Bank's own operations
13 	 Exposure of the Bank to climate-related risks in 
its loan portfolio
KEY MATERIAL ISSUES
45
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
The Bank recognises the importance of maintaining a strong focus on issues material to its stakeholders. The nature 
and potential impact of these material issues may vary and change over time. The top 13 areas and the risks and 
opportunities are as given below:
Compliance with Regulations and Other Laws
Digital Innovation / Transformation
Risks
Being a domestic systemically important bank in India, we 
are exposed to various compliance requirements. The Bank 
has to ensure robust policies and processes, and there are no 
deficiencies in meeting evolving requirements on an ongoing 
basis. Any deficiency could lead to reputation risks and a breach 
of trust.
Opportunities
There is an opportunity to engage constructively with policy 
makers and advocate adoption of best practices for building 
resilience in the financial sector and supporting a growing 
economy. 
How We Are Responding
We strive to be a responsible organisation 
with continued efforts at embedding a strong 
risk and compliance culture. The Bank remains 
vigilant of the evolving regulatory landscape, 
while ensuring that operations follow 
standards established by regulatory bodies. 
The Bank’s control functions ensure that 
businesses and operations are aligned with 
best practices. 
For more details refer to page 34 
Risks
The increasing volume of digital transactions requires us to  
ensure availability and scalability of systems. A misalignment 
between business and IT strategies is a risk. An elongated 
period of downtime in the Bank’s digital channels could lead to 
operational and reputation risks for the Bank.
Opportunities
Digital innovations provide an opportunity to differentiate our 
offerings, with seamless and secure customer experiences. 
This can provide competitive advantage and gain customer 
confidence.
How We Are Responding
We aspire to create digital innovations with 
rich features and functionalities for customers. 
The Bank’s digital platforms have transformed 
to provide seamless digital journeys. The open 
architecture platforms have enabled us to 
extend banking services to non-ICICI Bank 
account holders. 
For more details refer to page 19 
46
Annual Report 2022-23 

MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
Corporate Governance and Business Ethics
Risks
Lack of robust data governance practices could increase the 
risks of non-compliance, regulatory fines, financial losses and 
reputation risk. The cybersecurity landscape is also highly 
dynamic and exposes the Bank to significant challenges to ensure 
safety and security of customers’ money and personal identity.
Opportunities
Strong governance and a robust cybersecurity and data privacy 
strategy can create confidence in the institution and also 
differentiate us as a responsible organisation with customer 
interest paramount. 
How We Are Responding
Dealing with cyber risks form an integral part 
of the Bank’s enterprise risk management 
framework. The Bank is committed to working 
towards aligning itself with the changing 
landscape and has a dedicated team for cyber/
information risk management. 
For more details refer to page 32 and 38 
Risks
Ensuring strong governance practices and communicating the 
same across all levels in the Bank is important to build a culture 
that ensures business outcomes are delivered in the right manner 
and with responsibility. Banking is a business of trust, and failures 
caused by ethics, values and behaviours can cause reputation risk 
and could create significant costs to the Bank. 
Opportunities
Embedding the right culture takes time to establish and begins 
with strong corporate governance and business ethics, which 
will ensure long-term sustainability of the organisation. 
How We Are Responding
We have established effective policies and 
frameworks that encourage employees to act 
in accordance with the highest professional 
and ethical standards. Regular communication 
and training of employees is also undertaken. 
For more details refer to page 34 
47
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Transparency and Disclosures
Improving Customer Experience and Satisfaction
Risks
Transparency is integral to good governance. Ensuring 
transparency in our engagement with customers and providing 
information of our products and services can enable customers 
to take sound financial decisions. The Bank recognises the 
responsibility and importance to be honest in its dealings with 
stakeholders. 
Opportunities
The Bank seeks to engage constructively and responsibly in 
its area of operations. This is critical to build trust in the Brand, 
and with direct consequences to our business. The Bank also 
aims to ensure fair and balanced disclosures of its financial 
performance, with additional relevant disclosures made as and 
when required. 
How We Are Responding
We recognise the criticality of transparency 
and disclosures, whether about the products  
we offer, our engagement with stakeholders 
or our contribution to society. The Bank aims 
to maintain robust governance and ethical 
and transparent relationship with  
all stakeholders.
Risks
Customer demands are evolving and digitisation has created 
new dimensions in banking services. Continuous value creation 
and superior banking experiences have become important 
considerations for customers. Lack of innovation and a customer-
first approach could result in obsolete service delivery, meeting 
limited needs of customers and a loss of trust. 
Opportunities
Digitisation and the rapid adoption of smartphones has 
given banks an opportunity to explore new ways of banking 
and providing customers with unique offerings and with 
convenience. 
How We Are Responding
Our Customer 360º approach and digital 
capabilities have strengthened the Bank’s 
value propositions for customers. Actively 
listening to our customers has helped improve 
the Bank’s offerings to customers, and reflects 
in the advocacy scores for the Bank. 
For more details refer to page 30 
48
Annual Report 2022-23 

Customer Fairness and Right-selling
Stability of Risk Management and Risk Outcomes
Financial Performance
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Risks
The Bank is exposed to several risks and the ability to manage 
various types of traditional and emerging risks is critical for 
sustainable growth of the Bank. 
Opportunities
Dynamic risk management and understanding the opportunities 
and challenges associated with participating in strategic 
opportunities is the bedrock for robust growth of business. 
How We Are Responding
The Bank continuously reviews the operating 
environment and closely monitors significant 
risks that could impact business. The Bank’s 
Enterprise Risk Management and Risk 
Appetite Framework articulates the risk 
appetite, and drills down the same into a limit 
framework for various risk categories under 
which various business lines operate. 
For more details refer to page 42 
Risks
The Bank’s ability to adapt to any challenges posed by the 
external environment and swiftly prepare for compliance 
with evolving regulations is key to deliver consistent financial 
performance.
Opportunities
The Bank’s approach is to identify micromarkets which hold high 
potential & increase market share by serving customers with 
360º solutions as well as engage with all key stakeholders. This 
provides opportunities to penetrate the deep market in India.
How We Are Responding
Our strategic focus is to grow the core 
operating profit less provisions within the 
guardrails of risk and compliance. We are 
investing in areas that are critical for improving 
productivity and operational efficiency.
For more details refer to page 117
Risks
Failure to serve with customer-appropriate product offering, or 
value-add for customers or inappropriate conduct can lead to 
loss of trust and risk the reputation of the Bank. 
Opportunities
Banking is a business based on trust, and requires high level 
of customer-appropriate conduct. Generating business while 
protecting the interests of customers contributes to attracting 
depositors and growth in business. 
How We Are Responding
The Bank’s philosophy of ‘Fair to Customer, 
Fair to Bank’ emphasises the need to deliver 
fair value to customers, including selling 
products and offer services which meet 
societal needs and are in the interest of 
customers. 
For more details refer to page 34 
49
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Leadership Development and Succession Planning
Promoting Environment-Positive Projects
Risks
Strong management development and succession planning 
are important for the successful implementation of our 
strategy and stability of the organisation. 
Opportunities
Leadership development and commitment to attracting, 
developing and retaining a diverse and inclusive workforce can 
enable the Bank to deliver strong and consistent results. 
How We Are Responding
The Bank has adopted the principle of ‘One 
Bank, One Team’, and has accordingly 
structured its human resource management 
practices, including key performance 
indicators, providing operating flexibility and 
accountability to business centres and a 
shift from grades to functional designations 
at senior levels. These are aimed at greater 
agility and synergy across the organisation 
and are supporting improved business 
performance and financial results.
For more details refer to page 52 
Risks
The climate challenge and a fast transition to a low-carbon 
economy could give rise to new types of risks that may not be fully 
understood. 
Opportunities
Using our financial expertise to provide capital to low-carbon 
sectors and new business opportunities in this space, based on 
appropriate risks and return assessment. We are committed to 
supporting customers as they decarbonise their business. 
How We Are Responding
The Bank has been supporting capacity 
creation in environment-friendly areas, such 
as renewable energy, use of electric vehicles 
and development of green buildings, with an 
appropriate risk-return assessment. There is 
also a focus on promoting biodiversity and 
protecting our ecology through the Bank’s CSR 
initiatives.
For more details refer to page 66 
50
Annual Report 2022-23 

Carbon Emissions & Resource Efficiency in the Bank's own Operations
Risks
Assessing the environmental impact of the Bank’s own 
operations and facilities will be necessary to develop the 
Bank’s own roadmap towards carbon neutrality/net zero in 
own operations. 
Opportunities
Being in the service industry, the carbon footprint from own 
operations is not expected to be significant and would be 
manageable. 
How We Are Responding
The Bank is committed to minimising the 
environmental impact of its operations and 
facilities. It is working towards meeting this 
objective by adopting best practices and 
certifications for green standards in the 
Bank’s operations. 
For more details refer to page 68 
Exposure of the Bank to Climate-related Risks in its Loan Portfolio
Risks
The Bank’s Board has emphasised the need to evaluate the 
impact of risks posed by climate change. 
Opportunities
Significant opportunities are likely to emerge as efforts to 
meet national commitments towards sustainable growth and 
transition to become net zero by the year 2070 gains traction. 
The Bank has been supporting environmentally favourable 
projects based on an appropriate risk-return assessment. 
How We Are Responding
The Bank has established adequate policies 
and frameworks for evaluating climate-related 
risks in the lending book. At the same time, 
assessment of the portfolio to climate risks has 
been included as part of stress testing as well 
as capital planning exercise. 
For more details refer to page 67 
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
51
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

HUMAN CAPITAL 
The Bank's human resources and cultural anchors are critical to 
driving the success of its business.
The Bank’s human capital strategy is underpinned by 
key cultural anchors of Fair Compensation, Learning and 
Growth, and Care.
The Bank’s endeavour is to create a responsive 
workforce, encouraged by empowering the teams 
to take cues from the local environment and identify 
opportunities for risk-calibrated growth. The Bank has 
taken steps to organise and structure teams in a way 
which facilitates the Bank’s approach to Customer 360°. 
The Bank has invested in aligning the organisation around 
micromarkets and customer ecosystems by increasing 
the density of leadership in key markets. The integration 
of the Bank’s businesses happens closer to the customer. 
This enables better understanding of customer needs at 
a micromarket level in addition to enhancing the Bank’s 
agility in responding to business requirements and 
opportunities. The corporate office operates as a service 
centre and the purpose of the central team is to serve 
the employees to facilitate customer engagement and 
seamless delivery of products and services. The Bank 
encourages its employees to experiment and innovate to 
deliver services and create solutions for customers within 
the guardrails of risk and compliance. 
FAIR COMPENSATION
The Bank follows a prudent compensation practice under 
the guidance of the Board of Directors and the Board 
Governance Remuneration & Nomination Committee (the 
BGRNC or the Committee). The Compensation philosophy 
Automation
Data Visualisation
Data Analytics
Cybersecurity
Project Management
DevOps
Data Engineering
API & Microservices
Cloud Computing
SKILL  
DOMAINS
of the Bank is aligned to reward team performance. 
The Bank’s approach to compensation is intended to 
drive meritocracy within the framework of prudent risk 
management. The total compensation is a prudent mix 
of fixed pay and variable pay, which takes into account 
a mix of external market pay and internal equity. The 
fixed pay offered by the Bank, largely reflects pay for 
the role. The variable compensation is in the form of 
share-linked instruments or cash or a mix of cash and 
share-linked instruments. The cash component of variable 
pay (performance bonus) is aligned to the philosophy of 'One 
Bank One Team' as it is based on overall performance of the 
Bank and reflects reward for team performance. The grant 
of share-linked instruments to eligible employees, reflects 
individual potential and criticality of position/employee. The 
compensation of staff engaged in all assurance functions 
like Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit depends on the 
achievement of key results of the respective functions and 
is independent of the business areas they oversee. 
LEARNING AND GROWTH 
The Bank’s focus on Customer 360° banking requires 
employees to have multi-product knowledge and skills. 
The Bank has invested in training its employees and 
enhancing their ability to comprehensively serve customers. 
This has enabled teams to be agile in responding to 
requirements of customers, and work collaboratively to 
create innovative and personalised products & solutions 
for customers.
52
Annual Report 2022-23 

HUMAN CAPITAL 
The Bank has a capability building architecture spanning 
across functional training, leadership development, 
digital and industry academia programmes to equip 
employees with the required skillsets. 
The Bank has collaborated with academia partners to 
provide a steady supply of quality, job-ready workforce. 
One of the key aspects of the industry academia 
programmes is the skills it builds in the banking, 
compliance, financial and digital services domains. 
This aligns new hires to the culture of the Bank and 
imparts functional knowledge in banking and related 
subjects. Employees at frontline levels can also enrol in 
ICICI Bank’s Probationary Officer programme and get 
inducted as Probationary Officers after completing the 
programme at ICICI Manipal Academy.
The Bank has a Young Leaders Programme (YLP), where 
employees have the opportunity for higher education 
(Post Graduate Programme). Those who successfully 
complete this programme are deployed back into the 
Bank in managerial roles.
The Bank is an employer of choice at premier management 
and engineering campuses across the country.
Building a Digitally Capable Workforce 
As a part of 'Bank to BankTech' journey, the Bank 
continues 
to 
skill 
employees 
under 
the 
Digital 
Academy in line with the vision of a scalable, future-
ready and data-driven organisation. Employees from 
across groups undergo skilling in domains such as API 
& Micro Services, Cloud Computing, Data Engineering, 
Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence and Project 
Management.
To mitigate cybersecurity domain risks, the Bank conducted 
a dedicated Cybersecurity Programme in partnership with 
reputed institutes covering areas such as infrastructure 
security, network security, digital forensics, incident 
management and network analysis. 
To enable employees with diverse skills in data sciences, 
design thinking and artificial intelligence, various 
programmes and academies have been created across 
the Bank. During fiscal 2023, the Bank delivered a total 
of over 12 million learning hours for its employees; the 
average learning person-days was around 12.2 days. 
Post Graduate Programme in 
Relationship Management  
21-day programme designed 
to develop a cadre of banking 
professionals adept in sales and 
relationship management
INDUSTRY ACADEMIA INITIATIVES
ICICI Business Leadership 
Programme – PG Certificate in 
Securities Market
12-month programme designed 
to develop professionals for 
securities markets
Ascend Programme 
Programme for graduates 
from top-tier institutes 
spread out over a year
ICICI Bank Probationary 
Officers Programme
12-month programme designed 
to develop a pool of first 
level managers with banking 
knowledge and required skillsets
ICICI Young Leaders Programme (YLP) 
12-month career acceleration programme  
designed for employees
53
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

In order to periodically review and align learning content 
and design, the Bank has constituted academic councils, 
comprising 
representatives 
from 
business, 
human 
resources and the Bank’s skilling partners. These councils 
meet on a quarterly basis to review the alignment of the 
existing content in view of evolving business needs.
Strengthening Risk and Compliance 
Culture
As custodians of trust, employees are expected to 
take decisions which are fair to customers and fair to 
the Bank. 
To 
enable our employees to manage workplace 
dilemmas, we have conducted workshops to orient 
frontline leadership on dealing with dilemmas they 
may face during the course of their roles. The workshop 
reinforces the need to apply the Bank’s framework while 
dealing with such situations within the guardrails of 
risk and compliance.
Job Rotation and Moving Across Roles
The Bank believes in investing in its employees to take up 
challenging assignments and responsibilities early in the 
career. The Bank’s ‘customer-oriented’ approach known 
as Customer 360°, encourages employees to take up new 
roles and not restrict themselves to specific areas. As a 
part of their career and skill development, the Bank offers 
opportunities to employees to explore diverse roles and 
functions. This provides employees the chance to explore 
and develop learning and expertise in different domains.
Leadership Development
Leadership Development Programmes and Leadership 
Engagement Sessions are conducted on a regular basis 
at the Bank.
The ‘Ignite' series is an ongoing initiative designed to 
keep the employees abreast with breakthroughs in the 
domains of leadership, digital transformation, data 
science and behavioural economics. The sessions provide 
an opportunity to teams to engage with domain experts 
and thought leaders in these areas. 
ICICI Bank also partners with thought-leaders across 
a wide spectrum of fields ranging from academia, 
management to sports, to engage with and build 
leadership perspectives.
Succession Planning
The Bank has institutionalised a succession planning 
and leadership development initiative to identify and 
groom leaders for next level roles. The Bank has a 
robust succession planning process which, through the 
Leadership Cover Index (LCI), closely tracks the depth of 
leadership bench at the senior management positions. 
The Bank has a strong bench for key positions and for 
critical leadership roles. 
CARE
Employees are the most important capital for the 
success of the Bank’s strategy and growth of the 
organisation. The Bank believes in providing an enabling 
work environment that helps employees to achieve 
aspirational goals. The Bank is an inclusive and a caring 
workplace, driven by meritocracy and equal opportunities 
for all.
Employees at the Bank imbibe Officer Like Qualities 
(OLQ) at the workplace and in all internal and external 
engagements. These include respect for Brand ICICI, 
dignified behaviour in dealing with everyone, managers 
in position of authority can be demanding but not 
demeaning, being humble & service-oriented and having 
an attitude of learning. The Bank has a 24x7 emergency 
helpline, accessible to all employees of the Bank. This 
helpline facility has, over the years, provided crucial 
support to employees and their immediate family members 
during exigencies. To cater to emergencies, the Bank also 
has a dedicated Quick Response Team (QRT) to assist 
employees if they are in any distress. Each QRT is a 
GPS-enabled vehicle, equipped with a stretcher and 
other equipment.
To facilitate quick medical attention for employees in 
medical emergencies, the Bank has tie-ups with more 
than 100 hospitals in key cities across the country. The 
Bank also provides comprehensive insurance coverage for 
HUMAN CAPITAL 
54
Annual Report 2022-23 

all employees, across all grades. Group insurance facility 
includes both the Personal Accidental Insurance Scheme 
as well as the Group Life Insurance Scheme. The Bank also 
facilitates a Parental Insurance Scheme at preferential 
rates for its employees. 
ICICI Bank has also set in place a robust grievance handling 
mechanism to ensure that it is accessible to all employees. 
Known as I-Care, this centralised and dedicated team 
is equipped to handle employee queries and strives to 
provide a speedy resolution.
The Bank's philosophy of meritocracy and equal 
opportunity has led to a significant number of key 
positions being held by women employees over the last 
two decades. Conscious of life stage needs and safety of 
women employees, a range of benefits and policies have 
been curated. In addition to maternity leave, employees 
have access to child care leave and adoption leave. The 
Bank has a Travel Accompaniment Policy which allows 
women with young children to be accompanied by their 
child and a caregiver during official travel, with the cost 
borne by the Bank. 
The Bank also has a policy designed to provide financial 
support to employees who have children with special 
needs. Under this policy, the Bank covers expenses 
incurred on improving the quality of life of employee’s 
children 
with 
special 
needs 
through 
specialised 
education (at home or through a special-needs school), 
specialised therapy, specialised equipment and periodic 
treatment, if required (at hospital or at home).
At the Bank, sexual harassment cases are handled as 
per the guidelines set under The Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & 
HUMAN CAPITAL 
Redressal) Act, 2013. The Bank has created awareness 
about the Act through mandatory e-learning at the time 
of induction. The Bank also regularly communicates 
with employees regarding the mechanism for raising 
complaints and the need for right conduct by all 
employees. The policy ensures that all such complaints are 
handled promptly and effectively with utmost sensitivity 
and confidentiality, and are resolved within defined 
timelines. For other workplace issues, the Bank has a 
structured mechanism to resolve them. The Call@I-Care 
provides employees with a platform to deal with their 
queries and concerns.
EMPLOYEE CONNECT AND 
ENGAGEMENT
ICICI Bank believes in creating a culture of free and 
open conversations. Forums of engagement have been 
created where employees can engage with senior 
leadership of the Bank and seek clarification on policy 
and strategy.
Leadership Engagement Sessions
The Bank's senior management regularly engages with 
employees physically and virtually to emphasise the 
Bank’s cultural anchors including ethical conduct, 
adherence to regulations and compliance. Business 
centre visits are also an important part of the 
communication 
agenda. 
Employees 
are 
also 
kept 
updated on the strategy and performance and progress 
of the Bank through quarterly engagement on financial 
performance 
by 
the 
Executive 
Director 
with 
the 
leadership team. 
Coffee & Conversation
Through the initiative of 'Coffee and Conversation', 
supervisors and HR managers engage with their teams 
and new joiners on a regular basis. They cover different 
areas like ICICI Bank's culture, importance of respect and 
dignity in all engagements, and abiding by internal policy 
commitments on diversity and human rights. 
I-Engage
Onboarding sessions are conducted by Business and 
HR managers to induct all new hires to the Bank's culture 
and systems.
EMPOWERING WOMEN EMPLOYEES
Maternity 
Leave
Child Care
Leave
Fertility Leave
Adoption Leave
Travel  
Accompaniment
55
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
ICICI Bank is committed to nurturing and promoting a culture of diversity, equity and inclusion. Our inclusive 
culture, free from any biases, enables employees to work effectively. 
To maintain our culture of diversity and equity, the objectives of our DE&I initiatives are: 
•	
Promote a culture of DE&I (Diversity, Equity & Inclusion) across the Bank
•	
Ensure that ICICI continues to be an employer for diverse groups 
•	
Maintain an environment of inclusion for all its employees 
•	
Maintain a culture of no discrimination 
The Bank is also committed to promote and respect human rights. The Bank has put in place policies to 
provide an enabling and harassment-free work environment that respects and upholds individual dignity. 
The Bank's Human Rights Policy is aligned with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights (UNGP) and International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work. 
HUMAN CAPITAL 
Communication banners
Investment declaration
Leave/muster
DIGITAL@HR
To deliver superior service at scale, our ethos of care and our strength of technology came together to craft an intuitive 
and seamless experience for our employees. 
Geo-fencing sign-in
Birthday feature
As an integrated workplace technology solution 
for HR and business transactions, the ‘Universe on 
the Move' (UOTM) mobile application makes life 
simple for employees every day – helping employees 
complete HR and business transactions on the go. 
Most employee services are available easily through 
the Universe on the Move app at the click of a button. 
What makes UOTM unique is that it also integrates 
business transactions – such as facility to provide 
business approvals or logging customer leads – in a 
seamless manner.
Universe on the Move – the employee app
Lead  
creation
Corporate  
ecosystem vault
iMaintain
ATM  
feedback
Business enablers
Features
56
Annual Report 2022-23 

LEARNING MATRIX – AI-ENABLED LEARNING ON THE GO
Learning Matrix
For 
any 
learning-focussed 
organisation, 
constant 
skilling, re-skilling, up-skilling and capability building 
are key factors to enable employees to serve evolving 
customer needs. The Learning Matrix is an AI-enabled 
digital learning platform with a rich online library and 
with features like leaderboard, social learning and 
access to curated open content. This AI-powered 
platform recommends personalised learning programmes 
and helps curate content based on in-platform feedback. 
The Learning Matrix offers an intuitive and engaging 
learning experience to employees on the go.
ICICI Careers
To attract the best talent, the Bank has created a 
digital careers platform to provide aspirants a seamless 
experience from the application stage to the onboarding 
stage. Candidates can easily apply for relevant jobs at the 
click of a button and be updated with real-time progress 
of their job application. At any juncture, candidates can 
reach out for support – through a comprehensive service 
platform integrating chat, calls and emails offering a 
seamless journey to aspiring ICICIans.
ICICI Bank Alumni Portal
The ICICI Bank Alumni Portal is a digital platform which 
provides ex-employees with a smooth relieving experience 
and access to important documentation after their exit 
from the Bank.
As employee needs evolve, the Bank is committed to 
serve employees with passion and care.
Easier search & recommendation
Learning calendar 
Social learning
Feedback surveys
Leaderboard for learners
AI-curated open content
HUMAN CAPITAL 
57
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
An ongoing engagement with our stakeholders is important for the 
Bank to understand matters relevant to them and create sustainable 
value for all.
The Bank continuously endeavours to understand 
the concerns and opinions expressed by stakeholders 
and respond to them promptly. 
The Bank holds regular interactions with customers, 
investors, employees, regulators and engages with 
communities and banking associations to remain informed.
A farmer in Daska 
village in Sangrur 
district, Punjab 
removing stubble 
from his field. 
Solar panel 
installation 
in a school at 
Mawbri village 
in Ribhoi district, 
Meghalya.
A beneficiary 
of the ‘Oilseed 
Value Chain’ at a 
sunflower farm at 
Dhanora village 
in Latur district, 
Maharashtra.
Trainees during 
a session at ICICI 
Academy for Skills 
in Bengaluru.
CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT THROUGH CSR
58
Annual Report 2022-23 

Customers
Shareholders/Investors
ENGAGING WITH OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
We are committed to understanding the requirements and expectations of our customers, and continuously 
engage with them to shape Customer 360° experiences.
How Do We Engage
We engage through multiple channels like 
their interaction with our frontline employees, 
structured surveys for seeking feedback, 
customer meets organised at business centres 
and channels available for raising queries and 
grievances.
Subjects considered important by our 
customers:
•	
Convenience 
•	
Responsive, skilled and considerate staff 
•	
Availability of relevant products and 
services
•	
Quick resolution of queries, requests 
raised and grievance redressal
Our Response
The Bank has put in place mechanisms to ensure customer 
needs are appropriately addressed and right-selling of 
products and services are ensured. Reiterating the principle 
of 'Fair to Customer, Fair to the Bank' in every communication 
to employees, the approach is to only offer products that 
meet requirements of a customer. In the past, the Bank has 
withdrawn products that could potentially lead to mis-selling 
and inconvenience the customer. In line with the above principle, 
the Bank has also moderated prepayment fee for certain 
products/segments.
The Bank has a dedicated customer service team focussed 
on improving process efficiency, reducing customer effort and 
leveraging technology to enhance customer experience and 
response time. This is accompanied with continuous upskilling 
and knowledge building of staff. The Bank strongly follows a 
policy of zero tolerance to unethical conduct by employees.
We believe that engaging with our shareholders and investors is important to understand market priorities 
and drive business outcomes that can lead to sustainable value-creation for all stakeholders.
How Do We Engage
There is continuous engagement with our 
investors and shareholders either through the 
annual general meeting, periodic conference 
calls, analyst day event, emails or one-to-one 
interactions. The Bank also has mechanisms 
to address queries and grievances of our 
shareholders and investors. 
Subjects considered important by our 
shareholders/investors:
•	
Shareholder value creation
•	
Medium and long-term strategy
•	
Governance and ethical practices
•	
Compliance
•	
Transparency
•	
Disclosure of non-financial metrics like 
ESG
Our Response
During fiscal 2023, the Bank significantly improved the return 
on capital to shareholders. The Investor Relations team 
provides details on the performance and strategic objectives 
of the Bank during quarterly result calls and endeavours 
to enhance disclosures in the investor presentations on 
an ongoing basis depending on market conditions and 
investors’ feedback. Continuous engagement is ensured 
including meetings with the senior management. The team 
also facilitates engagement with investors on topics like 
Environmental, Social and Governance to provide insights 
with regards to sustainability in the Bank’s own operations 
and management of climate-related financial risks.
59
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

Society
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Regulators
The Bank is committed to contributing towards socio-economic development and, for the larger benefit of the 
society, is undertaking corporate social responsibility activities across the length and breadth of the country.
How Do We Engage
The Bank set up its philanthropic arm, ICICI  
Foundation for Inclusive Growth (ICICI 
Foundation), in 2008 for addressing critical 
gaps in socio-economic development, 
particularly in rural areas in India. Rural 
development initiatives are also being 
undertaken directly through the Bank's efforts 
in promoting financial inclusion and inclusive 
growth. ICICI Foundation, through its team of 
about 800 people at the end of fiscal 2023, 
extensively engages with local authorities and 
people to understand needs and development 
gaps. 
Subjects considered important by local 
authorities:
•	
The key asks have been to address need 
for health facilities, overcome water 
shortage and prevent environment 
degradation
Our Response
During fiscal 2023, the Bank spent `4.63 billion  
towards CSR activities, and complied with the CSR rules under 
the Companies Act, 2013. Environment and healthcare were 
important focus areas for the Bank's CSR activities. Extensive 
work was undertaken in the areas of watershed management, 
rainwater harvesting, promoting environment conservation 
and supporting healthcare facilities and access to affordable 
treatments. 
As a large financial institution, the Bank recognises the 
importance of engaging with its value chain partners on ESG. In 
fiscal 2023, the Bank developed a supplier code of conduct and 
also checklists on ESG factors for onboarding of new vendors. 
The Bank has started engaging with its vendors to sensitise 
and build awareness regarding ESG, the need for adopting 
green procurement standards and promote social factors like 
human rights, diversity, equity and inclusion. 
Being a systemically important bank in India, ensuring resilience and stability is important for the Bank.
How Do We Engage
Our engagement with the regulators is 
ongoing, through periodic meetings and other 
forms of communications like emails, letters, 
etc. The Bank also engages constructively 
in policy forums organised by the regulator 
and also respond to policy-related discussion 
papers issued by the regulator. 
Subjects considered important by regulator:
•	
Fair treatment of customers and grievance 
redressal
•	
Anti-money laundering and fraud risk
•	
Operational risk including IT and 
cybersecurity risk
•	
Financial stability and resilience
•	
Data, information and reporting quality
Our Response
The Bank has a dedicated team for communicating with 
regulators and responding to their specific requirements in a 
time-bound manner. The Bank has well-defined processes and 
is leveraging technology to ensure monitoring and compliance 
to regulatory developments. The Bank has increased focus on 
building resilience and also participates in initiatives undertaken 
by the regulator.
60
Annual Report 2022-23 

CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
During fiscal 2023, the Bank spent `4.63 billion 
towards CSR activities. Major focus areas for CSR 
were healthcare, environment, societal development 
and supporting sustainable livelihoods. The Bank’s 
philanthropic arm, the ICICI Foundation for Inclusive 
Growth (ICICI Foundation), has been the primary 
implementing partner and for undertaking desired 
socio-economic interventions. Over the years, ICICI 
Foundation has developed capabilities to understand 
requirements at the grassroot level and designing 
activities or projects to create maximum impact. These 
projects range from addressing issues of resource 
shortages, value chain development for agricultural 
products 
to 
imparting 
skilled 
training 
in 
smart 
agricultural practices and other areas. 
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Employees
For more details on the Bank's HR practices, please refer to page 52 and the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report. 
Brood lac distribution to the beneficiaries of 'Lac Value Chain' 
at Burhabahera village in Ranchi district, Jharkhand.
Employees are the most important capital for the success of our strategy and growth of the organisation. 
We believe in providing an inclusive workplace, driven by meritocracy and equal opportunities to all.
How Do We Engage
Engagement with employees was through 
various platforms including townhall sessions 
with Directors, periodic communication 
meetings and business centre visits by senior 
leaders, an employee app, Universe on the 
Move and query raising portal. 
Subjects considered important by our 
employees:
•	
Risk and compliance culture
•	
Enabling work culture with opportunities 
for growth and learning
•	
Culture of experimentation
•	
Meritocracy
•	
Responsive grievance handling process
Our Response
In the last two years, the Bank has significantly reorganised 
its workforce with new roles aligned to market opportunities. 
Promoting job rotation and encouraging employees to move 
across roles is helping the Bank in providing career growth to 
employees. The Bank believes in giving responsibility to young 
capable professionals ahead of time and support them in their 
next career move early on in their career. Learning and skill 
development is an important value proposition provided to 
employees. The focus of skill development initiatives is on  
digital, functional and behavioural learning. The Bank has a 
fair compensation policy which aligns rewards with prudent 
risk taking. Care and well-being of employees is a key focus 
area and the Bank has established policies in this regard. The 
Bank has a culture where employees can raise issues freely 
and expect their grievances/concerns will be handled in a 
sensitive manner.
61
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

Through these activities, ICICI Foundation has impacted 
the lives of about 10.9 million people across the length 
and breadth of the country. The efforts have been taken 
in 250 districts spread across the 36 states and union 
territories of India. Projects in areas like watershed 
management, value chain enhancement, afforestation, 
sanitation, skilling, responsible waste management 
and others have been taken up in 38 districts out of 
the 112 districts identified under the Government's 
Aspirational Districts Programme. 
Some major efforts in the areas of health and 
environment during fiscal 2023 were as follows:
Affordable and Accessible Healthcare
Healthcare came into sharper focus following the 
Covid-19 pandemic, when the need to significantly 
strengthen the health infrastructure in the country was 
recognised. Through the ICICI Foundation, the Bank 
continued to take several measures like providing 
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
FOUR MAJOR FOCUS AREAS OF ICICI FOUNDATION
Affordable and Accessible Healthcare
Providing ambulances, healthcare 
equipment and supporting treatment to 
underprivileged individuals
Inclusive Approach for Societal 
Development
Promoting education, sports, 
entrepreneurship, support to armed 
forces, disaster relief and projects 
undertaken in aspirational districts
Sustainable Environment and Ecology
Tree plantation, sustainable forests, 
watershed management, rainwater 
harvesting and promoting renewable 
energy capacity
Income Growth of Underprivileged
Skill development in urban and rural 
areas, value chain development, climate 
smart agriculture, Rural Self-Employment 
Training Institutes
Dialysis machine donated at Sidhagiri Hospital in Kolhapur, Maharashtra.
62
Annual Report 2022-23 

ambulances, 
blood 
donation 
and 
blood 
transport 
vehicles, dialysis machines and other health equipment 
to government and charitable institutions. Support 
was provided to underprivileged individuals for cancer 
care, bone marrow transplant, eye checkups and organ 
transplants. During fiscal 2023, over 200 hospitals and 
over 800,000 individuals benefitted from our healthcare 
initiatives. 
The Bank has committed to support the Tata Memorial 
Centre (TMC) for expanding cancer treatment facility in 
the country. The commitment of `12 billion over the next 
four years is towards three centres being established 
in Maharashtra, Punjab and Andhra Pradesh, and is 
expected to double the capacity for treatment by TMC.
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Sustainable Environment and Ecology
Environmental and ecological protection has become 
a critical developmental need for India, as several 
regions face challenges of water shortage, decline in 
soil quality and productivity of crops, and the need to 
increase forest cover and create carbon sinks. The team 
at ICICI Foundation engages with the local authorities 
and administration to understand the challenges and 
evaluate corrective measures that could be undertaken. 
Several projects relating to water conservation and 
rejuvenating water bodies have been undertaken. In 
fiscal 2023, the water body rejuvenation implemented 
projects had the potential for harvesting 8.4 billion litres 
per annum of water, and rainwater harvesting projects 
undertaken at 3,500 rural government schools had the 
potential to harvest 740 million litres of water. Overall, 
till date ICICI Foundation’s efforts has created 17.1 billion 
litres of water harvesting potential in the country, much 
of which are in water scarce areas. 
Blood donation camp organised at ICICI Bank's zonal office in 
Jaipur, Rajasthan.
Distribution of smokeless cookstove, as part of a green initiative, 
at Kunariya village in Kutch district, Gujarat.
63
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

`1.84 billion
`1.06 billion
`0.76 billion
`0.74 billion
Sustainable environment and ecology 
Affordable and accessible healthcare 
Income growth of underprivileged 
Inclusive approach for societal development 
The Bank’s CSR expenses in the four major areas  
during fiscal 2023 were:
More than 2.6 million trees have been planted till date 
and interventions in 42 forest reserves have been made 
by way of creating water bodies, habitat restoration, 
weed removal and addressing man-wildlife conflicts 
and protect biodiversity. 
For more details on ICICI Foundation’s activities, refer to the 
Bank’s ESG Report for fiscal 2023. 
 
FINANCIAL INCLUSION AND 
RURAL DEVELOPMENT 
INITIATIVES
There are specific segments of the rural economy that 
require a more supportive and sensitive response to 
their financial requirements and the Bank has taken 
initiatives to address the needs of such segments. The 
Self-Help Groups (SHGs) programme is an initiative that 
has contributed to entrepreneurship among women in the 
rural areas. A comprehensive suite of banking products, 
including zero-balance savings account and term loans, 
for meeting the business requirements of the women 
of these SHGs is provided. Services are offered at their 
doorstep, thus saving their time, money and effort to visit 
the closest business centre. 
ICICI Bank is also organising financial literacy camps 
and has set up dedicated service desks at select 
business centres to guide SHGs on banking procedures. 
There has been a gradual rise in entrepreneurial 
ventures by women in the areas where the Bank has 
been providing such services to SHGs. In addition to 
direct efforts in reaching out to SHGs, the Bank has tied 
up with about 546 non-government organisations 
called Self-Help Promoting Institutions (SHPIs).
The Bank has provided loans to women beneficiaries 
through over 785,000 SHG loans until March 31, 2023. 
Of these, 337,000 SHGs were ‘first time borrowers’, 
who had not taken a loan from any formal financial 
institution. In addition to direct customers, the Bank 
reaches out to about 2.5 million customers through 
microfinance institutions. The Bank also provides lending 
to Joint Liability Groups (JLGs), which are semi-formal 
groups from the weaker sections of society, through 
microfinance companies. The lending activities are 
undertaken within the overall framework prescribed by 
the RBI. The Bank also offers credit-related services to 
microfinance companies for onward lending to the rural 
population.
At March 31, 2023, the Bank had over 21.1 million Basic 
Savings Bank Deposit Accounts (BSBDA), of which 
around 4.4 million accounts were opened under the 
Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. The Bank encourages 
and enables these account holders to transact digitally.
Lantena, a non-edible weed, being removed at the Bandipur 
Tiger Reserve in Karnataka to help promote the growth of 
native plants and provide wildlife with access to food.
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
64
Annual Report 2022-23 

Digital Banking Unit (DBU)
Technology has played a key enabler in fostering financial 
inclusion. The delivery of financial services in remote 
unbanked 
and 
under-banked 
areas 
has 
been 
made possible due to digitisation. In fiscal 2023, 
the Government of India announced the launch of 
Digital Banking Units (DBU) with the objective of 
encouraging customers to undertake and experience the 
benefits of digital transactions. The DBUs are primarily 
fixed-point business units for delivering digital banking 
products and services, with most services made available 
in self-service mode. The Bank set up four such DBUs 
which were launched in October 2022. 
Key performance parameters of the DBUs during October 2022-March 2023 were as follows:
List of Activities
Number
No. of accounts opened
326
No. of credit cards
181
No. of loans
52
Count of financial transactions
33,444
Count of non-financial transactions
2,068
No. of frauds
Nil
No. of grievances received
6
No. of digital awareness/literacy camps arranged
51
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
65
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY
The Bank is committed to adapting to emerging trends that will 
shape the nation's transition to a low-carbon economy, with 
appropriate assessment of risks and opportunities in delivering on 
the objectives.
The 
Bank's 
efforts 
in 
promoting 
environmental 
sustainability is in three strategic areas including 
sustainable financing, in its own operations and 
corporate social responsibility. 
SUSTAINABLE FINANCING
During fiscal 2023, the Bank made further efforts to 
embed sustainable financing in its business strategy. 
Consideration of Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) aspect in the Bank’s lending decisions and risk 
management framework are important factors and 
various approaches have been implemented. The Social 
and Environmental Management Framework (SEMF) 
requires analysis of specific environmental and social 
risks as part of the overall credit appraisal process for 
assessing new project financing proposals. Key elements 
of the assessment include screening through an exclusion 
list drawn broadly from guidance by the International 
Finance Corporation (IFC) and the list of highly polluting 
sectors published by the Ministry of Environment, 
Forests & Climate Change (MOEFCC) in India, seeking a 
declaration from borrowers and independent due 
diligence as per the criteria defined in the SEMF.
As part of the credit evaluation process for all large 
corporate lending proposals, borrower ESG scores from 
external agencies, if available, are considered. Further, 
the Bank has developed sector-specific checklists 
to facilitate assessment of ESG and climate-related 
physical and transition risks that a borrower in 
sectors like power, transportation, cement, steel and 
others could be exposed to. This helps the Bank in 
profiling borrowers as ‘High’, ‘Medium’ and ‘Low’, based 
on their ESG-related risks and maturity in terms of 
policies and processes deployed to address these risks. 
During fiscal 2023, the Bank developed a framework for 
Sustainable Financing, aimed at providing guidance on 
green/social (sustainable) / sustainability-linked lending. It 
outlines the methodology and associated procedures to 
be uniformly applied to classify financial products and 
services offered by the Bank as sustainable finance. The 
framework specifies the eligibility criteria, the applicable 
due diligence requirements and the verification process 
for sustainable finance. The framework also aims to 
establish a consistent and comprehensive methodology 
for the classification and reporting of the Bank’s credit 
facilities as sustainable.
At March 31, 2023, the Bank's outstanding portfolio to 
sectors like renewable energy, electric vehicles, green 
certified real estate, waste management, water and 
sanitation, positive impact sectors like small-scale khadi, 
handicrafts and lending to weaker section under priority 
sector norms was about `556.00 billion. Of this, the 
green financing portfolio accounted for about 21.4%.
SUSTAINABLE FINANCING
66
Annual Report 2022-23 

ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY
ADDRESSING CLIMATE-RELATED 
RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Climate change and its impact on the economy and 
financial systems is a tangible risk and requires close 
monitoring. The Bank’s approach to analysing climate 
risks include developing methods to integrate climate risk 
in the risk management framework and begin testing the 
resilience of the lending portfolio to climate risks which 
can be categorised into transition and physical risks.
The Bank has formulated an approach to address risks 
emanating from climate change, as part of its Climate 
Risk Management Framework. The scope of the 
framework comprises assessment of impact of climate 
change on the Bank’s own operations, climate risk 
management of the Bank’s loan book and integration of 
material climate risks into the existing risk management 
framework. The framework will be periodically reviewed 
for aligning with regulatory guidance on climate risks. 
As climate risk management is at a nascent stage in the 
Indian banking industry and regulations in this regard 
are being formulated, the Bank will ensure that gradually 
the approaches evolve and get refined for integration of 
climate risk management within the risk management 
framework.
Further, 
the 
rapidly 
evolving 
regulations, 
policies, 
technology and law on climate change and climate 
action could significantly impact lending practices 
as well as enhance associated risks for the Bank. 
Navigating through this dynamic environment is crucial 
for the Bank's sustainable growth. The Bank will pro-
actively integrate these risks into the Bank's credit 
evaluation process. Further, risks could arise with 
changing investor and customer expectations. The Bank 
is cognisant of transition from fossil fuel-based energy 
to renewable sources, and will capitalise on business 
opportunities in this transition based on selection of 
counterparty and appropriate risk-return in accordance 
with the Enterprise Risk Management framework. 
The Bank has emphasised the need to sharpening the 
focus on measuring its carbon footprint. During fiscal 
2023, evaluating Scope 3 emissions in own operations 
was taken up and the Bank is considering various pilot 
projects to assess key data and information requirements 
for calculating carbon and GHG (Greenhouse Gas) 
emissions in accordance with established protocols.
Own Operations
Sustainable Financing
Risk Management
The Bank is working towards 
reducing its Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions. A roadmap to reduce 
Scope 2 emissions and the 
overall emission intensity is being 
pursued. The Bank is in the process 
of evaluating Scope 3 emissions 
from own operations. The Bank is  
working towards identifying and 
putting in place the elements 
required to achieve carbon 
neutrality in own operations. 
The Bank has developed a framework 
for Sustainable Financing, which 
provides guidance on eligibility criteria 
for sustainable/sustainability-linked 
lending, guidance on assessment of 
facilities, monitoring and reporting 
of such facilities. This is the first step 
towards bringing sharper focus in the 
Bank's sustainable lending practices. 
The Bank is also committed to 
extending its expertise to customers 
that are transitioning to decarbonise 
their business activities. 
The Bank has formulated an approach 
to address risks emanating from 
climate change, as part of a Climate 
Risk Management Framework  
which comprises assessment of 
impact of climate change on the 
Bank’s own operations, climate risk 
management of the Bank’s loan 
book and integration of material 
climate risks into the existing risk 
management framework.
The Bank has been participating  
in pilots conducted by the regulator 
to evaluate impact of climate-related 
financial risks on the Indian  
banking sector. 
Key Focus Areas for Addressing Climate Risks
67
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

To facilitate the above initiatives in the Bank, developing 
proficiency in understanding ESG-related risks and 
opportunities, and evaluation of ESG/climate-related 
risks has been embedded into the training imparted to 
a core team within the risk management group and 
other critical functions.
ENVIRONMENTAL SENSITIVITY IN 
OWN OPERATIONS
The Bank's ESG Policy emphasises its commitment to 
conduct business sustainably and efficiently, thereby 
reducing the environmental impact from own premises 
and operations. The key areas of focus are digitisation, 
minimising GHG emissions, energy conservation, water 
conservation, waste management and sustainable 
procurement. 
During fiscal 2023, efforts were further expanded to 
identify and address critical areas to decarbonise own 
operations. Some key efforts included:
•	
The Bank has shifted to use of electric vehicles 
for transport of Bank's staff at specific locations 
where call-centres are present. On an average, 
about 66,000 kms is covered every month which 
provides an abatement of approximately 15 tCO2e* 
on a monthly basis.
•	
The Bank has commissioned a 500 litres per day 
capacity 
machine 
for 
converting 
atmospheric 
moisture into clean potable water at one of the data 
centres. The water-from-air system is approved by 
the Environmental Protection Training and Research 
Institute as an environment-friendly technology. The 
machine produces approximately 350 litres of water 
per day and has significantly eliminated reliance on 
packaged drinking water.
•	
The Bank has set up charging stations for electric 
vehicles at the ICICI Service Centre (Corporate Office) 
and the learning centre at Khandala. Both these are 
in Maharashtra. 
•	
To 
strengthen 
engagement 
of 
the 
Bank’s 
Infrastructure Management and Services Group 
(IMSG) with vendors on ESG and sustainability, the 
Bank has developed a Suppliers' Code of Conduct. 
The Code encourages vendors to adopt sustainable 
practices like efficient use of energy and water, 
waste management, and embed good practices like 
occupational health and safety, human rights and 
others in their operations. 
•	
The Bank has developed Green Procurement 
standards to promote purchase of environment-
friendly goods. 
•	
The Bank has shifted to using FSC (Forest 
Stewardship Council) certified recycled paper for 
pre-print forms at its branches. This provides about 
37% reduction in carbon emissions compared to 
conventional paper. 
•	
The Bank increased the proportion of renewable 
energy in total electricity consumption from 7.0% in 
fiscal 2022 to 9.0% in fiscal 2023.
The charging station for electric vehicles at ICICI Service Centre 
in Bandra-Kurla Complex, Mumbai.
ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY
*tCO2e - Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
68
Annual Report 2022-23 

ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY
•	
ICICI Bank’s largest office premise at Gachibowli 
in Hyderabad, was awarded the ‘Platinum’ rating 
in the Green Existing Building category by the 
IGBC* (Indian Green Building Council). The rating 
is focussed on sustained performance of buildings 
with respect to the enabling of green features which 
includes sourcing of 100% electricity from renewable 
energy sources, 100% recycling and reuse of the 
waste water, 3-stage high efficiency air filtration 
system to improve indoor air quality, at least 70% 
recycling and reuse of food waste and adoption of 
electric vehicle fleet for transportation. With this, by 
the end of fiscal 2023, about 4.42 million square feet 
(34% of the Bank’s total own area) is IGBC green 
certified, up from 2.28 million square feet at the end 
of fiscal 2019.
To 
facilitate 
the 
above, 
in 
addition 
to 
creating 
awareness within the IMSG and training the relevant 
team members, engagement with vendors of IMSG was 
undertaken during fiscal 2023 to create awareness 
about the Bank's approach on adoption of sustainable 
practices and to communicate the Bank’s intent to 
evaluate them on environmental and social factors.
ICICI Bank office at Gachibowli, Hyderabad, rated 'Platinum' by 
IGBC in 'Green Existing Building' category (inset: IGBC Plaque).
Promoting Environment and Sustainability Through CSR
As part of CSR initiatives being carried out through ICICI Foundation, ICICI Bank has extensively 
supported efforts for environmental protection and improving biodiversity. Projects have been executed 
in the areas of water conservation, forest conservation and afforestation and protecting biodiversity, 
which are contributing towards restoring ecological balance in the areas of intervention. 
Additionally, projects have been undertaken to significantly abate carbon emissions. These include: 
•	
Working with farmers in 600 villages in northern India to stop burning crop residue/stubble that 
causes significant pollution during October-November every year. Through the efforts, these 
villages have been freed from pollution caused by the stubble (Parali) burning, and creating a 
positive impact of abating 1.92 million tonnes of CO2 emissions and 0.19 million tonnes of carbon 
monoxide. The impact and emission reduction was assessed by Punjab Agricultural University. 
•	
As part of waste management initiatives, about 200 electric vehicles were provided to civic 
authorities for garbage collection. This averted at least 500 tonnes of CO2 emissions during the year.
There are several other interventions as part of CSR activities, where the Bank has not evaluated the 
impact on reduction of GHG emissions.
*The Indian Green Building Council (IGBC), part of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), is the country’s premier body for green 
building certification. The ratings are awarded based on assessment of energy efficiency, use of renewable energy, water conservation, 
waste management, indoor air quality and sustainable sourcing of material. IGBC rating levels (in ascending order) are: Certified, Silver, 
Gold and Platinum.
69
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY
GHG EMISSIONS IN OWN 
OPERATIONS
The Bank continued with its practice to get an 
independent assurance of the Bank’s Scope 11 and 
Scope 22 emissions undertaken. For fiscal 2023, the 
limited assurance assignment was taken up by DNV 
Business Assurance India Private Limited for the Bank’s 
operations being carried out at its towers, data centres, 
business centres and offices. The limited assurance of 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for fiscal 2022 was 
conducted by TUV India Private Limited.
1 Scope 1 emissions include CO2 emissions from the combustion of fuel in diesel-generating sets and company-owned vehicles, 
emissions due to loss of refrigerants and emissions due to CO2 based fire extinguishers. The emissions from diesel-generating sets was 
estimated using the spend-based method. The emissions from fire extinguishers and owned vehicles was based on actual consumption.
2 Scope 2 emissions are due to electricity purchased from the grid. The estimation was based on actual consumption of electricity, and 
using the grid emission factor published by the Central Electricity Authority, India.
3 Scope 3 emissions have been estimated for business-related travel by employees through modes like aircraft, train, buses, and cars. 
Emissions from hotel stay during such travel is not included. As per internal estimates, air travel contributed the highest emissions 
followed by car travel. For the purpose, DEFRA (Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) 2022 emission factors have been 
considered.
4 tCO2e - Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
5 One Full Time Equivalent (FTE) employee - One full time employee working on a full time schedule over the year.
During fiscal 2023, the Bank expanded its efforts 
to identify and address critical areas to decarbonise 
its operations
The Bank’s GHG emissions in its own operations in fiscal 
2023 were:
Emission Category
Value (tCO2e4)
Owned cars (Scope 1)
4.53
High speed diesel consumption in 
DGs (Scope 1)
6,413.64
Refrigerant emissions (Scope 1)
16,552.92
Fire extinguishers (Scope 1)
844.12
Electricity purchased (Scope 2)
125,950.45
In ‘000 tCO2e
Fiscal 
2021
Fiscal 
2022
Fiscal 
2023
Scope 1
23
26
24
Scope 2
114
116
126
Scope 33 (business travel)
-
-
18
Total
137
142
168
Emission intensity for total 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 (in 
tCO2e per ` crore turnover)
1.40
1.36
1.16
Emissions intensity for total 
Scope 1 and Scope 2  
(in tCO2e per FTE5 employee)
1.39
1.35
1.16
While the Bank is yet to announce a target for 
carbon neutrality/net zero, the above efforts are a 
reflection of the deep-rooted commitment to managing 
the impact of our operations on the environment.
70
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting the Twenty-Ninth Annual Report of ICICI Bank Limited (ICICI Bank/the Bank) 
along with the audited financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
The financial performance for fiscal 2023 is summarised in the following table:
` in billion, except percentages
Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023
% change
Net interest income and non-interest income
650.80
820.12
26.0%
Operating expenses
267.33
328.73
23.0%
Core operating profit
383.47
491.39
28.1%
Provisions and contingencies (excluding tax)
86.41
66.66
(22.9)%
Profit before tax excluding treasury gains
297.06
424.73
43.0%
Treasury gains
9.03
(0.52)
(105.8)%
Profit before tax
306.09
424.21
38.6%
Tax
72.70
105.25
44.8%
Profit after tax
233.39
318.96
36.7%
` in billion, except percentages
Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023
% change
Consolidated profit before tax and minority interest
349.96
472.55
35.0%
Consolidated profit after tax and minority interest
251.10
340.37
35.6%
DIVIDEND
Your Bank has a consistent dividend payment history. Your Bank’s Dividend Distribution Policy is based on the profitability 
and key financial metrics, capital position & requirements and the regulations pertaining to the payment of dividend. The 
Board of Directors has recommended a dividend of ` 8.00 per equity share for the year ended March 31, 2023.
APPROPRIATIONS
The Bank has appropriated accumulated profit as follows:
` in billion
Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023
Profit after tax
233.39
318.96
Profit brought forward
310.09
436.71
Accumulated profit (before appropriations)
543.48
755.67
Appropriations:
To Statutory Reserve, making in all ` 435.78 billion
58.35
79.74
To Special Reserve created and maintained in terms of Section 36(1)(viii) of 
the Income Tax Act, 1961, making in all ` 154.49 billion
15.00
25.65
To Capital Reserve, making in all ` 150.42 billion
15.741
0.88
To Investment Fluctuation Reserve, making in all ` 21.76 billion2
3.83
1.04
To Revenue and other reserves, making in all ` 109.37 billion
0.00
50.00
Dividend paid on equity shares3
13.85
34.79
Balance carried over to balance sheet
436.71
563.57
1 The Bank had shifted certain securities from held-to-maturity (HTM) category to available-for-sale (AFS) category on May 3, 2017. 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) through its order dated May 3, 2021 directed the Bank to appropriate the net profit made on sale of these 
investments during fiscal 2018 to capital reserve. Accordingly, an amount of ` 15.09 billion was transferred from balance in profit and 
loss account to capital reserve during fiscal 2022.
71
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
2 Represents an amount transferred to Investment Fluctuation 
Reserve (IFR) on net profit on sale of AFS and held-for-trading 
(HFT) investments during the period. The amount not less 
than the lower of net profit on sale of AFS and HFT category 
investments during the year or net profit for the year less 
mandatory appropriations is required to be transferred to 
IFR, until the amount of IFR is at least 2% of the HFT and AFS 
portfolio. The Bank can draw down balance available in IFR in 
excess of 2% of its AFS and HFT portfolio.
3 Represent dividend declared for previous financial year and paid 
in current financial year.
The Bank prepares its financial statements in accordance 
with the applicable accounting standards, RBI guidelines 
and other applicable laws/regulations. RBI, under its risk-
based supervision exercise, carries out the risk assessment 
of the Bank on an annual basis. This assessment is 
undertaken for the position at March 31, 2023. As a 
part of this assessment, RBI separately reviews asset 
classification and provisioning of credit facilities given 
by the Bank to its borrowers. The divergences, if any, in 
classification or provisioning arising out of the supervisory 
process are given effect to in the financial statements in 
subsequent periods after conclusion of the exercise.
In terms of the RBI circular no. DBR.BP.BC.No.32/ 
21.04.018/2018-19 dated April 1, 2019, banks are 
required to disclose the divergences in asset classification 
and provisioning consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory 
process in their notes to accounts to the financial 
statements, wherever either (a) the additional provisioning 
requirements assessed by RBI exceed 10% of the reported 
net profits before provisions and contingencies or (b) the 
additional gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 15% of the 
published incremental gross NPAs for the reference period, 
or both. Based on the condition mentioned in the RBI 
circular, no disclosure on divergence in asset classification 
and provisioning for NPAs is required with respect to RBI’s 
supervisory process for fiscal 2022.
SHARE CAPITAL
During the year under review, the Bank allotted 34,044,356 
equity shares of ` 2.00 each pursuant to exercise of stock 
options under the ICICI Bank Employees Stock Option 
Scheme - 2000. For details refer to Schedule 1 of the 
financial statements.
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES 
OR INVESTMENTS
Pursuant to Section 186(11) of the Companies Act, 
2013, the provisions of Section 186 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, except sub-section (1), do not apply to a 
loan made, guarantee given or security provided by a 
banking company in the ordinary course of business. The 
particulars of investments made by the Bank are disclosed 
in Schedule 8 of the financial statements as per the 
applicable provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
SUBSIDIARY, ASSOCIATE AND JOINT 
VENTURE COMPANIES
There was no change in the subsidiaries and associates 
of the Bank during fiscal 2023. The Bank does not have 
any joint venture company. As at March 31, 2023, your 
Bank had following subsidiaries (15) and associate (9) 
companies:
Name of the subsidiary company
% of shares held 
ICICI Bank UK PLC
100
ICICI Bank Canada
100
ICICI Securities Limited1
74.85
ICICI Securities Holdings, Inc.2
100
ICICI Securities, Inc.3
100
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership 
Limited
100
ICICI Venture Funds Management 
Company Limited
100
ICICI Home Finance Company 
Limited
100
ICICI Trusteeship Services Limited
100
ICICI Investment Management 
Company Limited
100
ICICI International Limited
100
ICICI Prudential Pension Funds 
Management Company Limited4
100
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance 
Company Limited
51.27
ICICI Prudential Asset Management 
Company Limited
51.00
ICICI Prudential Trust Limited
50.80
1 The Board of Directors of the Bank on June 29, 2023 have 
approved the draft scheme of arrangement for delisting of 
equity shares of ICICI Securities Limited (ISEC) by issuing equity 
shares of the Bank to the public shareholders of ISEC in lieu of 
cancellation of their equity shares in ISEC, thereby making ISEC 
a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank, in accordance with 
Chapter VI, Part C, Regulation 37 of the Securities and Exchange 
72
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021, 
subject to receipt of requisite approvals.
2 ICICI Securities Holdings, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of 
ICICI Securities Limited.
3 ICICI Securities, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of ICICI 
Securities Holdings, Inc.
4 ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company Limited 
is a wholly owned subsidiary of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance 
Company Limited.
Name of the associate company
% of shares held
ICICI Lombard General Insurance 
Company Limited1
48.02
I-Process Services (India) Private 
Limited2
19.00
NIIT Institute of Finance Banking and 
Insurance Training Limited
18.79
ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited
19.01
India Infradebt Limited
42.33
Arteria Technologies Private Limited
19.98
Rajasthan Asset Management 
Company Private Limited3
24.30
OTC Exchange of India3
20.00
Falcon Tyres Limited3
26.39
1 The Board of Directors of the Bank have approved an increase 
in shareholding in ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company 
Limited, in multiple tranches up to 4.0% additional shareholding, 
as permissible under applicable law, to ensure compliance with 
the Section 19(2) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and 
make it a subsidiary of the Bank, subject to receipt of necessary 
regulatory approval(s). The Bank would acquire atleast 2.5% 
stake out of the above 4.0% before September 9, 2024. As on 
the date of this Report, necessary approval(s) are awaited.
2 The Board of Directors of the Bank have approved the proposal 
for making I-Process Services (India) Private Limited a wholly-
owned subsidiary of the Bank, subject to receipt of requisite 
regulatory and statutory approval(s). As on the date of this 
Report, necessary approval(s) are awaited.
3 These companies are not considered as associates in the 
financial statements, in accordance with the provisions of 
AS 23 on ‘Accounting for Investments in Associates in 
Consolidated Financial Statements’.
HIGHLIGHTS OF PERFORMANCE OF 
SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT 
VENTURE COMPANIES AND THEIR 
CONTRIBUTION TO THE OVERALL 
PERFORMANCE OF THE COMPANY
The performance of subsidiaries and associates and 
their contribution to the overall performance of the Bank 
as on March 31, 2023 is given in “Consolidated Financial 
Statements of ICICI Bank Limited - Schedule 18 - Note 
12 - Additional information to consolidated accounts” of 
this Annual Report. A summary of key financials of the 
Bank’s subsidiaries is also given in “Statement Pursuant 
to Section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013” of this Annual 
Report.
The highlights of the performance of key subsidiaries are 
given as a part of Management’s Discussion & Analysis 
under the section “Consolidated financials as per Indian 
GAAP”.
The Bank will make available separate audited financial 
statements of the subsidiaries to any Member upon 
request. These documents/details will be available on the 
Bank's website at https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/
annual and will also be available for inspection by any 
Member or trustee of the holder of any debentures of the 
Bank. As required by Accounting Standard 21 (AS-21) 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, 
the Bank’s consolidated financial statements included 
in this Annual Report incorporate the accounts of its 
subsidiaries and other consolidating entities.
SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS 
PASSED BY THE REGULATORS OR COURTS 
OR TRIBUNALS IMPACTING THE GOING 
CONCERN STATUS OF THE COMPANY AND 
ITS FUTURE OPERATIONS
There are no significant and/or material orders passed by 
the regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going 
concern status or future operations of the Bank.
MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENT 
AFFECTING FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE 
BANK
There are no material changes and commitments affecting 
the financial position of the Bank which have occurred 
between the end of the financial year of the Bank to which 
the financial statements relate and the date of this Report.
DIRECTORS AND OTHER KEY MANAGERIAL 
PERSONNEL
Changes in the composition of the Board of 
Directors and other Key Managerial Personnel 
(KMP)
The Board at its Meeting held on April 23, 2022 and the 
Members at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on 
August 30, 2022 approved the appointment of Rakesh 
Jha as a Wholetime Director (designated as Executive 
73
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Director) for a period of five years effective May 1, 2022 or 
the date of approval of his appointment by RBI, whichever 
is later. Rakesh Jha ceased to be the Group Chief Financial 
Officer effective May 1, 2022 and consequently KMP. RBI, 
through its letter dated September 2, 2022, communicated 
its approval for the appointment of Rakesh Jha as an 
Executive Director of the Bank for a period of three years 
from the date of its approval. Accordingly, Rakesh Jha 
assumed office as Executive Director and KMP effective 
September 2, 2022. The Board at its Meeting held on 
April 23, 2022 approved the appointment of Anindya 
Banerjee as the Group Chief Financial Officer and KMP of 
the Bank with effect from May 1, 2022.
The Board at its Meeting held on June 28, 2022 and the 
Members at the AGM held on August 30, 2022 approved 
the following:
(a)	 Re-appointment 
of 
Neelam 
Dhawan 
as 
an 
Independent Director of the Bank for a second term 
commencing from January 12, 2023 to January 11, 
2026.
(b)	 Re-appointment of Uday Chitale as an Independent 
Director of the Bank for a second term commencing 
from January 17, 2023 to October 19, 2024.
(c)	
Re-appointment of Radhakrishnan Nair as an 
Independent Director of the Bank for a second term 
commencing from May 2, 2023 to May 1, 2026.
The Board at its Meeting held on October 22, 2022, 
based on the recommendation of the Board Governance, 
Remuneration 
& 
Nomination 
Committee 
(BGRNC), 
approved the re-appointment of Sandeep Bakhshi as 
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer of the Bank for 
a period of three years with effect from October 4, 2023 to 
October 3, 2026, subject to the approval of Members and 
RBI. The re-appointment is being proposed in the Notice of 
the forthcoming AGM through item no. 13.
The Board at its Meeting held on May 28, 2023, based on the 
recommendations of the BGRNC, approved the following:
(a)	 Re-appointment of Hari L. Mundra as an Independent 
Director of the Bank for a second term commencing 
from October 26, 2023 to October 25, 2024, subject 
to the approval of Members.
(b)	 Re-appointment of B. Sriram as an Independent 
Director of the Bank for a second term commencing 
from January 14, 2024 to January 13, 2027, subject to 
the approval of Members.
(c)	
Re-appointment of S. Madhavan as an Independent 
Director of the Bank for a second term commencing 
from April 14, 2024 to April 13, 2027, subject to the 
approval of Members.
The resolutions for the above re-appointments are being 
proposed in the Notice of the forthcoming AGM through 
item nos. 6 to 8.
The Board also at its Meeting held on May 28, 2023 
noted that the Members had approved the appointment 
of Sandeep Batra as Executive Director of the Bank for a 
period of five years effective from the date of approval of 
RBI. The effective date of the same was from December 23, 
2020. The current tenure of Sandeep Batra as Executive 
Director of the Bank as per RBI approval, which was for 
three years, ends on December 22, 2023. Based on the 
recommendation of the BGRNC, the Board approved the 
re-appointment of Sandeep Batra as Executive Director of 
the Bank for a further period of two years with effect from 
December 23, 2023 to December 22, 2025, subject to the 
approval of RBI. This term of two years is within the five 
years term as previously approved by the Members.
Vishakha Mulye stepped down from her position as 
Executive Director with effect from May 31, 2022 
consequent to her decision to pursue career opportunities 
outside the ICICI Group. Anup Bagchi ceased to be a 
Director of the Bank with effect from close of business 
hours on April 30, 2023 pursuant to his appointment as 
Managing Director & CEO of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance 
Company Limited with effect from June 19, 2023. To ensure 
a seamless transition, he assumed the office of Executive 
Director & Chief Operating Officer of ICICI Prudential Life 
Insurance Company Limited with effect from May 1, 2023. 
The Board acknowledges the valuable contribution and 
guidance provided by both the Directors.
The Board at its Meeting held on March 16, 2023, based 
on the recommendation of the BGRNC, approved the 
appointment of Prachiti Lalingkar as the Company 
Secretary & Compliance Officer and KMP of the Bank 
effective April 1, 2023 pursuant to the superannuation 
of Ranganath Athreya in July 2023. Ranganath Athreya 
ceased to be the Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
and KMP of the Bank with effect from close of business 
hours on March 31, 2023.
As on the date of this report, in terms of Section 
203(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, Sandeep Bakhshi, 
Managing Director & CEO, Rakesh Jha, Executive 
Director, Sandeep Batra, Executive Director, Anindya 
Banerjee, Group Chief Financial Officer and Prachiti 
74
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Lalingkar, Company Secretary are the Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank.
Declaration of Independence
All Independent Directors have given declarations that 
they meet the criteria of independence as laid down under 
Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 as amended and 
Regulation 16 of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended (SEBI Listing Regulations) 
which have been relied on by the Bank and were placed at 
the Board Meeting held on April 22, 2023. In the opinion of 
the Board, the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions 
specified in the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and are independent of the Management.
Retirement by rotation
In terms of Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
Sandeep Bakhshi would retire by rotation at the 
forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offers himself for re-
appointment.
AUDITORS
Statutory Auditors
At the AGM held on August 30, 2022, the Members 
approved the re-appointment of M/s M S K A & Associates, 
Chartered Accountants (hereinafter referred to as M S K A 
& Associates) and M/s KKC & Associates LLP, Chartered 
Accountants (formerly M/s Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP), 
(hereinafter referred to as KKC & Associates LLP) as the 
joint statutory auditors to hold office from the conclusion 
of the Twenty-Eighth AGM till the conclusion of the 
Twenty-Ninth AGM. As per the RBI guidelines, the joint 
statutory auditors of the banking companies are allowed 
to continue for a period of three years, subject to fulfilling 
the prescribed eligibility norms. Accordingly, M S K A & 
Associates, Chartered Accountants and KKC & Associates 
LLP, Chartered Accountants would be eligible for 
re‑appointment at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM. 
Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
the Board has proposed the re-appointment of M S K A & 
Associates, Chartered Accountants and KKC & Associates 
LLP, Chartered Accountants as the joint statutory auditors 
for the year ending March 31, 2024 (fiscal 2024). The joint 
statutory auditors will hold office from the conclusion of 
the forthcoming AGM till the conclusion of Thirtieth AGM. 
Their re-appointment has been approved by RBI. The 
re‑appointment of the joint statutory auditors is proposed 
to the Members in the Notice of the forthcoming AGM 
through item nos. 4 and 5.
There are no qualifications, reservation or adverse remarks 
made by the joint statutory auditors in the audit report.
Secretarial Auditors
The Board appointed M/s. Parikh Parekh & Associates, 
a firm of Company Secretaries in Practice to undertake 
the Secretarial Audit of the Bank for fiscal 2023. The 
Secretarial Audit Report is annexed herewith as Annexure 
A. There are no qualifications, reservation or adverse 
remark or disclaimer made by the auditor in the report 
save and except disclaimer made by them in discharge of 
their professional obligation.
The Annual Secretarial Compliance Report for fiscal 2023 
is available on the website of the Bank at https://www.
icicibank.com/about-us/disclosures-to-stock-exchanges 
and on the websites of the stock exchanges i.e. BSE 
Limited (BSE) at www.bseindia.com and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited (NSE) at www.nseindia.com.
Maintenance of Cost Records
Being a banking company, the Bank is not required 
to maintain cost records as specified by the Central 
Government under Section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 
2013.
Reporting of Frauds by Auditors
During the year under review, there were no instances of 
fraud reported by the statutory auditors, branch auditors 
and secretarial auditor under Section 143(12) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 to the Audit Committee or the Board 
of Directors.
PERSONNEL
The statement containing particulars of employees as 
required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 
is given in an Annexure and forms part of this report. In 
terms of Section 136(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
annual report and the financial statements are being sent 
to the Members excluding the aforesaid Annexure. The 
Annexure is available for inspection and any Member 
interested in obtaining a copy of the Annexure may write 
to the Company Secretary of the Bank.
75
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
INTERNAL CONTROL AND ITS ADEQUACY
The Bank has adequate internal controls and processes in 
place with respect to its financial statements which provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements. 
These controls and processes are driven through various 
policies, procedures and certifications. The processes 
and controls are reviewed periodically. The Bank has a 
mechanism of testing the controls at regular intervals for 
their design and operating effectiveness to ascertain the 
reliability and authenticity of financial information.
DISCLOSURE UNDER FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
MANAGEMENT ACT, 1999
The Bank has obtained a certificate from its statutory 
auditors that it is in compliance with the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 provisions with respect to 
investments made in its consolidated subsidiaries and 
associates during fiscal 2023.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Bank has a Board-approved Group Arm’s Length 
Policy which requires transactions with the group 
companies to be at arm’s length. All the related party 
transactions between the Bank and its related parties, 
entered during the year ended March 31, 2023, were on 
arm’s length basis and were in the ordinary course of 
business.
There were no related party transactions to be reported 
under Section 188(1) of the Companies Act 2013, in 
Form No. AOC-2, pursuant to Rule 8(2) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014.
All related party transactions as required under Accounting 
Standard AS-18 are reported in note no. 46 of schedule 
18 - Notes to Accounts of standalone financial statements 
and note no. 2 of schedule 18 - Notes to Accounts of 
consolidated financial statements of the Bank.
The 
Bank 
has 
a 
Board-approved 
Related 
Party 
Transactions Policy, which has been disclosed on the 
website of the Bank and can be viewed at (https://www.
icicibank.com/about-us/other-policies).
ANNUAL RETURN
The Annual Return in Form No. MGT-7 will be hosted on 
the website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/
about-us/annual).
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
The Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report as 
stipulated under Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations will be hosted on the Bank’s website at 
(https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/annual) as part of 
the green initiative of the Bank. Any Member interested in 
obtaining a copy of the Report may write to the Company 
Secretary of the Bank.
The Bank has been releasing the Environmental, Social 
and Governance Report since fiscal 2020. The report for 
fiscal 2023 will be hosted on the Bank’s website at (https://
www.icicibank.com/about-us/annual).
INTEGRATED REPORTING
The Bank has adopted the principles of the International 
Integrated Reporting Framework as developed by the 
International Integrated Reporting Council in its Annual 
Report since fiscal 2019. For accessing the Report for 
fiscal 2023, please refer to the Integrated Report section 
of the Annual Report 2022-23.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
The Bank’s risk management framework is based on 
a clear understanding of various risks, disciplined risk 
assessment & measurement procedures and continuous 
monitoring. The Board of Directors has oversight on all 
the risks assumed by the Bank. Specific committees have 
been constituted to facilitate focused oversight of various 
risks, as follows:
•	
The Risk Committee of the Board, reviews, inter alia, 
risk management policies of the Bank pertaining to 
credit, market, liquidity, operational and outsourcing 
risks and business continuity management. The 
Committee also reviews the Risk Appetite and 
Enterprise Risk Management frameworks, Internal 
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) 
and stress testing. The stress testing framework 
includes a range of Bank-specific market (systemic) 
and combined scenarios. The ICAAP exercise covers 
the domestic and overseas operations of the Bank, 
banking subsidiaries and non-banking subsidiaries. 
The Committee reviews setting up of limits on any 
industry or country, migration to the advanced 
approaches under Basel II and implementation 
of Basel Ill and the activities of the Asset Liability 
Management Committee. The Committee reviews the 
level and direction of major risks pertaining to credit, 
76
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
market, liquidity, operationaI, reputation, technology, 
information security, compliance, group and capital 
at risk as a part of the risk dashboard. In addition, 
the Committee has oversight on risks of subsidiaries 
covered 
under 
the 
Group 
Risk 
Management 
Framework. The Risk Committee also reviews the 
Liquidity Contingency Plan for the Bank and the 
various thresholds set out in the Plan.
•	
The Credit Committee of the Board, apart from 
sanctioning credit proposals based on the Bank’s 
credit approval authorisation framework, reviews 
developments in key industrial sectors (along with 
exposure to these sectors), the Bank’s exposure 
to large borrower accounts and borrower groups. 
The Credit Committee also reviews major credit 
portfolios, non-performing loans, accounts under 
watch, overdues, incremental sanctions, etc.
•	
The Audit Committee of the Board, provides direction 
to and monitors the quality of the internal audit 
function, oversees the financial reporting process 
and also monitors compliance with inspection and 
audit reports of RBI, other regulators and statutory 
auditors.
•	
The Asset Liability Management Committee provides 
guidance for management of liquidity of the overall 
Bank and management of interest rate risk in the 
banking book within the broad parameters laid down 
by the Board of Directors/Risk Committee.
Summaries of reviews conducted by these Committees 
are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Policies approved from time to time by the Board of 
Directors/Committees of the Board form the governing 
framework for each type of risk. The business activities 
are undertaken within this policy framework. Independent 
groups and subgroups have been constituted across the 
Bank to facilitate independent evaluation, monitoring 
and reporting of various risks. These groups function 
independently of the business groups/subgroups.
The Bank has dedicated groups, namely, the Risk 
Management Group, Compliance Group, Corporate Legal 
Group, Internal Audit Group and the Financial Crime 
Prevention & Reputation Risk Management Group, with a 
mandate to identify, assess and monitor all of the Bank’s 
principal risks in accordance with well-defined policies 
and procedures. The Risk Management Group is further 
organised into Credit Risk Management Group, Market 
Risk Management Group, Operational Risk Management 
Group and Information Security Group. The Chief Risk 
Officer (CRO) reports to the Risk Committee constituted 
by the Board which reviews risk management policies of 
the Bank. The CRO, for administrative purposes, reports to 
an Executive Director of the Bank. The above mentioned 
groups are independent of all business operations and 
coordinate with representatives of the business units 
to implement the Bank’s risk management policies and 
methodologies.
The Internal Audit Group acts as an independent entity 
and is responsible to evaluate and provide objective 
assurance on the effectiveness of internal controls, risk 
management and governance processes within the Bank 
and suggest improvements. The Internal Audit Group 
maintains appropriately qualified personnel to fulfill its 
responsibilities. The Internal Audit and Compliance groups 
are responsible to the Audit Committee of the Board.
INFORMATION REQUIRED UNDER THE 
SEXUAL HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT 
WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, PROHIBITION 
& REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013
The Bank has a policy against sexual harassment and a 
formal process for dealing with complaints of harassment 
or discrimination. The said policy is in line with the 
requirements of ‘The Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 
2013’. The Bank has complied with provisions relating to 
the constitution of Internal Committee under the said Act.
The details pertaining to number of complaints during the 
year has been provided below:
(a) 	 number of complaints filed during the financial year: 
43
(b) 	 number of complaints disposed of during the financial 
year: 43
(c) 	 number of complaints pending1 at end of the financial 
year: Nil
1 All complaints received during fiscal 2023 have been closed 
within the applicable turnaround time of 90 days.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The corporate governance framework at ICICI Bank is based 
on an effective independent Board, the separation of the 
Board’s supervisory role from the executive management 
and the constitution of Board Committees to oversee 
critical areas. At March 31, 2023, Independent Directors 
77
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
constituted a majority on most of the Committees and most 
of the Committees were chaired by Independent Directors.
I.	
Philosophy of Corporate Governance
	
At ICICI Bank, we are committed to maintain the 
highest standards of governance in the conduct 
of our business and continuously strive to create 
lasting value for all our stakeholders. We focus on 
maintaining comprehensive compliance with the 
laws, rules and regulations that govern our business 
and promote a culture of accountability, transparency 
and ethical conduct across the Bank.
	
Group Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
	
The Group Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for 
Directors and employees of the ICICI Group aims at 
ensuring consistent standards of conduct and ethical 
business practices across the constituents of the ICICI 
Group. This Code is reviewed on an annual basis and 
the latest Code is available on the website of the Bank 
at (https://www.icicibank.com/managed-assets/docs/
personal/general-links/code_of_business_conduct_
ethics.pdf). Pursuant to the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
a confirmation from the Managing Director & CEO 
regarding compliance with the Code by all the 
Directors and senior management forms part of the 
Annual Report.
	
Code of Conduct as prescribed under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015
	
In accordance with the requirements of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015, the Bank has adopted 
the Code on Prohibition of Insider Trading.
	
Material Subsidiaries
	
In accordance with the requirements of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, the Bank has formulated a 
Policy for determining Material Subsidiaries and the 
same has been hosted on the website of the Bank at 
(https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/other-policies).
	
The Bank does not have any unlisted material 
subsidiary. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company 
Limited is a material listed subsidiary of the Bank in 
terms of the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
The additional details with regard to ICICI Prudential 
Life Insurance Company Limited are as follows:
Date of 
incorporation
July 20, 2000
Place of 
incorporation
Mumbai
Statutory 
Auditors
B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No. 101248W/ 
W-100022
Date of Appointment: July 17, 2019
Walker Chandiok & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No. 001076N/
N500013
Date of Appointment: June 25, 2021
	
Familiarisation Programme for Independent 
Directors
	
Independent Directors are familiarised with their roles, 
rights and responsibilities in the Bank as well as with 
the nature of the industry and the business model 
of the Bank through induction programmes at the 
time of their appointment as Directors and through 
presentations on economy & industry overview, key 
regulatory developments, strategy and performance 
which are made to the Directors from time to time. 
Additionally, Independent Directors also attend the 
programmes organised by reputed institutions. The 
details of the familiarisation programmes have been 
hosted on the website of the Bank at (https://www.
icicibank.com/about-us/bod-1).
	
Dividend Distribution Policy
	
In accordance with Regulation 43A of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Dividend Distribution Policy is hosted 
on the website of the Bank and can be viewed at 
(https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/other-policies).
	
Whistle Blower Policy
	
The Bank has formulated a Whistle Blower 
Policy  which is periodically reviewed. The policy 
comprehensively 
provides 
an 
opportunity 
for 
any employee (including directors), secondees or 
stakeholders of the Bank to raise any issue concerning 
breaches of law, accounting policies or any act 
resulting in financial or reputation loss and misuse 
of office or suspected or actual fraud. The policy 
provides for a mechanism to report such concerns 
to the Audit Committee through specified channels. 
The policy has been periodically communicated 
to the employees and also posted on the Bank’s 
78
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
intranet. Issues raised under the Whistle Blower 
Policy or to senior management are investigated for 
appropriate action, including an assessment of the 
impact on financial statements, if any. The Whistle 
Blower Policy complies with the requirements of 
vigil mechanism as stipulated under Section 177 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws, 
rules and regulations. The details of establishment of 
the Whistle Blower Policy/vigil mechanism have been 
disclosed on the website of the Bank at (https://www.
icicibank.com/about-us/other-policies).
	
CEO/CFO Certification
	
In terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
certification by the Managing Director & CEO and 
Chief Financial Officer on the financial statements 
and internal controls relating to financial reporting 
has been obtained.
	
Details of utilisation of funds
	
During the year under review, the Bank has not raised 
any funds through preferential allotment or Qualified 
Institutions Placement as specified under Regulation 
32(7A) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
During the year under review, the Bank has raised 
`  71,000.0 million through issue of senior unsecured 
redeemable long term bonds in the nature of 
debentures, in tranches, on private placement basis. 
There is no deviation in utilisation of the funds.
	
Fees to statutory auditors
	
The details of fees pertaining to services provided 
by the statutory auditors and entities in the network 
firm/network entity of which the statutory auditors 
are a part, to ICICI Bank Limited and its subsidiaries 
during the year ended March 31, 2023 are given in 
the following table:
Nature of service
Amount in `1
Audit
52,500,000
Certification and other audit 
related services
10,960,000
Total
63,460,000
1 Excludes taxes and out of pocket expenses.
	
Recommendations of mandatory committees
	
All the recommendations made by the committees 
of the Board mandatorily required to be constituted 
by the Bank under the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
SEBI Listing Regulations were accepted by the Board.
	
Skills/expertise/competence of the Board of 
Directors
	
The Bank has identified the core skills/expertise/
competence of the Board of Directors as required 
under Section 10A(2)(a) of the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949 in the context of its business(s) and the 
sectors(s) for it to function effectively and has been in 
compliance with the same.
	
The details of the core skills/expertise/competence 
possessed by the existing directors of the Bank is 
detailed as under:
Name of 
Director
Areas of expertise
Girish Chandra 
Chaturvedi
Agriculture and rural economy, 
Banking, Co-operation, 
Economics, Finance, Small Scale 
Industry, Human Resources, 
Risk Management, Business 
Management, Insurance
Hari L. Mundra
Accountancy, Banking, Economics, 
Finance, Law, Human Resources, 
Risk Management, Business 
Management, Business and 
Financial Strategy, Treasury, 
M&A, Business Restructuring and 
Taxation
S. Madhavan
Accountancy, Banking, Economics, 
Finance, Law, Information 
Technology, Human Resources, 
Risk Management, Business 
Management, Strategy, Business 
Operations, Governance, Taxation
Neelam 
Dhawan
Banking, Information Technology, 
Human Resources, Business 
Management, Corporate 
Governance and Business Strategy
Radhakrishnan 
Nair
Accountancy, Agriculture and Rural 
Economy, Banking, Co-operation, 
Economics, Finance, Law, Small 
Scale Industry, Payment and 
Settlement Systems, Human 
Resources, Risk Management, 
Business Management, Insurance, 
Securities, Treasury Management, 
Foreign Exchange Management, 
Information Technology, Investor 
Protection
79
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Name of 
Director
Areas of expertise
B. Sriram
Banking, Finance, Small Scale Industry, 
Information Technology, Payment and 
Settlement Systems, Credit and Risk, 
Treasury, Insolvency & Bankruptcy
Uday Chitale
Accountancy, Banking, Finance, 
Alternate Dispute resolution (ADR), 
Auditing & Assurance, Securities 
Vibha Paul 
Rishi
Consumer Insight & Marketing, 
Strategy, Accountancy, Agriculture and 
rural economy, Economics, Finance, 
Information Technology, Human 
Resources, Risk Management, Business 
Management
Sandeep 
Bakhshi
Banking, Finance, Business 
Management, Insurance 
Rakesh Jha 
Banking, Business Management, Risk 
Management, Finance, Accountancy, 
Economics and Information Technology 
Sandeep Batra Accountancy, Banking, Finance, Law, 
Information Technology, Human 
Resources, Risk Management, Business 
Management, Insurance, Securities,  
Governance, Economics 
Credit Rating as on March 31, 2023
Foreign currency denominated instruments issued by the 
Bank
Instrument type
Moody's
S&P
Senior unsecured medium term 
notes
Baa3
BBB-
Certificate of Deposits
P-3
-
Rupee denominated instruments issued by the Bank
Instrument type
CARE
ICRA
CRISIL
Tier II bonds (Basel III)
CARE 
AAA
[ICRA]
AAA
-
Additional Tier 1 bonds 
(Basel III)
CARE 
AA+
[ICRA]
AA+
CRISIL 
AA+
Unsecured redeemable 
bonds
CARE 
AAA
[ICRA]
AAA
CRISIL 
AAA
Long term bonds issued 
by erstwhile ICICI Limited
CARE 
AAA
[ICRA]
AAA
CRISIL 
AAA
Instrument type
CARE
ICRA
CRISIL
Certificate of Deposits
CARE 
A1+
[ICRA]
A1+
-
Fixed deposits
CARE 
AAA
[ICRA]
AAA
-
Moody's: Moody's Investors Services
S&P: S&P Global Ratings
CARE: CARE Ratings Limited, India
ICRA: ICRA Limited, India
CRISIL: CRISIL Limited, India
Notes:
(1) In May 2022, Japan Credit Rating Agency, Limited withdrew 
ICICI Bank’s foreign currency long-term issuer rating of BBB+. 
The rating withdrawal was at the Bank’s request pursuant to 
the full repayment of bonds and subsequent delisting of the 
Tokyo Pro-bond Programme.
(2) In June 2022, ICRA Limited standardised its rating scale based 
on directions from SEBI, and accordingly revised the rating 
symbol for ICICI Bank’s fixed deposits programme from MAAA 
to [ICRA]AAA.
Certificate from a Company Secretary in practice
In terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Bank has 
obtained a Certificate from a Company Secretary in 
practice that none of the Directors on the Board of the 
Bank have been debarred or disqualified from being 
appointed or continuing as directors of companies by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India/Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority. The 
Certificate of Company Secretary in practice is annexed 
herewith as Annexure B.
Board of Directors
ICICI Bank has a broad-based Board of Directors, 
constituted in compliance with the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949, the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and in accordance with good corporate 
governance practices. The Board functions either as a 
full Board or through various committees constituted to 
oversee specific operational areas.
The Board of the Bank at March 31, 2023 consisted of 
twelve Directors, out of which eight were Independent 
Directors and four were Executive Directors.
There were nine meetings of the Board during the year - 
April 23, June 28, July 23, September 16, October 22 and 
December 16 in 2022 and January 21, February 17-18 
and March 16 in 2023.
80
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
There were no inter-se relationships between any of the Directors.
The names of the Directors, their attendance at Board Meetings during the year, attendance at the last AGM and details 
of other directorships and board committee memberships held by them at March 31, 2023 are set out in the following 
table:
Name of Director
Board 
Meetings 
attended 
during 
the year
Attendance 
at last AGM 
(August 30, 
2022)
Number of 
directorships
Number 
of other 
committee 
member-
ships1
Directorships in other listed
entity and category of
directorship
of other 
Indian 
public 
limited 
companies
of other 
Indian 
companies
Independent Directors
Girish Chandra 
Chaturvedi, Chairman
(DIN: 00110996)
9/9
Present
1
-
2(1)
-
Hari L. Mundra
(DIN: 00287029)
9/9
Present
1
-
1(1)
-
S. Madhavan
(DIN: 06451889)
9/9
Present
4
3
6(3)
•	 HCL Technologies Limited (ID)
•	 Procter & Gamble Health Limited (ID)
•	 Sterlite Technologies Limited (ID)
•	 Transport Corporation of India 
Limited (ID)
Neelam Dhawan
(DIN: 00871445)
9/9
Present
2
1
3(2)
-
Radhakrishnan Nair
(DIN: 07225354)
9/9
Present
6
1
7(2)
•	 Geojit Financial Services Limited (ID)
•	 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance 
Company Limited (ID)
•	 ICICI Securities Primary Dealership 
Limited (ID)
•	 Inditrade Capital Limited (ID)
B. Sriram
(DIN: 02993708)
9/9
Present
5
1
4(1)
•	 Nippon Life India Asset Management 
Limited (ID)
•	 TVS Motor Company Limited (ID)
Uday Chitale
(DIN: 00043268)
9/9
Present
1
1
1(0)
•	 ICICI Lombard General Insurance 
Company Limited (ID)
Vibha Paul Rishi
(DIN: 05180796)
9/9
Present
5
-
6(3)
•	 Asian Paints Limited (ID)
•	 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance 
Company Limited (ID)
•	 Piramal Pharma Limited (ID)
•	 Tata Chemicals Limited (ID)
Executive Directors
Sandeep Bakhshi, 
Managing Director &  
Chief Executive Officer 
(DIN: 00109206)
9/9
Present
-
-
-
-
Anup Bagchi  
(upto April 30, 2023)  
(DIN: 00105962)
9/9
Present
3
-
-
•	 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance 
Company Limited (NED)
81
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The profiles of the Directors can be viewed on the 
website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/
about-us/bod-1).
The Board has constituted various committees, namely, 
Audit Committee, Board Governance, Remuneration & 
Nomination Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee, 
Credit 
Committee, 
Customer 
Service 
Committee, Fraud Monitoring Committee, Information 
Technology 
Strategy 
Committee, 
Risk 
Committee, 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee 
and 
Review 
Committee for Identification of Wilful Defaulters/Non 
Co‑operative Borrowers.
The quorum of the Board Committees was increased 
from at least two members to at least three members 
with effect from June 30, 2019, to transact business at 
any Board Committee meeting and in case where the 
Committee comprises of two members only or where two 
members are participating, then any Independent Director 
may attend the meeting to fulfil the requirement of three 
members.
The terms of reference of the Board Committees as 
mentioned above, their composition and attendance of the 
respective Members at the various Committee Meetings 
held during fiscal 2023 are set out hereinafter:
II.	
Audit Committee
	
Terms of Reference
	
The Audit Committee provides direction to the audit 
function and monitors the quality of internal and 
statutory audit. The responsibilities of the Audit 
Committee include examining the financial statements 
and auditors’ report and overseeing the financial 
reporting process to ensure fairness, sufficiency 
and credibility of financial statements, review of the 
quarterly and annual financial statements before 
submission to the Board, review of management’s 
discussion 
& 
analysis, 
recommendation 
of 
appointment, terms of appointment, remuneration 
and removal of central and branch statutory auditors 
and chief internal auditor, approval of payment 
to statutory auditors for other permitted services 
rendered by them, reviewing and monitoring with 
the management the auditor’s independence and the 
performance and effectiveness of the audit process, 
approval of transactions with related parties or any 
subsequent modifications and utilization of loans 
and/or advances from/investment by the Bank in its 
subsidiaries. The Audit Committee also reviews the 
functioning of the Whistle-Blower Policy, adequacy 
of internal control systems and the internal audit 
Name of Director
Board 
Meetings 
attended 
during 
the year
Attendance 
at last AGM 
(August 30, 
2022)
Number of 
directorships
Number 
of other 
committee 
member-
ships1
Directorships in other listed
entity and category of
directorship
of other 
Indian 
public 
limited 
companies
of other 
Indian 
companies
Rakesh Jha (w.e.f. 
September 2, 2022) 
(DIN: 00042075)
6/6
N.A.
4
-
1(0)
•	 ICICI Home Finance Company 
Limited (NED)
•	 ICICI Lombard General Insurance 
Company Limited (NED)
•	 ICICI Securities Limited (NED)
Sandeep Batra  
(DIN: 03620913)
9/9
Present
4
-
3(0)
•	 ICICI Lombard General Insurance 
Company Limited (NED)
•	 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance 
Company Limited (NED)
Vishakha Mulye 
(Resigned with effect 
from May 31, 2022) 
(DIN: 00203578)
1/1
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Independent Director (ID)
Non-Executive Director (NED)
1 Includes only chairmanship/membership of Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of other Indian public limited 
companies. Figures in parentheses indicate committee chairpersonships.
82
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
function, compliance with inspection and audit 
reports and reports of statutory auditors, findings of 
internal investigations, management letters/letters 
on internal control weaknesses issued by statutory 
auditors/internal auditors, investment in shares and 
advances against shares. The Audit Committee 
responsibilities also include reviewing with the 
management the statement of uses/application of 
funds raised through an issue (public issue, rights 
issue, preferential issue, etc.), the statement of funds 
utilised for the purposes other than those stated in 
the offer document/prospectus/notice and the report 
submitted by the monitoring agency, monitoring 
the utilization of proceeds of a public or rights issue 
and making appropriate recommendations to the 
Board to take steps in this matter, discussion on the 
scope of audit with external auditors, examination of 
reasons for substantial defaults, if any, in payment 
to stakeholders, valuation of undertakings or assets, 
evaluation of risk management systems and scrutiny 
of inter-corporate loans and investments. The Audit 
Committee is also empowered to appoint/oversee 
the work of any registered public accounting firm, 
establish procedures for receipt and treatment of 
complaints received regarding accounting, internal 
accounting controls and auditing matters and 
engage independent counsel as also provide for 
appropriate funding for compensation to be paid to 
any firm/advisors. In addition, the Audit Committee 
also exercises oversight on the regulatory compliance 
function of the Bank. The Committee also considers 
and comments on rationale, cost-benefits and 
impact of schemes involving merger/demerger/
amalgamation etc., on the Bank and its shareholders. 
The Audit Committee is also empowered to approve 
the appointment of the Chief Financial Officer 
(i.e., the whole-time Finance Director or any other 
person heading the finance function or discharging 
that function) after assessing the qualifications, 
experience and background, etc. of the candidate.
	
Composition
	
There were thirteen Meetings of the Committee 
during the year - April 15, April 22, April 23, May 27, 
July 7, July 20, July 22, October 19, October 21 and 
December 15 in 2022 and January 18, January 20 
and March 24 in 2023. The details of the composition 
of the Committee and attendance at its Meetings 
held during the year are set out in the following table:
Name of Member
Number of 
meetings attended
Uday Chitale, Chairman
13/13
S. Madhavan
13/13
Radhakrishnan Nair
13/13
III.	 Board Governance, Remuneration & 
Nomination Committee
	
Terms of Reference
	
The functions of the Committee include recommending 
appointments of Directors to the Board, identifying 
persons who are qualified to become Directors 
and who may be appointed in senior management 
in accordance with the criteria laid down and 
recommending to the Board their appointment and 
removal, formulate a criteria for the evaluation of the 
performance of the wholetime/Independent Directors 
and the Board and to extend or continue the term of 
appointment of Independent Directors on the basis of 
the report of performance evaluation of Independent 
Directors, recommending to the Board a policy relating 
to the remuneration for the Directors, key managerial 
personnel and other employees, recommending to 
the Board the remuneration (including performance 
bonus and perquisites) to wholetime Directors and 
senior management personnel. The functions also 
include approving the policy for and quantum of 
bonus payable to the members of the staff including 
senior management and key managerial personnel, 
formulating the criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of a Director, 
framing policy on Board diversity, framing guidelines 
for the Employees Stock Option Scheme/Employees 
Stock Unit Scheme and decide on the grant of 
options/units to employees and wholetime Directors 
of the Bank and its subsidiary companies.
	
Composition
	
There were five Meetings of the Committee during 
the year - April 23, 2022, June 24, 2022, October 21, 
2022, January 20, 2023 and March 16, 2023. The 
details of the composition of the Committee and 
attendance at its Meetings held during the year are 
set out in the following table:
Name of Member
Number of 
meetings attended
Neelam Dhawan, Chairperson
5/5
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
5/5
B. Sriram
5/5
83
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
	
Policy/Criteria for Directors’ Appointment
	
The Bank with the approval of its Board Governance, 
Remuneration & Nomination Committee (Committee) 
has put in place a policy on Directors’ appointment 
and remuneration including criteria for determining 
qualifications, positive attributes and independence 
of a Director as well as a policy on Board diversity. The 
policy has been framed based on the broad principles 
as outlined hereinafter. The Committee evaluates 
the composition of the Board and vacancies arising 
in the Board from time to time. The Committee while 
recommending candidature of a Director considers 
the special knowledge or expertise possessed by the 
candidate as required under the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949. The Committee assesses the fit and proper 
credentials of the candidate and the companies/
entities with which the candidate is associated 
either as a director or otherwise and as to whether 
such association is permissible under RBI guidelines 
and the internal norms adopted by the Bank. For the 
above assessment, the Committee is guided by the 
guidelines issued by RBI in this regard.
	
The Committee also evaluates the prospective 
candidate for the position of a Director from 
the perspective of the criteria for independence 
prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 as well 
as the SEBI Listing Regulations. For a Non-Executive 
Director to be classified as Independent he/she must 
satisfy the criteria of independence as prescribed and 
sign a declaration of independence. The Committee 
reviews the same and determine the independence 
of a Director.
	
The Committee based on the above assessments 
makes suitable recommendations on the appointment 
of Directors to the Board.
	
Remuneration policy
	
The Compensation Policy of the Bank is in line with the 
RBI circulars and in compliance with the requirements 
for the Remuneration Policy as prescribed under the 
Companies Act, 2013. The Policy is divided into the 
segments, Part A, Part B and Part C where Part A 
covers the requirements for wholetime Directors & 
employees pursuant to RBI guidelines, Part B relates 
to compensation to Non-Executive Directors (except 
part-time Non-Executive Chairman) and Part C 
relates to compensation to part-time Non-Executive 
Chairman. The Compensation Policy is available on 
the website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.
com/about-us/other-policies).
	
The 
remuneration 
payable 
to 
Non-Executive/
Independent Directors is governed by the provisions 
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, RBI guidelines 
issued from time to time and the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and related rules to the extent 
these are not inconsistent with the provisions of the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949/RBI guidelines.
	
The remuneration for the Non-Executive/Independent 
Directors (other than Government Nominee Director) 
would be sitting fee for attending each Meeting of the 
Committee/Board as approved by the Board.
	
In addition to sitting fee, Non-Executive Directors 
(other than part-time Chairman and the Government 
Nominee Director) are entitled to a fixed remuneration 
of ` 2,000,000 per annum with effect from April 1, 
2021 which has been approved by the Members at 
the Annual General Meeting held on August 20, 2021. 
For the Non-Executive Chairman, the remuneration, 
in addition to sitting fee includes such fixed payments 
as may be recommended by the Board and approved 
by the Members and RBI, maintaining a Chairman’s 
office at the Bank’s expense, bearing expenses for 
travel on official visits and participation in various 
forums (both in India and abroad) as Chairman of the 
Bank and bearing travel/halting/other expenses and 
allowance for attending to duties as Chairman of the 
Bank and any other modes of remuneration as may 
be permitted by RBI from time to time.
	
All the Non-Executive/Independent Directors would be 
entitled to reimbursement of expenses for attending 
Board/Committee 
Meetings, 
official 
visits 
and 
participation in various forums on behalf of the Bank.
	
Performance evaluation of the Board, 
Committees and Directors
	
The Bank with the approval of its Board Governance, 
Remuneration & Nomination Committee and the 
Board has put in place a framework for evaluation of 
the Board, Directors, Chairperson and Committees.
	
The evaluations for the Directors, the Board, Chairman 
of the Board and the Committees is carried out through 
circulation of different questionnaires, for the Directors, 
for the Board, for the Chairperson of the Board and 
the Committees respectively. The performance of the 
Board is assessed on select parameters related to 
84
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
roles, responsibilities and obligations of the Board, 
relevance of Board discussions, attention to strategic 
issues, performance on key areas, providing feedback 
to executive management and assessing the quality, 
quantity and timeliness of flow of information 
between the Company management and the Board 
that is necessary for the Board to effectively and 
reasonably perform their duties.
	
The evaluation criteria for the Directors is based 
on their participation, contribution and offering 
guidance to and understanding of the areas which 
were relevant to them in their capacity as members 
of the Board.
	
The evaluation criteria for the Chairperson of the 
Board besides the general criteria adopted for 
assessment of all Directors, focuses on leadership 
abilities, effective management of meetings and 
preservation of interest of stakeholders.
	
The evaluation of the Committees is based on 
assessment of the clarity with which the mandate of 
the Committee is defined, effective discharge of terms 
of reference of the Committees and assessment 
of effectiveness of contribution of the Committee’s 
deliberation/recommendations to the functioning/
decisions of the Board. The Bank has taken effective 
steps with regards to the action points arising out 
of performance evaluation process for fiscal 2022. 
The performance evaluation process for fiscal 2023 
was conducted by an Independent External Agency 
and was completed to the satisfaction of the Board. 
The Board of Directors also identified specific action 
points arising out of the overall evaluation which 
would be executed as directed by the Board.
	
The evaluation process for wholetime Directors is 
further detailed in note no. 51 of Schedule 18 of the 
financial statements.
	
Details of Remuneration paid to Executive 
Directors
	
The Board Governance, Remuneration & Nomination 
Committee determines and recommends to the Board 
the amount of remuneration, including performance 
bonus and perquisites, payable to the Managing 
Director & CEO and Wholetime Directors.
	
The following table sets out the details of remuneration (including perquisites and retiral benefits) paid in fiscal 2023:
Details of Remuneration (`)
Sandeep 
Bakhshi
Anup
Bagchi
Sandeep
Batra
Rakesh 
Jha1
Vishakha 
Mulye2
2022-23
2022-23
2022-23
2022-23
2022-23
Basic3
36,172,200
30,975,240
30,975,240
23,068,903
7,201,440
Performance bonus paid in fiscal 20234
21,350,000
18,650,000
18,650,000
13,908,217
15,590,000
Allowances and perquisites3,5
30,843,252
30,602,979
29,423,785
24,943,027
15,245,289
Contribution to provident fund3
4,340,664
3,717,029
3,717,029
2,768,273
864,171
Contribution to superannuation fund3
-
-
-
-
-
Contribution to gratuity fund3
3,013,144
2,580,237
2,580,237
1,921,640
599,880
Stock options6 (Number)
317,800
249,100
249,100
249,100
-
1	 Rakesh Jha was appointed as Executive Director effective September 2, 2022. The above remuneration is his full year salary.
2	 Vishakha Mulye's last working day with the Bank was May 31, 2022. The above remuneration pertains to her period in the Bank 
during fiscal 2023.
3	 RBI approval for revision in fixed remuneration (Basic, allowances & retirals) for fiscal 2022 was received by the Bank on May 10, 
2022. Hence the table above carries the arrear payments made during the fiscal 2023 which pertains to fiscal 2022 increments 
for Sandeep Bakhshi, Anup Bagchi, Sandeep Batra and Vishakha Mulye.
4	 Bonus amounts earned for fiscal 2022 were subject to deferment policy of the Bank in-line with the regulatory stipulations. The 
above table represent payouts of the non-deferred portion of the bonus amount pertaining to fiscal 2022. The balance amount 
shall be equally deferred over a period of three years. The amounts also include the deferred portion of the bonus amount 
approved in earlier years that was paid during fiscal 2023.
5	 Allowances and perquisites exclude stock option perquisites.
6	 Represents options granted during fiscal 2023.
85
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
	
Perquisites (evaluated as per Income-tax rules, 
wherever applicable, and otherwise at actual cost to 
the Bank in other cases) such as the benefit of the 
Bank’s furnished accommodation, gas, electricity, 
furnishings, club fees, personal and group insurance, 
use of car, running and maintenance of cars 
including drivers,  telephone/IT assets at residence  or 
reimbursement of expenses in lieu thereof, payment 
of income-tax on perquisites by the Bank to the 
extent permissible under the Income-tax Act, 1961 
and rules framed thereunder, medical reimbursement, 
leave and leave travel concession, education and 
other benefits, provident fund, superannuation fund, 
gratuity and other retirement benefits, in accordance 
with the scheme(s) and rule(s) applicable from time 
to time to retired wholetime Directors of the Bank or 
the members of the staff. In line with the staff loan 
policy applicable to specified grades of employees 
who fulfil prescribed eligibility criteria to avail loans 
for purchase of residential property, the Wholetime 
Directors are also eligible for housing loans. The stock 
options vest in a graded manner over a three-year 
period, with 30%, 30% and 40% of the grant vesting 
in each year, commencing from the end of 12 months 
from the date of the grant. The options so vested 
are to be exercised within 5 years from the date of 
vesting.
	
The Bank does not pay any severance fees to 
its Managing Director & CEO or to its Wholetime 
Directors. The tenure of the office of Managing 
Director & CEO and the Wholetime Directors of the 
Bank is five years, subject to approval of RBI and 
the Members. The notice period for each of them, as 
specified in their respective terms of appointments is 
two months.
	
Neither the Managing Director & CEO nor the 
Wholetime Directors received any remuneration or 
commission from any of the subsidiary companies. 
The Bank does not have any holding company.
	
Remuneration disclosures as required under 
the RBI Guidelines
	
The remuneration related disclosures as required 
under the RBI Guidelines on Compensation of Whole 
Time Directors/Chief Executive Officers/Material Risk 
Takers and Control Function staff are disclosed in note 
no. 51 of Schedule 18 of the financial statements.
	
Details of Remuneration paid to 
Non‑Executive Directors
	
The Bank pays sitting fee of ` 100,000 to 
Non‑Executive Directors for attending each Meeting 
of the Board, Audit Committee, Credit Committee and 
Risk Committee.
	
The Board at its Meeting held on April 23, 2022 
approved revision in sitting fee from ` 50,000 to 
` 100,000 for each Meeting of Board Governance, 
Remuneration & Nomination Committee, Corporate 
Social Responsibility Committee, Customer Service 
Committee, Fraud Monitoring Committee, Information 
Technology 
Strategy 
Committee, 
Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee and Review Committee for 
Identification of Wilful Defaulters/Non Co-operative 
Borrowers effective April 24, 2022.
	
Information on the total remuneration paid to each 
Non-Executive Director during fiscal 2023 is set out 
in the following table:
Amount (`)
Name of Director
Sitting Fees Remuneration
Girish Chandra 
Chaturvedi
2,900,000
3,500,000
Hari L. Mundra
4,450,000
2,000,000
S. Madhavan
3,750,000
2,000,000
Neelam Dhawan
2,150,000
2,000,000
Radhakrishnan Nair
3,100,000
2,000,000
B. Sriram
4,800,000
2,000,000
Uday Chitale
3,100,000
2,000,000
Vibha Paul Rishi
2,150,000
2,000,000
	
Disclosures required with respect to Section 
197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013
	
The ratio of the remuneration of each director to the 
median employee’s remuneration and such other details 
in terms of Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 
and as amended from time to time.
	
(i)	
The ratio of the remuneration of each director 
to the median remuneration of the employees of 
the company for the financial year;
Independent Directors1
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi, 
Chairman
11.20:1
Hari L. Mundra
11.29:1
S. Madhavan
10.06:1
Neelam Dhawan
7.26:1
Radhakrishnan Nair
8.93:1
B. Sriram
11.90:1
Uday Chitale
8.93:1
Vibha Paul Rishi
7.26:1
86
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Executive Directors
Sandeep Bakhshi,  
Managing Director & CEO
119:1
Anup Bagchi
103:1
Rakesh Jha2
103:1
Sandeep Batra
103:1
	
(ii)	 The percentage increase in remuneration of 
each director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief 
Executive Officer, Company Secretary or 
Manager, if any, in the financial year;	
Sandeep Bakhshi,  
Managing Director & CEO
6%
Anup Bagchi, 
Executive Director
6%
Rakesh Jha,  
Executive Director3
6%
Sandeep Batra,  
Executive Director
6%
Anindya Banerjee,  
Group Chief Financial Officer4
7%
Ranganath Athreya,  
Company Secretary
8%
	
(iii)	 The 
percentage 
increase 
in 
the 
median 
remuneration of employees in the financial year;
	
	
The 
percentage 
increase 
in 
the 
median 
remuneration of employees in the financial year 
was around 11%.
	
(iv)	 The number of permanent employees on the 
rolls of company;
	
	
The number of employees, as mentioned in 
the section on ‘Management’s Discussion & 
Analysis’ is 129,020. Out of this, the employees 
on permanent rolls of the Bank is 126,660 
including employees in overseas locations.
	
(v)	 Average percentile increase already made 
in the salaries of employees other than the 
managerial personnel in the last financial 
year and its comparison with the percentile 
increase in the managerial remuneration and 
justification thereof and point out if there are 
any exceptional circumstances for increase in 
the managerial remuneration;
	
	
The average percentage increase made in 
the salaries of total employees other than the 
Key Managerial Personnel for fiscal 2023 was 
around 13%, while the average increase in the 
remuneration of the Key Managerial Personnel 
was in the range of 6%- 8%3.
	
(vi)	 Affirmation that the remuneration is as per 
the remuneration policy of the company.
	
	
Yes
Notes:
1 The Independent Directors of the Bank including 
Chairman receive sitting fees for attending each Meeting 
of the Board/Committee as approved by the Board. 
The Chairman receives remuneration of ` 3,500,000 
per annum as approved by the Members and RBI. The 
Independent Directors other than Chairman receive fixed 
remuneration of ` 2,000,000 per annum as approved by 
the Members with effect from April 1, 2021.
  The ratio of remuneration as stated in point (i) above 
is calculated after considering sitting fees and fixed 
remuneration paid during fiscal 2023.
2 The ratios are computed on annualized remuneration 
in the capacity of a Director, which was effective 
September 2, 2022 for Rakesh Jha.
3 Rakesh Jha ceased to be the Group Chief Financial Officer 
of the Bank effective May 1, 2022. He was appointed as 
Executive Director of the Bank effective September 2, 
2022 with the salary increase of 49%
4 Anindya Banerjee was appointed as Group Chief 
Financial Officer of the Bank effective May 1, 2022. His 
full year salary has been considered for the percentage 
calculation as stated in point (ii) above.
5 Vishakha Mulye's last working day with the Bank was 
May 31, 2022. The ratio of her annualised remuneration 
to the median remuneration of the employees was 103:1 
and the percentage increase in her remuneration was 6%.
	
Particulars of Senior Management Personnel 
as on March 31, 2023
	
Ajay Gupta (Head - Retail & Business Credit, Policy & 
Debt Service Management), Anindya Banerjee (Group 
Chief Financial Officer), Anish Madhavan (Group 
Chief Internal Auditor and Head Financial Crime 
Prevention), Anubhuti Sanghai (Head - Operations & 
Customer Service), Anuj Bhargava (Head - Customer 
360, Branch Banking, Marketing & Alliances, Self 
Employed Segment and Small & Medium Enterprises), 
Atul Arora (Business Head - North & East 1), Balaji 
V.V. (Chief Technology Officer), Bijith Bhaskar (Head - 
Digital Channels & Partnership), G Srinivas (Chief Risk 
Officer), Hitesh Sachdev (Head - Start Up Engagement 
and Investments), Nilanjan Sinha (General Counsel), 
Partha Dey (Head – Services Sector; Retail Structure 
Finance & Financial Institutions Group), Pranav 
Mishra (Head - Global Clients Group, MNC, PSU 
87
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
and Advisory), Prasanna Balachander (Group Head 
- Global Markets - Sales, Trading and Research), 
Pravendra Shah (Chief of Internal Vigilance), Rajesh 
Iyer (Head - Wealth, Private Banking & Loans Against 
Securities), Rajesh Nair (Head - Mid Corporate 
Group), Rajesh Rai (Business Head - West & South), 
Ranganath Athreya (Company Secretary), Sanjay 
Singhvi (Head - Secured Assets, Personal & Education 
Loan), Saurabh Singh (Head - TASC & Government 
Business Group), Sidharatha Mishra (Business 
Head - East 2, APT), Sriram Hariharan (Head-
International Banking Group, Global Remittances and 
NRI Services), Subir Saha (Group Chief Compliance 
Officer), Sudipta Roy (Head - Credit Cards, Payment 
Solutions & Merchant Ecosystem), Sujit Ganguli 
(Head - Corporate Brand and Communications), 
Sumit Sanghai (Head - Large Clients Group, Capital 
Markets, Transaction Banking, Construction Realty 
& Funding, Asset Evaluation & Monetization, Supply 
Chain Finance, Custody & Financial Sponsor), T K 
Srirang (Group Chief Human Resources Officer and 
Head Infrastructure Management), Vandana Jogani 
(Head - Process Optimisation & Key Initiatives), Vikas 
Agarwal (Head - Financial Sponsors & Syndications), 
Vishal Batra (Business Head - Defence & Armed 
Force Eco System), Vyom Upadhyay (Head - Data 
Science & Analytics).
	
During the year, Anindya Banerjee and Pravendra 
Shah were included in the list of senior management 
based on the eligibility criteria approved by the Board. 
Avijit Saha, Drupad Shah, Hitesh Sethia, Kadayam 
Rajaram, Pankaj Gadgil, Pramod Rao, Prashant 
Verma, Raghav Singhal, Sunir Ramchandani, Vikash 
Sharma and Viral Rupani were excluded from the 
list of senior management either owing to their exit 
from the Bank or changes in organization structure. 
Rakesh Jha was a senior management personnel for 
a period till September 1, 2022.
IV.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
	
Terms of Reference
	
The functions of the Committee include review 
of corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives 
undertaken by the ICICI Group and the ICICI 
Foundation for Inclusive Growth, formulation and 
recommendation to the Board of a CSR Policy 
indicating the activities to be undertaken by the Bank 
and recommendation of the amount of expenditure 
to be incurred on such activities, identifying the focus, 
from among the themes specified in Schedule VII of the 
Companies Act, 2013, for initiatives to be undertaken 
by the Bank, reviewing and recommending the 
annual CSR plan to the Board with details of 
projects and schedule of implementation, making 
recommendations to the Board with respect to the 
CSR initiatives, policies and practices of the ICICI 
Group, monitoring the CSR activities, implementation 
and compliance with the CSR Policy, reviewing the 
submissions to be made to the Board with respect 
to implementation of the annual CSR action plan 
including the disbursement of funds for the purposes 
and manner as approved, implementation of on-
going projects as per approved timelines and year-
wise allocation of funds, any modifications to be 
suggested to on-going projects, earmarking unspent 
CSR amount, if any, in subsequent periods as 
prescribed in the Companies Act, 2013 and suggest 
deployment of any amount spent in excess of the 
requirement for set-off in subsequent years, reviewing 
impact assessment of projects, and reviewing and 
implementing, if required, any other matter related to 
CSR initiatives as recommended/suggested by RBI or 
any other body.
	
Composition
	
There were four Meetings of the Committee during the 
year - April 22, 2022, July 21, 2022, October 19, 2022 
and January 18, 2023. The details of the composition 
of the Committee and attendance at its Meetings 
held during the year are set out in the following table:
Name of Member
Number of 
meetings attended
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi, 
Chairman
4/4
Radhakrishnan Nair
4/4
Uday Chitale
4/4
Vibha Paul Rishi
4/4
Anup Bagchi 
(upto April 30, 2023)
4/4
The Board at its Meeting on April 22, 2023 
reconstituted the Committee to induct Rakesh Jha, 
Executive Director as a Member of the Committee 
with effect from May 1, 2023 in place of Anup Bagchi.
	
Details about the policy developed and 
implemented by the Bank on CSR initiatives 
taken during the year
ICICI Bank has a long-standing commitment towards 
socio-economic development. The Bank’s CSR 
88
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
activities are in the areas of healthcare, environment, 
societal development, sustainable livelihoods, rural 
development and related activities including financial 
inclusion and financial literacy, social awareness 
and other activities as may be required towards 
fulfilling the CSR objectives. The activities are largely 
implemented either directly or through the ICICI 
Foundation for Inclusive Growth.
The CSR policy has been hosted on the website of 
the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/
corporate-social-responsibility).
The Annual Report on the Bank’s CSR activities is 
annexed herewith as Annexure C.
V.	 Credit Committee
	
Terms of Reference
The functions of the Committee inter alia includes 
review of developments in key industrial sectors, major 
credit portfolios and approval of credit proposals as 
per the authorisation approved by the Board.
	
Composition
There were thirty Meetings of the Committee 
during the year - April 6, April 19, April 29, May 9, 
May 18, June 10, June 21, June 24 (held jointly with 
Risk Committee), June 29, July 8, July 19, August 11, 
August 29, September 20, September 29, October 11, 
October 20, November 1, November 11, November 25, 
December 7, December 19 and December 30 in 2022 
and January 13, January 25, February 10, February 28, 
March 13, March 20 and March 29 in 2023. The details 
of the composition of the Committee and attendance 
at its Meetings held during the year are set out in the 
following table:
Name of Member
Number of 
meetings attended
Sandeep Bakhshi, Chairman
28/30
Hari L. Mundra1
27/30
B. Sriram
30/30
Vishakha Mulye  
(upto April 23, 2022)
2/2
Anup Bagchi  
(w.e.f. April 24, 2022 upto 
April 30, 2023)
27/28
1 chaired the meetings held on January 25, 2023 and 
February 28, 2023 in the absence of Sandeep Bakhshi
	
The Board at its Meeting on April 22, 2023 
reconstituted the Committee to induct Rakesh Jha, 
Executive Director as a Member of the Committee 
with effect from May 1, 2023 in place of Anup Bagchi.
VI.	 Customer Service Committee
	
Terms of Reference
	
The functions of this Committee include review 
of customer service initiatives, overseeing the 
functioning of the Standing Committee on Customer 
Service (Customer Service Council) and evolving 
innovative measures for enhancing the quality of 
customer service and improvement in the overall 
satisfaction level of customers.
	
Composition
	
There were five Meetings of the Committee during 
the year - May 12, 2022, June 28, 2022, August 26, 
2022, November 17, 2022 and February 15, 2023. 
The details of the composition of the Committee and 
attendance at its Meetings held during the year are 
set out in the following table:
Name of Member
Number of 
meetings attended
Vibha Paul Rishi, Chairperson
5/5
Hari L. Mundra
5/5
Sandeep Bakhshi
5/5
Anup Bagchi  
(upto October 22, 2022)
3/3
Rakesh Jha  
(w.e.f. October 23, 2022)
2/2
VII.	 Fraud Monitoring Committee
	
Terms of Reference
	
The Committee monitors and reviews all the frauds 
involving an amount of ` 10.0 million and above with 
the objective of identifying the systemic lacunae, if 
any, that facilitated perpetration of the fraud and put 
in place measures to rectify the same. The functions 
of this Committee include identifying the reasons 
for delay in detection, if any, and reporting to top 
management of the Bank and RBI on the same. The 
progress of investigation and recovery position is also 
monitored by the Committee. The Committee also 
ensures that staff accountability is examined at all 
levels in all the cases of frauds and action, if required, 
is completed quickly without loss of time. The role of 
89
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
the Committee is also to review the efficacy of the 
remedial action taken to prevent recurrence of frauds, 
such as strengthening of internal controls.
	
Composition
	
There were four Meetings of the Committee during the 
year - April 13, 2022, July 15, 2022, October 10, 2022 
and January 11, 2023. The details of the composition 
of the Committee and attendance at its Meetings 
held during the year are set out in the following table:
Name of Member
Number of 
meetings attended
Radhakrishnan Nair, 
Chairman
4/4
S. Madhavan
4/4
Neelam Dhawan
4/4
Sandeep Bakhshi
4/4
Anup Bagchi  
(upto October 22, 2022)
3/3
Rakesh Jha  
(w.e.f. October 23, 2022)
1/1
VIII. Information Technology Strategy Committee
	
Terms of Reference
	
The functions of the Committee are to approve 
strategy for Information Technology (IT) and policy 
documents, ensure that IT strategy is aligned with 
business strategy, review IT risks, ensure proper 
balance of IT investments for sustaining the Bank's 
growth, oversee the aggregate funding of IT at Bank-
level, ascertain if the management has resources to 
ensure the proper management of IT risks, review 
contribution of IT to business, oversee the activities 
of Digital Council, review technology from a future 
readiness perspective, overseeing key projects 
progress & critical IT systems performance, review 
of special IT initiatives, review cyber risk, consider 
the RBI inspection report/directives received from 
time to time by the Bank in the areas of information 
technology and cyber security and to review the 
compliance of various actionables arising out of such 
reports/directives as may be deemed necessary from 
time to time.
	
Composition
	
There were five Meetings of the Committee during 
the year - April 14, 2022, July 14, 2022, July 22, 2022 
(held jointly with Risk Committee), October 13, 2022 
and January 12, 2023. The details of the composition 
of the Committee and attendance at its Meetings 
held during the year are set out in the following table:
Name of Member
Number of 
meetings attended
B. Sriram, Chairman
5/5
Neelam Dhawan
5/5
Anup Bagchi  
(upto April 30, 2023)
5/5
Sandeep Batra
5/5
	
The Board at its Meeting on April 22, 2023 
reconstituted the Committee to induct Rakesh Jha, 
Executive Director as a Member of the Committee 
with effect from May 1, 2023 in place of Anup Bagchi.
IX. 	 Risk Committee
	
Terms of Reference
	
The functions of the Committee are to review ICICI 
Bank’s risk management policies pertaining to credit, 
market, liquidity, operational, outsourcing, reputation 
risks, business continuity plan and disaster recovery 
plan and approve Broker Empanelment Policy and 
any amendments thereto. The functions of the 
Committee also include setting limits on any industry 
or country, review of the Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) framework, Risk Appetite for the Bank, stress 
testing 
framework, 
Internal 
Capital 
Adequacy 
Assessment Process (ICAAP) and framework for 
capital allocation; review of the Basel framework, 
risk dashboard covering various risks, outsourcing 
activities and the activities of the Asset Liability 
Management 
Committee. 
The 
Committee 
has 
oversight on risks of subsidiaries covered under the 
Group Risk Management Framework. The Committee 
also carries out Cyber Security risk assessment. The 
appointment, removal and terms of remuneration 
of the Chief Risk Officer is subject to review by the 
Committee. The Committee keeps the Board of 
Directors informed about the nature and content of 
its discussions, recommendations and actions to be 
taken. The Committee coordinates its activities with 
other committees, in instances where there is any 
overlap with activities of such committees, as per the 
framework laid down by the Board of Directors.
	
Composition
	
There were twelve Meetings of the Committee during 
the year April 22, May 10, June 10, June 24, June 24 
90
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(held jointly with Credit Committee), July 22, July 22 
(held jointly with Information Technology Strategy 
Committee), October 21, November 24 in 2022 and 
January 20, February 14 and March 24 in 2023.
	
The details of the composition of the Committee and 
attendance at its Meetings held during the year are 
set out in the following table:
Name of Member
Number of 
meetings attended
S. Madhavan, Chairman
12/12
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
12/12
Vibha Paul Rishi  
(w.e.f. October 23, 2022)
4/4
Sandeep Batra
12/12
X. 	 Stakeholders Relationship Committee
	
Terms of Reference
	
The functions of the Committee inter alia includes 
approval and rejection of transmission of shares, 
bonds, debentures, issue of duplicate certificates, 
allotment of securities from time to time, redressal 
and resolution of grievances of security holders, 
delegation of authority for opening and operation of 
bank accounts for payment of interest/dividend.
	
Composition
	
There were four Meetings of the Committee during the 
year - April 22, 2022, July 22, 2022, October 21, 2022 
and January 21, 2023. The details of the composition 
of the Committee and attendance at its Meetings 
held during the year are set out in the following table:
Name of Member
Number of 
meetings attended
Hari L. Mundra, Chairman
4/4
Uday Chitale
4/4
Anup Bagchi  
(upto October 22, 2022)
3/3
Sandeep Batra  
(w.e.f. October 23, 2022)
1/1
	
The Company Secretary of the Bank acts as 
the Compliance Officer in accordance with the 
requirements of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 340 
investor complaints received in fiscal 2023 were 
processed. At March 31, 2023, no complaints were 
pending.
XI.	 Review Committee for Identification of Wilful 
Defaulters/Non Co-operative Borrowers
	
Terms of Reference
	
The function of the Committee is to review the order 
of the Committee for identification of wilful defaulters/
non co-operative borrowers (a Committee comprising 
wholetime Directors and senior executives of the 
Bank to examine the facts and record the fact of the 
borrower being a wilful defaulter/non co-operative 
borrower) and confirm the same for the order to be 
considered final.
	
Composition
	
The Managing Director & CEO is the Chairman of 
this Committee and any two independent Directors 
comprise the remaining members. Two Meetings 
of the Committee were held during the year. The 
Meetings held on July 12, 2022 and January 19, 2023 
were attended by Sandeep Bakhshi, Uday Chitale 
and Radhakrishnan Nair.
XII. 	Separate Meeting of Independent Directors
	
During the year, the Independent Directors met 
on April 23, 2022 inter alia to review the matters 
statutorily prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 
and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
XIII. Other Committees
	
In addition to the above, the Board has from time 
to time constituted various committees, namely, 
Committee 
of 
Executive 
Directors, 
Executive 
Investment Committee, Asset Liability Management 
Committee, Committee for Identification of Wilful 
Defaulters/Non Co-operative Borrowers, Committee 
of Senior Management (comprising certain wholetime 
Directors 
and 
Executives) 
and 
Committee 
of 
Executives, Compliance Committee, Process Approval 
Committee, Outsourcing Committee, Operational 
Risk Management Committee, Vigilance Committee, 
Product Governance Forum and other committees 
(all comprising Executives). These committees are 
responsible for specific operational areas like asset 
liability management, approval/renewal of credit 
proposals, approval of products and processes and 
management of operational risk, under authorisation/
supervision of the Board and its committees.
91
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
	
Postal Ballot
	
No resolution was passed through postal ballot 
during the financial year ended March 31, 2023.
	
At present, no special resolution is proposed to be 
passed through postal ballot.
XV.	Disclosures
1.	
There are no materially significant transactions 
with related parties i.e., directors, management, 
subsidiaries, or relatives conflicting with the Bank’s 
interests. The Bank has no promoter.
2. 	
Details of non-compliance by the Bank, penalties  or 
strictures imposed on the Bank by stock exchanges 
or SEBI or any statutory authority, on any matter 
relating to capital markets, during the last three years 
are detailed as under:
	
(i) 	
BSE and NSE had levied a fine of ` 11,800 each 
for delay in submitting the notice of record date in 
one instance under Regulation 60(2) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. The Bank paid fines to both 
the stock exchanges and filed for waiver of the 
fine. BSE and NSE vide its communication dated 
March 31, 2023 and May 15, 2023 respectively, 
waived the fine.
	
(ii) 	 SEBI issued an administrative warning on 
March 2, 2023 for collection of registration 
fees in advance before submission of Common 
Application Form and collection of balance fees 
XIV. General Body Meetings
	
The details of General Body Meetings held in the last three years are given below:
General Body Meeting
Day, Date
Time
Venue
Twenty-Eighth Annual General 
Meeting
Tuesday,
August 30, 2022
3:00 p.m.
Meeting held through Video Conferencing/
Other Audio Visual Means
Twenty-Seventh Annual 
General Meeting
Friday,
August 20, 2021
3:00 p.m.
Meeting held through Video Conferencing/
Other Audio Visual Means
Twenty-Sixth Annual General 
Meeting
Friday,
August 14, 2020
3:30 p.m.
Meeting held through Video Conferencing/
Other Audio Visual Means
The details of the Special Resolutions passed at the Annual General Meetings held in the year 2022 and 2020 are 
given below:
General Body 
Meeting
Day, Date
Resolutions
Twenty-Eighth
Annual General 
Meeting
Tuesday,
August 30, 
2022
•	 Re-appointment of Neelam Dhawan (DIN: 00871445) as an Independent 
Director of the Bank
•	 Re-appointment of Uday Chitale (DIN: 00043268) as an Independent Director 
of the Bank
•	 Re-appointment of Radhakrishnan Nair (DIN: 07225354) as an Independent 
Director of the Bank
•	 Approval and adoption of ‘ICICI Bank Employees Stock Unit Scheme - 2022’
•	 Approval of grant of Units to the eligible employees of select unlisted wholly 
owned subsidiaries under ‘ICICI Bank Employees Stock Unit Scheme - 2022’
Twenty-Sixth
Annual General 
Meeting
Friday,
August 14, 
2020
•	 Re-appointment of Girish Chandra Chaturvedi (DIN: 00110996) as an 
Independent Director of the Bank
•	 Shifting the Registered Office of the Bank from the State of Gujarat to the 
State of Maharashtra and consequent amendment to the Memorandum of 
Association of the Bank
No Special Resolution was passed at the Twenty-Seventh Annual General Meeting held on Friday, August 20, 2021.
92
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
in case of re-categorization of Foreign Portfolio 
Investors 
category 
and 
non-updation 
of 
operational manual with specific section to deal 
with specific entities. The Bank has submitted its 
action taken report to SEBI. Further, the Board 
of Directors noted the steps taken by the Bank 
and advised to ensure timely compliance with 
the instruction issued by SEBI. The same was 
informed to SEBI.
	
(iii)	 SEBI issued an administrative warning on 
October 14, 2022 for failure to transfer amounts 
pertaining to written off securities to the Investor 
Protection and Education Fund within prescribed 
timelines and delay in updation of Operational 
Manual after issuance of Regulations/Guidelines. 
The Bank placed the same alongwith corrective 
measures before the Board and also submitted 
the responses to SEBI.
	
(iv) 	 SEBI 
issued 
an 
Adjudication 
Order 
on 
September 12, 2019, imposing a penalty of 
` 500,000 each (totalling to ` 1.0 million) under 
Section 15HB of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992 and Section 23E of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 on 
the Bank for delayed disclosure of an agreement 
made on May 18, 2010 relating to merger of 
erstwhile Bank of Rajasthan with the Bank. The 
Bank had filed an appeal against SEBI’s Order 
with the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) 
and SAT vide its order converted the monetary 
penalty imposed on the Bank to warning.
	
	
Subsequently, SEBI had filed an appeal with 
the Supreme Court of India (Supreme Court)
against the SAT order pertaining to the Bank. 
Separately, the Bank had also filed an appeal 
with the Supreme Court against the SAT order. 
The matter was heard by the Supreme Court 
wherein the Supreme Court directed an interim 
stay on the operation of the SAT orders. The 
Bank subsequently filed counter affidavit before 
the Supreme Court. To bring closure to the 
matter, the Bank filed the settlement application 
on January 6, 2021, under the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Settlement 
Proceedings) Regulations, 2018 pursuant to 
which the Bank has paid the settlement amount 
to SEBI. The Bank filed the applications seeking 
for disposal of the civil appeal matters pending 
before the Supreme Court which were heard 
on January 4, 2022 and Supreme Court vide its 
order dated January 4, 2022 disposed off all the 
appeals in view of the settlement between the 
parties. SEBI vide their email dated May 12, 2022 
has communicated that in view of the Order of 
the Hon’ble Supreme Court, the matter stands 
settled in respect of the appeals as mentioned in 
the said order.
	
(v) 	 SEBI issued an administrative warning on 
December 3, 2021 with regard to erroneous 
submission of monthly Assets Under Custody 
data to National Securities Depository Limited. 
The communication received from SEBI and 
additional corrective action taken by Bank was 
placed before the Board of Directors of the Bank. 
The Board took note of the controls implemented 
and advised to follow the same diligently and 
the same was informed to SEBI.
	
(vi)	 SEBI vide letter dated November 11, 2020 had 
issued an administrative warning and advisory 
letter for two deficiencies/discrepancies i.e. 
non-disclosure of the track record and non-
submission of demarcation of responsibilities 
statement 
to 
SEBI, 
observed 
during 
the 
inspection for merchant banking activity. The 
Bank placed SEBI’s letter alongwith corrective 
measures before the Board and informed the 
same to SEBI.
3. 	
In terms of the Whistle Blower Policy of the Bank, no 
employee of the Bank has been denied access to the 
Audit Committee.
4. 	
Being a banking company, the disclosures relating 
to deposits as required under Rule 8(5)(v) and (vi) 
of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, read with 
Sections 73 and 74 of the Companies Act, 2013, are 
not applicable to the Bank.
5. 	
There is no application or proceeding pending against 
the Bank under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 
2016 during the year under review.
6. 	
There was no instance of one-time settlement by 
the Bank with any other bank or financial institution 
during the year under review.
93
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
XVI. Means of Communication
	
It is ICICI Bank’s belief that all stakeholders should 
have access to information regarding its position to 
enable them to accurately assess its future potential. 
ICICI Bank disseminates information on its operations 
and initiatives on a regular basis. ICICI Bank‘s website 
(www.icicibank.com) serves as a key awareness 
facility for all its stakeholders, allowing them to 
access information at their convenience. It provides 
comprehensive information on ICICI Bank’s strategy, 
financial performance, operational performance and 
the latest press releases.
	
ICICI Bank’s investor relations personnel respond 
to specific queries and play a proactive role in 
disseminating information to both analysts and 
investors. In accordance with SEBI and Securities 
Exchange 
Commission 
(SEC) 
guidelines, 
all 
information which could have a material bearing on 
ICICI Bank’s share price is released through leading 
domestic and global wire agencies. The information 
is also disseminated to the NSE, BSE, New York Stock 
Exchange (NYSE), SEC, Singapore Stock Exchange, 
Japan Securities Dealers Association and SIX Swiss 
Exchange Ltd. from time to time.
	
The financial and other information and the various 
compliances as required/prescribed under the SEBI 
Listing Regulations are filed electronically with 
NSE/BSE and are also available on their respective 
websites in addition to the Bank’s website.
	
ICICI Bank’s quarterly financial results are published 
in Financial Express and Vadodara Samachar. The 
financial results, official news releases, earnings call 
transcripts, audio recording and presentations are 
also available on the Bank’s website.
	
The Management’s Discussion & Analysis forms part 
of the Annual Report.
	
General Shareholder Information
Annual General Meeting
Day, Date
Time
Twenty-Ninth Annual 
General Meeting through 
Video Conferencing/Other 
Audio Visual Means
Wednesday,
August 30, 
2023
2:00 
p.m.
	
Financial Year: April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023
	
Record Date: August 9, 2023
	
Dividend Payment Date: Will be paid/despatched on 
or after September 1, 2023
	
Listing of equity shares/ADSs/Bonds on Stock 
Exchanges
Stock Exchange
Code for 
ICICI Bank
BSE Limited (Equity)
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,  
Dalal Street, Mumbai 400 001
532174
&
6321741
National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited (Equity)  
Exchange Plaza, Bandra-Kurla 
Complex, Mumbai 400 051
ICICIBANK
New York Stock Exchange (ADSs)2
11, Wall Street, New York, NY 10005 
United States of America
IBN
1	 FII segment of BSE
2	 Each ADS of ICICI Bank represents two underlying equity 
shares
	
The bonds issued in domestic market comprised 
privately placed bonds as well bonds issued via 
public issues which are listed on BSE/NSE.
	
ICICI Bank has paid annual listing fees for the relevant 
periods to BSE and NSE where its equity shares/
bonds are listed and NYSE where its ADSs are listed.
	
Listing of other securities
	
The bonds issued overseas are issued either in public 
or private placement format. The listed bonds are 
traded on Singapore Exchange Securities Trading 
Limited, 2 Shenton Way, #02-02, SGX Centre 1, 
Singapore 068804 or India International Exchange 
(IFSC) Limited (India INX), 1st Floor, Unit No. 101, The 
Signature, Building No. 13B, Road 1C, Zone 1, GIFT 
SEZ, GIFT City, Gandhinagar, Gujarat 382355 or SIX 
Swiss Exchange Ltd, Pfingstweidstrasse 110, P.O. 
Box, CH-8021 Zurich, Switzerland.
94
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
	
Market Price Information
	
The reported high and low closing prices and volume of equity shares of ICICI Bank traded during fiscal 2023 on BSE 
and NSE are set out in the following table:
Month
BSE
NSE
Total Volume on 
BSE and NSE
High (`)
Low (`)
Volume
High (`)
Low (`)
Volume
April-22
777.95
724.10
11,526,037
777.90
723.10
331,468,931
342,994,968
May-22
756.60
675.00
12,033,175
756.70
675.00
270,162,892
282,196,067
June-22
757.20
670.35
6,803,973
757.00
669.95
237,332,561
244,136,534
July-22
822.75
694.30
13,019,113
823.40
694.10
216,490,069
229,509,182
August-22
890.50
808.50
15,190,178
890.75
808.35
247,196,969
262,387,147
September-22
936.35
837.25
19,525,026
936.65
837.50
257,557,559
277,082,585
October-22
942.70
846.05
12,218,609
943.25
845.70
194,695,277
206,913,886
November-22
958.00
891.55
15,895,929
958.20
891.25
244,001,307
259,897,236
December-22
957.00
875.30
7,136,252
957.00
875.25
232,247,479
239,383,731
January-23
907.85
796.10
8,199,721
907.90
796.00
321,387,922
329,587,643
February-23
877.80
823.55
11,539,501
877.80
823.15
255,975,001
267,514,502
March-23
880.90
810.50
4,143,418
881.00
810.30
353,368,888
357,512,306
Fiscal 2023
958.00
670.35 137,230,932
958.20
669.95 3,161,884,855
3,299,115,787
The reported high and low closing prices and volume of ADSs of ICICI Bank traded during fiscal 2023 on the NYSE 
are given below:
Month
High (USD)
Low (USD)
Number of ADS traded
April-22
20.05
18.81
217,018,200
May-22
19.45
17.43
164,239,700
June-22
19.55
17.07
154,011,900
July-22
20.83
17.61
150,069,200
August-22
22.64
20.63
160,607,500
September-22
23.49
20.51
172,261,100
October-22
23.02
20.32
175,112,800
November-22
23.75
21.88
192,474,900
December-22
23.49
21.34
149,935,300
January-23
22.14
19.92
182,030,700
February-23
21.04
20.03
129,675,000
March-23
21.70
19.34
131,936,800
Fiscal 2023
23.75
17.07
1,979,373,100
95
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
	
Share Transfer System, Dematerilisation of 
Shares and Liquidity
	
As per the SEBI mandate, securities of listed 
companies 
can 
be 
transferred/traded 
only 
in 
dematerialised form. In view of this and to eliminate 
all risks associated with physical shares and for 
ease of portfolio management, Members holding 
shares in physical form are requested to consider 
converting their holdings to dematerialised form. The 
Bank’s equity shares are actively traded on the stock 
exchanges.
	
As required under Regulation 40(9) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, a certificate is obtained from a 
practicing Company Secretary and filed with BSE 
and NSE, where the equity shares of ICICI Bank are 
listed.
	
In terms of Regulation 76 of the Securities and 
Exchange 
Board 
of 
India 
(Depositories 
and 
Participants) Regulations, 2018 and SEBI Circular No. 
D&CC/FITTC/CIR-16/2002 dated December 31, 2002, 
as amended vide Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/30/2010 
dated September 6, 2010 an audit is conducted 
on a quarterly basis, for the purpose of, inter alia, 
reconciliation of the total admitted equity share 
capital with the depositories and in the physical form 
with the total issued/paid up equity share capital 
of ICICI Bank. Audit Reports issued in this regard 
are placed before the Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee and filed with BSE and NSE, where the 
equity shares of ICICI Bank are listed.
	
Registrar and Transfer Agents
	
The Bank has appointed KFin Technologies Limited 
as its Registrar & Transfer Agent (R & T Agent) for 
equity shares in place of 3i Infotech Limited with 
effect from April 1, 2022. Investor services related 
queries/requests/grievances for equity shares may be 
directed to C Shobha Anand at the following address:
	
KFin Technologies Limited
	
Unit: ICICI Bank Limited
	
Selenium Building, Tower-B
	
Plot No. 31 & 32, Financial District
	
Nanakramguda, Serlingampally
	
The performance of ICICI Bank equity shares relative to the S&P BSE Sensitive Index (Sensex), S&P BSE Bank Index 
(Bankex) and NYSE Financial Index during the period April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023 is given in the following chart:
 S&P BSE Sensex    
 S&P BSE Bankex    
 NYSE Financial Index    
 ICICI Bank
Apr/22
60
80
100
120
140
May/22
Jun/22
Jul/22
Aug/22
Sep/22
Oct/22
Nov/22
Dec/22
Jan/23
Feb/23
Mar/23
96
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
	
Hyderabad 500 032, Rangareddy
	
Telangana, India
	
Tel. No.:	 +91-040-6716 2222
	
Fax No.:	 +91-040-2342 0814
	
Toll free No.: 18003094001
	
WhatsApp No.: +91 910 009 4099
	
E-mail: einward.ris@kfintech.com
	
Website: https://ris.kfintech.com
	
Investor Support Centre: https://ris.kfintech.com/
clientservices/isc
	
Details of other Service Centers of KFin Technologies 
Limited, R & T Agent for equity shareholders can 
be viewed at https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/
investor-contact
	
3i Infotech Limited is the R & T Agent for the bonds/
debentures issued by the Bank. Investor services 
related 
queries/requests/grievances 
for 
bonds/
debentures may be directed to Vijay Singh Chauhan 
at the following address:
	
3i Infotech Limited
	
International Infotech Park, Tower # 5, 3rd Floor
	
Vashi Railway Station Complex, Vashi
	
Navi Mumbai 400 703, Maharashtra, India
	
Tel. No.: +91-22-7123 8034/35
	
Fax No.: +91-22-6792 8099
	
Toll free No.: 18601207777
	
E-mail: investor@icicibank.com
	
Website: https://www.3i-infotech.com/investors/
	
Queries relating to the operational and 
financial performance of ICICI Bank may be 
addressed to:
	
Anindya Banerjee/Abhinek Bhargava
	
ICICI Bank Limited
	
ICICI Bank Towers
	
Bandra-Kurla Complex
	
Mumbai 400 051
	
Tel. No.: +91-22-2653 6173
	
E-mail: ir@icicibank.com
	
Debenture Trustees
	
Pursuant to Regulation 53 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the names and contact details of the debenture trustees 
for the public issue bonds and privately placed bonds of the Bank are given below:
	
Axis Trustee Services Limited
	
The Ruby, 2nd Floor, SW 29
	
Senapati Bapat Marg
	
Dadar West, Mumbai  400 028
	
Tel. No.: +91-22-2425 5202
	
debenturetrustee@axistrustee.com
	
IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited
	
Universal Insurance Building
	
Ground Floor, Sir P.M. Road
	
Fort, Mumbai 400 001
	
Tel. No.: +91-22-4080 7057 
	
itsl@idbitrustee.com
	
The details are available on the website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/Personal-Banking/investments/
icici-bank-bonds/index.page).
	
Bank’s Customer Service
	
The Bank enables customers to avail of services through multiple channels.
	
•	
Customer care: Connect with us on 1800 1080. To know more, visit https://www.icicibank.com/customer-
care?ITM=nli_cms_CONTACT_US_customer_care_menu_navigation
	
•	
Branch: Visit our branch for resolution.
	
•	
Website: Register a request on the Bank’s website. For details, https://www.icicibank.com/personal-banking/
insta-banking/internet-banking/list-of-service-requests
	
•	
Email: Write to us at customer.care@icicibank.com
	
•	
iMobile: Seek resolution using the IPAL chat bot.
97
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
	
Information on Shareholding
	
Shareholding pattern of ICICI Bank at March 31, 2023
Shareholder Category
No. of Shares
% holding
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (Depositary for ADS holders)
1,335,200,207
19.12
FIIs/FPIs
2,493,590,546
35.71
Insurance Companies
708,965,402
10.15
Bodies Corporate (includes Government Companies and Clearing Members)
86,091,473
1.23
Banks & Financial Institutions
6,770,790
0.10
Mutual Funds
1,657,737,819
23.74
Individuals, HUF, Trusts
461,669,391
6.61
NBFCs Registered with RBI
14,360,029
0.21
Provident Funds/Pension Funds
139,905,614
2.00
Alternate Investment Fund
34,313,941
0.49
IEPF
8,196,312
0.12
Others (includes NRIs, Foreign Companies, Foreign Banks, Foreign Nationals etc.)
36,014,207
0.52
Total
6,982,815,731
100.00
	
Shareholders of ICICI Bank with more than one percent holding (PAN based) at March 31, 2023
Name of the Shareholder
No. of Shares
% holding
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas*
1,335,200,207
19.12
Life Insurance Corporation of India
436,045,481
6.24
SBI Mutual Fund
401,128,311
5.74
ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund
201,266,391
2.88
Government of Singapore
193,927,441
2.78
HDFC Mutual Fund
168,757,184
2.42
NPS Trust
139,905,614
2.00
UTI Mutual Fund
133,817,521
1.92
Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund
98,216,059
1.41
Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund
94,807,985
1.36
Dodge and Cox International Stock Fund
86,823,676
1.24
Nippon Life India Mutual Fund
83,529,717
1.20
SBI Life Insurance Company Limited
81,225,555
1.16
Europacific Growth Fund
78,969,116
1.13
Mirae Asset Mutual Fund
77,802,147
1.11
Axis Mutual Fund
73,313,274
1.05
* Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas holds equity shares of ICICI Bank as depositary for ADS holders.
98
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
	
Distribution of shareholding of ICICI Bank at March 31, 2023
Range - Shares
No. of Folios
%
No. of Shares
%
1 - 5,000
1,907,110
98.72
265,027,798
3.79
5,001 - 10,000
12,632
0.65
43,793,951
0.63
10,001 - 20,000
5,562
0.29
38,650,155
0.55
20,001 - 30,000
1,708
0.09
20,791,917
0.30
30,001 - 40,000
817
0.04
14,291,193
0.20
40,001 - 50,000
453
0.02
10,217,330
0.15
50,001 - 100,000
1,034
0.05
36,935,404
0.53
100,001 & Above
2,630
0.14
6,553,107,983
93.85
Total
1,931,946
100.00
6,982,815,731
100.00
	
Details of shares held in Demat and Physical form at March 31, 2023
Mode of holding
No. of Shares
%
Demat
6,969,342,942
99.81
Physical
13,472,789
0.19
Total
6,982,815,731
100.00
	
Details of shares/convertible instruments held by 
Non-Executive Directors
	
As on March 31, 2023, S. Madhavan and Vibha Paul 
Rishi (as joint holder) held 4,000 and 330 equity 
shares of ` 2.00 each respectively.
	
Disclosure with respect to shares lying in suspense 
account
	
The Bank has been transferring the shares lying 
unclaimed to the eligible shareholders as and when 
the request for the same has been received after 
proper verification. During the fiscal 2023, no shares 
were transferred from the suspense account. The Bank 
had 93,438 equity shares held by 467 shareholders 
lying in suspense account at the beginning and at the 
end of the fiscal 2023.
	
The voting rights on the shares lying in suspense 
account are frozen till the rightful owner of such 
shares claims the shares.
	
Transfer of unclaimed dividend and shares to 
Investor Education & Protection Fund (IEPF)
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 124 and 125 of 
the Companies Act, 2013, during fiscal 2023, dividend 
amount of ` 59.7 million remaining unclaimed for a 
period of seven years from the date of its transfer to 
the Unpaid Dividend Accounts of the Bank has been 
transferred to the IEPF.
	
Pursuant to Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with the Investor Education & Protection 
Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer & 
Refund) Rules, 2016, during fiscal 2023, 689,814 
equity shares in respect of which the dividend has not 
been claimed for seven consecutive years have been 
transferred to the designated demat account of the 
IEPF Authority.
	
The unclaimed dividend and the equity shares 
transferred to IEPF can be claimed by making an 
application in the prescribed form available on the 
website of IEPF at (www.iepf.gov.in).
	
Members who have not yet encashed their dividend 
warrant(s) for the financial year ended March 31, 2017 
and/or subsequent years are requested to submit 
their claims to KFin Technologies Limited without any 
delay.
	
The details of Nodal Officer and Deputy NodaI 
Officers appointed under the provisions of IEPF 
99
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
are available on the website of the Bank at: 
(ht tps: //nli.icicibank .com/NewRetailWeb/
showUnclaimedForm.htm).
	
Outstanding GDRs/ADSs/Warrants or any 
Convertible instruments, conversion date and 
likely impact on equity
	
ICICI Bank has 667.6 million ADS (equivalent to 
1,335.2 million equity shares) outstanding, which 
constituted 19.12% of ICICI Bank’s total equity capital 
at March 31, 2023. There are no other convertible 
instruments outstanding as on March 31, 2023.
	
Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk 
and hedging activities
	
The foreign exchange risk position including bullion 
is managed within the net overnight open position 
(NOOP) limit approved by the Board of Directors. 
The foreign currency assets of the Bank are primarily 
floating rate linked assets. Wholesale liability raising 
for foreign currencies takes place in USD or other 
currencies through bond issuances, bilateral loans 
and syndicated/club loans as well as refinance from 
Export Credit Agencies (ECA) which may be at a 
fixed rate or floating rate linked. In case of fixed 
rate long-term wholesale fund raising in USD, the 
interest rate risk is generally hedged through interest 
rate swaps wherein the Bank effectively moves the 
interest payments to a floating rate index in order to 
match the asset profile. In case of fund raising in non-
USD currencies, the foreign exchange risk is hedged 
through foreign exchange swaps or currency interest 
rate swaps.
	
The extant RBI guidelines do not allow AD Category I 
Banks to take any market positions in commodity 
related activities. However, the extant guidelines 
allows Bank to import gold and silver in line with 
the RBI license and selling of imported gold/silver on 
outright basis to domestic clients or providing gold 
metal loan to jewellery manufacturers. ICICI Bank 
provides pricing and hedging of Gold Metal Loan to 
jewellery customers and such exposures are covered 
on a back-to-back basis with gold suppliers.
	
In view of the above, the disclosure pursuant to 
the SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/ 
2018/0000000141 dated November 15, 2018 is not 
required to be given.
	
Plant Locations – Not applicable
	
Address for Correspondence
	
Prachiti Lalingkar
	
Company Secretary
	
ICICI Bank Limited
	
ICICI Bank Towers
	
Bandra-Kurla Complex
	
Mumbai 400 051
	
Tel. No.: +91-22-2653 8900
	
Fax No.: +91-22-2653 1230
	
E-mail: companysecretary@icicibank.com
	
The Bank is in compliance with requirements specified 
in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) 
of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
	
The Bank has also complied with the discretionary 
requirements such as maintaining a separate office 
for the Chairman at the Bank’s expense, ensuring 
financial statements with unmodified audit opinion, 
separation of posts of Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer and reporting of internal auditor directly to the 
Audit Committee.
	
Analysis of Customer Complaints
	
The required details as per the RBI Circular No. 
CEPD.CO.PRD.Cir.No.01/13.01.013/2020-21 
dated 
January 27, 2021 are disclosed in note no. 53 of 
Schedule 18 of the financial statements.
COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE OF THE AUDITORS
ICICI Bank has annexed to this Report, a certificate 
obtained from the statutory auditors regarding compliance 
of conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
SHARE BASED EMPLOYEE BENEFITS SCHEME(S)
(a) 	ICICI Bank Employees Stock Option Scheme - 
2000
	
ICICI Bank has an Employees Stock Option Scheme 
- 2000 (Scheme 2000) which was instituted in fiscal 
2000 to enable the employees and Wholetime 
Directors of ICICI Bank and its subsidiaries to 
participate in future growth and financial success of 
the Bank. The Scheme 2000 aims at achieving the 
twin objectives of aligning employee interest to that 
of the shareholders and retention. Through employee 
100
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
stock option grants, the Bank seeks to foster a 
culture of long-term sustainable value creation. The 
Scheme 2000 is in compliance with the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 
(the SEBI SBEB & SE Regulations). The options are 
granted by the Board Governance, Remuneration & 
Nomination Committee and noted/approved by the 
Board as the case maybe.
	
The Scheme was initially approved by the Members 
at their meeting held on February 21, 2000 and 
amended from time to time.
	
The Bank has upto March 31, 2023 granted 612.29 
million stock options from time to time aggregating 
to 8.77% of the issued equity capital of the Bank 
at March 31, 2023. As per the Scheme 2000, as 
amended from time to time, the maximum number of 
options granted to any employee/Director in a year is 
limited to 0.05% of ICICI Bank’s issued equity shares 
at the time of the grant, and the aggregate of all such 
options is limited to 10% of ICICI Bank’s issued equity 
shares on the date of the grant (equivalent to 698.28 
million shares of face value ` 2.00 each at March 31, 
2023).
	
Particulars of options granted by ICICI Bank as on 
March 31, 2023 are given below:
Number of options outstanding1 at 
the beginning of the year
237,197,999
Number of options granted during 
the year
25,793,500
Number of options forfeited/
lapsed during the year
3,921,340
Number of options vested during 
the year
29,953,785
Number of options exercised 
during the year
34,044,356
Number of shares arising as a 
result of exercise of options
34,044,356
Money realised by exercise of 
options during the year (`)
9,420,690,715
Number of options outstanding1 at 
the end of the year
225,025,803
Number of options exercisable at 
the end of the year
172,938,533
1 options granted less exercised less lapsed
Till March 31, 2021, the Bank recognised cost of stock 
options granted under Scheme 2000, using intrinsic 
value method. Pursuant to RBI clarification dated 
August 30, 2021, the cost of stock options granted 
after March 31, 2021 is recognised based on fair 
value method. The cost of stock options granted up to 
March 31, 2021 continues to be recognised on intrinsic 
value method. The Bank uses Black-Scholes model to 
fair value the options on the grant date and the inputs 
used in the valuation model include assumptions such 
as the expected life of the share option, volatility, risk 
free rate and dividend yield. The diluted earnings per 
share (EPS) pursuant to issue of shares on exercise 
of options calculated in accordance with Accounting 
Standard 20 (AS-20) for the year ended March 31, 
2023 was ` 44.89 compared to basic EPS of ` 45.79.
The following table sets forth, for the periods 
indicated, the key assumptions used to estimate the 
fair value of options granted.
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Risk-free 
interest rate
5.34% to 6.53% 5.99% to 7.37%
Expected life
3.55 to 5.55 
years
3.23 to 5.23 
years
Expected 
volatility
35.38% to 
39.41%
34.79% to 
38.98%
Expected 
dividend yield
0.18% to 0.30% 0.27% to 0.72%
The weighted average fair value, based on Black-
Scholes model, of options granted under Scheme 
2000 during the year ended March 31, 2023 was 
` 291.15 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 227.75) 
and the weighted average exercise price of options 
granted during the year ended March 31, 2023 was 
` 747.92 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 570.43).
Risk free interest rates over the expected term of the 
option are based on the government securities yield 
in effect at the time of the grant. The expected term of 
an option is estimated based on the vesting term as 
well as expected exercise behavior of the employees 
who receive the option. Expected exercise behavior 
is estimated based on the historical stock option 
exercise pattern of the Bank. Expected volatility 
during the estimated expected term of the option 
is based on historical volatility determined based 
101
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
on observed market prices of the Bank's publicly 
traded equity shares. Expected dividends during the 
estimated expected term of the option are based on 
recent dividend activity.
(b) 	ICICI Bank Employees Stock Unit Scheme - 
2022
The Board of Directors of ICICI Bank at its Meeting 
held on June 28, 2022, approved the adoption of 
Employees Stock Unit Scheme - 2022 (Scheme 2022). 
The Scheme 2022 was approved by the Members at 
the Annual General Meeting held on August 30, 2022.
The key objectives of the Scheme 2022 are to deepen 
the co-ownership amongst the (i) mid level and front-
line managers, and (ii) employees of Bank’s select 
unlisted wholly owned subsidiaries with the following 
key considerations:
i.	
to enable employees’ participation in the 
business as an active stakeholder to usher in 
an ‘Owner-Manager’ culture and to act as a 
retention mechanism;
ii.	
to enhance motivation of employees; and
iii.	
to enable employees to participate in the long 
term growth and financial success of the Bank.
The Scheme 2022 is in compliance with the SEBI 
SBEB & SE Regulations.
Maximum of 100,000,000 Units, shall be granted in 
one or more tranches over a period of 7 years from 
the date of approval of the Scheme 2022 by the 
shareholders, which shall entitle the Unit holder one 
fully paid-up equity share of face value of ` 2.00 of 
the Bank (as adjusted for any changes in capital 
structure of the Bank) against each Unit exercised 
and accordingly, up to 100,000,000 equity shares 
of face value of ` 2.00 each shall be allotted to all 
eligible employees taken together under the Scheme 
2022.
Units granted under the Scheme 2022 shall vest not 
later than the maximum vesting period of 4 years. 
Exercise price shall be the face value of equity shares 
of the Bank i.e. ` 2.00 for each unit (as adjusted for 
any changes in capital structure of the Bank).
No units were granted under the Scheme 2022 during 
fiscal 2023.
The detailed disclosures as stipulated under Regulation 
14 of the SEBI SBEB & SE Regulations will be hosted on 
the website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/
about-us/other-policies).
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION, FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
EARNINGS AND OUTGO
The Bank has undertaken various initiatives for energy 
conservation at its premises. A detailed write up is given 
in the Environmental, Social and Governance Report of 
fiscal 2023 which will be available on the website of the 
Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/annual) and 
in the Natural Capital chapter in the Integrated Report 
section of the Annual Report 2022-23. The Bank has used 
information technology extensively in its operations; for 
details refer to the chapter Our Business Strategy in the 
Integrated Report section of the Annual Report 2022-23.
SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
Your Bank is in compliance with the Secretarial Standard 
on Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and 
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2023.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
The Directors confirm:
1.	
that in the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards had been followed, 
along with proper explanation relating to material 
departures;
2.	
that they have selected such accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgements and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so as to 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Bank at the end of the financial year and of the profit 
of the Bank for that period;
3.	
that they have taken proper and sufficient care for 
the maintenance of adequate accounting records, 
in accordance with the provisions of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 and the Companies Act, 
2013 for safeguarding the assets of the Bank 
and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
4.	
that they have prepared the annual accounts on a 
going concern basis;
102
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
5.	
that they have laid down internal financial controls 
to be followed by the Bank and that such internal 
financial controls are adequate and were operating 
effectively; and
6.	
that they have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and that such systems were adequate and operating 
effectively.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
ICICI Bank is grateful to the Government of India, Reserve 
Bank of India, Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India 
and overseas regulators for their continued co-operation, 
support and guidance. ICICI Bank wishes to thank 
its investors, the domestic and international banking 
community, rating agencies, depositories and stock 
exchanges for their support.
ICICI Bank would like to take this opportunity to express 
sincere thanks to its valued clients and customers for 
their continued patronage. The Directors express their 
deep sense of appreciation to all the employees whose 
outstanding professionalism, commitment and initiative 
have made the organisation’s growth and success 
possible and continues to drive its progress. Finally, the 
Directors wish to express their gratitude to the Members 
for their trust and support.
For and on behalf of the Board
 Girish Chandra Chaturvedi 
Chairman
June 29, 2023 
DIN: 00110996
Compliance with the Group Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics
I confirm that all Directors and members of the senior 
management have affirmed compliance with Group 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for the year ended 
March 31, 2023.
Sandeep Bakhshi
Managing Director & CEO
April 22, 2023  
DIN: 0109206
103
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNEXURE A
FORM No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
[Pursuant to Section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
ICICI Bank Limited
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by ICICI Bank Limited (hereinafter 
called the Company/the Bank). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable 
basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other 
records maintained by the Company, to the extent the 
information provided by the Company, its officers, agents 
and authorised representatives during the conduct of 
secretarial audit, the explanations and clarifications given 
to us and the representations made by the Management 
and considering the relaxations granted by the Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs and Securities and Exchange Board 
of India warranted due to the spread of the COVID-19 
pandemic, we hereby report that in our opinion, the 
Company has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year ended on March 31, 2023, generally 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board processes 
and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the 
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records made available to us 
and maintained by the Company for the financial year 
ended on March 31, 2023 according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules 
made thereunder;
(ii)	
The Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and 
the rules and regulations made thereunder to the 
extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct 
Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;
(v)	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):
	
(a) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial 
Acquisition 
of 
Shares 
and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
	
(b) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015;
	
(c) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018;
	
(d) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021;
	
(e)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021;
	
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) 
Regulations, 
1993 
regarding 
the 
Companies Act and dealing with client; (Not 
applicable to the Company during the audit 
period);
	
(g)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; 
(Not applicable to the Company during the audit 
period);
	
(h)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 (Not 
applicable to the Company during the audit 
period);
	
(i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992;
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
104
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
	
(j) 	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Bankers to an Issue) Regulations, 1994;
	
(k) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Debenture Trustee) Regulations, 1993;
	
(l) 	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Custodian) Regulations, 1996;
	
(m) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019;
	
(n) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Stock Brokers) Regulations, 1992; and
	
(o) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Depositories and Participant) Regulations, 
2018;
(vi) 	 Other laws applicable specifically to the Company 
namely:
	
(a)	 The Banking Regulation Act, 1949, Master 
Circulars, Notifications and Guidelines issued by 
the RBI from time to time;
	
(b)	 The 
Securitisation 
and 
Reconstruction 
of 
Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security 
Interest Act, 2002;
	
(c)	
The Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and 
Financial Institutions Act, 1993;
	
(d)	 The Shops and Establishments Act, 1953
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India with respect to board 
and general meetings.
(ii)	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company 
with BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited read with the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
During the period under review, the Company has 
generally complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, 
Regulations, Guidelines, standards etc. mentioned above.
We report that:
The National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE 
Limited have levied a fine of ` 11,800 each for delay in 
submitting the notice of record date in one instance 
under Regulation 60(2) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. The Bank 
paid fines to both the stock exchanges and filed for waiver 
of the fine. BSE and NSE has vide its communication dated 
March 31, 2023 and May 15, 2023 respectively, waived 
the fine. 
We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted 
with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in 
the composition of the Board of Directors that took 
place during the period under review were carried out in 
compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda 
were sent at least seven days in advance, and a system 
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and 
for meaningful participation at the meeting.
In respect of meetings held at short notice or meetings 
for which the agenda notes (other than those relating to 
Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (UPSI)) were sent 
at a notice of less than 7 days, the unanimous consent 
of the Board/Committee was taken for discussion of the 
said agenda items and the same has been recorded in the 
minutes.
Decisions at the Meetings of the Board of Directors and of 
the Committees thereof were taken with requisite majority.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
guidelines.
We further report that the following events occurred 
during the audit period which have a major bearing on 
the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the laws, rules, 
regulations, guidelines, standards etc. referred to above:
1.	
During the financial year ended March 31, 2023, the 
Bank has redeemed various series of debentures 
in the nature of Public issue bonds, Private 
placement bonds and Pension bonds aggregating 
to ` 59,04,78,39,918/- and has complied with the 
applicable laws.
2.	
Done a secondary listing of following foreign 
currency bonds issued under US $7,500,000,000 
GMTN Programme and listed on Singapore Exchange 
Securities Trading Limited, on Global Securities 
Market platform at India International Exchange 
(IFSC) Limited (India INX):
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
105
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

ISIN Number 144A
ISIN No. Reg S
Amount
Date of Issuance
Date of Maturity
-
XS1576750951
US$ 650,000,000
March 9, 2017
September 9, 2022
US45112EAG44
US45112FAJ57
US$ 800,000,000
March 18, 2016
March 18, 2026
US45112EAH27
US45112FAM86
US$ 500,000,000
December 14, 2017
December 14, 2027
3.	
Issued and allotted:
	
•	
21,000 senior unsecured redeemable long term bonds in the nature of debentures aggregating to ` 2,100.00 
crores on private placement basis
	
•	
50,000 senior unsecured redeemable long term bonds in the nature of debentures aggregating to ` 5,000.00 
crores on private placement basis
4.	
During the financial year ended March 31, 2023, the Bank has allotted 34,044,356 equity shares of face value of ` 2 
each under the Employee Stock Option Scheme.
	
For Parikh Parekh & Associates
	
Company Secretaries
	
P. N. Parikh
	
Partner
	
FCS No.: 327 CP No.: 1228
Place: Mumbai	
UDIN: F000327E000380806
Date: May 25, 2023	
PR No.: 723/2020
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of this 
report.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
106
Annual Report 2022-23 

’ANNEXURE A’ 
To,
The Members,
ICICI Bank Limited
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct 
facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the process and practices, we followed provide a reasonable 
basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the 
Company.
4.	
Where ever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the Compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events etc.
5.	
The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the 
responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
	
For Parikh Parekh & Associates
	
Company Secretaries
	
P. N. Parikh
	
Partner
	
FCS No.: 327 CP No.: 1228
Place: Mumbai	
UDIN: F000327E000380806
Date: May 25, 2023	
PR No.: 723/2020
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
107
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

ANNEXURE B
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Para C (10)(i) of Schedule V to the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To,
The Members of
ICICI Bank Limited
ICICI Bank Tower,
Near Chakli Circle,
Old Padra Road,
Vadodara - 390007
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of ICICI 
Bank Limited having CIN L65190GJ1994PLC021012 and having registered office at ICICI Bank Tower, Near Chakli Circle, 
Old Padra Road, Vadodara - 390007 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for 
the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with clause 10(i) of Para C of Schedule V 
to the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification 
Number (DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the 
Company & its officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for 
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2023 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as 
Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India or the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such 
other statutory authority.
Sl. 
No
Name of the Director as on 
March 31, 2023
DIN
Category of Directorship
Date of 
Appointment
1.
Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
00110996
Non-Executive - Independent Director
July 01, 2018
2.
Mr. Hari L. Mundra
00287029
Non-Executive - Independent Director
October 26, 2018
3.
Mr. S. Madhavan
06451889
Non-Executive - Independent Director
April 14, 2019
4.
Ms. Neelam Dhawan
00871445
Non-Executive - Independent Director
January 12, 2018
5.
Mr. Radhakrishnan Nair
07225354
Non-Executive - Independent Director
May 02, 2018
6.
Mr. B. Sriram
02993708
Non-Executive - Independent Director
January 14, 2019
7.
Mr. Uday Chitale
00043268
Non-Executive - Independent Director
January 17, 2018
8.
Ms. Vibha Paul Rishi
05180796
Non-Executive - Independent Director
January 23, 2022
9.
Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi
00109206
Managing Director & Chief Executive 
Officer
October 15, 2018
10.
Mr. Anup Bagchi
00105962
Wholetime Director
February 01, 2017
11.
Mr. Sandeep Batra
03620913
Wholetime Director
December 23, 2020
12.
Mr. Rakesh Jha
00042075
Wholetime Director
September 02, 2022
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
108
Annual Report 2022-23 

Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management 
of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither 
an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management 
has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For M/s Vinod Kothari & Company
Practicing Company Secretaries
Unique Code: P1996WB042300
Vinita Nair 
Senior Partner
Membership No.: F10559
C P No.: 11902
Place: Mumbai
Peer Review Certificate No.: 781/2020 
Date: April 22, 2023
UDIN: F010559E000168772 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
109
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

ANNEXURE C
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES 
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company
	
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has been 
a long-standing commitment at ICICI Bank and 
forms an integral part of our activities. The Bank’s 
contribution to social sector development includes 
several pioneering interventions, and is implemented 
through the involvement of stakeholders within the 
Bank, the Group and the broader community. The 
Bank established the ICICI Foundation for Inclusive 
Growth (ICICI Foundation) in 2008 with a view to 
significantly expand the ICICI Group’s activities in the 
area of CSR. Over the last few years, ICICI Foundation 
has developed significant projects in specific 
areas, and has built capabilities for direct project 
implementation as opposed to extending financial 
support to other organisations.
	
ICICI Bank’s objective is to proactively support 
meaningful socio-economic development in India 
and enable a larger number of people to participate 
in and benefit from India’s economic progress. This 
is based on the belief that growth and development 
are effective only when they result in wider access 
to opportunities and benefit a broader section of the 
society. ICICI Bank’s approach is to identify critical 
areas of development that require investments and 
intervention, and which can help to realize India’s 
potential for growth and prosperity.
	
The CSR Policy of the Bank sets the framework 
guiding the Bank’s CSR activities. It outlines the 
governance 
structure, 
operating 
framework, 
monitoring 
mechanism, 
guiding 
principles 
for 
selecting CSR projects and CSR activities that could 
be undertaken. The Bank's CSR activities are largely 
focused in the areas of healthcare, environment, 
societal 
development, 
supporting 
sustainable 
livelihoods, creating social awareness and activities 
like disaster relief or other activities under Schedule 
VII of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”).
	
The CSR Policy was last approved by the Committee 
in April 2021. The web-link to the Bank’s CSR Policy 
is: https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/corporate-
social-responsibility
2.	
Composition of the CSR Committee
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation/Nature of 
Directorship
Number of 
meetings of CSR 
Committee held 
during the year
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
attended during 
the year
1.
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
(Chairman of CSR Committee)
Non-Executive (part-time) 
Chairman / Independent Director
4
4
2.
Radhakrishnan Nair
Independent Director
4
4
3.
Uday Chitale
Independent Director
4
4
4.
Vibha Paul Rishi
Independent Director
4
4
5.
Anup Bagchi
(upto April 30, 2023)
Executive Director
4
4
3.	
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects 
approved by the Board are disclosed on the website of the Company
	
Link to the Bank’s CSR page is:
	
https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/corporate-social-responsibility
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
110
Annual Report 2022-23 

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
4.	
Provide the executive summary along with 
web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR 
Projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule 
(3) of rule 8, if applicable
	
The Bank conducted impact assessment through 
external agencies of eight projects undertaken in 
fiscal 2022. Of these, six projects were implemented 
through ICICI Foundation and two projects were 
directly implemented by the Bank.
	
Projects implemented through ICICI Foundation were:
	
•	
Dialysis machines provided to select hospitals in 
seven states
	
•	
Funds provided for surgeries/procedures to Sri 
Sathya Sai Hospital
	
•	
Livelihood 
project 
through 
e-rickshaws 
distribution
	
•	
ASHA worker programme
	
•	
Education project ‘Prabal Super-50’
	
•	
Project ‘Connectivity through bridge’
	
Projects directly implemented by the Bank were:
	
•	
The financial inclusion programme
	
•	
Social awareness programme.
	
The executive summary of impact assessment of the 
projects as referred above is provided in Annexure 1 
of the Annual Report on CSR.
	
Link to the impact assessment reports on the Bank’s 
website:
	
https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/corporate-
social-responsibility
5.	
(a)	 Average net profit of the Company as per 
sub-section (5) of Section 135
	
	
` 200.43 billion
	
(b)	 Two percent of average net profit of the 
Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135
	
	
` 4,008.5 million
	
(c)	 Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or 
programmes or activities of the previous 
financial years
	
	
` 139.9 million
	
(d)	 Amount required to be set-off for the financial 
year, if any
	
	
` 70.0 million
	
(e)	 Total CSR obligation for the financial year 
[(b)+(c)-(d)]
	
	
` 4,078.4 million
6.	
(a)	 Amount spent on CSR Projects (both ongoing 
project and other than ongoing projects)
	
	
` 4,625.6 million (Excludes surplus arising from 
CSR projects of previous financial year and 
spent in fiscal 2023)
	
(b)	 Amount spent in Administrative Overheads
	
	
Nil
	
(c) 	 Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if 
applicable
	
	
` 1.0 million
	
(d)	 Total amount spent for the Financial Year 
[(a) + (b) +(c)]
	
	
` 4,626.6 million (Excludes surplus arising from 
CSR projects of previous financial year and 
spent in fiscal 2023)
	
(e) 	 CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year
Total amount 
spent in fiscal 
2023
(in ` million)
Amount unspent (in `)
Total amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per 
Section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to Section 135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
4,626.6*
Nil
-
-
Nil
-
* Excludes surplus arising from CSR projects of previous financial year and spent in fiscal 2023.
111
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

	
(f) 	 Excess amount for set-off, if any
Sr. No.
Particular
Amount (in ` million)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(i)
2% of average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5)
3,938.5*
(ii)
Total amount spent for the financial year
4,766.5#
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
828.0
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the 
previous financial years, if any
139.9
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
688.1
* Adjusted for the excess amount of ` 70.0 million spent during fiscal 2022 and available for set off in fiscal 2023
# Includes amount spent towards surplus arising from CSR projects of previous financial year
7.	
Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial Years
	
Not applicable
8.	
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social 
Responsibility amount spent in the Financial Year
	
Yes, the details will be available on the Bank’s website at https://www.icicibank.com/about-us/annual
9.	
Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit 
as per sub-section (5) of Section 135
	
Not applicable
Sandeep Batra	
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Executive Director	
CSR Committee Chairman
DIN: 03620913	
DIN: 00110996
June 29, 2023
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
112
Annual Report 2022-23 

ANNEXURE 1: SUMMARY OF IMPACT ASSESSMENT STUDY
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
1.	
Dialysis machines provided to select 
hospitals in seven states
	
The dialysis project aimed to develop a sustainable 
and collaborative ecosystem for providing access to 
affordable and high-quality dialysis services to renal 
patients. The initiative, implemented through ICICI 
Foundation, was expected to benefit those who had 
less or no access to these facilities. The Bank provided 
211 dialysis machines to 76 hospitals in seven states 
during fiscal 2022. The project was implemented in a 
public-private partnership mode, with infrastructure 
and consummables being made available by the 
government and dialysis machines being funded by 
the Bank.
	
Key findings of the study were as follows:
	
•	
On an average, two to three shifts of dialysis 
were done in a day, with no major breakdown 
issues with the machines.
	
•	
The programme has made dialysis services 
accessible and affordable to the very poor and 
marginal communities in remote locations. Most 
of the patients were from below poverty line and 
received services at a nominal price.
	
•	
The Social Return on Investment (SROI) in 
the project was significant with every ` 1.00 
invested contributing to a social return of ` 25.5 
over a 10-year period.
2.	
Funds provided for surgeries/procedures to 
Sri Sathya Sai Hospital
	
As part of the focus on healthcare, the Bank, through 
ICICI Foundation, had provided funds to Sri Sathya 
Sai Sanjeevani Hospital (SSSSH) for heart treatment 
of children. The funds could support 400 child heart 
surgeries, which is provided free of cost by the 
hospital. The assessment focused on understanding 
the utilization of funds and the manner in which it 
had contributed towards improving the lives of the 
beneficiaries.
	
Key findings of the study were:
	
•	
The 400 beneficiaries were from 15 states, 
with maximum from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, 
Maharashtra, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh.
	
•	
60% children were less than five years of age 
and 30% were in the age-cohort of 5-12 years; 
58% of those treated were boys and 42% were 
girls.
	
•	
Most of the people who received services 
were from economically weaker section and 
other backward and scheduled castes. The 
support extended made paediatric cardiac care 
accessible and affordable to these people who 
could not afford the treatment.
	
•	
Of the families surveyed, 45% were from below 
poverty line, with average monthly income of 
around ` 12,000.
	
•	
Contribution to SSSSH gave an SROI value of 
19:1.
3.	
Livelihood project through e-rickshaws 
distribution
	
This 
project 
was 
undertaken 
through 
ICICI 
Foundation in collaboration with the Kaushambi 
district administration in Uttar Pradesh. The local 
district authority introduced a Garib Sarthi Yojana 
in December 2021 to provide sustainable source 
of income to the underserved and marginalized 
communities in the district. As part of the initiative, 
electric rickshaws (e-rickshaws) were made available 
to families below poverty line from rural and urban 
areas. The funding was for procurement of the 
e-rickshaws.
	
Key impact of the project were:
	
•	
74% of the beneficiaries belonged to the socially 
marginalized sections of society.
	
•	
Around 80% of the beneficiaries were involved in 
low-paying jobs such as farming or daily wage 
labour.
	
•	
80% of the beneficiaries stated that income 
had increased post the programme, and 90% of 
them earned more than ` 7,000 per month from 
the e-rickshaws.
	
•	
63% 
of 
the 
beneficiaries 
had 
seen 
an 
improvement in their lifestyle sufficing through 
material well-being in terms of assets procured 
and living conditions.
113
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

	
•	
60% beneficiaries indicated they were able to 
save from the income earned.
	
•	
At the time of the survey, 70% of the beneficiaries 
had started using the e-rickshaws commercially.
	
•	
A drawback noted by the study was that 
over 60% of the beneficiaries received their 
e-rickshaws after 11 months from submission of 
their application.
4.	
ASHA worker programme
	
With a view to strengthen the primary healthcare 
efforts for women and children undertaken through 
ASHA workers, the Bank, through ICICI Foundation, 
provided support to 75,000 ASHA workers in fiscal 
2022. The women workers were provided with 
materials like bags, information booklet, education 
and communication material, charts for maintaining 
records, registers, and other such material that would 
help them in effective delivery of support for maternal 
and child health. The programme was implemented 
in all districts of Maharashtra.
	
Key impact of the project were as follows:
	
•	
90% of ASHA workers regularly used the kits for 
counselling and home visits.
	
•	
82% of ASHA workers indicated that they were 
able to correctly answer majority of the queries 
relating to ante-natal care, and 78% indicated 
they could appropriately respond to queries 
relating to post-natal care.
	
•	
88% ASHA workers reported that maternal and 
child health monitoring improved using the kits.
	
•	
62% informed that they were able to prevent 
complications faced by women during pregnancy 
through regular monitoring.
	
•	
The SROI for the project was ` 12.13 for every 
rupee spent.
5.	
Education project ‘Prabal Super-50’
	
The Prabal SUPER-50 project supported children 
of army personnel by providing one-year free 
residential boarding, coaching and mentoring for 
medical entrance exam (NEET) preparation. The 
project was executed through ICICI Foundation. The 
key stakeholders were the army that provided the 
basic infrastructure, Centre for Social Responsibility 
and Leadership (CSRL) which was the implementing 
partner and ICICI Foundation which ensured the 
financial stability of the project.
	
Some key insights from the project were:
	
•	
The programme delivered 100% pass rate of 
the students who appeared for the NEET 2022 
exam.
	
•	
77% of the students were children of retired 
army personnel and 23% were of personnel in-
service.
	
•	
100% of the students confirmed coaching was 
in line with the NEET syllabus.
	
•	
96% of students rated the residential facilities 
provided at the campus as ‘4 and above’ (out of 
5).
	
•	
19% of the students have been placed in elite 
government medical colleges.
6.	
Project ‘Connectivity through bridge’
	
Under this project, 11 bridges were installed over 
streams and other water bodies in the hilly areas 
of Uttarakhand, primarily, Almora, Champawat, 
Nainital, 
Rudraprayag, 
and 
Uttarkashi 
in 
collaboration with Himalayan Environmental Studies 
and Conservation Organization (HESCO). The project 
aimed at providing a bridge for rural connectivity in 
the mountainous region and positively contributing 
to the socio-economic and ecological factors for the 
local people.
	
Some key impact of the project for the local people 
were:
	
•	
Increased access to markets, timely delivery of 
goods and reduction in spoilage of goods due to 
improved access to transportation.
	
•	
Improvement in the access to health services, 
educational services, market, and farm for local 
people.
	
•	
Reduction in transportation time, cost due to 
improved access to road, bridge and availability 
of alternative shorter route.
	
•	
Reduction in accidents and risks involved, 
especially during monsoon.
	
•	
Ease in the availability of emergency services.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
114
Annual Report 2022-23 

7.	
The financial inclusion programme
	
Financial inclusion programme has been implemented 
by the Bank for ensuring access to financial services, 
timely and adequate credit for vulnerable groups 
such as weaker sections and low-income groups 
at an affordable cost. The Bank has taken several 
steps towards this goal, including using a network 
of Business Correspondents (BCs) and branches, 
offering digital payment solutions, and encouraging 
customers to conduct digital transactions.
	
The key findings are:
	
•	
44% of respondents developed habit of saving 
and planning expenses. Majority were not able 
to do so due to low and unstable income.
	
•	
68% found accessing financial services to be 
convenient.
	
•	
73% of respondents informed that knowledge of 
various financial services and products improved 
with the assistance of the BCs.
	
•	
By providing access to financial services and to 
government schemes, the program has helped 
marginalized families improve their standard of 
living.
8.	
Social Awareness Programme
	
The social awareness programme of the Bank aims 
to spread messages and improve awareness on road 
safety, sanitation, environment and others, and bring 
about a behavioral change among people to make 
them socially responsible citizens. In this programme, 
various signage and boards were placed at several 
locations across India. The Bank collaborated 
with local government bodies to ensure that the 
messages were relevant and contextualized to the 
local population. In fiscal 2022, the project involved 
installation of 3,500 boards at over 43 different sites/
locations in Pune, Bangalore, Chennai and Kolkata.
	
The key findings of the assessment were:
	
•	
The programme met three of the MCA’s approved 
activities under Schedule VII (Section 135) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and four areas of national 
policies.
	
•	
The programme was aligned with seven 
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
which include good health and well-being, 
quality education, clean water and sanitation, 
sustainable cities and communities, responsible 
consumption and production, life below water 
and life on land.
	
•	
The programme also aligned with three of the 
National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct Principles under SEBI’s Business 
Responsibility & Sustainability Report (BRSR).
	
•	
The daily effective circulation (DEC), which is 
the average number of people passing by, was 
observed to be more than 1.48 crore. This implies 
an annual visibility impression of 176 crore.
	
•	
One of the recommendations in the report is to 
appropriately size and place the display board 
in heavy traffic areas to improve visibility and 
effectiveness of the social message.
	
•	
The Program also aligns with the SEBI’s 
BRSR principles pertaining to protection and 
restoration of environment and promoting 
inclusive growth and equitable development.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
115
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE ON 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To the Members of
ICICI Bank Limited
We have examined the compliance of conditions of 
Corporate Governance by ICICI Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’), for 
the year ended March 31, 2023, as stipulated in regulations 
17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of regulation 46(2) 
and paragraphs C, D, E of Schedule V of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’) 
and as amended from time to time.
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is 
the responsibility of the management. This responsibility 
includes the design, implementation, and maintenance of 
internal control procedures to ensure compliance with the 
conditions of the Corporate Governance stipulated in the 
Listing Regulations.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY
Our responsibility is limited to examining the procedures 
and implementation thereof, adopted by the Bank for 
ensuring compliance with the conditions of Corporate 
Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of 
opinion on the financial statements of the Bank.
We have examined the books of account and other 
relevant records and documents maintained by the Bank 
for the purposes of providing reasonable assurance on the 
compliance with Corporate Governance requirements by 
the Bank.
We have carried out an examination of the relevant 
records of the Bank in accordance with the Guidance Note 
on Certification of Corporate Governance issued by the 
Institute of the Chartered Accountants of India (the ICAI), 
the Standards on Auditing specified under Section 143(10) 
of the Companies Act, 2013, in so far as applicable for the 
purpose of this certificate and as per the Guidance Note 
on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes issued by 
the ICAI which requires that we comply with the ethical 
requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
We 
have 
complied 
with 
the 
relevant 
applicable 
requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, 
Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews 
of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance 
and Related Services Engagements.
OPINION
Based on our examination of the relevant records and 
according to the information and explanations given to us, 
we certify that the Bank has complied with the conditions 
of Corporate Governance as stipulated in regulations 17 
to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of regulation 46(2) and 
paragraphs C, D, E of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations 
during the year ended March 31, 2023, as applicable.
We further state that such compliance is neither an 
assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor the 
efficiency or effectiveness with which the management 
has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
For M S K A & Associates
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105146W/W100621
Tushar Kurani
Gautam Shah
Membership No.: 118580
Membership No.: 117348
UDIN: 23118580BGXRQX8542
UDIN: 23117348BGSZJJ6336
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: June 21, 2023
Date: June 21, 2023
116
Annual Report 2022-23 

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT
Global growth momentum is expected to slow from 2.7% 
year-on-year in calendar year 2022 to 2.1% in calendar 
year 2023 led primarily by a weaker outlook in developed 
market (DM) economies with risks to the outlook being to 
the downside. The lagged effect of monetary tightening 
undertaken over calendar year 2022 along with weakening 
credit markets will work as the main headwinds in terms 
of pulling global growth lower. At the same time, headline 
inflation is expected to drop-off reflecting easing in 
supply-side inflation pressures. However, DM core inflation 
remains elevated and a concern that will restrict the ability 
of DM central banks to turn accommodative over calendar 
year 2023. Risks to the global growth outlook are to the 
downside reflected in: (a) possibility of further strain in 
the DM banking sector and (b) a further escalation in geo-
political tensions.
Domestically, India recovered from the Covid-19 pandemic 
as the third wave started receding from January 2022. 
However, just when the Covid-19 pandemic was getting 
over, the world witnessed another major shock in the 
form of the Russia-Ukraine crisis, leading to a spike in 
commodity prices. The subsequent sanctions on Russia 
further disrupted commodity markets, increased volatility 
and uncertainty, and kept an upward pressure on inflation. 
Consequently, domestic inflation averaged 6.7% during 
fiscal 2023, putting pressure on consumption growth. 
Overall, India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew 7.2% 
in fiscal 2023 mainly driven by strong investments and 
exports growth.
Growth
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, India’s real Gross 
Value Added (GVA) grew 6.5% year-on-year. Real GDP 
growth came at 6.1% year-on-year in the fourth quarter 
of fiscal 2023, taking fiscal 2023 growth to 7.2%. The 
notable development emerged from industry (particularly 
manufacturing) which recorded higher growth than 
implied in the Second Advance Estimates (SAE) due to a 
turnaround in profitability on the back of lower raw material 
prices. Agriculture recorded a growth of 5.5% year-on-
year during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, the highest 
quarterly growth since March 2020. Services sector grew 
6.9% year-on-year, mainly due to an uptick in trade and 
travel services. From the expenditure side, consumption 
recorded muted growth. Private consumption grew just 
2.8% year-on-year, while government consumption grew 
2.3% year-on-year. Investments, as represented by real 
Gross Fixed Capital Formation (GFCF), grew 8.9% year-
on-year up from 8.0% in the third quarter and 4.9% in the 
fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 on the back of infrastructure 
thrust by the government and good growth in capital 
expenditure.
Inflation
Inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI), 
softened from 7.0% year-on-year in March 2022 to 5.7% 
year-on-year in March 2023, compared to an average 
inflation of 6.7% year-on-year in fiscal 2023. Food inflation 
too eased to 4.2% year-on-year, while core inflation was 
lower at 5.2% year-on-year. The most important factor 
working in favour of inflation is lower global commodity 
and oil prices. Given the above backdrop along with muted 
commodity prices, inflation estimates have been lowered 
to 5.1% year-on-year in fiscal 2024 as compared to 5.3% 
earlier. However, upside risks due to a below normal 
rainfall (led by El-Nino) could push the food prices higher 
in case of pulses and rice.
Interest rates
In May 2022, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) 
delivered its first post-pandemic hike of 40 basis points, 
taking the repo rate to 4.4%. More rate hikes followed: 50 
basis points in June 2022, 50 basis points in August 2022, 
50 basis points in September 2022, 35 basis points in 
December 2022 and 25 basis points in February 2023, 
taking the cumulative rate hikes to 250 basis points 
during fiscal 2023. However, the MPC surprised markets 
by keeping the policy rate unchanged at 6.5% in the 
meeting held in April 2023, while the stance remained 
unchanged. System liquidity reduced from an average of 
6.39 trillion in March 2022 to 32.36 billion in March 2023. 
The transmission of monetary policy resulted in increase in 
interest rates in the banking system. Between April 2022 
and March 2023, the weighted average lending rate 
(WALR) of commercial banks on fresh rupee loans 
increased by 169 basis points.
Financial markets
During fiscal 2023, the Rupee depreciated by 8.4% from 
` 75.79 per USD at March 31, 2022 to ` 82.18 per USD 
at March 31, 2023. With the global turmoil due to the 
continuing Russia-Ukraine war, the Rupee touched ` 82.99 
per USD at October 19, 2022. The benchmark S&P BSE 
Sensex increased by 0.7% during fiscal 2023 compared to 
117
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
18.3% in fiscal 2022. The yields on the benchmark 10-year 
government securities increased from 6.84% at March 31, 
2022 to 7.31% at March 31, 2023. The yield fluctuated 
during the year, with the highest at 7.62% on June 16, 
2022. It cooled down to 7.29% by July 6, 2022.
Banking sector trends
Non-food credit of the banking system displayed robust 
growth during fiscal 2023, with growth of 15.4% compared 
to 8.7% in fiscal 2022, with incremental credit growth of 
` 18.2 trillion in the year. With the latest sectoral break-up 
of credit data available till April 2023, credit growth was 
led by services (21.6% year-on-year) and personal credit 
(19.4% year-on-year). In addition, industry credit also 
showed an uptick in growth at 7.0% year-on-year.
According 
to 
RBI’s 
Financial 
Stability 
Report 
of 
December 2022, non-performing assets (NPAs) of 
scheduled commercial banks continued to decline in 
fiscal 2023, with gross NPA ratio at 5.0% and net NPA 
ratio at 1.3% at September 30, 2022 compared to a 
gross NPA ratio of 6.9% and net NPA ratio of 2.3% at 
September 30, 2021. Restructuring of loans for the MSME 
sector impacted by the second Covid-19 wave under 
Resolution Framework 2.0 stood at 2.3% of total MSME 
advances as on September 30, 2022.
Outlook
The MPC expectedly kept the repo rate unchanged at 
the June 2023 review. It also kept the stance of monetary 
policy unchanged at ‘withdrawal of accommodation’. A 
long pause on rates by the MPC is expected, with rate cuts 
possible in the first few months of calendar year 2024.
STRATEGY
In fiscal 2023, the Bank maintained its strategic focus on 
profitable growth in business within the guardrails of risk 
and compliance. The Bank grew its credit portfolio with 
a focus on granularity and saw healthy growth across 
retail, business banking and wholesale portfolios. The 
Bank continued to focus on holistically serving its clients 
and their ecosystems. The Bank sought to maintain 
and enhance its liability franchise. The Bank focused on 
maintaining a strong balance sheet, with robust liquidity, 
prudent provisioning and healthy capital adequacy. The 
Bank’s capital adequacy ratios were significantly above 
regulatory requirements as of March 31, 2023.
Going forward, the Bank would focus on maximizing the 
profit before tax (excluding treasury gains) within the 
guardrails of compliance and risk management. The Bank 
believes there are significant opportunities for profitable 
growth across various sectors of the Indian economy. The 
Risk Appetite and Enterprise Risk Management framework 
articulates the Bank’s risk appetite and drills it down into a 
limit framework for various risk categories. The Bank will 
focus on growing its loan portfolio in a granular manner 
with a focus on risk and reward, with return of capital and 
containment of provisions within targeted levels being a 
key imperative. There are no specific targets for loan mix 
or segment-wise loan growth. The Bank would aim to 
continue to grow its deposit franchise, maintain a stable 
and healthy funding profile and competitive advantage in 
cost of funds.
See also “Integrated Report – Our Business Strategy”.
STANDALONE FINANCIALS AS PER INDIAN 
GAAP
Summary
Profit before tax (excluding treasury gains) increased by 
43.0% from 297.06 billion in fiscal 2022 to 424.73 billion 
in fiscal 2023. Core operating profit (i.e. profit before 
provisions and tax, excluding treasury gains) increased by 
28.1% from ` 383.47 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 491.39 billion 
in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in net interest 
income by ` 146.63 billion and fee income by ` 23.14 
billion, offset, in part, by an increase in operating expenses 
by ` 61.40 billion. Provisions and contingencies (excluding 
provision for tax) decreased by 22.9% from ` 86.41 billion 
in fiscal 2022 to ` 66.66 billion in fiscal 2023. Gains from 
treasury-related activities decreased from a gain of ` 9.03 
billion in fiscal 2022 to a loss of ` 0.52 billion in fiscal 2023. 
Profit after tax increased from ` 233.39 billion in fiscal 
2022 to ` 318.96 billion in fiscal 2023.
Net interest income increased by 30.9% from ` 474.66 
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 621.29 billion in fiscal 2023 due 
to an increase in the net interest margin (NIM) and an 
increase in the average interest-earning assets.
Fee income increased by 14.8% from ` 156.87 billion in 
fiscal 2022 to ` 180.01 billion in fiscal 2023. Dividend from 
subsidiaries/joint ventures/associates decreased by 2.5% 
from ` 18.29 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 17.84 billion in fiscal 
2023. Operating expenses increased by 23.0% from ` 267.33 
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 328.73 billion in fiscal 2023.
118
Annual Report 2022-23 

Provisions and contingencies (excluding provision for tax) 
decreased by 22.9% from ` 86.41 billion in fiscal 2022 to 
` 66.66 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to a write-back 
of provision for non-performing and other assets, offset, 
in part, by an increase in contingency provisions made 
on a prudent basis, and provision for investments. There 
was a write-back of ` 6.23 billion in provision for non-
performing and other assets in fiscal 2023 compared to 
a provision of ` 61.64 billion in fiscal 2022. During fiscal 
2023, there were higher recoveries and upgrades from 
non-performing assets (NPA) resulting in net write-back 
of provision, offset, in part, by an increase in provisioning 
rate for certain categories of NPAs. During fiscal 2023, the 
Bank changed its provisioning norms on NPAs to make 
them more conservative. In fiscal 2022, the provision for 
non-performing and other assets also included provision 
on loans restructured under Resolution Framework for 
COVID-19.
The provision coverage ratio on NPAs increased from 
79.2% at March 31, 2022 to 82.8% at March 31, 2023. 
During fiscal 2023, the Bank made a contingency provision 
amounting to ` 56.50 billion (fiscal 2022: write-back of 
` 0.25 billion), on a prudent basis, to further strengthen 
the balance sheet. The Bank held a total contingency 
provision of ` 131.00 billion at March 31, 2023.
The income tax expense increased from ` 72.70 billion in 
fiscal 2022 to ` 105.25 billion in fiscal 2023. The effective 
tax rate increased from 23.7% in fiscal 2022 to 24.8% 
in fiscal 2023 primarily due to change in composition of 
income.
Net worth increased by 17.7% from ` 1,705.12 billion at 
March 31, 2022 to ` 2,007.16 billion at March 31, 2023 
primarily due to accretion to reserves out of retained profit, 
offset, in part, by payment of dividend for fiscal 2022.
Total assets increased by 12.3% from ` 14,112.98 billion 
at March 31, 2022 to ` 15,842.07 billion at March 31, 2023. 
Total advances increased by 18.7% from ` 8,590.20 billion 
at March 31, 2022 to ` 10,196.38 billion at March 31, 
2023 primarily due to an increase in domestic advances 
by 20.5%. Total investments increased by 16.8% from 
` 3,102.41 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 3,623.30 billion 
at March 31, 2023. Cash and cash equivalents decreased 
by 28.8% from ` 1,678.22 billion at March 31, 2022 to 
` 1,194.38 billion at March 31, 2023.
The 
weighted 
average 
high-quality 
liquid 
assets, 
maintained during the three months ended March 31, 2023 
were ` 3,234.60 billion (three months ended March 31, 
2022: ` 3,197.27 billion). The average liquidity coverage 
ratio was 124.13% for the three months ended March 31, 
2023 as against the requirement of 100.00%.
Total deposits increased by 10.9% from ` 10,645.72 billion 
at March 31, 2022 to ` 11,808.41 billion at March 31, 
2023. Total deposits increased by 8.3% from ` 10,900.08 
billion at September 30, 2022 to ` 11,808.41 billion at 
March 31, 2023. Term deposits increased by 17.1% 
from ` 5,461.35 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 6,395.79 
billion at March 31, 2023. Current and savings account 
(CASA) deposits increased by 4.4% from ` 5,184.37 
billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 5,412.62 billion at March 31, 
2023. Average CASA deposits increased by 13.3% from 
` 4,198.86 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 4,758.90 billion in fiscal 
2023. Borrowings increased by 11.3% from ` 1,072.31 
billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 1,193.25 billion at March 31, 
2023.
The Bank had a business center (branch) network of 
5,900 branches, and network of 16,650 ATMs/CRMs at 
March 31, 2023.
The Bank is subject to Basel III capital adequacy guidelines 
stipulated by RBI. The total capital adequacy ratio of 
the Bank at March 31, 2023 (after deducting proposed 
dividend for fiscal 2023 from capital funds) in accordance 
with RBI guidelines on Basel III was 18.34% as compared 
to 19.16% at March 31, 2022. The Tier-1 capital adequacy 
ratio was 17.60% at March 31, 2023 as compared to 
18.35% at March 31, 2022. The Common Equity Tier 1 
(CET-1) ratio was 17.12% at March 31, 2023 as compared 
to 17.60% at March 31, 2022.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
119
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

OPERATING RESULTS DATA
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the operating results data.
` in billion, except percentages
Particulars
Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023
% change
Interest income
` 863.75
` 1,092.31
26.5%
Interest expense
389.09
471.02
21.1
Net interest income
474.66
621.29
30.9
Fee income1
156.87
180.01
14.8
Dividend from subsidiaries/joint ventures/associates
18.29
17.84
(2.5)
Other income
0.98
0.98
-
Core operating income
650.80
820.12
26.0
Operating expenses
267.33
328.73
23.0
Core operating profit
383.47
491.39
28.1
Treasury gains
9.03
(0.52)
-
Operating profit
392.50
490.87
25.1
Provisions, net of write-backs
86.41
66.66
(22.9)
Profit before tax
306.09
424.21
38.6
Tax, including deferred tax
72.70
105.25
44.8
Profit after tax
` 233.39
` 318.96
36.7%
1	 Includes merchant foreign exchange income and margin on customer derivative transactions.
2	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
3	 Prior period figures have been re-grouped/re-arranged, where necessary.
Key ratios
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the key financial ratios.
Particulars
Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023
Return on average equity (%)1
14.77
17.28
Return on average assets (%)2
1.84
2.16
Net interest margin (%)
3.96
4.48
Cost to income (%)3
40.51
40.11
Provisions to core operating profit (%)
22.53
13.57
Earnings per share (`)
33.66
45.79
Book value per share (`)
245.38
287.44
1	 Return on average equity is the ratio of the net profit after tax to the quarterly average equity share capital and reserves.
2	 Return on average assets is the ratio of net profit after tax to average assets.
3	 Cost represents operating expense. Income represents net interest income and non-interest income.
The return on average equity, return on average assets and earnings per share increased primarily due to an increase in 
profit after tax.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
120
Annual Report 2022-23 

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Net interest income and spread analysis
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the net interest income and spread analysis.
` in billion, except percentages
Particulars
Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023
% change
Interest income
` 863.75
` 1,092.31
26.5%
Interest expense
389.09
471.02
21.1
Net interest income
474.66
621.29
30.9
Average interest-earning assets
11,979.51
13,872.53
15.8
Average interest-bearing liabilities
` 10,478.20
` 11,998.16
14.5%
Net interest margin
3.96%
4.48%
-
Average yield
7.21%
7.87%
-
Average cost of funds
3.71%
3.93%
-
Interest spread
3.50%
3.94%
-
1	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
Net interest income increased by 30.9% from ` 474.66 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 621.29 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due 
to an increase in the net interest margin by 52 basis points and an increase of 15.8% in the average interest-earning 
assets.
Net interest margin increased by 52 basis points from 3.96% in fiscal 2022 to 4.48% in fiscal 2023. The yield on average 
interest-earning assets increased by 66 basis points from 7.21% in fiscal 2022 to 7.87% in fiscal 2023. The cost of funds 
increased by 22 basis points from 3.71% in fiscal 2022 to 3.93% in fiscal 2023. The interest spread increased by 44 basis 
points from 3.50% in fiscal 2022 to 3.94% in fiscal 2023. The full impact of rise in interest rates from the beginning of 
fiscal year 2023 is expected to be reflected in the cost of domestic term deposits during fiscal 2024.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the trend in yield, cost, spread and margin.
Particulars
Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023
Yield on interest-earning assets
7.21%
7.87%
- On advances
8.27
8.94
- On investments
5.98
6.57
	
- On SLR investments
6.22
6.62
	
- On other investments
4.72
6.16
- On other interest-earning assets
4.04
3.38
Cost of interest-bearing liabilities
3.71
3.93
- Cost of deposits
3.53
3.66
	
- Current and savings account (CASA) deposits
2.27
2.28
	
- Term deposits
4.54
4.78
- Cost of borrowings
5.37
5.97
Interest spread
3.50
3.94
Net interest margin
3.96%
4.48%
121
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The yield on average interest-earning assets increased 
by 66 basis points from 7.21% in fiscal 2022 to 7.87% in 
fiscal 2023 primarily due to the following factors:
•	
The yield on domestic advances increased by 52 
basis points from 8.64% in fiscal 2022 to 9.16% 
in fiscal 2023. The yield on advances increased 
primarily due to re-pricing of existing floating rate 
loans linked to the repo rate and the Bank’s Marginal 
Cost of funds based Lending Rate (MCLR) to a higher 
rate and new lending at higher rates. At March 31, 
2023, of the total domestic loan book, 30% had fixed 
interest rates, 45% had interest rates linked to repo 
rate, 20% had interest rates linked to MCLR and other 
older benchmarks and 5% had interest rates linked to 
T-bills.
	
RBI increased the repo rate by 250 basis points from 
4.00% in May 2022 to 6.50% in February 2023. The 
Bank’s 1-year MCLR increased by 150 basis points in 
phases during fiscal 2023 from 7.25% in March 2022 
to 8.75% in March 2023. The impact of increase in 
repo rates from May 2022 started reflecting in overall 
yield through repricing of the repo and T-bill linked 
portfolio from Q2-2023 and onwards. For MCLR 
linked loans, the effect on the yields is based on 
respective reset dates of underlying loans. Further, 
the future movement in the yield on advances will 
depend on the increase/decrease in the repo rate and 
the systemic interest rates.
	
The yield on overseas advances increased by 239 
basis points from 1.51% in fiscal 2022 to 3.90% in 
fiscal 2023 primarily due to repricing of floating rate 
advances and new lending at higher rates on account 
of the ongoing rate hike cycle by the US Federal 
Reserve. The yield on overseas advances was also 
positively impacted by higher interest collection on 
NPAs.
	
The overall yield on average advances increased by 
67 basis points from 8.27% in fiscal 2022 to 8.94% in 
fiscal 2023.
•	
The yield on average interest-earning investments 
increased by 59 basis points from 5.98% in fiscal 
2022 to 6.57% in fiscal 2023. The yield on Indian 
government investments increased by 40 basis 
points from 6.22% in fiscal 2022 to 6.62% in fiscal 
2023. This was primarily due to reset of floating rate 
bonds linked to Treasury bills (T-bills) at higher rates 
pursuant to a significant increase in treasury bill 
yields and new investment in government securities 
at higher yields.
	
The yield on non-SLR investments increased by 144 
basis points from 4.72% in fiscal 2022 to 6.16% in 
fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in yield on 
bonds and debentures, foreign government securities 
and commercial paper.
•	
The yield on other interest-earning assets decreased 
by 66 basis points from 4.04% in fiscal 2022 to 3.38% 
in fiscal 2023. The decrease was primarily due to a 
decrease in interest income on funding swaps and an 
increase in average balance with RBI which does not 
earn any interest. During first quarter of fiscal 2023, 
RBI had increased the cash reserve ratio from 4.00% 
to 4.50%. The decrease in yield on other interest-
earning assets was offset, in part, by an increase in 
yield on call money lent and an increase in yield on 
balance with other banks.
	
Interest on income tax refund decreased from ` 2.43 
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 1.14 billion in fiscal 2023. 
The receipt, amount and timing of such income 
depends on the nature and timing of determinations 
by tax authorities and are hence neither consistent 
nor predictable.
The cost of funds increased by 22 basis points from 3.71% 
in fiscal 2022 to 3.93% in fiscal 2023 primarily due to the 
following factors:
•	
The cost of average deposits increased from 3.53% 
in fiscal 2022 to 3.66% in fiscal 2023 primarily due 
to an increase in cost of domestic term deposits. The 
cost of domestic term deposits increased by 23 basis 
points from 4.57% in fiscal 2022 to 4.80% in fiscal 
2023. The peak rate for retail term deposits increased 
significantly in phases from 5.75% in May 2022 to 
7.10% in February 2023 on account of significant 
increase in repo rate by the Reserve Bank of India.
	
The full impact of the rise in interest rates on deposits 
from the beginning of fiscal year 2023 will be reflected 
in the cost of domestic term deposits during fiscal 
2024.
	
The cost of savings account deposits increased 
marginally from 3.15% in fiscal 2022 to 3.16% in 
fiscal 2023. The average CASA deposits increased 
from 44.5% of total average deposits in fiscal 2022 
to 44.7% of total average deposits in fiscal 2023. 
Average CASA deposits were 39.7% of the total 
122
Annual Report 2022-23 

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
funding (i.e., deposits and borrowings) for fiscal 2023 
as compared to 40.1% for fiscal 2022.
•	
The cost of borrowings increased by 60 basis points 
from 5.37% in fiscal 2022 to 5.97% in fiscal 2023. 
The cost of domestic borrowings increased by 28 
basis points from 6.38% in fiscal 2022 to 6.66% in 
fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in cost of 
short term money market borrowings and refinance 
borrowings, offset, in part, by a decrease in cost of 
bond borrowings. The cost of overseas borrowings 
increased by 218 basis points from 1.11% in fiscal 
2022 to 3.29% in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an 
increase in cost of term borrowings on account of 
ongoing rate hike cycle by the US Federal Reserve.
The Bank’s interest income, yield on advances, net interest 
income and net interest margin are impacted by systemic 
liquidity, the competitive environment, level of additions 
to non-performing loans, regulatory developments, 
monetary policy and economic and geopolitical factors. 
Interest rates on about 49.9% of Bank’s domestic loans 
are linked to external market benchmarks. The differential 
movements in the external benchmark rates compared to 
cost of funds of the Bank impact the Bank’s net interest 
income and net interest margin in fiscal 2024.
The average interest-earning assets increased by 15.8% 
from ` 11,979.51 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 13,872.53 billion 
in fiscal 2023 due to an increase in average advances by 
` 1,674.28 billion and average investments by ` 436.42 
billion, offset, in part, by a decrease in average other 
interest-earning assets by ` 217.68 billion.
Average advances increased by 21.7% from ` 7,716.34 
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 9,390.62 billion in fiscal 2023 due 
to an increase of 23.0% in average domestic advances, 
offset, in part, by a decrease of 1.7% in average overseas 
advances.
Average interest-earning investments increased by 15.9% 
from ` 2,744.51 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 3,180.93 billion 
in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in average 
investment in Indian government securities, offset, in 
part, by a decrease in average investments in foreign 
government securities.
Average other interest-earning assets decreased by 
14.3% from ` 1,518.66 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 1,300.98 
billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to a decrease in call 
money lent and Rural infrastructure development fund 
(RIDF) and related deposits, offset, in part, by an increase 
in balance with RBI.
Average interest-bearing liabilities increased by 14.5% 
from ` 10,478.20 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 11,998.16 billion 
in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in average 
deposits by ` 1,201.52 billion and an increase in average 
borrowings by ` 318.45 billion.
Average deposits increased by 12.7% from ` 9,433.39 
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 10,634.91 billion in fiscal 2023 
due to an increase in average term deposits and average 
CASA deposits.
Average borrowings increased by 30.5% from ` 1,044.80 
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 1,363.25 billion in fiscal 2023 
primarily due to an increase in bond borrowings, term 
money borrowings, refinance borrowings and repo 
borrowings.
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, the trend in average interest-earning assets and average interest-
bearing liabilities:
` in billion, except percentages
Particulars
Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023
% change
Advances
` 7,716.34
` 9,390.62
21.7%
Interest-earning investments1
2,744.51
3,180.93
15.9
Other interest-earning assets
1,518.66
1,300.98
(14.3)
Total interest-earning assets
11,979.51
13,872.53
15.8
Deposits
9,433.39
10,634.91
12.7
Borrowings1
1,044.80
1,363.25
30.5
Total interest-bearing liabilities
` 10,478.20
` 11,998.16
14.5%
1	 Average investments and average borrowings include average short-term repurchase transactions.
2	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
123
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
FEE INCOME
Fee income primarily includes fees from retail customers 
such as loan processing fees, fees from cards business, 
account servicing charge, income from foreign exchange 
transactions and third party referral fees and fees from 
corporate clients includes loan processing fees, transaction 
banking fees, income from foreign exchange transactions 
and margin on derivative transactions.
Fee income increased by 14.8% from ` 156.87 billion in 
fiscal 2022 to ` 180.01 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due 
to an increase in transaction banking fees, income from 
foreign exchange and derivatives products and lending 
linked fees, offset, in part, by a decrease in fee income from 
third party product distribution. The fee income during the 
first half of fiscal 2023 increased by 24.1% as compared 
to the first half of fiscal 2022 primarily due to the lower 
base effect resulting from the second-wave of Covid-19 
pandemic.
DIVIDEND FROM SUBSIDIARIES/JOINT 
VENTURES/ASSOCIATES
Dividend from Subsidiaries/joint ventures/associates 
decreased by 2.5% from ` 18.29 billion in fiscal 2022 to 
` 17.84 billion in fiscal 2023.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of dividend received from Subsidiaries/joint ventures/
associates:
` in billion
Name of the entity
Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023
ICICI Bank Canada
` 0.88
` 1.06
ICICI Bank UK PLC
-
0.80
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
1.48
0.40
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
1.89
2.24
ICICI Prudential Asset Management company Limited
6.14
6.22
ICICI Securities Limited
5.98
5.44
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited
1.81
1.36
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited
-
0.16
ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited
-
0.05
India Infradebt Limited
0.11
0.11
ICICI Prudential Trust Limited
0.00
0.00
Total
` 18.29
` 17.84
1	 0.00 represents insignificant amount.
2	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
Other income
Other income remained at a similar level at ` 0.98 billion in fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2023. 
Operating expenses
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the principal components of operating expenses.
` in billion, except percentages
Particulars
Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023
% change
Payments to and provisions for employees
` 96.73
` 120.60
24.7%
Other administrative expenses
170.60
208.13
22.0
Total operating expenses
` 267.33
` 328.73
23.0%
1	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
Operating expenses primarily include employee expenses, depreciation on assets and other administrative expenses. 
Operating expenses increased by 23.0% from ` 267.33 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 328.73 billion in fiscal 2023.
124
Annual Report 2022-23 

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Payments to and provisions for employees
Employee expenses increased by 24.7% from ` 96.73 
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 120.60 billion in fiscal 2023 
primarily due to an increase in salary cost, provision for 
retirement benefit obligations, provision for performance 
bonus and performance-linked retention pay and fair 
value accounting of employee stock options. Salary cost 
increased primarily due to impact of annual increments, 
promotions and an increase in average staff strength 
(number of employees at March 31, 2022: 105,844 and 
at March 31, 2023: 129,020). Provision for retirement 
benefit obligations increased primarily due to impact of 
change in assumptions for salary escalation and dearness 
allowance.
The employee base includes sales executives, employees 
on fixed term contracts and interns.
Other administrative expenses
Other administrative expenses primarily include rent, taxes 
and lighting, advertisements, sales promotion, repairs and 
maintenance, direct marketing expenses, depreciation, 
premium paid towards priority sector lending certificates 
and other expenditure. Other administrative expenses 
increased by 22.0% from ` 170.60 billion in fiscal 2022 to 
` 208.13 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase 
in technology related expenses, advertisement and 
sales promotion expenses and direct marketing agency 
expenses.
PROFIT/(LOSS) ON TREASURY-RELATED 
ACTIVITIES (NET)
Gains from treasury-related activities include gains on 
sale of investments and unrealised profit/(loss) on account 
of revaluation of investments in the fixed income portfolio, 
equity and preference share portfolio, units of venture 
funds and security receipts issued by asset reconstruction 
companies.
Loss from treasury-related activities was ` 0.52 billion in 
fiscal 2023 as compared to a gain of ` 9.03 billion in fiscal 
2022.
For a discussion on provisioning norms and policies, see 
“Financial Statement (Schedule 17- Significant Accounting 
Policies) – Provision/write-offs on loans and other credit 
facilities”.
Provisions 
and 
contingencies 
(excluding 
provisions 
for tax) decreased from ` 86.41 billion in fiscal 2022 to 
` 66.66 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to a decrease in 
provision for non-performing and other assets, offset, in 
part, by an increase in contingency provisions made on a 
prudent basis, and provision for investments.
Provision for non-performing and other assets decreased 
from a provision of ` 61.64 billion in fiscal 2022 to a 
write-back of ` 6.23 billion in fiscal 2023. During fiscal 
2023, there were higher recoveries and upgrades from 
non-performing assets resulting in net write-back of 
provision, offset, in part, by an increase in provisioning 
rate for certain categories of non-performing assets. In 
fiscal 2022, the provision for non- performing and other 
assets also included provision on loans restructured under 
Resolution Framework for COVID-19.
PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENCIES (EXCLUDING PROVISIONS FOR TAX)
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the components of provisions and contingencies.
` in billion, except percentages
Particulars
Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023
% change
Provision for non-performing and other assets1
` 61.64
` (6.23)
-
Provision for investments (including credit substitutes) (net)
3.77
13.00
-
Provision for standard assets
4.49
5.80
29.2
Others2
16.51
54.09
-
Total provisions and contingencies (excluding 
provision for tax)
` 86.41
` 66.66
(22.9%)
1	 Includes restructuring related provision.
2	 Includes contingency provision amounting to ` 56.50 billion on a prudent basis for the year ended March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: 
write-back of ` 0.25 billion).
3	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
125
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The provision coverage ratio (excluding cumulative 
technical/prudential write-offs) on NPAs increased 
from 79.2% at March 31, 2022 to 82.8% at March 31, 
2023.
Provision for investments increased from ` 3.77 billion in 
fiscal 2022 to ` 13.00 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to 
an increase in provision on debentures, equity shares and 
security receipts.
Provision for standard assets increased from ` 4.49 
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 5.80 billion in fiscal 2023. The 
cumulative general provision held at March 31, 2023 was 
` 47.02 billion (March 31, 2022: ` 40.94 billion).
Other provisions and contingencies increased from ` 16.51 
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 54.09 billion in fiscal 2023. During 
fiscal 2023, the Bank made a contingency provision 
amounting to ` 56.50 billion (fiscal 2022: write-back of 
` 0.25 billion), on a prudent basis, to further strengthen 
the balance sheet. The Bank holds a total contingency 
provision of ` 131.00 billion at March 31, 2023.
TAX EXPENSE
The income tax expense increased from ` 72.70 billion in 
fiscal 2022 to ` 105.25 billion in fiscal 2023. The effective 
tax rate increased from 23.7% in fiscal 2022 to 24.8% 
in fiscal 2023 primarily due to change in composition of 
income.
FINANCIAL CONDITION 
Assets
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the principal components of assets.
` in billion, except percentages
Assets
At 
March 31, 2022
At 
March 31, 2023
% change
Cash and bank balances
` 1,678.22
` 1,194.38
(28.8%)
Investments
3,102.41
3,623.30
16.8
	
- Government and other approved investments1
2,563.78
3,057.69
19.3
	
- Equity investment in subsidiaries
67.13
69.78
3.9
	
- Other investments
471.50
495.83
5.2
Advances (net of BRDS/IBPC)2
8,590.20
10,196.38
18.7
	
- Domestic
8,177.36
9,855.28
20.5
	
- Overseas branches
412.84
341.10
(17.4)
Fixed assets (including leased assets)
93.74
96.00
2.4
Other assets
648.41
732.01
12.9
	
- RIDF and other related deposits3
264.19
216.22
(18.2)
Total assets
` 14,112.98
` 15,842.07
12.3%
1	 Banks in India are required to maintain a specified percentage, currently 18.00% (at March 31, 2023), of their net demand and time 
liabilities by way of investments in instruments referred as SLR securities by RBI or liquid assets like cash and gold.
2	 Bill Rediscounting Scheme (BRDS)/Interbank Participatory Certificate (IBPC).
3	 Deposits made in Rural Infrastructure Development Fund and other related deposits pursuant to shortfall in the amount required to 
be lent to certain specified sectors called priority sector as per RBI guidelines.
4	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
Total assets of the Bank increased by 12.3% from ` 14,112.98 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 15,842.07 billion at March 31, 
2023, due to a 18.7% increase in advances and a 16.8% increase in investments, offset, in part, by a 28.8% decrease in 
cash and cash equivalents.
126
Annual Report 2022-23 

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and 
balances with RBI and other banks, including money at call 
and short notice. Cash and cash equivalents decreased 
by 28.8% from ` 1,678.22 billion at March 31, 2022 to 
` 1,194.38 billion at March 31, 2023 primarily due to a 
decrease in short term lending to RBI and foreign currency 
term money lent.
Investments
Total investments increased by 16.8% from ` 3,102.41 
billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 3,623.30 billion at 
March 31, 2023. Investments in Indian government 
securities increased from ` 2,563.78 billion at March 31, 
2022 to ` 3,057.69 billion at March 31, 2023. Other 
investments increased from ` 538.63 billion at March 31, 
2022 to ` 565.61 billion at March 31, 2023 primarily due 
to an increase in investment in bonds and debentures and 
pass through certificates, offset, in part, by a decrease in 
investment in foreign government securities.
At March 31, 2023, the Bank had an outstanding net 
investment of ` 2.11 billion in security receipts issued by 
asset reconstruction companies as compared to ` 8.07 
billion at March 31, 2022.
RBI through its circular dated December 8, 2022, extended 
the dispensation of enhanced HTM limit of 23.0% of Net 
Demand and Time Liabilities (NDTL) up to March 31, 2024. 
The enhanced HTM limit of 23.0% shall be restored to 
19.5% in a phased manner, beginning from the quarter 
ending June 30, 2024.
Advances
Net advances (gross of BRDS/IBPC) increased by 20.2% 
from ` 8,603.70 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 10,345.09 
billion at March 31, 2023. Net advances (net of BRDS/
IBPC) increased by 18.7% from ` 8,590.20 billion at 
March 31, 2022 to ` 10,196.38 billion at March 31, 2023 
primarily due to an increase in retail advances.
Net domestic advances increased by 20.5% from 
` 8,177.36 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 9,855.28 billion at 
March 31, 2023. Retail advances increased by 22.7% from 
` 4,546.35 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 5,578.17 billion at 
March 31, 2023. Advances of rural business increased by 
13.8% from ` 768.30 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 874.31 
billion at March 31, 2023. The business banking portfolio 
increased by 34.9% from ` 534.37 billion at March 31, 
2022 to ` 721.12 billion at March 31, 2023. SME advances 
increased by 19.2% from ` 404.50 billion at March 31, 
2022 to ` 482.21 billion at March 31, 2023. The domestic 
corporate portfolio increased by 21.2% year-on-year.
Net advances of overseas branches decreased by 17.4% 
from ` 412.84 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 341.10 billion 
at March 31, 2023.
Fixed and other assets
Fixed assets (net block) increased by 2.4% from ` 93.74 
billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 96.00 billion at March 31, 
2023.
Other assets increased by 12.9% from ` 648.41 billion 
at March 31, 2022 to ` 732.01 billion at March 31, 2023 
primarily due to an increase in mark-to-market on foreign 
exchange and derivative transactions and interest 
accrued on loans and investments, offset, in part, by a 
decrease in RIDF and related deposits. The Bank is an 
active participant in the interest and foreign exchange 
derivative market. While the positive mark-to-market on 
such transactions are accounted in ‘Other Assets’, the 
negative mark-to-market on offsetting transactions are 
accounted in ‘Other Liabilities’.
127
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Total liabilities (including capital and reserves) increased 
by 12.3% from ` 14,112.98 billion at March 31, 2022 to 
` 15,842.07 billion at March 31, 2023, due to a 17.7% 
increase in net worth, a 10.9% increase in deposits and a 
20.8% increase in other liabilities.
Deposits
Deposits increased by 10.9% from ` 10,645.72 billion at 
March 31, 2022 to ` 11,808.41 billion at March 31, 2023.
Term deposits increased by 17.1% from ` 5,461.35 billion 
at March 31, 2022 to ` 6,395.79 billion at March 31, 
2023. Savings account deposits increased by 5.5% from 
` 3,599.57 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 3,797.76 billion 
at March 31, 2023 and current account deposits increased 
by 1.9% from ` 1,584.80 billion at March 31, 2022 to 
` 1,614.86 billion at March 31, 2023. CASA deposits 
increased by 4.4% from ` 5,184.37 billion at March 31, 
2022 to ` 5,412.62 billion at March 31, 2023.
The average current account deposits increased by 13.5% 
from ` 1,167.28 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 1,324.77 billion 
in fiscal 2023. The average savings account deposits 
increased by 13.3% from ` 3,031.58 billion in fiscal 2022 
to ` 3,434.14 billion in fiscal 2023. Average CASA deposits 
increased by 13.3% from ` 4,198.86 billion in fiscal 2022 
to ` 4,758.90 billion in fiscal 2023. The average CASA 
deposits were 44.7% of total average deposits for fiscal 
2023 as compared to 44.5% for fiscal 2022. Average 
CASA deposits were 39.7% of the total funding (i.e., 
deposits and borrowings) for fiscal 2023 as compared to 
40.1% for fiscal 2022.
Deposits of overseas branches increased by 50.7% from 
` 98.11 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 147.82 billion at 
March 31, 2023.
Total deposits remained at similar level at 90.8% of the 
funding (i.e., deposits and borrowings) at March 31, 2023 
and March 31, 2022.
Borrowings
Borrowings increased by 11.3% from ` 1,072.31 billion at 
March 31, 2022 to ` 1,193.25 billion at March 31, 2023 
primarily due to an increase in refinance borrowings 
and bond borrowings, offset, in part, by a decrease 
in subordinated debt, foreign currency term money 
borrowings and foreign currency bond borrowings. Net 
borrowings of overseas branches decreased from ` 319.21 
billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 258.14 billion at March 31, 
2023.
LIABILITIES
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the principal components of liabilities (including capital and reserves).
` in billion, except percentages
Liabilities
At 
March 31, 2022
At 
March 31, 2023
% change
Equity share capital
` 16.56
` 21.58
30.3%
Reserves
1,688.56
1,985.58
17.6
Deposits
10,645.72
11,808.41
10.9
	
- Savings deposits
3,599.57
3,797.76
5.5
	
- Current deposits
1,584.80
1,614.86
1.9
	
- Term deposits
5,461.35
6,395.79
17.1
Borrowings (excluding subordinated debt)
933.80
1,110.44
18.9
	
- Domestic
614.59
852.30
38.7
	
- Overseas branches
319.21
258.14
(19.1)
Subordinated debt (included in Tier-1 and Tier-2 capital)
138.51
82.81
(40.2)
Other liabilities
689.83
833.25
20.8
Total liabilities
` 14,112.98
` 15,842.07
12.3%
1	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
128
Annual Report 2022-23 

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Other liabilities
Other liabilities increased by 20.8% from ` 689.83 billion 
at March 31, 2022 to ` 833.25 billion at March 31, 2023 
primarily due to an increase in mark-to-market on foreign 
exchange and derivative transactions and contingency 
provision. The Bank is an active participant in the interest 
and foreign exchange derivative market. While the positive 
mark-to-market on such transactions are accounted in 
‘Other Assets’, the negative mark-to-market on offsetting 
transactions are accounted in ‘Other Liabilities’.
Equity share capital and reserves
Equity share capital and reserves increased by 17.7% from 
` 1,705.12 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 2,007.16 billion at 
March 31, 2023 primarily due to accretion to reserves out 
of retained profit, offset, in part, by payment of dividend 
for fiscal 2022.
At March 31, 2023, the Bank’s Tier-1 capital adequacy 
ratio was 17.60% as against the requirement of 9.70% 
and total capital adequacy ratio was 18.34% as against 
the requirement of 11.70%.
The Bank enters into foreign exchange contracts in 
its normal course of business, to exchange currencies 
at a prefixed price at a future date. With respect to the 
transactions entered into with its customers, the Bank 
generally enters into off-setting transactions in the inter-
bank market. This results in generation of a higher number 
of outstanding transactions, and hence a large value of 
gross notional principal of the portfolio, while the net 
market risk is lower. The notional principal amount of 
outstanding forward exchange contracts increased from 
` 10,645.24 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 15,330.22 billion 
at March 31, 2023 primarily due to an increase in trading 
and market making activities in forwards to facilitate client 
flow and capture opportunities in the forward market.
The Bank is an active market participant in the interest rate 
and foreign exchange derivative market for trading and 
market making purposes, which are carried out primarily 
for customer transactions and managing the proprietary 
position on interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The 
notional amount of interest rate swaps and currency 
options decreased from ` 25,912.44 billion at March 31, 
2022 to ` 25,089.18 billion at March 31, 2023.
LOAN CONCENTRATION
The Bank follows a policy of portfolio diversification and 
evaluates its total financing exposure to a particular 
industry in the light of its forecasts of growth and profitability 
for that industry. The Bank’s Credit Risk Management 
OFF BALANCE SHEET ITEMS, COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the principal components of contingent liabilities.
` in billion
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2022
At 
March 31, 2023
Claims against the Bank, not acknowledged as debts
` 82.84
` 81.96
Liability for partly paid investments
0.01
0.01
Notional principal amount of outstanding forward exchange contracts
10,645.24
15,330.22
Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
1,037.75
1,238.18
Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
462.81
441.91
Notional principal amount of currency swaps
498.34
564.63
Notional principal amount of interest rate swaps and currency options and 
interest rate futures
25,912.44
25,089.18
Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable
37.33
85.57
Total
` 38,676.76
` 42,831.66
1	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
129
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Group monitors all major sectors of the economy and 
specifically tracks industries in which the Bank has credit 
exposures. The Bank monitors developments in various 
sectors to assess potential risks in its portfolio and new 
business opportunities. The Bank’s policy is to limit its 
portfolio to any particular industry (other than retail loans) 
to 15.0% of its total exposure. In addition, the Bank has a 
framework for managing concentration risk with respect 
to single borrower and group exposures, based on the 
internal rating and track record of the borrowers. The 
exposure limits for lower rated borrowers and groups are 
substantially lower than the regulatory limits.
The following tables set forth, at the dates indicated, the composition of the Bank’s exposure.
` in billion, except percentages
Industry
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2023
Total exposure
% of total 
exposure
Total exposure
% of total 
exposure
Retail finance1
` 6,043.07
36.3%
` 7,751.65
38.3%
Services – finance
1,476.68
8.9
1,766.80
8.7
Rural retail
973.18
5.8
1,250.80
6.2
Banks
1,320.71
7.9
1,208.52
6.0
Wholesale/retail trade
551.86
3.3
819.20
4.0
Electronics and engineering
702.80
4.2
804.99
4.0
Crude petroleum/refining and petrochemicals
678.01
4.1
764.57
3.8
Services – non-finance
492.76
3.0
668.24
3.3
Road, ports, telecom, urban development and 
other infrastructure
538.29
3.2
609.28
3.0
Power
400.71
2.4
477.22
2.4
Construction
385.13
2.3
471.72
2.3
Iron and steel (including iron and steel products)
367.01
2.2
446.44
2.2
Chemical and fertilisers
265.07
1.6
382.83
1.9
Automobiles
210.21
1.3
261.26
1.3
Manufacturing products (excluding metal and 
metal products)
173.32
1.0
250.49
1.2
Textile
152.86
0.9
220.59
1.1
Metal and metal products (excluding iron and 
steel)
179.73
1.1
203.47
1.0
Other industries2
1,736.52
10.5
1,886.74
9.3
Total
` 16,647.92
100.0%
` 20,244.81
100.0%
1	 Includes home loans, automobile loans, commercial business loans, dealer financing, personal loans, credit cards and loans against 
securities.
2	 Other industries primarily include developer financing portfolio, gems and jewelry, mining, cement, food & beverages, mutual funds, 
shipping, drugs and pharmaceuticals, asset reconstruction company, venture capital funds and FMCG.
3	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
The exposure to the top 20 non-bank borrowers as a percentage of total exposure decreased from 9.6% of total exposure 
of the Bank at March 31, 2022 to 8.5% at March 31, 2023. All top 20 borrowers as of March 31, 2023 are rated A+ and 
above internally. The exposure to the top 10 borrower groups decreased from 10.3% of total exposure of the Bank at 
March 31, 2022 to 10.1% at March 31, 2023.
130
Annual Report 2022-23 

The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the composition of the Bank’s outstanding net advances:
` in billion
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2023
Advances
` 8,590.20
` 10,196.38
- Domestic book
8,177.36
9,855.28
	
- Retail
4,546.35
5,578.17
	
- Rural
768.30
874.31
	
- Business banking
534.37
721.12
	
- SME
404.50
482.21
	
- Corporate and others
1,923.84
2,199.47
- Overseas book
` 412.84
` 341.10
The Bank’s capital allocation framework is focused on growth in granular retail, SME/ business banking and rural lending 
and lending to the corporate sector with a focus on increase in lending to higher rated corporates. Net retail advances 
increased by 22.7% in fiscal 2023 compared to an increase of 18.7% in total advances. The share of net retail advances 
increased from 52.9% of net advances at March 31, 2022 to 53.9% of net advances at March 31, 2023. Including non-
fund based outstanding, the share of retail portfolio was 45.7% of the total portfolio at March 31, 2023.
The overseas loan portfolio in USD terms declined by 23.8% year-on-year at March 31, 2023. The year-on-year decrease 
in the overseas loan portfolio was primarily due to decline in the India-linked trade finance book. The overseas loan 
portfolio was 3.3% of the overall loan book at March 31, 2023. The corporate fund and non-fund outstanding, net of 
cash/bank/financial institutions/insurance backed lending, was USD 2.70 billion at March 31, 2023. Out of USD 2.70 
billion, 88.7% of the outstanding was to Indian corporates and their subsidiaries and joint ventures and 7.4% of the 
outstanding was to non-India companies with Indian or India-linked operations and activities. The portfolio in this 
segment are primarily to well rated companies and the Indian operations of these companies are target customers for 
the Bank’s deposit and transaction banking franchise. The Bank would continue to pursue risk-calibrated opportunities 
in this segment. The non-India linked corporate portfolio reduced by 52.3% from about USD 641.2 million year-on-year 
to USD 305.6 million at March 31, 2023.
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the composition of the Bank’s net outstanding retail advances.
` in billion, except percentages
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2023
Total retail 
advances
% of total 
retail advances
Total retail 
advances
% of total 
retail advances
Home loans
` 2,930.63
64.5%
` 3,446.96
61.8%
Personal loans
628.73
13.8
880.55
15.8
Automobile loans
418.84
9.2
518.78
9.3
Commercial business
261.67
5.8
275.41
4.9
Credit cards
250.62
5.5
378.41
6.8
Others1
55.86
1.2
78.06
1.4
Total retail advances2
` 4,546.35
100.0%
` 5,578.17
100.0%
1	 Includes loans against securities and dealer financing.
2	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
131
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the composition of the Bank’s net outstanding rural advances:
` in billion
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2023
Farmer finance
` 226.47
` 234.05
Jewel loan
207.09
228.86
Rural business credit
189.87
239.10
Others1
144.87
172.30
Rural advances
` 768.30
` 874.31
1	 Includes term loans for farm equipment, self-help groups, loans to microfinance institutions for on-lending to individuals and inventory 
funding.
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the rating wise categorisation of the Bank’s net outstanding 
advances other than retail and rural advances:
` in billion, except percentages
Ratings category1
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2023
AA- and above
36.1
46.9
A+, A, A-
35.7
26.6
A- and above
71.8
73.5
BBB+, BBB, BBB-
24.5
24.3
BB and below2
2.9
1.2
Unrated
0.8
1.0
Total
100.0
100.0
Total net advances3
` 3,275.55
` 3,826.41
1	 Based on internal ratings.
2	 Includes net non-performing loans.
3	 Includes business banking, SME, domestic, corporate and overseas loans.
DIRECTED LENDING
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, ICICI Bank’s average priority sector lending:
Particulars
Fiscal 2022
Fiscal 2023
Amount 
(` billions)
% of 
adjusted net 
bank credit
Amount 
(` billions)
% of 
adjusted net 
bank credit
Target (% of 
adjusted net 
bank credit)
Agriculture Sector
` 1,226.50
17.8%
` 1,423.58
17.7%
18.0%
	
- Small and marginal farmers
636.37
9.2%
794.72
9.9%
9.5%
	
- Non-corporate farmers
873.81
12.7%
1,068.17
13.3%
13.8%
Micro, small and medium enterprises
1,473.72
-
1,729.04
-
-
	
- Micro enterprises
550.66
8.0%
661.21
8.2%
7.5%
Other priority sector
145.18
-
178.32
-
-
Total priority sector lending
` 2,845.40
41.3%
` 3,330.94
41.5%
40.0%
	
- Weaker sections
₹ 762.02
11.1%
` 910.20
11.3%
11.5%
1	 The above includes the impact of Priority Sector Lending Certificate purchased/sold by the Bank.
There was a marginal shortfall in the achievement of target for lending to the agriculture sector.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
132
Annual Report 2022-23 

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
CLASSIFICATION OF LOANS
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, information regarding asset classification of the Bank’s gross non-
performing assets (net of write-offs, interest suspense and derivative income reversals).
` in billion
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2023
Non-performing assets
	
Sub-standard assets
` 85.32
` 68.79
	
Doubtful assets
181.48
127.00
	
Loss assets
72.40
116.05
Total non-performing assets1
` 339.20
` 311.84
1	 Include advances, lease receivables and credit substitutes like debentures and bonds. Excludes preference shares.
2	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, information regarding the Bank’s non- performing assets (NPAs).
` in billion, except percentages
Year ended
Gross NPA1
Net NPA
Net customer 
assets
% of net NPA to net 
customer assets2
March 31, 2020
`414.09
`101.14
`7,166.74
1.41%
March 31, 2021
413.73
91.80
8,025.90
1.14
March 31, 2022
339.20
69.61
9,160.87
0.76
March 31, 2023
`311.84
`51.55
`10,816.41
0.48%
1	 Net of write-offs, interest suspense and derivatives income reversal.
2	 Include advances, lease receivables and credit substitutes like debentures and bonds. Excludes preference shares.
3	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of gross non-performing assets (net of write-
offs) by industry sector.
` in billion, except percentages
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2023
Amount
%
Amount
%
Retail finance1
` 80.72
23.8%
` 71.79
23.0%
Construction
55.50
16.4
54.21
17.4
Rural retail
37.08
10.9
37.29
12.0
Crude petroleum/refining and petrochemicals
26.69
7.9
26.84
8.6
Power
31.67
9.3
21.91
7.0
Services – non-finance
14.13
4.2
15.37
4.9
Road, ports, telecom, urban development and 
other infrastructure
14.49
4.3
13.75
4.4
Electronics and engineering
16.93
5.0
12.52
4.0
Mining
10.93
3.2
11.78
3.8
Wholesale/retail trade
6.37
1.9
7.77
2.5
Iron/steel and products
6.16
1.8
5.48
1.8
Manufacturing products
3.19
0.9
3.53
1.1
Gems and jewelry
2.83
0.8
3.19
1.0
Other industries2
32.51
9.6
26.41
8.5
Total
` 339.20
100.0%
` 311.84
100.0%
1	 Includes home loans, automobile loans, commercial business loans, dealer financing, personal loans, credit cards and loans against 
securities.
2	 Other industries primarily include textile, metal and metal products, shipping, food and beverages, chemical and fertilizers, services-
finance, cement, drugs and pharmaceuticals, FMCG, automobiles and developer financing.
3	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
133
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The gross additions to NPAs were ` 186.41 billion in fiscal 
2023 (` 192.91 billion in fiscal 2022). The net additions to 
NPAs were ` 20.38 billion in fiscal 2023 (` 29.28 billion in 
fiscal 2022). In fiscal 2023, the Bank recovered/upgraded 
non-performing assets amounting to ` 166.03 billion 
(` 163.63 billion in fiscal 2022), wrote-off non-performing 
assets amounting to ` 44.66 billion (` 99.46 billion in 
fiscal 2022) and sold non-performing assets amounting 
to ` 3.08 billion (` 4.35 billion in fiscal 2022). As a result, 
gross NPAs (net of write-offs) of the Bank decreased from 
` 339.20 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 311.84 billion at 
March 31, 2023.
Net NPAs decreased from ` 69.61 billion at March 31, 
2022 to ` 51.55 billion at March 31, 2023. The ratio of net 
NPAs to net customer assets decreased from 0.76% at 
March 31, 2022 to 0.48% at March 31, 2023. The provision 
coverage ratio at March 31, 2023 was 82.8% as compared 
to 79.2% at March 31, 2022.
At March 31, 2023, gross non-performing loans in the 
retail portfolio were 1.28% of gross retail loans compared 
to 1.76% at March 31, 2022 and net non-performing 
loans in the retail portfolio were 0.47% of net retail loans 
compared to 0.74% at March 31, 2022.
The total non-fund based outstanding to borrowers 
classified as non-performing was ` 37.80 billion at 
March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: ` 36.40 billion). The 
Bank held a provision of ` 20.05 billion at March 31, 2023 
(March 31, 2022: ` 20.51 billion) against these non-fund 
based outstanding.
The gross outstanding loans to borrowers whose 
facilities have been restructured decreased from ` 82.67 
billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 45.08 billion at March 31, 
2023. The net outstanding loans to borrowers whose 
facilities have been restructured decreased from ` 79.84 
billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 43.30 billion at March 31, 
2023. The aggregate non-fund based outstanding to 
borrowers whose loans were restructured was ` 3.32 
billion at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: ` 5.65 billion). 
Additionally, Bank holds provision of ` 12.02 billion on 
restructured accounts.
At March 31, 2023, the outstanding loans and non-fund 
facilities to borrowers in the corporate and small and 
medium enterprises portfolio rated BB and below were 
` 47.04 billion which includes the outstanding loans and 
non-funded facilities under resolution amounting to ` 7.74 
billion.
For a discussion on accounting policy for classification on 
loans, see “Financial Statement (Schedule 17- Significant 
Accounting Policies) – Provision/write-offs on loans and 
other credit facilities”.
SEGMENT INFORMATION
RBI in its guidelines on "segmental reporting” has stipulated 
specified business segments and their definitions, for the 
purpose of public disclosures on business information 
for banks in India. The business segments as defined by 
RBI for standalone segmental report are Retail Banking, 
Wholesale Banking, Treasury and Other Banking. 
Additionally, Unallocated includes items such as income 
tax paid in advance net of provision for tax, deferred tax 
and provisions to the extent reckoned at entity level.
Framework for transfer pricing
All liabilities are transfer priced to a central treasury unit, 
which pools all funds and lends to the business units 
at appropriate rates based on the relevant maturity of 
assets being funded after adjusting for regulatory reserve 
requirement and directed lending requirements.
Retail banking segment
The profit before tax of the segment increased from 
` 114.00 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 175.34 billion in fiscal 
2023 primarily due to an increase in net interest income 
and non-interest income and a decrease in provisions, 
offset, in part, by an increase in operating expenses.
Wholesale banking segment
The profit before tax of the segment increased from 
` 90.53 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 157.85 billion in fiscal 
2023 primarily due to an increase in net interest income 
and non-interest income and a decrease in provisions, 
offset, in part, by an increase in operating expenses.
Treasury segment
The profit before tax of the segment increased from 
` 98.20 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 142.72 billion in fiscal 
2023 primarily due to an increase in net interest income, 
offset, in part, by a decrease in non- interest income and 
an increase in provisions and operating expenses.
Other banking segment
Profit before tax of the other banking segment increased 
from ` 3.11 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 4.80 billion in fiscal 
2023.
134
Annual Report 2022-23 

Unallocated
During fiscal 2023, the Bank on a prudent basis has made 
an additional contingency provision of ` 56.50 billion as 
compared to a write-back of ` 0.25 billion in fiscal year 
2022. The contingency provision was not allocated to any 
segment and included in unallocated.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALS AS PER 
INDIAN GAAP
The consolidated profit after tax increased from ` 251.10 
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 340.37 billion in fiscal 2023 
primarily due to an increase in the profit of ICICI Bank 
and subsidiaries namely ICICI Home Finance Company, 
ICICI Bank Canada, ICICI Prudential Asset Management 
Company and ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company 
and an increase in share of profit from associate namely 
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company, offset, in part, 
by a decrease in profit of certain subsidiaries namely ICICI 
Securities and ICICI Securities Primary Dealership.
The consolidated assets of the Bank and its subsidiaries 
and 
other 
consolidating 
entities 
increased 
from 
` 17,526.37 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 19,584.90 billion 
at March 31, 2023. Consolidated advances increased from 
` 9,203.08 billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 10,838.66 billion 
at March 31, 2023.
At March 31, 2023, the Bank’s consolidated Tier-1 capital 
adequacy ratio was 17.33% as against the requirement of 
9.70% and consolidated total capital adequacy ratio was 
18.09% as against the requirement of 11.70%.
ICICI Bank Canada
The core operating profit of ICICI Bank Canada increased 
from CAD 26.2 million in fiscal 2022 to CAD 61.2 million 
in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in net interest 
income and fee income, offset, in part, by an increase 
in operating expenses. The profit after tax of ICICI Bank 
Canada increased from CAD 29.2 million (` 1.74 billion) 
in fiscal 2022 to CAD 46.4 million (` 2.82 billion) in fiscal 
2023 primarily due to an increase in core operating profit.
The total assets increased from CAD 5.74 billion at 
March 31, 2022 to CAD 5.98 billion at March 31, 2023. 
Loans and advances increased from CAD 4.98 billion at 
March 31, 2022 to CAD 5.17 billion at March 31, 2023. The 
net impairment ratio increased from 0.01% at March 31, 
2022 to 0.08% at March 31, 2023. ICICI Bank Canada had 
a total capital adequacy ratio of 17.3% at March 31, 2023 
as compared to 17.2% at March 31, 2022.
ICICI Bank UK PLC (ICICI Bank UK)
The core operating profit of ICICI Bank UK increased 
from USD 11.7 million in fiscal 2022 to USD 18.3 million 
in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in net interest 
income and fee income, offset, in part, by a decrease in 
other income. Profit after tax of ICICI Bank UK increased 
from USD 10.9 million (` 0.81 billion) in fiscal 2022 to USD 
13.0 million (` 1.05 billion) in fiscal 2023 primarily due to 
higher core operating profit, offset, in part, by an increase 
in impairment provisions.
Total assets decreased from USD 2.24 billion at March 31, 
2022 to USD 2.14 billion at March 31, 2023. Net advances 
decreased from USD 1.32 billion at March 31, 2022 to 
USD 1.09 billion at March 31, 2023. The net impairment 
ratio increased from 2.0% at March 31, 2022 to 3.3% 
at March 31, 2023. ICICI Bank UK had a total capital 
adequacy ratio of 27.1% at March 31, 2023 compared to 
23.0% at March 31, 2022.
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company (ICICI 
Life)
The Annualised Premium Equivalent of ICICI Life increased 
by 11.7% from ` 77.33 billion for fiscal 2022 to ` 86.40 
billion for fiscal 2023. The Value of New Business (VNB) 
increased by 27.8% from ` 21.63 billion for fiscal 2022 to 
` 27.65 billion for fiscal 2023. The VNB margin increased 
from 28.0% for fiscal 2022 to 32.0% in fiscal 2023. The 
total premium earned increased by 6.6% from ` 374.58 
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 399.33 billion in fiscal 2023. The 
total assets under management increased from ` 2,404.92 
billion at March 31, 2022 to ` 2,511.91 billion at March 31, 
2023.
Net premium earned increased by 6.2% from ` 363.21 
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 385.60 billion in fiscal 2023. 
The profit after tax increased from ` 7.54 billion in fiscal 
2022 to ` 8.11 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to lower 
Covid-19 related death claims (net of reinsurance), offset, 
in part, by a decrease in shareholder surplus.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company (ICICI 
General)
The Gross Domestic Premium Income of ICICI General 
increased by 17.0% year-on-year from ` 179.77 billion 
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
135
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

in fiscal 2022 to ` 210.25 billion in fiscal 2023. The profit 
after tax increased from ` 12.71 billion in fiscal 2022 to 
` 17.29 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase 
in premium income and reversal of tax provision, offset, in 
part, by an increase in claims and benefits paid.
ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company 
(ICICI Prudential AMC)
As per Indian GAAP, the profit after tax of ICICI Prudential 
AMC increased from ` 14.36 billion in fiscal 2022 to 
` 15.08 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase 
in fee income, offset, in part, by an increase in operating 
expenses.
ICICI Securities
As per Indian GAAP, the consolidated profit after tax of 
ICICI Securities decreased from ` 13.98 billion in fiscal 
2022 to ` 11.40 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to 
decrease in fee income.
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership (I-Sec PD)
As per Indian GAAP, the profit after tax of I-Sec PD 
decreased from ` 3.30 billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 1.28 billion 
in fiscal 2023 primarily due to a decrease in net interest 
income and lower trading gains.
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited (ICICI HFC)
As per Indian GAAP, profit after tax increased from ` 0.93 
billion in fiscal 2022 to ` 3.65 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily 
due to an increase in core operating profit and decrease 
in provisions. The core operating profit increased primarily 
due to an increase in net interest income and fee income, 
offset, in part, by an increase in operating expenses.
Net NPAs decreased from ` 5.16 billion at March 31, 2022 
to ` 3.53 billion at March 31, 2023.
ICICI Venture Funds Management Company 
(ICICI Venture)
The profit after tax of ICICI Venture increased from 
` 2.2 million in fiscal 2022 to ` 61.9 million in fiscal 2023 
primarily due to an increase in management fees received 
from launch of new fund, offset, in part, by an increase in 
operating expenses.
The following table sets forth, for the periods and at the dates indicated, the profit/(loss) and total assets of our principal 
subsidiaries/associates as per Indian GAAP.
` in billion
Company
Profit after tax
Total assets1
Fiscal 
2022
Fiscal 
2023
At 
March 31, 2022
At 
March 31, 2023
ICICI Bank Canada
` 1.74
` 2.82
` 348.35
` 363.46
ICICI Bank UK PLC
0.81
1.05
170.77
176.13
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
7.54
8.11
2,441.54
2,558.47
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited2,3
12.71
17.29
508.48
550.86
ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited
14.36
15.08
21.48
24.89
ICICI Securities Limited (consolidated)
13.98
11.40
135.20
154.71
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited
3.30
1.28
202.30
344.01
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited
0.93
3.65
157.58
187.01
ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited
`0.004
`0.06
` 2.84
` 3.02
1	 Total assets are as per classification used in the consolidated financial statements and hence the total assets as per subsidiary’s 
financial statements may differ.
2	 The entity have been accounted as per the equity method as prescribed by Accounting Standard – 23 – “Accounting for Investments 
in Associates in Consolidated Financial Statements”.
3	 Total assets as per financial statements of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited.
4	 0.00 represents insignificant amount.
5	 See also “Financials- Statement pursuant to Section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013”.
6	 All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
136
Annual Report 2022-23 

(` in billion, except per share data and percentages)
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
Total deposits
3,319.14
3,615.63
4,214.26
4,900.39
5,609.75
6,529.20
7,709.69
9,325.22 10,645.72 11,808.41
Total advances
3,387.03
3,875.22
4,352.64
4,642.32
5,123.95
5,866.47
6,452.90
7,337.29
8,590.20 10,196.38
Equity capital & reserves
732.13
804.29
897.36
999.51
1,051.59
1,083.68
1,165.04
1,475.09
1,705.12
2,007.15
Total assets
5,946.42
6,461.29
7,206.95
7,717.91
8,791.89
9,644.59 10,983.65 12,304.33 14,112.98 15,842.07
Total capital adequacy ratio
17.7%1
17.0%1
16.6%1
17.4%1
18.4%1
16.9%1
16.1%1
19.1%1
19.2%1
18.3%1
Core operating profit
155.77
180.27
198.03
179.10
189.39
220.72
268.08
313.51
383.47
491.39
Net interest income
164.75
190.40
212.24
217.37
230.26
270.15
332.67
389.89
474.66
621.29
Net interest margin
3.33%
3.48%
3.49%
3.25%
3.23%
3.42%
3.73%
3.69%
3.96%
4.48%
Profit after tax
98.10
111.75
97.26
98.01
67.77
33.63
79.31
161.93
233.39
318.96
Earnings per share (Basic)2,3
15.45
17.56
15.23
15.31
10.56
5.23
12.28
24.01
33.66
45.79
Earnings per share 
(Diluted)2,3
15.39
17.39
15.14
15.25
10.46
5.17
12.08
23.67
32.98
44.89
Return on average equity
13.7%
14.3%
11.3%
10.3%
6.6%
3.2%
7.1%
12.2%
14.8%
17.3%
Dividend per share2,4
4.60
5.00
5.00
2.50
1.50
1.00
0.00
 2.00 
 5.00 
 8.00 
1	 Total capital adequacy ratio has been calculated as per Basel III framework.
2	 During the year ended March 31, 2015, the shareholders of the Bank approved the sub-division of one equity share of `10 into five equity shares having a face value 
of ` 2 each. Per share information of prior periods also reflects the effect of sub-division.
3	 During the year ended March 31, 2018, the Bank issued bonus shares in the proportion of 1:10, i.e. 1 (One) bonus equity share of ` 2 each for every 10 (Ten) fully 
paid-up equity shares held (including shares underlying ADS). Per share information of prior periods also reflects the effect of bonus issue.
4	 RBI through its circular 'Declaration of dividends by banks (Revised)' dated April 17, 2020, had directed that banks shall not make any dividend payment on equity 
shares from the profits pertaining to the financial year ended March 31, 2020. Accordingly, the Bank did not pay any dividend for FY2020.
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS: LAST 10 YEARS
137
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements

138
Annual Report 2022-23 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of 
ICICI Bank Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of ICICI Bank Limited (‘the Bank’), which 
comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2023, the Standalone Profit and Loss Account, and 
Standalone Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (‘the standalone financial 
statements’).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
standalone financial statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the 
Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and circulars and guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) from time to 
time (‘RBI Guidelines’) in the manner so required for Banking companies and give a true and fair view in conformity 
with the Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2021 and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the 
Bank as at 31 March 2023, and its profit, and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (‘SAs’) specified under section 143(10) of 
the Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of 
the Standalone Financial Statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the Bank in accordance with the 
Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements 
that are relevant to our audit of the standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules 
thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the 
Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
standalone financial statements of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.
5.	
We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Identification and provisioning of non-performing advances (NPA): 
Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at 31 March 2023: ` 10,196,383,053 (in ‘000s)
Provision for NPA as at 31 March 2023: ` 248,358,100 (in ‘000s)
(Refer Schedule 9, Schedule 17(3) and Schedule 18(17))
The Reserve Bank of India’s (“RBI”) guidelines 
on Income recognition and asset classification & 
Provisioning (“IRAC”) and other circulars and directives 
issued by the RBI from time to time, which prescribe the 
prudential norms for identification and
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter 
included:
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of 
key controls (including application controls) over 
approval, recording, monitoring and recovery of loans, 

139
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
classification of performing & non-performing assets 
(“NPA”) and the minimum provision required for such 
assets. The Bank is required to have Board approved 
policy as per IRAC guidelines for NPA identification & 
classification of advances and provision thereon.
The provision on NPA is estimated based on ageing 
and classification of NPAs, recovery estimates, nature 
of loan product, value of security and other qualitative 
factors and is subject to the minimum provisioning 
norms specified by RBI and approved policy of the 
Bank in this regard.
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to 
determine the identification and provision required 
against NPAs by applying quantitative as well as 
qualitative factors. The risk of identification of NPAs is 
affected by factors like stress and liquidity concerns in 
certain sectors.
Additionally, the Bank makes provisions on exposures 
that are not classified as NPA including advances 
to certain sectors and identified advances or group 
advances. These are classified as contingency 
provisions.
Since the identification of NPAs and provisioning for 
advances require significant level of estimation and 
given its significance to the overall audit including 
possible observation by RBI which could result into 
disclosure in the financial statements, we have 
ascertained identification and provisioning for NPAs as 
a key audit matter.
monitoring overdue / stressed accounts, identification 
of NPA, provision for NPA and valuation of security and 
collateral on a test check basis. Further obtained an 
understanding of the contingency provision carried by 
the Bank and verified the underlying assumptions used 
by the Bank for such estimate.
Tested application controls included test of automated 
controls, reports and system reconciliations.
Reviewed existence and effectiveness of monitoring 
mechanisms such as Internal Audit, Systems Audit, and 
Concurrent Audit as per the policies and procedures of 
the Bank;
Evaluated the governance process and review controls 
over calculations of provision of non-performing 
advances, basis of provisioning in accordance with the 
Board approved policy.
Selected a sample of borrowers based on quantitative 
and qualitative risk factors for their assessment of 
appropriate identification & classification as NPA 
including computation of overdue ageing to assess 
its correct classification and provision amount as per 
extant IRAC norms and the Bank policy.
Performed other substantive procedures included and 
not limited to the following:
	
Selected samples of performing loans and 
assessed independently as to whether those 
should be classified as NPA;
	
For samples selected, reviewed the collateral 
valuations, 
financial 
statements 
and 
other 
qualitative information 
	
Considered the accounts reported by the Bank 
and other Banks as Special Mention Accounts 
(“SMA”) in RBI’s Central Repository of Information 
on Large Credits (CRILC) to identify stress.
	
For selected samples, assessed independently, 
the accounts that can potentially be classified as 
NPA and Red flagged accounts.
	
Inquired with the credit and risk departments to 
ascertain if there were indicators of stress or an 
occurrence of an event of default in a particular 
loan account or any product category which 
needed to be considered as NPA.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)

140
Annual Report 2022-23 
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
	
Examined the accounts under watchlist report 
provided by the risk department.
	
Discussed with the management of the Bank on 
sectors where there is a perceived credit risk and 
the steps taken to mitigate the risks to identified 
sectors.
	
Selected and tested samples for accounts which 
are restructured as per RBI Master Circular - 
Prudential norms on Income Recognition, Asset 
Classification and Provisioning pertaining to 
Advances; and 
	
Assessed appropriateness & the adequacy of 
disclosures against the relevant accounting 
standards and RBI requirements relating to NPAs.
Evaluation of Litigations included in contingent liabilities.
 (Included under contingent liabilities) (in ‘000)
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2023
As at 
31 March 2022
Legal Cases
3,027,295 
 3,201,365
Taxes
78,935,723 
79,637,364
Total Claims against Bank not acknowledged as Debt 
81,963,017 
82,838,729
(Refer Schedule 12 I, Schedule 17(12) and Schedule 18(36))
The Bank has material open tax litigations including 
matters under dispute which involve significant 
judgement to determine the possible outcome of these 
disputes.
Significant management judgement is needed in 
determining whether an obligation exists and whether 
a provision should be recognised as at the reporting 
date, in accordance with the accounting criteria set 
under Accounting Standard 29 - Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets (‘AS 29’), or whether it 
needs to be disclosed as a contingent liability. Further, 
significant judgements are also involved in measuring 
such obligations, the most significant of which are:
	
Assessment of Liability: Judgement is involved in 
determination of whether outflow in respect of 
identified material matters are probable and can 
be estimated reliably.
Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter 
included: 
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of the 
Bank’s key controls over the estimation, monitoring 
and disclosure of provisions and contingent liabilities 
on test check basis. 
Our substantive audit procedures included and were 
not limited to the following:
	
Obtained an understanding of Bank’s process 
for determining tax liabilities, tax provisions 
and contingent liabilities pertaining to legal and 
taxation matters;
	
Obtained a list of cases /matters in respect of 
which the litigations were outstanding as at 
reporting date:
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)

141
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
	
Adequacy of provisions: The appropriateness of 
assumption and judgements used in estimation of 
significant provisions; and 
	
Adequacy of disclosures of provision for liabilities 
and charges, and contingent liabilities.
The Bank’s assessment is supported by the facts of 
matter, their own judgement, experience, and advises 
from legal and independent tax consultants wherever 
considered necessary.
Since the assessment of these open litigations requires 
significant level of judgement in interpretation of law, 
we have included this as a key audit matter.
	
•	
For significant legal matters, we obtained 
external confirmations and corroborated 
with management’s documented conclusions 
on the assessment of outstanding litigations 
against the Bank;
	
•	
For significant taxation matters, we involved 
our tax specialists to gain an understanding 
of 
status 
of 
the 
litigations 
including 
understanding of various orders/ notices 
received by the Bank and management’s 
grounds of appeals before the relevant 
appellate authorities. 
	
Evaluated the merit of the subject matter under 
consideration with reference to the grounds 
presented therein and available independent legal 
/ tax advice; 
	
Inquired with appropriate level of the management 
including status update, expectation of outcomes 
with the basis, and the future course of action 
contemplated by the Bank;
	
Reviewed minutes of meetings with Board, and 
Audit committee in this regard
	
Agreed underlying tax balances to supporting 
documentation including correspondence with the 
Tax authorities; and
	
Assessed 
the 
appropriateness 
& 
adequacy 
of disclosures within the standalone financial 
statements in accordance with the applicable 
accounting standards and requirements of RBI in 
this regard.

142
Annual Report 2022-23 
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Information Technology (‘IT’) systems and controls impacting financial controls.
The Bank has a complex IT architecture to support 
its day-to-day business operations. High volume of 
transactions is processed and recorded on single or 
multiple applications. 
The reliability and security of IT systems plays a key 
role in the business operations of the Bank. Since 
large volume of transactions are processed daily, the 
IT controls are required to ensure that applications 
process data as expected and that changes are made 
in an appropriate manner. 
Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter 
included: 
For testing the IT general controls, application controls 
and IT dependent manual controls, we involved IT 
specialists as part of the audit. The team also assisted 
in testing the accuracy of the information produced by 
the Bank’s IT systems. 
Obtained a comprehensive understanding of IT 
applications landscape implemented at the Bank. It 
was followed by process understanding, mapping of 
applications to the same and understanding financial 
risks posed by people-process and technology. 
Appropriate IT general controls and application controls 
are required to ensure that such IT systems are able to 
process the data, as required, completely, accurately 
and consistently for reliable financial reporting. 
We have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as key 
audit matter because of the high level automation, 
significant number of systems being used by the 
management and the complexity of the IT architecture 
and its impact on the financial reporting system.
Key IT audit procedures includes testing design and 
operating effectiveness of key controls operating over 
user access management (which includes user access 
provisioning, de-provisioning, access review, password 
configuration review, segregation of duties and privilege 
access), change management (which include change 
release in production environment are compliant to the 
defined procedures and segregation of environment is 
ensured), program development (which include review 
of data migration activity), computer operations (which 
includes testing of key controls pertaining to, backup, 
Batch processing (including interface testing), incident 
management and data centre security), System 
interface controls. This included testing that requests 
for access to systems were appropriately logged, 
reviewed, and authorized. 
In addition to the above, the design and operating 
effectiveness of certain automated controls, that were 
considered as key internal system controls over financial 
reporting were tested. Using various techniques such 
as inquiry, review of documentation / record / reports, 
observation, and re-performance. We also tested few 
controls using negative testing technique. 
Tested compensating controls and performed alternate 
procedures, where necessary. In addition, understood 
where relevant changes made to the IT landscape 
during the audit period.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)

143
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Valuation of Derivatives
 (Included under contingent liabilities) (in ‘000)
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2023
As at 
31 March 2022
Notional amounts
40,984,024,707
37,056,016,613
(Refer Schedule 12.III, 12.VI, 12.VII and 18(14)) 
Derivatives are valued through models with external 
inputs. The derivatives portfolio of the Bank primarily 
includes transactions which are carried out on behalf 
of its clients (and are covered on a back-to-back basis) 
and transactions to hedge the Bank’s interest and 
foreign currency risk.
Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to, 
the following:
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design, 
and tested the operating effectiveness of the key 
controls over the valuation processes, including: 
	
independent price verification performed by a 
management expert; and model governance and 
validation. 
A significant degree of management judgement is 
involved in the application of valuation techniques 
through which the value of the Bank’s derivatives 
is determined. The financial statement risk arises 
particularly with respect to complex valuation models, 
valuation parameters, and inputs that are used in 
determining fair values.
Considering the significance of the above matter to 
the financial statements, significant management 
estimates and judgements, and auditor attention 
required to test such estimates and judgements, we 
have identified this as a key audit matter for current 
year audit.
On a sample basis, we performed an independent 
reassessment of the valuation of derivatives and 
evaluated significant models and methodologies used 
in valuation, to ensure compliance with the relevant 
RBI regulations, reasonableness of the valuation 
methodology and the inputs used.
Information Other than the Standalone Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
6.	
The Bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Annual Report but does not include the standalone financial statements and our auditor’s 
report thereon. The Annual Report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
 	
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
	
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the standalone financial statements, or knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to 
be materially misstated. 

144
Annual Report 2022-23 
	
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the 
relevant laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Standalone Financial 
Statements
7.	
The Bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to 
the preparation and presentation of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the 
financial position, financial performance, and cash flows of the Bank in accordance with accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act, read with the 
Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, and provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
and circulars and guidelines issued by the RBI from time to time (‘RBI Guidelines’). This responsibility also includes 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI Guidelines for 
safeguarding of the assets of the Bank and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and 
application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively 
for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation 
of the standalone financial statement that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error.
8.	
In preparing the standalone financial statements, Board of Directors are responsible for assessing the Bank’s ability 
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intend to liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, 
or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
9.	
The Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
10.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes 
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from 
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements. 
11.	 As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
	
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
	
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Bank has adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls;
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)

145
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
	
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the Management;
	
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that 
may cast significant doubt on the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the 
standalone financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions 
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Bank to cease to continue as a going concern;
	
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including 
the disclosures, and whether the standalone1 financial statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
12.	 We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit.
13.	 We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
14.	 From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements of the current year, and are therefore, the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
15.	 The Balance Sheet and the Profit and Loss Account have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Section 133 of the Act and the relevant rules issued thereunder. 
16.	 As required by sub-section (3) of section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that:
	
a.	
We have obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were 
necessary for the purpose of our audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
	
b.	
The transactions of the Bank, which have come to our notice, have been within the powers of the Bank.
	
c.	
Since the key operations of the Bank are automated with the key applications integrated to the core banking 
system, the audit is carried out centrally as all the necessary records and data required for the purposes of our 
audit are available therein. We have visited 156 branches to examine the records maintained at the branches 
for the purpose of our audit.
17.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
	
a.	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit;
	
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Bank so far as it appears from 
our examination of those books;
	
c.	
The Balance Sheet, the Profit and Loss Account and the Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account;

146
Annual Report 2022-23 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
	
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified 
under Section 133 of the Act read with relevant rules issued thereunder, to the extent they are not inconsistent 
with the accounting policies prescribed by the RBI;
	
e.	
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31 March 2023 taken on record 
by the Board of Directors, none of the directors are disqualified as on 31 March 2023 from being appointed as 
a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act;
	
f.	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements 
of the Bank and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure A”; and
	
g.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us:
	
	
i.	
The Bank has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial 
statements (Refer Schedule 12, Schedule 17(12) and Schedule 18(41)); 
	
	
ii.	
The Bank has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material 
foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts ((Refer Schedule 17(12) 
and Schedule 18(41)); 
 	
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Bank during the year ended 31 March 2023;
	
	
iv.	
(1)	 The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed in 
schedule 18(57) to the standalone financial statements, no funds have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the 
Bank to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether directly 
or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Bank (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
	
(2)	 The Management has represented that, to the best of it’s knowledge and belief, as disclosed in 
schedule 18(57) to the standalone financial statements, no funds have been received by the Bank 
from any person(s)/entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), that the Bank has directly 
or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and 
	
	
	
(3)	 Based on such audit procedures performed, as considered reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the management 
representations under sub-clauses (1) and (2) above contain any material misstatement.
	
	
v.	
The Bank has declared and paid dividend during the year which is in compliance with section 123 of the 
Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 
	
	
vi.	
As the proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 (as amended), which provides for 
the accounting software used by the Bank for maintaining its books of account to have the feature for 
recording of audit trail (edit log) facility and related matters, is applicable for the Bank only with effect from 
financial year beginning 1 April 2023, the reporting under clause (g) of Rule 11 is currently not applicable.

147
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
	
h.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the requirements of 
Section 197(16) of the Act, as amended, the Bank is a banking Company as defined under Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949. Accordingly, the requirements prescribed under Section 197 of the Act do not apply. 
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm Registration No.105047W
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.105146W/W100621
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership Number.: 118580
UDIN: 23118580BGXROY2671
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership Number.: 117348
UDIN: 23117348BGSZHO1617
Place: Mumbai
Date: 22 April 2023
Place: Mumbai
Date: 22 April 2023

148
Annual Report 2022-23 
Annexure "A" to the Independent Auditor’s report on the Standalone Financial 
Statements of ICICI Bank Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023
[Referred to in paragraph “17(f)” under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of 
even date] 
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the aforesaid Standalone Financial 
Statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements of ICICI Bank 
Limited (“the Bank”) as at 31 March 2023 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the 
Bank for the year ended on that date.
2.	
In our opinion, the Bank has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements and such internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements 
were operating effectively as at 31 March 2023, based on the internal control with reference to standalone financial 
statements criteria established by the Bank considering the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (ICAI) (the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
3.	
The Bank’s Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the 
internal control with reference to standalone financial statements criteria established by the Bank considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring 
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of its 
assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
4.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the 
Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent 
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements was established and maintained and if 
such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
5.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 
and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
6.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Standalone Financial Statements
7.	
Bank’s internal financial control with reference to standalone financial statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of standalone financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A Bank’s internal 
financial control with reference to standalone financial statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) 
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 

149
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
dispositions of the assets of the bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary 
to permit preparation of standalone financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the bank are being made only in accordance with authorizations 
of management and directors of the bank; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the bank’s assets that could have a material effect on 
the standalone financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Standalone Financial Statements 
8.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to 
error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
control with reference to standalone financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, 
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm Registration No.105047W
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.105146W/W100621
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership Number.: 118580
UDIN: 23118580BGXROY2671
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership Number.: 117348
UDIN: 23117348BGSZHO1617
Place: Mumbai
Date: 22 April 2023
Place: Mumbai
Date: 22 April 2023
Annexure A (Contd.)

150
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
BALANCE SHEET
at March 31, 2023
` in ‘000s
Schedule
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital
1
 13,967,750 
 13,899,662 
Employees stock options outstanding
1A
 7,608,859 
 2,664,141 
Reserves and surplus
2
 1,985,577,170 
 1,688,555,941 
Deposits
3
 11,808,406,972 
 10,645,716,132 
Borrowings
4
 1,193,254,936 
 1,072,313,597 
Other liabilities and provisions
5
 833,250,836 
 689,827,947 
TOTAL CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
 15,842,066,523 
 14,112,977,420 
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India
6
 685,261,721 
 1,095,228,198 
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice
7
 509,121,002 
 582,995,434 
Investments
8
 3,623,297,355 
 3,102,410,024 
Advances
9
 10,196,383,053 
 8,590,204,390 
Fixed assets
10
 95,998,412 
 93,738,159 
Other assets
11
 732,004,980 
 648,401,215 
TOTAL ASSETS
 15,842,066,523 
 14,112,977,420 
Contingent liabilities
12
 42,831,654,487 
 38,676,758,717 
Bills for collection
 864,547,740 
 751,508,328 
Significant accounting policies and notes to accounts
17 & 18
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Balance Sheet.
As per our Report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.: 105047W
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Chairman
DIN-00110996
Uday M. Chitale
Director
DIN-00043268
Sandeep Bakhshi 
Managing Director & CEO
DIN-00109206
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership no.: 118580
Anup Bagchi
Executive Director
DIN-00105962
Rakesh Jha
Executive Director
DIN-00042075
Sandeep Batra
Executive Director
DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Anindya Banerjee
Group Chief Financial Officer
Prachiti Lalingkar 
Company Secretary
Rajendra Khandelwal
Chief Accountant
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
Mumbai
April 22, 2023

151
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
for the year ended March 31, 2023
` in ‘000s
Schedule
Year ended
31.03.2023
Year ended
31.03.2022
I.	
INCOME	
	
Interest earned
13
 1,092,313,380 
 863,745,452 
	
Other income
14
 198,314,479 
 185,175,299 
	
TOTAL INCOME
 1,290,627,859 
 1,048,920,751 
II.	
EXPENDITURE
	
Interest expended
15
 471,027,360 
 389,084,507 
	
Operating expenses
16
 328,732,391 
 267,333,160 
	
Provisions and contingencies (refer note 18.41)
 171,903,146 
 159,108,177 
	
TOTAL EXPENDITURE
 971,662,897 
 815,525,844 
III.	 PROFIT/(LOSS)
	
Net profit/(loss) for the year
 318,964,962 
 233,394,907 
	
Profit brought forward
 436,713,394 
 310,090,657 
	
TOTAL PROFIT/(LOSS)
 755,678,356 
 543,485,564 
IV.	 APPROPRIATIONS/TRANSFERS
	
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 79,742,000 
 58,349,000 
	
Transfer to/(from) Reserve Fund
-
-
	
Transfer to Capital Reserve
 878,200 
 15,742,037 
	
Transfer to Capital Redemption Reserve
-
-
	
Transfer to/(from) Investment Reserve Account
-
-
	
Transfer to/(from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 1,043,810 
 3,828,798 
	
Transfer to Revenue and other reserves
 50,000,000 
-
	
Transfer to Special Reserve
 25,650,000 
 15,000,000 
	
Dividend paid during the year
 34,794,463 
 13,852,335 
	
Balance carried over to balance sheet
 563,569,883 
 436,713,394 
	
TOTAL
 755,678,356 
 543,485,564 
Significant accounting policies and notes to accounts
17 & 18
Earnings per share (refer note 18.1)
	
Basic (`) 
 45.79 
 33.66 
	
Diluted (`) 
 44.89 
 32.98 
Face value per share (`)	
2.00 
 2.00 
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Profit and Loss Account.
As per our Report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.:105047W
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Chairman
DIN-00110996
Uday M. Chitale
Director
DIN-00043268
Sandeep Bakhshi 
Managing Director & CEO
DIN-00109206
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership no.: 118580
Anup Bagchi
Executive Director
DIN-00105962
Rakesh Jha
Executive Director
DIN-00042075
Sandeep Batra
Executive Director
DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Anindya Banerjee
Group Chief Financial Officer
Prachiti Lalingkar 
Company Secretary
Rajendra Khandelwal
Chief Accountant
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
Mumbai
April 22, 2023

152
Annual Report 2022-23 
` in ‘000s
Year ended
31.03.2023
Year ended
31.03.2022
Cash flow from/(used in) operating activities
Profit/(loss) before taxes
 424,212,254 
 306,088,853 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation
 14,551,663 
 13,162,116 
Net (appreciation)/depreciation on investments
 25,947,137 
 19,089,256 
Provision in respect of non-performing and other assets 
 (6,222,899)
 61,640,412 
General provision for standard assets
 5,795,607 
 4,492,475 
Provision for contingencies & others
 54,087,695 
 16,510,217 
Employee Stock Options Expense
 5,172,383 
 2,642,190 
Income from subsidiaries and consolidated entities
 (17,845,592)
 (18,287,906)
(Profit)/loss on sale of fixed assets
 (534,906)
 (40,400)
(i)
 505,163,342 
 405,297,213 
Adjustments for:
(Increase)/decrease in investments
 118,142,776 
 44,311,642 
(Increase)/decrease in advances
 (1,606,959,156)
 (1,314,758,223)
Increase/(decrease) in deposits
 1,162,749,545 
 1,320,494,527 
(Increase)/decrease in other assets
 (87,974,398)
 50,727,916 
Increase/(decrease) in other liabilities and provisions
 82,944,583 
 81,334,402 
(ii)
 (331,096,650)
 182,110,264 
Refund/(payment) of direct taxes
(iii)
 (97,163,542)
 (36,938,226)
Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities (i)+(ii)+(iii)
(A)
 76,903,150 
 550,469,251 
Cash flow from/(used in) investing activities
Redemption/sale from/(investments in) subsidiaries (including 
application money)
 (5,299,820)
 28,153,800 
Income from subsidiaries, joint ventures and consolidated entities
 17,845,592 
 18,287,906 
Purchase of fixed assets
 (20,200,892)
 (16,109,856)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets
 2,815,987 
 208,665 
(Purchase)/sale of held-to-maturity securities
 (652,674,032)
 (380,894,998)
Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities
(B)
 (657,513,165)
 (350,354,483)
Cash flow from/(used in) financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital (including ESOPs)
 9,420,691 
 7,979,764 
Proceeds from long-term borrowings
 329,872,556 
 252,601,665 
Repayment of long-term borrowings
 (183,073,266)
 (233,144,678)
Net proceeds/(repayment) of short-term borrowings
 (27,161,726)
 135,095,945 
Dividend paid
 (34,794,463)
 (13,852,335)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended March 31, 2023

153
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended March 31, 2023 (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
Year ended
31.03.2023
Year ended
31.03.2022
Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities
(C)
 94,263,792 
 148,680,361 
Effect of exchange fluctuation on translation reserve 
(D)
 2,505,314 
 (1,853,998)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
(A) + (B) + (C) + (D)
 (483,840,909)
 346,941,131 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
 1,678,223,632 
 1,331,282,501 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
 1,194,382,723 
 1,678,223,632 
1.	Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances with RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and short notice.
As per our Report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.:105047W
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Chairman
DIN-00110996
Uday M. Chitale
Director
DIN-00043268
Sandeep Bakhshi 
Managing Director & CEO
DIN-00109206
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership no.: 118580
Anup Bagchi
Executive Director
DIN-00105962
Rakesh Jha
Executive Director
DIN-00042075
Sandeep Batra
Executive Director
DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Anindya Banerjee
Group Chief Financial Officer
Prachiti Lalingkar 
Company Secretary
Rajendra Khandelwal
Chief Accountant
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
Mumbai
April 22, 2023

154
Annual Report 2022-23 
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 1 - CAPITAL
Authorised capital
12,500,000,000 equity shares of ` 2 each  
(March 31, 2022: 12,500,000,000 equity shares of ` 2 each)
 25,000,000 
 25,000,000 
Equity share capital
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital
6,948,771,375 equity shares of ` 2 each  
(March 31, 2022: 6,915,992,387 equity shares)
 13,897,543 
 13,831,985 
Add: 34,044,356 equity shares of ` 2 each (March 31, 2022: 32,778,988 
equity shares) issued during the year
 68,088 
 65,558 
 13,965,631 
 13,897,543 
Add: Forfeited equity shares1
 2,119
 2,119
TOTAL CAPITAL
 13,967,750 
 13,899,662 
1.	On account of forfeiture of 266,089 equity shares of ` 10 each.
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 1A - EMPLOYEES STOCK OPTIONS OUTSTANDING
Opening balance
 2,664,141 
 31,010 
Additions during the year1
 5,172,383 
 2,642,190 
Deductions during the year2
 (227,665)
 (9,059)
Closing balance
 7,608,859 
 2,664,141 
1.	Represents cost of stock options recongnised during the year.
2.	Represents amount transferred to Securities Premium on account of exercise of employee stock options and to General Reserve on 
lapses of employee stock options during the year.
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 2 - RESERVES AND SURPLUS
I.	
Statutory reserve
	
	
Opening balance
 356,036,519 
 297,687,519 
	
	
Additions during the year
 79,742,000 
 58,349,000 
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance
 435,778,519 
 356,036,519 
II.	
Special reserve
	
	
Opening balance
 128,840,000 
 113,840,000 
	
	
Additions during the year
 25,650,000 
 15,000,000 
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance
 154,490,000 
 128,840,000 
III.	 Securities premium 
	
	
Opening balance
 496,253,897 
 488,330,632 
	
	
Additions during the year1
 9,576,331 
 7,923,265 
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance
 505,830,228 
 496,253,897 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet

155
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
IV.	 Investment reserve account
	
	
Opening balance
-
-
	
	
Additions during the year
-
-
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance
-
-
V.	
Investment fluctuation reserve2
	
	
Opening balance
 20,714,999 
 16,886,201 
	
	
Additions during the year
 1,043,810 
 3,828,798 
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance
 21,758,809 
 20,714,999 
VI.	 Capital reserve
	
	
Opening balance
 149,540,462 
 133,798,425 
	
	
Additions during the year3,4
 878,200 
 15,742,037 
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance
 150,418,662 
 149,540,462 
VII.	 Capital redemption reserve
	
	
Opening balance
 3,500,000 
 3,500,000 
	
	
Additions during the year
-
-
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance
 3,500,000 
 3,500,000 
VIII.	Foreign currency translation reserve 
	
	
Opening balance
 7,732,961 
 9,586,959 
	
	
Additions during the year
 2,505,314 
-
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
 (1,853,998)
	
	
Closing balance
 10,238,275 
 7,732,961 
IX.	 Revaluation reserve
	
	
Opening balance
 31,956,593 
 30,935,908 
	
	
Additions during the year5
 839,516 
 1,724,938 
	
	
Deductions during the year6
 (2,171,483)
 (704,253)
	
	
Closing balance
 30,624,626 
 31,956,593 
X.	
Revenue and other reserves
	
	
Opening balance
 57,267,116 
 56,570,435 
	
	
Additions during the year7
 52,101,052 
 696,681 
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance
 109,368,168 
 57,267,116 
XI.	 Balance in profit and loss account4
 563,569,883 
 436,713,394 
TOTAL RESERVES AND SURPLUS	
	
	
	
 1,985,577,170 
 1,688,555,941 
1.	Includes amount on account of exercise of employee stock options. 
2.	Represents amount transferred to Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR) on net profit on sale of AFS and HFT investments during the 
period. The amount not less than the lower of net profit on sale of AFS and HFT category investments during the period or net profit 
for the period less mandatory appropriations is required to be transferred to IFR, until the amount of IFR is at least 2% of the HFT and 
AFS portfolio.
3.	Represents appropriations made for profit on sale of investments in held-to-maturity category, net of taxes and transfer to statutory 
reserve and profit on sale of land and buildings, net of taxes and transfer to statutory reserve.
4.	The Bank had shifted certain securities from held-to-maturity category to available-for-sale category on May 3, 2017. RBI through its 
order dated May 3, 2021 directed the Bank to appropriate the net profit made on sale of these investments during FY2018 to capital 
reserve. Accordingly, an amount of ` 15,091.1 million was transferred from balance in Profit and Loss account to capital reserve 
during FY2022. 
5.	Represents gain on revaluation of premises carried out by the Bank.
6.	Includes amount transferred from revaluation reserve to general reserve on account of incremental depreciation charge on revaluation 
and revaluation surplus on premises sold. Also includes the amount of loss on revaluation of certain assets which were held for sale.
7.	Includes amount transferred from Employee Stock Options outstanding to general reserve on lapses of employee stock options during 
the period.

156
Annual Report 2022-23 
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 3 - DEPOSITS
A.	
I.	
Demand deposits
	
	
i)	
From banks
 49,917,686 
 79,700,410 
	
	
ii)	
From others
 1,564,941,951 
 1,505,096,359 
	
II.	
Savings bank deposits
 3,797,758,853 
 3,599,568,969 
	
III.	 Term deposits
	
	
i)	
From banks
 113,475,314 
 71,532,495 
	
	
ii)	
From others
 6,282,313,168 
 5,389,817,899 
TOTAL DEPOSITS
 11,808,406,972 
 10,645,716,132 
B.	
I.	
Deposits of branches in India
 11,660,582,193 
 10,547,609,016 
	
II.	
Deposits of branches outside India
 147,824,779 
 98,107,116 
TOTAL CAPITAL
 11,808,406,972 
 10,645,716,132 
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 4 - BORROWINGS
I.	
Borrowings in India
	
i)	
Reserve Bank of India1	
-
-
	
ii)	
Other banks
-
-
	
iii)	
Financial institutions2
 355,946,900 
 187,168,771 
	
iv)	
Borrowings in the form of bonds and debentures 
(excluding subordinated debt)
 460,418,579 
 391,495,007 
	
v)	
Capital instruments
	
	
a) 	 Innovative Perpetual Debt Instruments (IPDI) 
(qualifying as additional Tier 1 capital)
 51,400,000 
 66,950,000 
	
	
b)	
Unsecured redeemable debentures/bonds 
(subordinated debt included in Tier 2 capital)
 31,409,320 
 71,556,981 
TOTAL BORROWINGS IN INDIA
 899,174,799 
 717,170,759 
II. 	 Borrowings outside India
	
i)	
Bonds and notes
 131,367,581 
 170,411,911 
	
ii)	
Other borrowings
 162,712,556 
 184,730,927 
TOTAL BORROWINGS OUTSIDE INDIA
 294,080,137 
 355,142,838 
TOTAL BORROWINGS
 1,193,254,936 
 1,072,313,597 
1.	Represents borrowings made under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF).
2.	Includes borrowings made under repo and refinance.
3.	Secured borrowings in I and II above amount to Nil (March 31, 2022: Nil) except no borrowing (March 31, 2022: ` 4,913.3 million) was 
made under market repurchase transactions (including tri-party repo) with banks and financial institutions and transactions under 
liquidity adjustment facility and marginal standing facility.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)

157
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
I.	
Bills payable
 134,783,012 
 129,495,726 
II.	
Inter-office adjustments (net)
 3,228,016 
 4,418,106 
III.	
Interest accrued
 30,423,631 
 24,632,882 
IV.	
Sundry creditors
 167,703,280 
 144,731,299 
V.	
General provision for standard assets (refer note 18.19)
 47,022,362 
 40,942,883 
VI.	 Unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts1
 178,698,973 
 110,510,788 
VII.	 Others (including provisions)2
 271,391,562 
 235,096,263 
TOTAL OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
 833,250,836 
 689,827,947 
1.	Gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts is disclosed under Schedule 11 - Other assets.	
2.	Includes contingency provision amounting to ` 131,000.0 million (March 31, 2022: ` 74,500.0 million) and specific provision for 
standard loans amounting to ` 14,946.9 million (March 31, 2022: ` 30,203.0 million).
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 6 - CASH AND BALANCES WITH RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
I.	
Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)	
 85,594,376 
 71,208,342 
II.	
Balances with Reserve Bank of India
	
(a) 	 in current account
 480,247,345 
 529,999,856 
	
(b) 	 in other accounts1
 119,420,000 
 494,020,000 
TOTAL CASH AND BALANCES WITH RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
 685,261,721 
 1,095,228,198 
1.	Represents lending under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) and Standing Deposit Facility (SDF).
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND 
SHORT NOTICE
I.	
In India
	
i)	
Balances with banks
	
	
a)	
In current accounts
 1,161,580 
 324,146 
	
	
b)	
In other deposit accounts
 39,768,173 
 5,321,404 
	
ii) 	
Money at call and short notice
	
	
a)	
With banks
 8,217,000 
-
	
	
b)	
With other institutions1
 6,000,000 
-
TOTAL
 55,146,753 
 5,645,550 
II. 	 Outside India
	
i)	
In current accounts	
 283,001,318 
 302,607,893 
	
ii)	
In other deposit accounts
 26,708,047 
 179,630,804 
	
iii)	
Money at call and short notice
 144,264,884 
 95,111,187 
TOTAL
 453,974,249 
 577,349,884 
TOTAL BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE
 509,121,002 
 582,995,434 
1.	Includes lending under reverse repo.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)

158
Annual Report 2022-23 
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 8 - INVESTMENTS
I.	
Investments in India [net of provisions]
	
i)	
Government securities
 3,057,772,845 
 2,563,877,338 
	
ii)	
Other approved securities
-
-
	
iii)	
Shares (includes equity and preference shares) 	
	
 21,711,915 
 24,135,943 
	
iv)	
Debentures and bonds (including commercial paper and certificate 
of deposits)	
 288,094,031 
 225,803,491 
	
v)	
Subsidiaries and/or joint ventures	
 68,914,088 
 66,264,177 
	
vi)	
Others (mutual fund units, pass through certificates, security 
receipts, and other related investments)
 105,787,007 
 71,922,592 
TOTAL INVESTMENTS IN INDIA
 3,542,279,886 
 2,952,003,541 
II.	
Investments outside India [net of provisions]
	
i)	
Government securities	 	
 42,389,373 
 107,340,857 
	
ii)	
Subsidiaries and/or joint ventures abroad 
(includes equity and preference shares)
 19,698,901 
 19,698,901 
	
iii)	
Others (equity shares, bonds and certificate of deposits)	
 18,929,195 
 23,366,725 
TOTAL INVESTMENTS OUTSIDE INDIA
 81,017,469 
 150,406,483 
TOTAL INVESTMENTS
 3,623,297,355 
 3,102,410,024 
A.	
Investments in India
	
Gross value of investments
 3,599,811,662 
 3,002,256,404 
	
Less: Aggregate of provision/depreciation/(appreciation)
 57,531,776 
 50,252,863 
	
Net investments
 3,542,279,886 
 2,952,003,541 
B.	
Investments outside India 
	
Gross value of investments
 85,062,773 
 151,569,301 
	
Less: Aggregate of provision/depreciation/(appreciation)
 4,045,304 
 1,162,818 
	
Net investments
 81,017,469 
 150,406,483 
TOTAL INVESTMENTS
 3,623,297,355 
 3,102,410,024 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)

159
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 9 - ADVANCES [net of provisions]	
A.	
i)	
Bills purchased and discounted1
 495,756,534 
 475,480,187 
	
ii) 	
Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand
 2,799,818,550 
 2,279,069,891 
	
iii) 	 Term loans
 6,900,807,969 
 5,835,654,312 
TOTAL ADVANCES
 10,196,383,053 
 8,590,204,390 
B.	
i)	
Secured by tangible assets (includes advances against book debts)
 7,123,779,285 
 6,136,277,576 
	
ii) 	
Covered by bank/government guarantees
 153,940,219 
 178,653,112 
	
iii) 	 Unsecured
 2,918,663,549 
 2,275,273,702 
TOTAL ADVANCES
 10,196,383,053 
 8,590,204,390 
C.	
I.	
Advances in India
	
	
i)	
Priority sector
 2,807,812,582 
 2,491,680,887 
	
	
ii)	
Public sector
 516,152,443 
 483,782,406 
	
	
iii) 	 Banks
 7,698,171 
 432,346 
	
	
iv) 	 Others
 6,523,615,093 
 5,201,460,769 
TOTAL ADVANCES IN INDIA
 9,855,278,289 
 8,177,356,408 
	
II. 	 Advances outside India
	
	
i)	
Due from banks
-
-
	
	
ii)	
Due from others
	
	
	
a)	
Bills purchased and discounted
 151,133,779 
 173,178,388 
	
	
	
b)	
Syndicated and term loans
 101,434,591 
 85,793,092 
	
	
	
c)	
Others
 88,536,394 
 153,876,502 
TOTAL ADVANCES OUTSIDE INDIA
 341,104,764 
 412,847,982 
TOTAL ADVANCES
 10,196,383,053 
 8,590,204,390 
1.	Net of bills re-discounted amounting to ` 10,000.0 million (March 31, 2022: Nil).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)

160
Annual Report 2022-23 
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 10 - FIXED ASSETS
I.	
Premises
	
Gross block
	
At cost at March 31 of preceding year 
 81,486,941 
 78,890,743 
	
Additions during the year1
 2,401,505 
 2,993,921 
	
Deductions during the year
 (2,664,056)
 (397,723)
	
Closing balance
 81,224,390 
 81,486,941 
	
Depreciation
	
At March 31 of preceding year 
 20,180,009 
 18,421,307 
	
Charge during the year2
 2,154,851 
 2,038,226 
	
Deductions during the year
 (447,084)
 (279,524)
	
Total depreciation
 21,887,776 
 20,180,009 
	
Net block3
 59,336,614 
 61,306,932 
II. 	 Other fixed assets (including furniture and fixtures) 
	
Gross block
	
At cost at March 31 of preceding year 
 88,772,438 
 78,861,437 
	
Additions during the year
 15,409,102 
 13,724,162 
	
Deductions during the year
 (5,758,596)
 (3,813,161)
	
Closing balance
 98,422,944 
 88,772,438 
	
Depreciation
	
At March 31 of preceding year 
 59,595,871 
 53,842,117 
	
Charge during the year
 10,893,499 
 9,484,874 
	
Deductions during the year
 (5,661,468)
 (3,731,120)
	
Total depreciation
 64,827,902 
 59,595,871 
	
Net block
 33,595,042 
 29,176,567 
III. 	 Lease assets
	
Gross block
	
At cost at March 31 of preceding year 
 17,890,746 
 17,735,222 
	
Additions during the year
 11,660 
 155,524 
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
Closing balance4
 17,902,406 
 17,890,746 
	
Depreciation
	
At March 31 of preceding year 
 14,636,086 
 14,448,172 
	
Charge during the year
 199,564 
 187,914 
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
Total depreciation, accumulated lease adjustment and provisions
 14,835,650 
 14,636,086 
	
Net block
 3,066,756 
 3,254,660 
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS
 95,998,412 
 93,738,159 
1.	Includes revaluation gain amounting to ` 839.5 million (March 31, 2022: ` 1,724.9 million) on account of revaluation carried out by the 
Bank.
2.	Includes depreciation charge on account of revaluation amounting to ` 748.4 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended 
March 31, 2022: ` 696.7 million).
3.	Includes assets amounting to ` 428.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 558.5 million) which are held for sale.
4.	Includes assets taken on lease amounting to ` 1,187.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 1,176.1 million).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)

161
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 11 - OTHER ASSETS
I.	
Inter-office adjustments (net)
-
-
II.	
Interest accrued
 123,894,716 
 88,248,164 
III.	 Tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net)
 16,081,826 
 21,463,118 
IV.	 Stationery and stamps
 3,181 
 3,451 
V.	
Non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims1,2
-
-
VI.	 Advances for capital assets
 7,393,764 
 3,680,645 
VII.	 Deposits
 48,012,567 
 35,163,419 
VIII.	Deferred tax assets (net) (refer note 18.43)
 75,034,537 
 77,732,740 
IX.	 Deposits in Rural Infrastructure and Development Fund
 216,216,187 
 264,194,161 
X.	
Unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts3
 172,562,634 
 102,645,663 
XI.	 Others
 72,805,568 
 55,269,854 
TOTAL OTHER ASSETS
 732,004,980 
 648,401,215 
1.	No assets were sold during the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 563.6 million).	
2.	Net of provision amounting to ` 29,011.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 29,011.8 million).	
3.	Gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts is disclosed under Schedule 5 - Other liabilities.
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 12 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
I.	
Claims against the Bank not acknowledged as debts
 81,963,017 
 82,838,729 
II.	
Liability for partly paid investments
 12,455 
 12,455 
III.	 Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts1
 15,330,218,103 
 10,645,244,026 
IV.	 Guarantees given on behalf of constituents	
	
a) 	 In India
 1,107,502,893 
 882,110,255 
	
b) 	 Outside India
 130,675,436 
 155,637,359 
V.	
Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
 441,907,720 
 462,814,238 
VI.	 Currency swaps1
 564,629,994 
 498,337,575 
VII.	 Interest rate swaps, currency options and interest rate futures1
 25,089,176,610 
 25,912,435,012 
VIII.	Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable
 85,568,259 
 37,329,068 
TOTAL CONTINGENT LIABILITIES	
 42,831,654,487 
 38,676,758,717 
1.	Represents notional amount.	
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)

162
Annual Report 2022-23 
	
` in ‘000s
 Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED
I.	
Interest/discount on advances/bills
 839,429,657 
 638,335,578 
II.	
Income on investments	
 208,884,565 
 164,092,693 
III.	
Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and other inter-bank funds
 18,505,130 
 15,608,305 
IV.	 Others1,2	 	
	
 25,494,028 
 45,708,876 
TOTAL INTEREST EARNED
 1,092,313,380 
 863,745,452 
1.	Includes interest on income tax refunds amounting to ` 1,144.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 2,434.2 million).
2.	Includes interest and amortisation of premium on non-trading interest rate swaps and foreign currency swaps.
	
` in ‘000s
 Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 14 - OTHER INCOME
I.	
Commission, exchange and brokerage	
 147,765,850 
 126,396,696 
II.	
Profit/(loss) on sale of investments (net)
 1,737,270 
 7,043,249 
III.	 Profit/(loss) on revaluation of investments (net)
 (1,296,397)
 (17,653)
IV.	 Profit/(loss) on sale of land, buildings and other assets (net)1
 534,906 
 40,400 
V.	
Profit/(loss) on exchange/derivative transactions (net)
 30,278,524 
 29,634,217 
VI.	 Income earned by way of dividends, etc. from subsidiary companies 
and/or joint ventures abroad/in India	
 17,845,592 
 18,287,906 
VII.	 Miscellaneous income (including lease income) 
 1,448,734 
 3,790,484 
TOTAL OTHER INCOME
 198,314,479 
 185,175,299 
1.	Includes profit/(loss) on sale of assets given on lease.
	
` in ‘000s
 Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 15 - INTEREST EXPENDED
I.	
Interest on deposits
 389,680,668 
 333,001,545 
II.	
Interest on Reserve Bank of India/inter-bank borrowings
 9,335,421 
 909,329 
III.	 Others (including interest on borrowings of erstwhile ICICI Limited) 
 72,011,271 
 55,173,633 
TOTAL INTEREST EXPENDED
 471,027,360 
 389,084,507 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Profit and Loss Account

163
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
` in ‘000s
 Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 16 - OPERATING EXPENSES	
I.	
Payments to and provisions for employees
 120,599,320 
 96,727,472 
II.	
Rent, taxes and lighting1
 13,789,914 
 12,410,538 
III.	 Printing and stationery
 2,471,090 
 2,058,744 
IV.	 Advertisement and publicity
 14,773,598 
 10,073,452 
V.	
Depreciation on Bank’s property
 13,048,350 
 11,523,100 
VI.	 Depreciation (including lease equalisation) on leased assets
 199,538 
 187,914 
VII.	 Directors’ fees, allowances and expenses
 47,851 
 45,484 
VIII.	Auditors’ fees and expenses
 60,199 
 52,962 
IX.	 Law charges
 1,277,541 
 1,150,521 
X.	
Postages, courier, telephones, etc.
 5,896,242 
 5,725,178 
XI.	 Repairs and maintenance
 31,251,038 
 24,649,279 
XII.	 Insurance
 14,789,240 
 12,944,781 
XIII.	Direct marketing agency expenses
 28,901,240 
 22,568,493 
XIV.	Other expenditure2
 81,627,230 
 67,215,242 
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES
 328,732,391 
 267,333,160 
1.	Includes lease expense amounting to ` 10,784.1 million (March 31, 2022: ` 9,860.8 million).
2.	Includes expenses on purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLC) amounting to ` 15,035.2 million (March 31, 2022: 
` 13,206.1 million).
3.	Net of recoveries from group companies towards shared services.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Profit and Loss Account (Contd.)

164
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
SCHEDULE 17
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Overview
ICICI Bank Limited (ICICI Bank or the Bank), incorporated in Vadodara, India is a publicly held banking company engaged 
in providing a wide range of banking and financial services including commercial banking and treasury operations. 
ICICI Bank is a banking company governed by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The Bank also has overseas branches 
in Bahrain, China, Dubai, Hong Kong, Singapore, United States of America and Offshore Banking units.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with requirements prescribed under the Third Schedule 
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The accounting and reporting policies of ICICI Bank used in the preparation of 
these financial statements conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (Indian GAAP), the guidelines 
issued by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from time to time and the Accounting Standards notified under Section 133 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read together with paragraph 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 to the extent applicable 
and practices generally prevalent in the banking industry in India. The Bank follows the historical cost convention and the 
accrual method of accounting, except in the case of interest and other income on non-performing assets (NPAs) where 
it is recognised upon realisation.
Use of estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that are considered 
in the reported amounts of assets and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as of the date of the financial statements 
and the reported income and expenses during the reporting period. Management believes that the estimates used in the 
preparation of the financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results could differ from these estimates. The 
impact of any revision in these estimates is recognised prospectively from the period of change.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1.	
Revenue recognition
	
a)	
Interest income is recognised in the profit and loss account as it accrues, except in the case of non-performing 
assets (NPAs) where it is recognised upon realisation, as per the income recognition and asset classification 
norms of RBI.
	
b)	
Income on discounted instruments is recognised over the tenure of the instrument on a constant yield basis.
	
c)	
Dividend income is accounted on accrual basis when the right to receive the dividend is established.
	
d)	
Loan processing fee is accounted for upfront when it becomes due.
	
e)	
Project appraisal/structuring fee is accounted for on the completion of the agreed service.
	
f)	
Arranger fee is accounted for as income when a significant portion of the arrangement is completed and right 
to receive is established.
	
g)	
Commission received on guarantees and letters of credit issued is amortised on a straight-line basis over the 
period of the guarantee/letters of credit.
	
h)	
The annual/renewal fee on credit cards, debit cards and prepaid cards are amortised on a straight line basis 
over one year.
	
i)	
Fees paid/received for priority sector lending certificates (PSLC) is amortised on straight-line basis over the 
period of the certificate.
	
j)	
All other fees are accounted for as and when they become due where the Bank is reasonably certain of ultimate 
collection.

165
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
2.	
Investments
	
Investments are accounted for in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines on investment classification and 
valuation.
	
The Bank follows trade date method of accounting for purchase and sale of investments, except for government of 
India and state government securities where settlement date method of accounting is followed in accordance with 
RBI guidelines.
	
Classification:
	
All investments are classified into ‘Held to Maturity’ (HTM), ‘Available for Sale’ (AFS) and ‘Held for Trading’ (HFT) on 
the date of purchase as per the extant RBI guidelines on investment classification and valuation. Reclassifications, if 
any, in any category are accounted for as per RBI guidelines. Under each classification, the investments are further 
categorised as (a) government securities, (b) other approved securities, (c) shares, (d) bonds and debentures, (e) 
subsidiaries and joint ventures and (f) others.
	
Investments that are held principally for resale within 90 days from the date of purchase are classified as HFT 
securities. Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity are classified as HTM securities. Investments 
which are not classified in either of the above categories are classified under AFS securities. Investments in the 
equity of subsidiaries/joint ventures are classified under HTM or AFS categories.
	
Cost of acquisition:
	
Costs, including brokerage and commission pertaining to investments paid at the time of acquisition and broken 
period interest (the amount of interest from the previous interest payment date till the date of purchase of instruments) 
on debt instruments, are charged to the profit and loss account.
	
Valuation:
	
Securities are valued scrip-wise. Depreciation/appreciation on securities, other than those acquired by way of 
conversion of outstanding loans, is aggregated for each category. Net appreciation in each category under each 
investment classification, if any, being unrealised, is ignored, while net depreciation is provided. The depreciation 
on securities acquired by way of conversion of outstanding loans is fully provided. Non-performing investments are 
identified based on the RBI guidelines.
	
HTM securities are carried at their acquisition cost or at amortised cost, if acquired at a premium over the face value. 
Any premium over the face value of fixed rate and floating rate securities acquired is amortised over the remaining 
period to maturity on a constant yield basis and straight line basis respectively.
	
AFS and HFT securities are valued periodically as per RBI guidelines. Any premium over the face value of fixed rate 
and floating rate investments in government securities, classified as AFS, is amortised over the remaining period to 
maturity on constant yield basis and straight line basis respectively. Quoted investments are valued based on the 
closing quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or prices declared by Primary Dealers Association of India (PDAI) 
jointly with Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association (FIMMDA)/Financial Benchmark India Private 
Limited (FBIL), periodically.
	
The market/fair value of unquoted government securities which are in nature of Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) 
securities included in the ‘Available for Sale’ and ‘Held for Trading’ categories is as per the rates published by FBIL. 
The valuation of other unquoted fixed income securities, including Pass Through Certificates, wherever linked to the 
Yield-to-Maturity (YTM) rates, is computed with a mark-up (reflecting associated credit risk) over the YTM rates for 
government securities published by FIMMDA. The sovereign foreign securities and non-INR India linked bonds are 
valued on the basis of prices published by the sovereign regulator or counterparty quotes.
	
Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of deposits being discounted instruments, are valued at carrying 
cost.

166
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
The units of mutual funds are valued at the latest repurchase price/net asset value declared by the mutual fund. 
Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-up value, if the latest balance sheet is available, or at ` 1, as per 
RBI guidelines.
	
The units of Venture Capital Funds (VCFs) are valued at the net asset value (NAV) declared by the VCF. If the latest 
balance sheet is not available continuously for more than 18 months, the units of VCF are valued at ` 1, as per 
RBI guidelines.
	
At the end of each reporting period, security receipts issued by the asset reconstruction companies are valued in 
accordance with the guidelines applicable to such instruments, prescribed by RBI from time to time. Accordingly, in 
cases where the cash flows from security receipts issued by the asset reconstruction companies are limited to the 
actual realisation of the financial assets assigned to the instruments in the concerned scheme, the Bank reckons the 
net asset value obtained from the asset reconstruction company from time to time, for valuation of such investments 
at each reporting period end. The Bank makes additional provisions on the security receipts based on the remaining 
period for the resolution period to end. The security receipts which are outstanding and not redeemed as at the end 
of the resolution period are treated as loss assets and are fully provided.
	
The Bank assesses investments in subsidiaries for any other than temporary diminution in value and appropriate 
provisions are made.
	
Depreciation/provision on non-performing investments is made as per internal provisioning norms, subject to 
minimum provisioning requirements of RBI.
	
Disposal:
	
Gain/loss on sale of investments is recognised in the profit and loss Account. Cost of investments is computed based 
on the First-In-First-Out (FIFO) method. The profit from sale of investment under HTM category, net of taxes and 
transfer to statutory reserve is transferred to “Capital Reserve” in accordance with the RBI Guidelines.
	
Short sale:
	
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in dated central government securities in accordance with RBI 
guidelines. The short positions are categorised under HFT category and are marked to market. The mark-to-market 
loss is charged to profit and loss account and gain, if any, is ignored as per RBI guidelines.
	
Repurchase transactions:
	
Market repurchase, reverse repurchase and transactions with RBI under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) are 
accounted for as borrowing and lending transactions in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines.
3.	
Provision/write-offs on loans and other credit facilities
	
Classification:
	
The Bank classifies its loans and investments, including at overseas branches and overdues arising from crystallised 
derivative contracts, into performing and NPAs in accordance with RBI guidelines. Loans and advances held at the 
overseas branches that are identified as impaired as per host country regulations but which are standard as per 
the extant RBI guidelines are classified as NPAs to the extent of amount outstanding in the respective host country. 
Further, NPAs are classified into sub-standard, doubtful and loss assets based on the criteria stipulated by RBI. 
Interest on non-performing advances is transferred to an interest suspense account and not recognised in profit and 
loss account until received.
	
The Bank considers an account as restructured, where for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s 
financial difficulty, the Bank grants concessions to the borrower, that the Bank would not otherwise consider. The 
moratorium granted to the borrowers based on RBI guidelines is not accounted as restructuring of loan. The RBI 
guidelines on ‘Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress’ provide a prudential framework for resolution 
plan of certain loans. The borrowers where resolution plan was implemented under these guidelines are classified 
as standard restructured.

167
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Non-performing and restructured loans are upgraded to standard as per the extant RBI guidelines or host country 
regulations, as applicable.
Provisioning:
In the case of corporate loans and advances, provisions are made for sub-standard and doubtful assets as per internal 
provisioning norms, subject to minimum provisioning requirements of RBI. Loss assets and the unsecured portion of 
doubtful assets are fully provided. For impaired loans and advances held in overseas branches, which are performing 
as per RBI guidelines, provisions are made as per the host country regulations. For loans and advances held in overseas 
branches, which are NPAs both as per the RBI guidelines and host country regulations, provisions are made at the higher 
of the provisions required as per internal provisioning norms and host country regulations. Provisions on homogeneous 
non-performing retail loans and advances, subject to minimum provisioning requirements of RBI, are made on the basis 
of the ageing of the loan. The specific provisions on non-performing retail loans and advances held by the Bank are 
higher than the minimum regulatory requirements.
In respect of non-retail loans reported as fraud to RBI the entire amount, is provided over a period not exceeding four 
quarters starting from the quarter in which fraud has been detected. In respect of non-retail loans where there has been 
delay in reporting the fraud to the RBI or which are classified as loss accounts, the entire amount is provided immediately. 
In case of fraud in retail accounts, the entire amount is provided immediately. In respect of borrowers classified as non-
cooperative borrowers or willful defaulters, the Bank makes accelerated provisions as per RBI guidelines.
The Bank holds specific provisions against non-performing loans and advances and against certain performing loans 
and advances in accordance with RBI directions.
The Bank makes provision on restructured loans subject to minimum requirements as per RBI guidelines. Provision due 
to diminution in the fair value of restructured/rescheduled loans and advances is made in accordance with the applicable 
RBI guidelines.
In terms of RBI guidelines, the NPAs are written-off in accordance with the Bank’s policy. Amounts recovered against bad 
debts written-off are recognised in the profit and loss account.
The Bank maintains general provision on performing loans and advances in accordance with the RBI guidelines, including 
provisions on loans to borrowers having unhedged foreign currency exposure, provisions on loans to specific borrowers 
in specific stressed sectors, provision on exposures to step-down subsidiaries of Indian companies and provision on 
incremental exposure to borrowers identified as per RBI’s large exposure framework. For performing loans and advances 
in overseas branches, the general provision is made at higher of aggregate provision required as per host country 
regulations and RBI requirement.
In addition to the provisions required to be held according to the asset classification status, provisions are held for 
individual country exposures including indirect country risk (other than for home country exposure). The countries are 
categorised into seven risk categories namely insignificant, low, moderately low, moderate, moderately high, high and 
very high, and provisioning is made on exposures exceeding 180 days on a graded scale ranging from 0.25% to 25%. For 
exposures with contractual maturity of less than 180 days, provision is required to be held at 25% of the rates applicable 
to exposures exceeding 180 days. The indirect exposure is reckoned at 50% of the exposure. If the Bank’s net funded 
exposure in respect of a country is less than 1% of its total assets, no provision is required on such country exposure.
The Bank makes additional provisions as per RBI guidelines for the cases where viable resolution plan has not been 
implemented within the timelines prescribed by the RBI, from the date of default. These additional provisions are written-
back on satisfying the conditions for reversal as per RBI guidelines.
The Bank, on prudent basis, has made contingency provision on certain loan portfolios, including borrowers who had 
taken moratorium at any time during FY2021 under the extant RBI guidelines related to Covid-19 regulatory package. 
The Bank also makes additional contingency provision on certain standard assets. The contingency provision is included 
in ‘Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities and Provisions’.

168
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
The Bank has a Board approved policy for making floating provision, which is in addition to the specific and general 
provisions made by the Bank. The floating provision is utilised, with the approval of Board and RBI, in case of 
contingencies which do not arise in the normal course of business and are exceptional and non-recurring in nature 
and for making specific provision for impaired loans as per the requirement if extant RBI guidelines or any regulatory 
guidance/instructions. The floating provision is netted-off from advances.
4.	
Transfer and servicing of assets
	
The Bank transfers commercial and consumer loans through securitisation transactions. The transferred loans are 
de-recognised and gains/losses are accounted, only if the Bank surrenders the right to benefits specified in the 
underlying securitised loan contract. Recourse and servicing obligations are accounted for net of provisions.
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines for securitisation of standard assets, with effect from February 1, 2006, 
the profit/premium arising from securitisation is amortised over the life of the securities issued or to be issued by 
the special purpose vehicle to which the assets are sold. With effect from May 7, 2012, the RBI guidelines require 
the profit/premium arising from securitisation to be amortised based on the method prescribed in the guidelines. 
As per the RBI guidelines issued on September 24, 2021, gain realised at the time of securitisation of loans is 
accounted through profit and loss account on completion of transaction. The Bank accounts for any loss arising from 
securitisation immediately at the time of sale.
	
The unrealised gains, associated with expected future margin income is recognised in profit and loss account on 
receipt of cash, after absorbing losses, if any.
	
Net income arising from sale of loan assets through direct assignment with recourse obligation is amortised over 
the life of underlying assets sold and net income from sale of loan assets through direct assignment, without any 
recourse obligation, is recognised at the time of sale. Net loss arising on account of direct assignment of loan assets 
is recognised at the time of sale. As per the RBI guidelines issued on September 24, 2021, any loss or realised gain 
from sale of loan assets through direct assignment is accounted through profit and loss account on completion of 
transaction.
	
The acquired loans is carried at acquisition cost. In case premium is paid on a loan acquired, premium is amortised 
over the loan tenure.
	
In accordance with RBI guidelines, in case of non-performing loans sold to Asset Reconstruction Companies (ARCs), 
the Bank reverses the excess provision in profit and loss account in the year in which amounts are received. Any 
shortfall of sale value over the net book value on sale of such assets is recognised by the Bank in the year in which 
the loan is sold.
5.	
Fixed assets
	
Fixed assets, other than premises, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any. Premises 
are carried at revalued amount, being fair value at the date of revaluation less accumulated depreciation. Cost 
includes freight, duties, taxes and incidental expenses related to the acquisition and installation of the asset.
	
Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of fixed assets on a straight-line basis. Assets purchased/sold 
during the year are depreciated on a pro-rata basis for the actual number of days the asset has been capitalised. 
Assets individually costing upto ` 5,000/- are depreciated fully in the year of acquisition.
	
In case of revalued/impaired assets, depreciation is provided over the remaining useful life of the assets with 
reference to revised asset values. In case of premises, which are carried at revalued amounts, the depreciation on the 
excess of revalued amount over historical cost is transferred from Revaluation Reserve to General Reserve annually. 
The profit on sale of premises is appropriated to Capital Reserve, net of transfer to Statutory Reserve and taxes, in 
accordance with RBI guidelines.

169
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
The useful lives of the groups of fixed assets are given below.
Asset
Useful life
Premises owned by the Bank
60 years
Leased assets and improvements to leasehold premises
60 years or lease period whichever is lower
ATMs1,2 
5-8 years
Plant and machinery1 (including office equipment)
5-10 years
Electric installations and equipments
10-15 years
Computers
3 years
Servers and network equipment1
4-10 years
Furniture and fixtures1
5-10 years
Motor vehicles1
5 years
Others (including software)1,3
3-4 years
1.	The useful life of fixed assets is based on historical experience of the Bank, which is different from the useful life as prescribed 
in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013.
2.	Cash acceptor machine
3.	Excludes software, which are procured based on licensing arrangements and depreciated over the period of license.
4.	Assets at residences of Bank’s employees are depreciated over the estimated useful life of 5 years.
	
Non-banking assets
	
Non-banking assets (NBAs) acquired in satisfaction of claims are valued at the market value on a distress sale 
basis or value of loan, whichever is lower. Further, the Bank creates provision on these assets as per the extant RBI 
guidelines or specific RBI directions.
6.	
Translation of foreign currency items
	
Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing 
on the date of the transaction. Income and expenditure items of integral foreign operations (representative offices) 
are translated at daily closing rates, and income and expenditure items of non-integral foreign operations (foreign 
branches and offshore banking units) are translated at quarterly average closing rates.
	
Monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities of domestic and integral foreign operations are translated at closing 
exchange rates notified by Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) relevant to the balance sheet 
date and the resulting gains/losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations are 
translated at relevant closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI at the balance sheet date and the resulting gains/
losses from exchange differences are accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve until the disposal of 
the net investment in the non-integral foreign operations. Pursuant to RBI guideline, the Bank does not recognise the 
cumulative/proportionate amount of such exchange differences as income or expenses, which relate to repatriation 
of accumulated retained earnings from overseas operations, in the profit and loss account.
	
Contingent liabilities on account of guarantees, endorsements and other obligations denominated in foreign 
currencies are disclosed at the closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI relevant to the balance sheet date.

170
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
7.	
Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
	
The forward exchange contracts that are not intended for trading and are entered into to establish the amount of 
reporting currency required or available at the settlement date of a transaction are effectively valued at closing spot 
rate. The premium or discount arising on inception of such forward exchange contracts is amortised over the life 
of the contract as interest income/expense. All other outstanding forward exchange contracts are revalued based 
on the exchange rates notified by FEDAI for specified maturities and at interpolated rates for contracts of interim 
maturities. The contracts of longer maturities where exchange rates are not notified by FEDAI are revalued based on 
the forward exchange rates implied by the swap curves in respective currencies. The resultant gains or losses are 
recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
The swap contracts entered to hedge on-balance sheet assets and liabilities are structured such that they bear an 
opposite and offsetting impact with the underlying on-balance sheet items. The impact of such derivative instruments 
is correlated with the movement of underlying assets and liabilities and accounted pursuant to the principles of 
hedge accounting. The Bank identifies the hedged item (asset or liability) at the inception of the transaction itself. 
Hedge effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception of the hedge and periodically thereafter. Based on 
RBI circular issued on June 26, 2019, the accounting of hedge relationships established after June 26, 2019 is in 
accordance with the Guidance note on Accounting for Derivative Contracts issued by ICAI. The swaps under hedge 
relationships established prior to that date are accounted on an accrual basis and are not marked to market unless 
their underlying transaction is marked-to-market. Gains or losses arising from hedge ineffectiveness, if any, are 
recognised in the profit and loss Account.
	
The derivative contracts entered into for trading purposes are marked-to-market and the resulting gain or loss is 
accounted in the profit and loss account. Pursuant to RBI guidelines, any receivables under derivative contracts 
which remain overdue for more than 90 days and mark-to-market gains on other derivative contracts with the same 
counter-parties are reversed through profit and loss account.
8.	
Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)
	
The Employees Stock Option Scheme (the Scheme) provides for grant of options on the Bank’s equity shares to 
wholetime directors and employees of the Bank and its subsidiaries. The options granted vest in a graded manner 
and may be exercised within a specified period.
	
Till March 31, 2021, the Bank recognised cost of stock options granted under Employee Stock Option Scheme, using 
intrinsic value method. Under Intrinsic value method, options cost is measured as the excess, if any, of the fair market 
price of the underlying stock over the exercise price on the grant date. The fair market price is the closing price on the 
stock exchange with highest trading volume of the underlying shares, immediately prior to the grant date.
	
Pursuant to RBI clarification dated August 30, 2021, the cost of stock options granted after March 31, 2021 is 
recognised based on fair value method. The cost of stock options granted up to March 31, 2021 continues to be 
recognised on intrinsic value method. The Bank uses Black-Scholes model to fair value the options on the grant 
date and the inputs used in the valuation model include assumptions such as the expected life of the share option, 
volatility, risk free rate and dividend yield.
	
The cost of stock options is recognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period.
9.	
Employee Benefits
	
Gratuity
	
The Bank pays gratuity, a defined benefit plan, to employees who retire or resign after a minimum prescribed period 
of continuous service and in case of employees at overseas locations as per the rules in force in the respective 
countries. The Bank makes contribution to recognised trust which administers the funds on its own account or 
through insurance companies.

171
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
Actuarial valuation of the gratuity liability is determined by an independent actuary appointed by the Bank. Actuarial 
valuation of gratuity liability is determined based on certain assumptions regarding rate of interest, salary growth, 
mortality and staff attrition as per the projected unit credit method. The actuarial gains or losses arising during the 
year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
Superannuation Fund and National Pension Scheme
	
The Bank has a superannuation fund, a defined contribution plan, which is administered by trustees and managed 
by insurance companies. The Bank contributes 15.0% of the total annual basic salary for certain employees to 
superannuation funds. Further, the Bank contributes upto 10.0% of the total basic salary of certain employees 
to National Pension Scheme (NPS), a defined contribution plan, which is managed and administered by pension 
fund management companies. The employees are given an option to receive the amount in cash in lieu of such 
contributions along with their monthly salary during their employment.
	
The amounts so contributed/paid by the Bank to the superannuation fund and NPS or to employees during the year 
are recognised in the profit and loss account. The Bank has no liability towards future benefits under superannuation 
fund and national pension scheme other than its annual contribution.
	
Pension
	
The Bank provides for pension, a defined benefit plan, covering eligible employees of erstwhile Bank of Madura, 
erstwhile Sangli Bank and erstwhile Bank of Rajasthan. The Bank makes contribution to a trust which administers 
the funds on its own account or through insurance companies. The plan provides for pension payment including 
dearness relief on a monthly basis to these employees on their retirement based on the respective employee’s years 
of service with the Bank and applicable salary.
	
Actuarial valuation of the pension liability is determined by an independent actuary appointed by the Bank. Actuarial 
valuation of pension liability is calculated based on certain assumptions regarding rate of interest, salary growth, 
mortality and staff attrition as per the projected unit credit method. The actuarial gains or losses arising during the 
year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
Employees covered by the pension plan are not eligible for employer’s contribution under the provident fund plan.
	
Provident Fund
	
The Bank is statutorily required to maintain a provident fund, a defined benefit plan, as a part of retirement benefits 
to its employees. Each employee contributes a certain percentage of his or her basic salary and the Bank contributes 
an equal amount for eligible employees. The Bank makes contribution as required by The Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 to Employees’ Pension Scheme administered by the Regional 
Provident Fund Commissioner. The Bank makes balance contributions to a fund administered by trustees. The funds 
are invested according to the rules prescribed by the Government of India. The Bank recognises such contribution as 
an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
	
Interest payable on provident fund should not be lower than the statutory rate of interest declared by the Central 
Government under the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. Actuarial valuation for 
the interest obligation on the provident fund balances is determined by an actuary appointed by the Bank.
	
The actuarial gains or losses arising during the year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
The overseas branches of the Bank and its eligible employees contribute a certain percentage of their salary towards 
respective government schemes as per local regulatory guidelines. The contribution made by the overseas branches 
is recognised in profit and loss account at the time of contribution.
	
Compensated absences
	
The Bank provides for compensated absence based on actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary.

172
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
10.	 Income Taxes
	
Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current tax and deferred tax expense incurred by the Bank. The 
current tax expense and deferred tax expense is determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 
1961 and as per Accounting Standard 22 - Accounting for Taxes on Income respectively. Deferred tax adjustments 
comprise changes in the deferred tax assets or liabilities during the year and change in tax rate.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised by considering the impact of timing differences between taxable 
income and accounting income for the current year, and carry forward losses. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
The impact of changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised and re-assessed at each reporting date, based upon management’s judgement 
as to whether their realisation is considered as reasonably certain. However, in case of unabsorbed depreciation 
or carried forward loss, deferred tax assets will be recognised only if there is virtual certainty of realisation of such 
assets.
11.	 Impairment of Assets
	
The Bank follows revaluation model of accounting for its premises and the recoverable amount of the revalued assets 
is considered to be close to its revalued amount. Accordingly, separate assessment for impairment of premises is not 
required.
	
For assets other than premises, the Bank assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any indication that 
an asset may be impaired. Impairment loss, if any, is provided in the profit and loss account to the extent the carrying 
amount of assets exceeds their estimated recoverable amount.
12.	 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
	
The Bank estimates the probability of any loss that might be incurred on outcome of contingencies on the basis 
of information available up to the date on which the financial statements are prepared. A provision is recognised 
when an enterprise has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of 
resources will be required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. Provisions are 
determined based on management estimates of amounts required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, 
supplemented by experience of similar transactions. These are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted 
to reflect the current management estimates. In cases where the available information indicates that the loss on 
the contingency is reasonably possible but the amount of loss cannot be reasonably estimated, a disclosure to this 
effect is made in the financial statements. In case of remote possibility neither provision nor disclosure is made in the 
financial statements. The Bank does not account for or disclose contingent assets, if any.
	
The Bank estimates the probability of redemption of customer loyalty reward points using an actuarial method by 
employing an independent actuary and accordingly makes provision for these reward points. Actuarial valuation is 
determined based on certain assumptions regarding mortality rate, discount rate, cancellation rate and redemption 
rate.
13.	 Earnings per share (EPS)
	
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss after tax for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year.
	
Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if contracts to issue equity shares were 
exercised or converted during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed using the weighted average 
number of equity shares and dilutive potential equity shares outstanding during the year, except where the results 
are anti-dilutive.

173
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
14.	 Share issue expenses
	
Share issue expenses are deducted from Share Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
15.	 Bullion transaction
	
The Bank deals in bullion business on a consignment basis. The bullion is priced to the customers based on the price 
quoted by the supplier. The difference between price recovered from customers and cost of bullion is accounted for 
as commission at the time of sales to the customers. The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending basis 
and the interest expense/income is accounted on accrual basis.
16.	 Lease transactions
	
Lease payments, including cost escalations, for assets taken on operating lease are recognised as an expense in the 
profit and loss account over the lease term on straight line basis. The leases of property, plant and equipment, where 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Bank are classified as finance lease. 
Minimum lease payments under finance lease are apportioned between the finance costs and outstanding liability.
17.	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances with RBI, balances with other banks and money at call 
and short notice.

174
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
SCHEDULE 18
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE ACCOUNTS
The following disclosures have been made taking into account the requirements of Accounting Standards (ASs) and 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines. 
1.	
Earnings per share 
	
Basic and diluted earnings per equity share are computed in accordance with AS 20 – Earnings per share. Basic 
earnings per equity share is computed by dividing net profit/(loss) after tax by the weighted average number of 
equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed using the weighted 
average number of equity shares and weighted average number of dilutive potential equity shares outstanding 
during the year.
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the computation of earnings per share.
` in million, except per share data
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Net profit/(loss) attributable to equity share holders
 318,965.0 
233,394.9
Nominal value per share (`)
 2.00 
2.00
Basic earnings per share (`)
 45.79 
33.66
Effect of potential equity shares (`)
 (0.90)
(0.68)
Diluted earnings per share (`)1
44.89
32.98
Reconciliation between weighted shares used in computation of basic 
and diluted earnings per share
Basic weighted average number of equity shares outstanding
6,966,305,957
6,933,652,636
Add: Effect of potential equity shares
138,684,400
142,291,212
Diluted weighted average number of equity shares outstanding
7,104,990,357
7,075,943,848
	
	
1. The dilutive impact is due to options granted to employees by the Bank.
2.	
Business/Information ratios
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the business/information ratios.
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
1.
Interest income to working funds1
7.40%
6.83%
2.
Non-interest income to working funds1
1.34%
1.46%
3.
Cost of deposits
3.66%
3.53%
4.
Net interest margin2
4.48%
3.96%
5.
Operating profit to working funds1,3
3.33%
3.10%
6.
Return on assets4
2.16%
1.84%
7.
Net profit/(loss) per employee5 (` in million) 
 2.8 
2.3
8.
Business (average deposits plus average advances) per 
employee5,6 (` in million)
 170.7 
166.9
	
	
1.	For the purpose of computing the ratio, working funds represent the simple average of balances of total assets computed for 
monthly reporting dates of Form X submitted to RBI under Section 27 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 
	
	
2.	Net interest income/Average earning assets. Net interest income is the difference of interest income and interest expense. 
Average earning assets are average of daily balance of interest earning assets.
	
	
3.	Operating profit is profit for the year before provisions and contingencies.
	
	
4.	For the purpose of computing the ratio, assets represent the monthly average of total assets computed for reporting dates of 
Form X submitted to RBI under Section 27 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
	
	
5.	 Computed based on average number of employees which include sales executives, employees on fixed term contracts and interns.
	
	
6.	The average deposits and the average advances represent the simple average of the figures reported in Form A to RBI under 
Section 42(2) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.

175
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
3.	
Capital adequacy ratio
	
The Bank is subject to the Basel III capital adequacy guidelines stipulated by RBI with effect from April 1, 2013. As 
per the guidelines, the Tier-1 capital is made up of Common Equity Tier-1 (CET1) and Additional Tier-1.
	
Basel III guidelines require the Bank to maintain a minimum Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR) of 
11.70% with minimum CET1 CRAR of 8.20% and minimum Tier-1 CRAR of 9.70%. The minimum total CRAR, Tier-1 
CRAR and CET1 CRAR requirement include capital conservation buffer of 2.50% and additional capital requirement 
of 0.20% on account of the Bank being designated as Domestic Systemically Important Bank.
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, computation of capital adequacy as per Basel III framework.
` in million, except percentage
Particulars
At
 March 31, 2023
At
 March 31, 2022
Common Equity Tier 1 capital (CET 1)
1,832,770.7
1,555,000.1
Additional Tier 1 capital
51,400.0
66,206.5
Tier 1 capital (i + ii)
1,884,170.7
1,621,206.6
Tier 2 capital
78,652.2
71,923.7
Total capital (Tier 1+Tier 2)
1,962,822.9
1,693,130.3
Total Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs)
10,705,150.5
8,835,909.9
CET1 CRAR (%)
17.12%
17.60%
Tier-1 CRAR (%)
17.60%
18.35%
Tier-2 CRAR (%)
0.74%
0.81%
Total CRAR (%)
18.34%
19.16%
Leverage Ratio
10.27%
9.95%
Percentage of the shareholding of
	
a)	
Government of India
0.20%
0.19%
Amount of equity capital raised1
-
-
Amount of non-equity Tier-1 capital raised during the year, of which:
	
a)	
Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares
-
-
	
b)	
Perpetual Debt Instruments
-
-
Amount of Tier-2 capital raised; of which
1.	
Debt Capital Instruments
-
-
2.	
Preference Share Capital Instruments [Perpetual Cumulative 
Preference Shares (PCPS)/Redeemable Non-Cumulative Preference 
Shares (RNCPS)/Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares 
(RCPS)] 
-
-
	
	
1.	Additionally ` 9,644.4 million raised pursuant to exercise of employee stock options during the year ended March 31, 2023 (year 
ended March 31, 2022: ` 7,988.8 million).
4.	
Liquidity coverage ratio 
	
The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) had introduced the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) in order to 
ensure that a bank has an adequate stock of unencumbered high quality liquid assets (HQLA) to survive a significant 
liquidity stress lasting for a period of 30 days. LCR is defined as a ratio of HQLA to the total net cash outflows 
estimated for the next 30 calendar days. As per the RBI guidelines, the minimum LCR required to be maintained by 
banks is 100.0%.

176
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the quarterly average of unweighted and weighted values of the LCR of the Bank. 
The quarterly average LCR is computed based on simple average of daily observations during the quarter. Number of observations used 
in computing quarterly LCR for three months ended March 31, 2023 was 61 days (three months ended December 31, 2022: 62 days; three 
months ended September 30, 2022: 64 days; three months ended June 30, 2022: 61 days and three months ended March 31, 2022: 60 days). 
` in million
Sr. 
No. Particulars
Three months ended 
March 31, 2023
Three months ended 
March 31, 2022
Three months ended 
December 31, 2022
Three months ended 
September 30, 2022
Three months ended
 June 30, 2022
Total
unweighted 
value 
(average)
Total
weighted 
value 
(average)
Total
unweighted 
value 
(average)
Total 
weighted 
value 
(average)
Total
unweighted 
value 
(average)
Total
weighted 
value 
(average)
Total
unweighted 
value 
(average)
Total
weighted 
value 
(average)
Total
unweighted 
value 
(average)
Total
weighted 
value 
(average)
High quality liquid assets
1.
Total high quality liquid assets
N.A. 3,234,595.5 
N.A. 3,197,273.3
N.A. 3,134,279.3
N.A. 3,200,984.5
N.A. 3,210,065.2
Cash outflows
2.
Retail deposits and deposits from small 
business customers, of which:
6,764,179.8
573,450.1 5,997,380.5
501,662.3 6,569,475.7
554,062.5 6,379,254.4
537,044.3 6,186,835.5
517,920.2
(i)
Stable deposits
2,059,358.0
102,967.9 1,961,515.9
98,075.8 2,057,700.9
102,885.0 2,017,622.4
100,881.1 2,015,267.6
100,763.4
(ii)
Less stable deposits
4,704,821.8
470,482.2 4,035,864.6
403,586.5 4,511,774.8
451,177.5 4,361,632.0
436,163.2 4,171,567.9
417,156.8
3.
Unsecured wholesale funding, of which:
3,607,311.0 1,911,837.1 3,447,305.6 1,837,823.3 3,519,020.9 1,883,100.2 3,477,070.1 1,869,609.1 3,478,161.9 1,857,355.0
(i)
Operational deposits (all counterparties)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(ii)
Non-operational deposits (all counterparties) 3,550,488.4 1,855,014.5 3,404,074.0 1,794,591.7 3,440,349.5 1,804,428.8 3,386,573.1 1,779,112.1 3,430,804.2 1,809,997.3
(iii) Unsecured debt
56,822.6
56,822.6
43,231.6
43,231.6
78,671.4
78,671.4
90,497.0
90,497.0
47,357.7
47,357.7
4.
Secured wholesale funding
 N.A. 
-
N.A.
-
N.A.
2.2
N.A.
-
N.A.
-
5.
Additional requirements, of which:
513,975.8
148,357.8
356,267.6
116,575.6
530,202.4
166,102.0
423,727.3
137,678.0
365,606.0
116,853.3
(i)
Outflows related to derivative exposures 
and other collateral requirements
92,369.7
92,369.7
80,771.1
80,771.1
111,288.1
111,288.1
96,488.8
96,488.8
80,794.4
80,794.4
(ii)
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt 
products
86.6
86.6
112.0
112.0
83.9
83.9
88.0
88.0
98.7
98.7
(iii) Credit and liquidity Facilities
421,519.5
55,901.5
 275,384.5
 35,692.5
418,830.4
54,730.0
327,150.5
41,101.2
284,712.9
35,960.2
6.
Other contractual funding obligations
292,688.8
292,688.8
259,807.6
259,807.6
276,120.5
276,120.5
264,193.8
264,193.8
261,500.8
261,500.8
7.
Other contingent funding obligations
5,190,402.8
230,232.1 3,983,615.4
173,467.7 4,868,741.0
213,934.4 4,598,139.5
202,011.3 4,294,109.7
186,785.8
8.
Total cash outflows
 N.A. 3,156,565.9
 N.A. 2,889,336.5
N.A. 3,093,321.8
N.A. 3,010,536.5
 N.A. 2,940,415.1
9.
Secured lending (e.g. reverse repos)
22,171.3
5.7
609,516.5
5.8
16,347.9
15.3
69,185.0
11.9
291,765.2
10.1
10. Inflows from fully performing exposures
629,818.6
458,616.6
514,644.8
388,691.5
616,886.5
441,108.7
576,377.2
409,518.8
489,646.8
339,345.3
11. Other cash inflows
132,222.9
92,103.8
92,512.6
61,628.7
148,808.0
109,414.6
114,107.5
80,809.7
99,869.5
70,181.6
12. Total cash inflows
784,212.8
550,726.1 1,216,673.9
450,326.0
782,042.4
550,538.6
759,669.7
490,340.4
881,281.5
409,537.0
13. Total HQLA
N.A. 3,234,595.5
N.A. 3,197,273.3
N.A. 3,134,279.3
N.A. 3,200,984.5
N.A. 3,210,065.2
14. Total net cash outflows (8)-(12)
 N.A. 2,605,839.8
 N.A. 2,439,010.5
N.A. 2,542,783.2
N.A. 2,520,196.1
 N.A. 2,530,878.1
15. Liquidity coverage ratio (%)
 N.A. 
124.13%
 N.A.
131.09%
N.A.
123.26%
N.A.
127.01%
N.A.
126.84%

177
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
Liquidity of the Bank is managed by the Asset Liability Management Group (ALMG) under the central oversight 
of the Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO). For the domestic operations of the Bank, ALMG-India is 
responsible for the overall management of liquidity. For the overseas branches of the Bank, a decentralised approach 
is followed for day-to-day liquidity management, while a centralised approach is followed for long-term funding in 
co-ordination with Head Office. Liquidity in the overseas branches is maintained taking into consideration both host 
country and the RBI regulations.
	
HQLA primarily includes government securities in excess of minimum statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) and to the extent 
allowed under marginal standing facility (MSF) and facility to avail liquidity for LCR (FALLCR) of ` 2,753,045.5 million 
(March 31, 2022: ` 2,790,136.8 million) at March 31, 2023. 
	
As per the RBI guidelines, the carve-out from SLR under FALLCR was 15.0% of Net Demand and Time Liabilities 
(NDTL) till April 17, 2022 and was increased to 16.0% of NDTL effective April 18, 2022; for Marginal Standing 
Facility (MSF), it was 2.0% of NDTL. Additionally, cash, balance in excess of cash reserve requirement with RBI and 
balances with central banks at our overseas branches locations amounted to ` 320,660.8 million at March 31, 2023 
(March 31, 2022: ` 263,064.3 million). Further, average level 2 assets, primarily consisting of AA- and above rated 
corporate bonds and commercial papers, amounted to ` 127,857.7 million at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: 
` 76,569.7 million).
	
At March 31, 2023, top liability products/instruments and their percentage contribution to the total liabilities of the 
Bank were term deposits of 40.37% (March 31, 2022: 38.67%), savings account deposits of 23.97% (March 31, 
2022: 25.49%), current account deposits of 10.19% (March 31, 2022: 11.22%) and bond borrowings of 4.26% 
(March 31, 2022: 4.96%). Top 20 depositors comprised 3.47% of the total deposits of the Bank at March 31, 2023 
(March 31, 2022: 5.26%). Further, the total borrowings mobilised from significant counterparties (from whom the 
funds borrowed were more than 1.00% of the Bank’s total liabilities) were 2.48% of the total liabilities of the Bank 
at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: 2.37%).
	
The weighted cash outflows are primarily driven by unsecured wholesale funding which includes non-operational 
deposits and unsecured debt. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, unsecured wholesale funding 
contributed 60.57% (March 31, 2022: 63.61%) of the total weighted cash outflows. The non-operational deposits 
include term deposits with premature withdrawal facility. Retail deposits including deposits from small business 
customers and other contingent funding obligations constituted 18.17% (March 31, 2022: 17.36%) and 7.29% 
(March 31, 2022: 6.00%) of the total weighted cash outflows, respectively. The other contingent funding obligations 
primarily included bank guarantees (BGs) and letters of credit (LCs) issued on behalf of the Bank’s clients.
	
In view of the margin rules for non-centrally cleared derivative transactions issued by the Basel Committee on 
Banking Supervision and discussion paper issued by the RBI, certain derivative transactions would be subject to 
margining and consequent collateral exchange would be as governed by Credit Support Annex (CSA). The Bank 
has entered into CSAs which would require maintenance of collateral. The Bank considers the increased liquidity 
requirement on account of valuation changes in the transactions settled through Qualified Central Counterparties 
(QCCP) in India including the Clearing Corporation of India (CCIL) and other exchange houses as well as for 
transactions covered under CSAs. The potential outflows on account of such transactions have been considered 
based on the look-back approach prescribed in the RBI guidelines.
	
The average LCR of the Bank for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was 124.13% (March 31, 2022: 
131.09%). During the year ended March 31, 2023, other than Indian Rupee, USD was the only significant foreign 
currency which constituted more than 5% of the balance sheet size of the Bank. The average LCR of the Bank for 
USD currency, computed based on daily LCR values, was 83.68% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 
(March 31, 2022: 256.23%).

178
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
5.	
Information about business and geographical segments 
	
Business Segments 
	
Pursuant to the guidelines issued by RBI on AS 17 - Segment Reporting, the following business segments have 
been reported.
	
•	
Retail Banking includes exposures which satisfy the four criteria of orientation, product, granularity and low 
value of individual exposures for retail exposures laid down in Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) 
document ‘International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: A Revised Framework’. 
This segment also includes income from credit cards, debit cards, third party product distribution and the 
associated costs.
	
•	
Wholesale Banking includes all advances to trusts, partnership firms, companies and statutory bodies, which 
are not included under Retail Banking.
	
•	
Treasury includes the entire investment and derivative portfolio of the Bank.
	
•	
Other Banking includes leasing operations and other items not attributable to any particular business segment.
	
•	
Unallocated includes items such as tax paid in advance net of provision, deferred tax and provisions to the 
extent reckoned at the entity level.
	
Income, expenses, assets and liabilities are either specifically identified with individual segments or are allocated to 
segments on a systematic basis.
	
All liabilities are transfer priced to a central treasury unit, which pools all funds and lends to the business units 
at appropriate rates based on the relevant maturity of assets being funded after adjusting for regulatory reserve 
requirements. 
	
The transfer pricing mechanism of the Bank is periodically reviewed. The segment results are determined based on 
the transfer pricing mechanism prevailing for the respective reporting periods.
	
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the business segment results on this basis. 
` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Retail 
Banking
Wholesale 
Banking
Treasury
Other 
Banking 
Business
Total
1.
Revenue
1,037,753.4
506,148.5
847,707.4
23,830.6
2,415,439.9
2.
Less: Inter-segment revenue
1,124,812.0
3.
Total revenue (1)–(2)
1,290,627.9
4.
Segment results
175,336.8
157,857.8
142,715.5
4,802.2
480,712.3
5.
Unallocated expenses
56,500.0
6.
Operating profit (4)-(5)
424,212.3
7.
Income tax expenses
(including deferred tax credit)
105,247.3
8.
Net profit/(loss) (6)-(7)
318,965.0
9.
Segment assets
6,039,593.7
4,328,743.5
5,084,697.5
297,915.4
15,750,950.1
10.
Unallocated assets
91,116.4
11.
Total assets (9)+(10)
15,842,066.5
12.
Segment liabilities
8,913,545.4
3,472,764.9
3,299,563.5
25,192.7
15,711,066.5
13.
Unallocated liabilities
131,000.0
14.
Total liabilities (12)+(13)
15,842,066.5
15.
Capital expenditure
11,682.9
5,251.8
610.6
277.0
17,822.3
16.
Depreciation
9,274.5
3,427.2
335.8
210.4
13,247.9
	
	
1.	Includes share capital and reserves and surplus.

179
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Retail 
Banking
Wholesale 
Banking
Treasury
Other 
Banking 
Business
Total
1.
Revenue
846,392.2
399,714.9
675,041.1
13,139.0
1,934,287.2
2.
Less: Inter-segment revenue
885,366.4
3.
Total revenue (1)–(2)
 1,048,920.8
4.
Segment results
114,003.9
90,529.3
98,202.2
3,103.5
305,838.9
5.
Unallocated expenses
(250.0)
6.
Operating profit (4)-(5)
306,088.9
7.
Income tax expenses
(including deferred tax credit)
72,694.0
8.
Net profit/(loss) (6)-(7)
233,394.9
9.
Segment assets
4,876,519.3 
3,790,918.0
5,181,297.0 
165,047.3 
14,013,781.6
10.
Unallocated assets
99,195.8
11.
Total assets (9)+(10)
14,112,977.4
12.
Segment liabilities
7,918,942.5 
3,213,907.0
2,895,745.31
22,028.0
14,050,622.8
13.
Unallocated liabilities
62,354.6
14.
Total liabilities (12)+(13)
14,112,977.4
15.
Capital expenditure
9,901.7
4,453.3
623.1
170.6
15,148.7
16.
Depreciation
8,068.8
3,130.8
399.6
111.8
11,711.0
	
	
1.	Includes share capital and reserves and surplus. 
	
‘RBI’s Master Direction on Financial Statements – Presentation and Disclosures, requires to sub-divide ‘Retail 
banking’ into (a) Digital Banking (as defined in RBI circular on Establishment of Digital Banking Units dated April 7, 
2022) and (b) Other Retail Banking segment. Accordingly, the segmental results for retail banking segment for the 
three months ended march 31, 2023 is sub-divided as below:
` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Segment 
revenue
Segment 
results
Segment 
assets
Segment 
liabilities
Capital 
expenditure
Depreciation
Retail Banking
287,393.4
49,026.3 6,039,593.7
8,913,545.4
2,799.1
2,513.2
(i)
Digital Banking
64,748.7
15,354.8
941,323.5
1,306,703.2
141.5
128.6
(ii)
Other Retail Banking
222,644.7
33,671.5 5,098,270.2
7,606,842.2
2,657.6
2,384.6

180
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
Geographical segments
The Bank reports its operations under the following geographical segments.
•	
Domestic operations comprise branches in India.
•	
Foreign operations comprise branches outside India and offshore banking units in India.
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, geographical segment results.
` in million
Revenues
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Domestic operations
1,257,715.6
1,030,521.2
Foreign operations
32,912.3
18,399.6
Total
1,290,627.9
1,048,920.8
` in million
Assets
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
Domestic operations
15,019,154.1
13,147,975.3
Foreign operations
731,796.0
865,806.3
Total
15,750,950.1
14,013,781.6
	
	
1.	Segment assets do not include tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net) and deferred tax assets (net).
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, capital expenditure and depreciation thereon for the 
geographical segments. 
` in million
Particulars
Capital expenditure incurred during
Depreciation provided during
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Domestic operations
17,672.8
15,089.7
13,164.4
11,633.6
Foreign operations
149.5
59.0
83.5
77.4
Total
17,822.3
15,148.7
13,247.9
11,711.0

181
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
6.	
Maturity pattern
The following table sets forth, the maturity pattern of assets and liabilities of the Bank at March 31, 2023. 
 ` in million
Maturity buckets
Loans & 
Advances1
Investment 
securities1
Deposits1
Borrowings1
Total foreign 
currency 
assets2
Total foreign 
currency 
liabilities2
Day 1
10,042.4
1,245,694.5
127,754.2
-
35,349.4
1,637.6
2 to 7 days
116,565.8
113,368.4
564,803.8
21,086.7
474,567.6
50,108.9
8 to 14 days
95,999.8
67,409.4
228,411.9
10,111.6
68,969.2
24,821.5
15 to 30 days
239,586.3
111,274.4
194,054.5
16,811.4
61,989.4
38,634.4
31 days to 2 months
444,361.0
63,882.2
306,379.7
51,726.9
87,871.1
63,990.3
2 to 3 months
457,284.2
51,112.4
313,978.8
98,068.9
96,509.6
51,706.2
3 to 6 months
665,075.0
114,959.0
559,170.4
92,851.8
93,123.7
75,904.4
6 months to 1 year
1,081,144.6
190,744.3
901,157.0
179,973.3
79,832.7
91,177.0
1 to 3 years
2,883,348.7
397,446.1
1,588,983.4
324,902.8
89,170.3
205,213.2
3 to 5 years
1,891,304.2
576,828.0
3,521,292.8
130,609.0
18,342.9
45,168.3
Above 5 years
2,311,671.1
690,578.7
3,502,420.5
267,112.5
48,785.1
10,802.2
Total
10,196,383.1
3,623,297.4 11,808,407.0
1,193,254.9
1,154,511.0
659,164.0
	
	
1.	Includes foreign currency balances.
	
	
2.	Excludes off-balance sheet assets and liabilities.
 
The following table sets forth, the maturity pattern of assets and liabilities of the Bank at March 31, 2022.
 ` in million
Maturity buckets
Loans & 
Advances1
Investment 
securities1
Deposits1
Borrowings1
Total foreign 
currency 
assets2
Total foreign 
currency 
liabilities2
Day 1
10,023.7
1,023,151.0
162,162.4
758.0
395,980.6
6,728.2
2 to 7 days
79,283.8
83,798.1
607,138.7
9,668.5
177,666.4
14,922.0
8 to 14 days
93,192.1
67,604.5
235,678.2
11,180.3
128,950.4
19,335.6
15 to 30 days
194,044.8
68,387.2
185,586.0
7,968.7
62,348.0
22,612.3
31 days to 2 months
377,596.2
44,084.5
258,346.3
68,339.1
138,111.6
77,095.6
2 to 3 months
440,510.6
44,274.6
250,332.6
31,920.8
128,634.4
42,766.8
3 to 6 months
662,714.9
90,264.3
375,680.6
139,027.8
149,013.3
132,171.2
6 months to 1 year
900,298.5
168,371.2
560,255.7
77,967.0
64,919.5
42,368.4
1 to 3 years
2,349,247.5
318,754.2
1,254,163.9
316,029.9
51,242.0
122,288.6
3 to 5 years
1,618,921.1
539,761.1
3,389,943.1
155,341.3
15,862.0
77,514.1
Above 5 years
1,864,371.2
653,959.3
3,366,428.6
254,112.2
55,769.6
49,228.9
Total
8,590,204.4
3,102,410.0 10,645,716.1
1,072,313.6
1,368,497.8
607,031.7
	
	
1.	Includes foreign currency balances.
	
	
2.	Excludes off-balance sheet assets and liabilities.
The estimates and assumptions used by the Bank for classification of assets and liabilities under the different 
maturity buckets are based on the returns submitted to RBI for the relevant periods.

182
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
7.	
Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)
In terms of the ESOS, as amended, the maximum number of options granted to any eligible employee in a financial 
year shall not exceed 0.05% of the issued equity shares of the Bank at the time of grant of the options and aggregate 
of all such options granted to the eligible employees shall not exceed 10.0% of the aggregate number of the issued 
equity shares of the Bank on the date(s) of the grant of options in line with SEBI Regulations. Under the stock option 
scheme, eligible employees are entitled to apply for equity shares. In April 2016, exercise period was modified from 
10 years from the date of grant or five years from the date of vesting, whichever is later, to 10 years from the date 
of vesting. In June 2017, exercise period was further modified to not exceed 10 years from the date of vesting of 
options as may be determined by the Board Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee to be applicable 
for future grants. In May 2018, exercise period was further modified to not exceed 5 years from the date of vesting 
of options as may be determined by the Board Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee to be applicable 
for future grants.
Options granted after March 2014 vest in a graded manner over a three-year period with 30%, 30% and 40% of the 
grant vesting in each year, commencing from the end of 12 months from the date of grant other than certain options 
granted in April 2014 which vested to the extent of 50% on April 30, 2017 and the balance on April 30, 2018 and 
option granted in September 2015 which vested to the extent of 50% on April 30, 2018 and balance 50% vested 
on April 30, 2019. Options granted in January 2018 vested at the end of four years from the date of grant. Certain 
options granted in May 2018, vested to the extent of 50% on May 2021 and balance 50% on May 2022.
Options granted prior to March 2014 except mentioned below, vested in a graded manner over a four-year period, 
with 20%, 20%, 30% and 30% of the grants vesting in each year, commencing from the end of 12 months from the 
date of grant. Options granted in April 2009 vested in a graded manner over a five-year period with 20%, 20%, 
30% and 30% of grant vesting each year, commencing from the end of 24 months from the date of grant. Options 
granted in September 2011 vested in a graded manner over a five-year period with 15%, 20%, 20% and 45% of 
grant vesting each year, commencing from the end of 24 months from the date of the grant.
The exercise price of the Bank’s options, except mentioned below, is the last closing price on the stock exchange, 
which recorded highest trading volume preceding the date of grant of options. In February 2011, the Bank granted 
16,692,500 options to eligible employees and whole-time Directors of the Bank and certain of its subsidiaries at 
an exercise price of ` 175.82. This exercise price was the average closing price on the stock exchange during the 
six months ended October 28, 2010. Of these options granted, 50% vested on April 30, 2014 and the balance 50% 
vested on April 30, 2015. 
The weighted average fair value, based on Black-Scholes model, of options granted during the year ended March 31, 
2023 was ` 291.15 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 227.75).
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the key assumptions used to estimate the fair value of 
options granted.
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Risk-free interest rate
5.99% to 7.37%
5.34% to 6.53%
Expected term
3.23 to 5.23 years
3.55 to 5.55 years
Expected volatility
34.79% to 38.98%
35.38% to 39.41%
Expected dividend yield
0.27% to 0.72%
0.18% to 0.30%
	
Risk free interest rates over the expected term of the option are based on the government securities yield in effect 
at the time of the grant. The expected term of an option is estimated based on the vesting term as well as expected 
exercise behavior of the employees who receive the option. Expected exercise behavior is estimated based on the 
historical stock option exercise pattern of the Bank. Expected volatility during the estimated expected term of the 
option is based on historical volatility determined based on observed market prices of the Bank’s publicly traded 
equity shares. Expected dividends during the estimated expected term of the option are based on recent dividend 
activity.

183
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the summary of the status of the Bank’s stock option plan.
` except number of options
Particulars
Stock options outstanding
Year ended March 31, 2023
Year ended March 31, 2022
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
237,197,999
310.82
246,590,972
276.14
Add: Granted during the year
25,793,500
747.92
25,550,350
570.43
Less: Lapsed during the year, net of re-issuance
3,921,340
568.36
2,164,335
444.41
Less: Exercised during the year 
34,044,356
276.72
32,778,988
243.44
Outstanding at the end of the year
225,025,803
361.60
237,197,999
310.82
Options exercisable
172,938,533
289.69
177,170,739
264.69
The following table sets forth, the summary of stock options outstanding at March 31, 2023.
Range of exercise price 
(` per share)
Number of shares arising 
out of options
Weighted average 
exercise price
(` per share)
Weighted average 
remaining contractual life 
(Number of years)
60-199
7,202,993
160.84
1.85
200-399
145,129,078
267.52
4.37
400-599
48,347,432
479.32
4.15
600-799
24,274,900
747.62
6.17
800-899
71,400
862.88
6.58
The following table sets forth, the summary of stock options outstanding at March 31, 2022.
Range of exercise price 
(` per share)
Number of shares arising 
out of options
Weighted average 
exercise price
(` per share)
Weighted average 
remaining contractual life 
(Number of years)
60-199
11,245,113
160.69
2.52
200-399
171,000,375
267.10
5.30
400-599
54,887,211
477.26
5.11
600-799
46,300
737.63
6.63
800-899
19,000
810.25
6.92
 The options were exercised regularly throughout the period and weighted average share price as per National Stock 
Exchange price volume data during the year ended March 31, 2023 was ` 832.00 (year ended March 31, 2022: 
` 703.14).
8.	
Subordinated debt
During the year ended March 31, 2023 the Bank has not raised (March 31, 2022: Nil) subordinated debt bonds 
qualifying for Additional Tier-1 capital and subordinated debt qualifying for Tier-2 capital (March 31, 2022: Nil).

184
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
9.	
Repurchase transactions
The following tables set forth for the periods indicated, the details of securities sold and purchased under repo and 
reverse repo transactions respectively including transactions under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) and Marginal 
Standing Facility (MSF).
` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Minimum 
outstanding 
balance 
during the
Maximum 
outstanding 
balance 
during the
Daily average 
outstanding 
balance 
during the
Outstanding 
balance at 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended March 31, 2023
Securities sold under Repo, LAF and MSF
i)
Government Securities
-
244,318.8
137,385.3
-
ii)
Corporate Debt Securities
-
1,000.0
2.7
-
iii)
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased under Reverse Repo and LAF
i)
Government Securities
-
660,560.0
101,231.3
-
ii)
Corporate Debt Securities
-
4,250.0
88.4
-
iii)
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
	
	
1.	Amounts reported are based on face value of securities under Repo and Reverse repo.
	
	
2.	Amounts reported are based on lending/borrowing amount under tri-party repo, LAF and MSF.
` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Minimum 
outstanding 
balance 
during the
Maximum 
outstanding 
balance 
during the
Daily average 
outstanding 
balance 
during the
Outstanding 
balance at 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended March 31, 2022
Securities sold under Repo, LAF and MSF
i)
Government Securities
-
429,969.4
109,949.5
5,000.0
ii)
Corporate Debt Securities
-
-
-
-
iii)
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased under Reverse Repo and LAF
i)
Government Securities
-
932,200.0
398,949.8
494,020.0
ii)
Corporate Debt Securities
-
2,000.0
60.3
-
iii)
Any other securities
-
-
-
-
	
	
1	 Amounts reported are based on face value of securities under Repo and Reverse repo.
	
	
2.	Amounts reported are based on lending/borrowing amount under tri-party repo, LAF and MSF. 

185
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
10.	 Composition of investments
The following table sets forth, the composition of investments of the Bank at March 31, 2023.
` in million
Investments in India
Investments outside India
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities
Other 
Approved 
Securities
Shares
Debentures 
and Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
investments 
in India
Government 
securities 
(including 
local
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Investments 
outside
India
Held to Maturity
Gross
2,462,155.4
-
54.7
-
48,937.6
4,285.7
2,515,433.4
-
19,698.9
279.5
19,978.4
2,535,411.8
Less: Provision for non-
performing investments 
(NPI)
-
-
54.7
-
-
-
54.7
-
-
-
-
54.7
Net
2,462,155.4
-
-
-
48,937.6
4,285.7
2,515,378.7
-
19,698.9
279.5
19,978.4
2,535,357.1
Available for Sale
Gross
573,450.5
-
51,424.6
214,257.2
19,976.5
119,517.2
978,626.0
3,595.4
-
22,532.2
26,127.6
1,004,753.6
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
-
-
29,712.7
9,748.5
-
18,015.9
57,477.1
-
-
4,045.3
4,045.3
61,522.4
Net
573,450.5
-
21,711.9
204,508.7
19,976.5
101,501.3
921,148.9
3,595.4
-
18,486.9
22,082.3
943,231.2
Held for Trading
Gross
22,166.9
-
-
83,585.4
-
-
105,752.3
38,794.0
-
162.8
38,956.8
144,709.1
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
22,166.9
-
-
83,585.4
-
-
105,752.3
38,794.0
-
162.8
38,956.8
144,709.1
Total Investments
3,057,772.8
-
51,479.3
297,842.6
68,914.1
123,802.9
3,599,811.7
42,389.4
19,698.9
22,974.5
85,062.8
3,684,874.5
Less: Provision for non-
performing investments
-
-
54.7
-
-
-
54.7
-
-
-
-
54.7
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
-
-
29,712.7
9,748.5
-
18,015.9
57,477.1
-
-
4,045.3
4,045.3
61,522.4
Net
3,057,772.8
-
21,711.9
288,094.1
68,914.1
105,787.0
3,542,279.9
42,389.4
19,698.9
18,929.2
81,017.5
3,623,297.4

186
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth the composition of Investments of the Bank at March 31, 2022.
` in million
Investments in India
Investments outside India
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities
Other 
Approved 
Securities
Shares
Debentures 
and Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
investments 
in India
Government 
securities 
(including 
local
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Investments 
outside
India
Held to Maturity
Gross
1,991,567.9
-
54.7
1,802.6
48,937.6
3,546.8
2,045,909.6
-
19,698.9
1,135.5
20,834.4
2,066,744.0
Less: Provision for non-
performing investments 
(NPI)
29.2
-
54.7
-
-
-
83.9
-
-
-
-
83.9
Net
1,991,538.7
-
-
1,802.6
48,937.6
3,546.8
2,045,825.7
-
19,698.9
1,135.5
20,834.4
2,066,660.1
Available for Sale
Gross
554,103.9
-
54,640.9
191,499.4
17,326.5
81,021.4
898,592.1
17,164.6
-
21,852.5
39,017.1
937,609.2
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
-
-
30,691.7
5,462.5
-
13,989.3
50,143.5
-
-
1,114.4
1,114.4
51,257.9
Net
554,103.9
-
23,949.2
186,036.9
17,326.5
67,032.1
848,448.6
17,164.6
-
20,738.1
37,902.7
886,351.3
Held for Trading
Gross
18,260.2
-
186.7
37,964.0
-
1,343.7
57,754.6
90,176.3
-
1,541.6
91,717.9
149,472.5
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
25.4
-
-
-
-
-
25.4
-
-
48.5
48.5
73.9
Net
18,234.8
-
186.7
37,964.0
-
1,343.7
57,729.2
90,176.3
-
1,493.1
91,669.4
149,398.6
Total Investments
2,563,932.0
-
54,882.3
231,266.0
66,264.1
85,911.9
3,002,256.3
107,340.9
19,698.9
24,529.6
151,569.4
3,153,825.7
Less: Provision for non-
performing investments
29.2
-
54.7
-
-
-
83.9
-
-
-
-
83.9
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
25.4
-
30,691.7
5,462.5
-
13,989.3
50,168.9
-
-
1,162.9
1,162.9
51,331.8
Net
2,563,877.4
-
24,135.9
225,803.5
66,264.1
71,922.6 2,952,003.5
107,340.9
19,698.9
23,366.7
150,406.5 3,102,410.0

187
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
Securities kept as margin
	
The following table sets forth, the face value of securities that are kept as margin are as under:
` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards 
(CCIL)
i)
Collateral and fund management-Securities Segment
26,050.0 
 50,250.0 
ii)
Collateral and fund management-Tri-Party Repo
356,050.0 
384,680.0 
iii)
Default Fund-Forex Forward Segment
 2,250.0 
 3,650.0 
iv)
Default Fund-Forex Settlement Segment
 220.0 
 250.0 
v)
Default Fund-Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) 
Segment
1,920.0 
 1,950.0 
vi)
Default Fund-Securities Segment
 120.0 
 150.0 
vii)
Default Fund-Tri-Party Repo Segment
 150.0 
300.0 
Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards
i)
Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
-
-
ii)
Repo Transactions
 314,750.0 
 314,750.0 
Securities kept with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 
(NSCCIL) towards NSE Currency Derivative Segment
14,000.0 
 16,000.0 
Securities kept with London clearing house (LCH) Clearnet Limited 
towards LCH Currency Derivative Segment
 9,531.7 
-
11.	 Movement of provisions for depreciation on investments and Investment Fluctuation Reserve 
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, the movement of provisions for depreciation on investments 
and Investment Fluctuation Reserve of the Bank. 
` in million, except percentage
Sr. 
No.
 Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
A.
Movement of provisions held towards depreciation on 
investments
i) 	
Opening balance
 51,415.7 
49,791.2
ii) 	
Add: Provisions made during the year
 14,688.5 
7,633.3
iii) 	 Less: Write-off/write-back of excess provisions during the year
(4,527.1)
 (6,008.8)
iv) 	 Closing balance
 61,577.1 
51,415.7
B.
Movement of Investment Fluctuation Reserve
i) 	
Opening balance
20,715.0
16,886.2
ii) 	
Add: Amount transferred during the year
1,043.8
3,828.8
iii) 	 Less: drawdown
-
-
iv) 	 Closing balance
21,758.8
20,715.0
C.
Closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of 
investments in AFS and HFT/Current category
2.00%
2.00%

188
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
12.	 Investment in securities, other than government and other approved securities (Non-SLR investments) 
	
i)	
Issuer composition of investments in securities, other than government and other approved 
securities
	
The following table sets forth, the issuer composition of investments of the Bank in securities, other than 
government and other approved securities at March 31, 2023. 
 ` in million 
Sr. 
No.
Issuer
Amount
Extent of 
private 
placement
Extent of ‘below 
investment 
grade’ securities
Extent of 
‘unrated’ 
securities2,4
Extent of 
‘unlisted’ 
securities2,4
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
1.
PSUs
 34,991.4 
 15,118.9 
-
-
 4,920.0 
2.
FIs
 76,392.3 
 54,146.0 
 797.0 
 181.8 
-
3.
Banks
 21,652.3 
 13,341.1 
 1,069.2 
-
 2,358.7 
4.
Private corporates
 237,340.3 
 200,086.4 
 2,965.0 
 695.0 
 13,375.7 
5.
Subsidiaries/ Joint ventures
 88,613.0 
 5,525.3 
-
-
-
6.
Others3,4
 168,112.2 
 125,722.9 
 20,098.25
-
-
7.
Provision held towards 
depreciation
 (61,577.1)
-
-
-
-
Total
 565,524.4
 413,940.6 
 24,929.4
 876.8 
 20,654.4
	
	
	
	 1.	 Amounts reported under columns (a), (b), (c) and (d) above are not mutually exclusive.
	
	
	
	 2.	 Excludes equity shares, units of equity-oriented mutual fund, units of venture capital fund, pass through certificates, 
security receipts, commercial papers, certificates of deposit, non-convertible debentures (NCDs) with original or initial 
maturity up to one year issued by corporate (including NBFC), unlisted convertible debentures and securities acquired by 
way of conversion of debt.
	
	
	
	 3.	 Includes investments in non-Indian government securities by overseas branches amounting to ` 42,389.4 million. 
	
	
	
	 4.	 Excludes investments in non-SLR Government of India securities amounting to ` 81.0 million.
	
	
	
	 5.	 Represents security receipts.
	
	
	
	 The following table sets forth, the issuer composition of investments of the Bank in securities, other than 
government and other approved securities at March 31, 2022.
 ` in million 
Sr. 
No.
Issuer
Amount
Extent of 
private 
placement
Extent of ‘below 
investment 
grade’ securities
Extent of 
‘unrated’ 
securities2,4
Extent of 
‘unlisted’ 
securities2,4
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
1.
PSUs
10,242.6
3,577.2
-
-
-
2.
FIs
70,954.3
39,157.1
804.0
181.8
-
3.
Banks
42,146.6
30,396.2
10,932.6
-
2,251.0
4.
Private corporates
184,022.2
138,165.4
-
690.4
10,375.7
5.
Subsidiaries/ Joint ventures
85,963.1
5,525.3
-
-
-
6.
Others3,4
196,565.0
87,733.5
22,033.25
-
-
7.
Provision held towards 
depreciation
(51,361.1)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Total
538,532.7
304,554.7
33,769.8
872.2
12,626.7
	
	
	
	 1.	 Amounts reported under columns (a), (b), (c) and (d) above are not mutually exclusive.
	
	
	
	 2.	 Excludes equity shares, units of equity-oriented mutual fund, units of venture capital fund, pass through certificates, 
security receipts, commercial papers, certificates of deposit, non-convertible debentures (NCDs) with original or initial 
maturity up to one year issued by corporate (including NBFC), unlisted convertible debentures and securities acquired by 
way of conversion of debt.
	
	
	
	 3.	 Includes investments in non-Indian government securities by overseas branches amounting to ` 104,390.9 million. 
	
	
	
	 4.	 Excludes investments in non-SLR Government of India securities amounting to ` 94.5 million.
	
	
	
	 5.	 Represents security receipts.

189
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
ii) 	 Non-performing investments in securities, other than government and other approved securities
	
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in gross non-performing investments in 
securities, other than government and other approved securities.
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Opening balance
40,891.6
44,236.9
Additions during the year
10,106.1
400.8
Reduction during the year
(6,081.5)
(3,746.1)
Closing balance
44,916.2 
40,891.6
Total provision held
40,394.6
34,655.8
13.	 Sales and transfers of securities to/from Held to Maturity (HTM) category
	
During the year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, the value of sales/transfers of securities to/from HTM 
category did not exceed 5.0% of the book value of investments held in HTM category at the beginning of the year. 
Sales and transfers of securities to/from HTM category does not include one-time transfer of securities, direct sales 
from HTM for bringing down SLR holdings consequent to a downward revision in SLR requirements by RBI, sales 
to RBI under open market operation auctions and government securities acquisition programme, repurchase of 
government securities by Government of India and state development loans by concerned state government under 
buyback or switch operations and additional shifting of securities explicitly permitted by RBI. 
14.	 Derivatives 
	
The Bank is a participant in the financial derivatives market. The Bank deals in derivatives for balance sheet 
management, proprietary trading and market making purposes whereby the Bank offers derivative products to its 
customers, enabling them to hedge their risks.
	
Dealing in derivatives is carried out by identified groups in the treasury of the Bank based on the purpose of the 
transaction. Derivative transactions are entered into by the treasury front office. Treasury and Securities Service 
Group (TSSG) conducts an independent check of the transactions entered into by the front office and also undertakes 
activities such as confirmation, settlement, accounting, risk monitoring and reporting and ensures compliance with 
various internal and regulatory guidelines.
	
The market making and the proprietary trading activities in derivatives are governed by the Investment policy 
and Derivative policy of the Bank, which lays down the position limits, stop loss limits as well as other risk limits. 
The Risk Management Group (RMG) lays down the methodology for computation and monitoring of risk. The Risk 
Committee of the Board (RCB) reviews the Bank’s risk management policy in relation to various risks including credit 
and recovery policy, investment policy, derivative policy, asset liability management (ALM) policy and operational 
risk management policy. The RCB comprises independent directors and the Executive Director of the Bank.
	
The Bank measures and monitors risk of its derivatives portfolio using such risk metrics as Value at Risk (VaR), stop 
loss limits and relevant greeks for options. Risk reporting on derivatives forms an integral part of the management 
information system. 
	
The use of derivatives for hedging purposes is governed by the hedge policy approved by ALCO. Subject to prevailing 
RBI guidelines, the Bank deals in derivatives for hedging fixed rate, floating rate or foreign currency assets/liabilities. 
Transactions for hedging and market making purposes are recorded separately. For hedge transactions, the Bank 
identifies the hedged item (asset or liability) at the inception of the hedge itself. The effectiveness is assessed at the 
time of inception of the hedge and periodically thereafter.

190
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
 	
Based on RBI circular issued on June 26, 2019, the accounting of hedge relationships established after June 26, 2019 
is in accordance with the Guidance note on Accounting for Derivative Contracts issued by ICAI. The swaps under 
hedge relationships established prior to that date are accounted for on an accrual basis and are not marked to 
market unless their underlying transaction is marked-to-market. Gains or losses arising from hedge ineffectiveness, 
if any, are recognised in the profit and loss Account. The premium on option contracts is accounted for as per Foreign 
Exchange Dearlers Association of India (FEDAI) guidelines. 
	
Over the counter (OTC) derivative transactions are covered under International Swaps and Derivatives Association 
(ISDA) master agreements with the respective counter parties. The exposure on account of derivative transactions 
is computed as per RBI guidelines.
	
The Board of Directors has authorised ALCO to review and approve matters, as applicable, pertaining to the LIBOR 
transition to alternate risk free rates. A LIBOR Working Group has been constituted which reviews the progress 
on the international front, and the work carried out alongside Indian Banking Association (IBA). An update on the 
activities on the LIBOR transition and the proceedings of the Working Group are presented quarterly to ALCO. The 
necessary changes were implemented in the treasury system of the Bank to handle the transition of existing trades 
to the alternate risk free rates. The transition was carried out for the LIBORs (GBP, JPY, EUR, CHF) that ceased 
on December 31, 2021. USD LIBORs are expected to cease at the end of June 2023. There is sufficient liquidity in 
market for USD LIBOR linked trades. The Bank does not expect material valuation risk arising out of non-alignment 
of fallback provisions of commercially linked positions i.e., trading deals and on the existing hedge deals of the Bank. 
	
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the details of derivative positions.
	
` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
At March 31, 2023
At March 31, 2022
Currency 
derivative1
Interest rate 
derivative2
Currency 
derivative1
Interest rate 
derivative2
1.
Derivatives (Notional principal amount)
a)	
For hedging
-
364,145.0
-
256,843.9
b) 	 For trading
1,662,275.0 23,627,386.6
1,200,607.0
24,953,321.7
2.
Marked to market positions (net)3
(13,368.4)
9,074.0
(1,168.5)
(62.3)
a) 	 Asset (+)
36,738.3
97,204.6
25,319.0
47,374.3
b)	
Liability (-)
(50,106.7)
(88,130.6)
(26,487.5)
(47,436.6)
3.
Credit exposure4
104,371.8
291,761.7
88,160.4
254,103.7
4.
Likely impact of one percentage change in interest rate (100*PV01)5
a)	
On hedging derivatives6
-
7,813.2
-
6,289.6
b)	
On trading derivatives
1,467.5
10,770.6
2,551.3
6,129.0
5.
Maximum and minimum of 100*PV01 observed during the period
a)	
On hedging6
	
Maximum
-
9,327.0
-
6,454.8
	
Minimum
-
5,937.8
-
5,073.9
b)	
On trading
	
Maximum
2,948.6
11,379.1
2,916.3
7,949.6
	
Minimum
1,416.4
1,489.8
2,440.3
1,170.2
	
	
1.	Exchange traded and OTC options, cross currency interest rate swaps and currency futures are included in currency derivatives.
	
	
2.	OTC interest rate options, interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, swaptions and exchange traded interest rate derivatives 
are included in interest rate derivatives.
	
	
3.	For trading portfolio including accrued interest.
	
	
4.	Includes accrued interest and has been computed based on current exposure method. 
	
	
5.	Amounts given are absolute values on a net basis, excluding options.
	
	
6.	The swap contracts entered into for hedging purpose would have an opposite and off-setting impact with the underlying on-
balance sheet items. 

191
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the details of Foreign exchange contracts.
 ` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
At March 31, 2023
At March 31, 2022
Trading
Non-trading
Trading
Non-trading
1.
Foreign exchange contracts  
(Notional principal amount)
14,350,624.0
979,594.1
9,657,484.9
987,759.1
2.
Marked to market positions (net)
467.4
(1,077.3)
(6,931.4)
1,265.1
1.	
Asset (+)
24,154.1
2,154.3
18,946.4
1,733.1
2. 	
Liability (-)
(23,686.7)
(3,231.7)
(25,877.8)
(468.0)
3.
Credit exposure1
366,783.1
27,480.1
258,106.9
25,818.5
4.
Likely impact of one percentage change in 
interest rate (100*PV01)2
38.9
26.5
42.3
39.8
	
	
1.	Computed as per RBI Master Circular on Exposure Norms dated July 1, 2015.
	
	
2.	Amounts given are absolute values on a net basis.
	
As per the Master circular on Basel III Capital Regulations issued by RBI on April 1, 2022 on capital adequacy 
computation, ‘Banks in India shall adopt the comprehensive approach, which allows fuller offset of collateral 
against exposures, by effectively reducing the exposure amount by the value ascribed to the collateral’. Therefore, 
counterparty exposure has been fully off-set against the collateral received from the counterparty and the excess 
collateral posted over the net MTM payable is reckoned as exposure. Since, the collateral received is counterparty-
wise and not product-wise, the derivative exposure reported above has not been adjusted for the collateral received/
posted. At March 31, 2023, collateral utilised against the exposure was ` 11,761.9 million (March 31, 2022: ` 7,762.9 
million), excess collateral posted over the exposure was ` 1,118.2 million (March 31, 2022: ` 1,959.5 million) and the 
net credit exposure on Foreign exchange and derivatives, subsequent to collateral netting, was ` 779,752.9 million 
(March 31, 2022: ` 620,386.1 million).
	
The net overnight open position (NOOP) at March 31, 2023 (as per last NOOP value reported to RBI for the year 
ended March 31, 2023) was ` 4,710.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 6,202.9 million). 
	
The Bank has no exposure in credit derivative instruments (funded and non-funded) including credit default swaps 
(CDS) and principal protected structures at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: Nil).
15.	 Exchange traded interest rate derivatives and currency derivatives 
	
Exchange traded interest rate derivatives
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of exchange traded interest rate derivatives. 
` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
1.
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate 
derivatives undertaken during the year
- 10 year Government Security Notional Bond
-
4,539.2
2.
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate 
derivatives outstanding
- 10 year Government Security Notional Bond
-
-
3.
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate 
derivatives outstanding and not ‘highly effective’
N.A.
N.A.
4.
Mark-to-market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives 
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’
N.A.
N.A.

192
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
Exchange traded currency derivatives
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of exchange traded currency derivatives. 
` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
1.
Notional principal amount of exchange traded currency derivatives 
undertaken during the year
2,582,348.5
2,806,476.4
2.
Notional principal amount of exchange traded currency derivatives 
options outstanding
37,567.3
62,910.2
3.
Notional principal amount of exchange traded currency derivatives 
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’
N.A.
N.A.
4.
Mark-to-market value of exchange traded currency derivatives 
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’
N.A.
N.A.
16.	 Forward rate agreement (FRA)/Interest rate swaps (IRS)/Cross currency swaps (CCS)
	
The Bank enters into FRA, IRS and CCS contracts for balance sheet management and market making purposes 
whereby the Bank offers derivative products to its customers to enable them to hedge their interest rate risk and 
currency risk within the prevalent regulatory guidelines. 
	
A FRA is a financial contract between two parties to exchange interest payments for ‘notional principal’ amount on 
settlement date, for a specified period from start date to maturity date. Accordingly, on the settlement date cash 
payments based on contract rate and the settlement rate, which is the agreed bench-mark/reference rate prevailing 
on the settlement date, are made by the parties to one another. 
	
An IRS is a financial contract between two parties exchanging or swapping a stream of interest payments for 
a ‘notional principal’ amount on multiple occasions during a specified period. The Bank deals in interest rate 
benchmarks like Mumbai Inter-Bank Offered Rate (MIBOR), Indian Government Securities Benchmark Rate (INBMK), 
Mumbai Inter-Bank Forward Offer Rate (MIFOR) and Alternative Reference Rates (ARR) like Sterling Overnight 
Index Average (SONIA), Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) and Tokyo Overnight Average Rate (TONAR). 
	
A CCS is a financial contract between two parties exchanging interest payments and principal, wherein interest 
payments and principal in one currency would be exchanged for interest payments and principal in another currency.
	
These contracts are subject to the risks of changes in market interest rates and currency rates as well as the 
settlement risk with the counterparties. 
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of the FRA/IRS contracts. 
 	
` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
1.
Notional principal of FRA/IRS 
 23,972,449.0 
25,184,685.1
2.
Losses which would be incurred if all counter parties failed to fulfil 
their obligations under the agreement1 
 97,127.6 
47,632.0
3.
Collateral required by the Bank upon entering into FRA/IRS
-
-
4.
Concentration of credit risk2
 5,112.9 
3,414.2
5.
Fair value of FRA/IRS3
 1,963.7 
(1,418.3) 
	
	
1.	For trading portfolio both mark-to-market and accrued interest have been considered and for hedging portfolio only accrued 
interest has been considered.
	
	
2.	Credit risk concentration is measured as the highest net receivable under these contracts from a particular counter party. 
	
	
3.	Fair value represents mark- to-market including accrued interest.

193
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of the CCS.
` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
1.
Notional principal of CCS1
 564,630.0 
498,337.6
2.
Losses which would be incurred if all counter parties failed to fulfil 
their obligations under the agreement2 
 30,706.1
21,767.1
3.
Collateral required by the Bank upon entering into CCS
-
-
4.
Concentration of credit risk3
 11,907.4 
10,402.8
5.
Fair value of CCS4
 (6,157.1)
2,672.3
	
	
1.	CCS includes cross currency interest rate swaps and currency swaps.
	
	
2.	For trading portfolio both mark-to-market and accrued interest have been considered and for hedging portfolio only accrued 
interest has been considered.
	
	
3.	Credit risk concentration is measured as the highest net receivable under these contracts from a particular counter party.
	
	
4.	Fair value represents mark-to-market including accrued interest. 
	
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the nature and terms of FRA and IRS.
	
Hedging 
` in million
Benchmark
Type
At March 31, 2023
At March 31, 2022
Notional 
principal
No. of 
deals
Notional 
principal
No. of 
deals
MIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
240,890.0 
47 
93,890.0
13
USD LIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
123,255.0 
15 
162,953.9
19
Total
364,145.0
62
256,843.9
32

194
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Trading 
 ` in million 
Benchmark
Type
At March 31, 2023
At March 31, 2022
Notional 
principal
No. of
Deals
Notional 
principal
No. of deals
AUD LIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
-
-
510.7
1
Bond yield
Sell FRA
78,803.6
224
13,587.9
27
AUD LIBOR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
-
-
266.7
6
CADCDOR
Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable
678.3
 1
807.8
2
CADCDOR
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
678.3
 1
793.9
1
EURESTR
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
38,625.8
 15
7,040.8
3
EURESTR
Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable
41,076.1
 19
7,840.9
3
EURIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
11,849.0
 30
11,827.3
30
EURIBOR
Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable
13,697.0
 20
13,727.9
21
GBPSONIA
Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable
8,577.5
 16
7,498.9
15
GBPSONIA
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
5,209.4
 11
7,086.2
13
INBMK
Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable
1,000.0
 1
1,000.0
1
INBMK
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
1,000.0
 1
1,000.0
1
JPYTONAR
Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable
5,396.9
 7
5,283.0
6
JPYTONAR
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
5,852.0
 7
6,898.9
9
MIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
9,624,496.5
14,850 11,018,340.0
16,676
MIBOR
Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable
9,754,197.8
14,677 11,014,588.4
16,789
MIFOR
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
320,642.7
 446
532,286.6
749
MIFOR
Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable
251,471.2
 257
423,358.0
429
MODMIFOR
Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable
101,000.0
 125
-
-
MODMIFOR
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
172,100.0
 191
-
-
OTHERS
Fixed receivable v/s Fixed payable
6,289.7
 6
5,379.1
5
T-BILL
Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable
26,257.7
 9
26,239.0
9
T-BILL
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
5,104.9
 2
10,139.8
2
USD SOFR v/s 
USD LIBOR
Floating receivable v/s Floating  
payable
823.9
1
760.0
1
USDLIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
449,837.7
 411
601,931.2
577
USDLIBOR
Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable
612,120.6
 532
809,797.5
734
USDLIBOR
Floating receivable v/s Floating payable
177,610.5
 40
171,935.3
44
USDSOFR
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
892,093.9
 354
98,044.4
54
USDSOFR
Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable
1,001,813.0
 418
129,871.2
79
Total
23,608,304.0
32,672 24,927,841.4
36,287

195
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the nature and terms of CCS.
Trading
 ` in million
Benchmark
Type	
At March 31, 2023
At March 31, 2022
Notional 
principal
No. of deals
Notional 
principal
No. of deals
EUR ESTR v/s 
USD SOFR
Floating receivable v/s Floating 
payable
1,863.0
2
-
-
EURIBOR
Fixed Receivable v/s Floating payable 
6,374.3
26
5,351.3
25
EURIBOR
Fixed payable v/s Floating receivable
500.0
1
-
-
EURIBOR v/s 
USD LIBOR
Floating receivable v/s Floating 
payable
19,505.6
9
17,378.2
8
EURIBOR v/s 
USD LIBOR
Floating payable v/s Floating 
receivable
17,888.5
5
18,421.3
9
EURIBOR v/s 
USD LIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s Floating  
payable
-
-
879.3
1
EURIBOR v/s 
USD SOFR
Floating payable v/s Floating 
receivable
16,434.0
1
-
-
EURIBOR v/s 
USD SOFR
Floating receivable v/s Floating 
payable
541.0
2
-
-
GBP SONIA v/s 
USD LIBOR
Floating receivable v/s Floating 
payable
1,758.5
3
1,720.6
3
GBP SONIA v/s 
USD LIBOR
Floating payable v/s Floating 
receivable
1,953.2
5
2,349.2
5
GBP SONIA v/s 
USD SOFR
Floating receivable v/s Floating 
payable
1,971.3
2
536.1
1
GBP SONIA v/s 
USD SOFR
Floating payable v/s Floating 
receivable
2,868.1
2
-
-
JPY TONAR v/s 
USD LIBOR
Floating receivable v/s Floating 
payable
-
-
568.5
2
JPY TONAR v/s 
USD LIBOR
Floating payable v/s Floating 
receivable
369.9
1
276.4
2
MIFOR v/s USD 
LIBOR
Floating receivable v/s Floating 
payable
4,626.3
3
4,626.3
3
OTHERS
Fixed receivable v/s Fixed payable
190,876.2
174
182,079.5
193
SGD LIBOR v/s 
USD LIBOR
Floating receivable v/s Floating 
payable
-
-
454.8
1
SGD LIBOR v/s 
USD LIBOR
Floating payable v/s Floating 
receivable
-
-
151.6
1
USD LIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
135,962.5 
 78 
169,718.5 
 140 
USD LIBOR
Floating receivable v/s Fixed payable
74,179.5 
 57 
93,076.2
 79 
USD SOFR
Fixed payable v/s Floating receivable
35,379.4 
 15 
750.0 
 1 
USD SOFR
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
33,221.7 
 25 
-
-
USD SOFR v/s 
EURIBOR
Floating receivable v/s Floating 
payable
16,434.0 
 1 
-
-
EUR ESTR v/s 
USD SOFR
Floating payable v/s Floating 
receivable
1,922.9 
 1 
-
-
Total
564,629.9
413
498,337.7
474.0
	
	
1.	Benchmark indicates floating leg of the fixed v/s floating CCS.

196
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
17.	 Classification of advances and provisions held 
The following table sets forth, the classification of advances and provisions held at March 31, 2023.
` in million
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total 
Standard
Advances
Sub- 
standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non- 
Performing
Advances
Gross Standard Advances and NPAs
Opening Balance
8,523,814.1 
85,308.8  177,027.7 
70,612.7 
332,949.2 
8,856,763.4 
Add: Additions during the year
183,093.8 
Less: Reductions during the year*
(216,182.3)
Closing balance
10,146,666.3 
68,781.1 117,133.4 113,946.2 
299,860.7 10,446,527.0 
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:
i) 	
Upgradation
(90,629.3)
ii) 	
Recoveries (excluding recoveries from upgraded accounts)
(80,341.0)
iii) 	 Technical/ Prudential Write-offs
(35,788.6)
iv) 	 Write-offs other than those under (iii) above
(9,423.4)
Provisions (excluding Floating Provisions)
Opening balance of provisions held
2,920.2 
39,040.1 153,984.1 
70,612.7 
263,636.9 
266,557.1 
Add: Fresh provisions made during the year
116,170.8 
Less: Excess provision reversed/ Write-off loans
(131,449.6)
Closing balance of provisions held
1,783.9 
32,545.7 101,866.2 113,946.2 
248,358.1 
250,142.0 
Net NPAs
Opening Balance
46,266.8 
23,043.6 
-
69,310.4 
Add: Fresh additions during the year
88,038.6 
Less: Reductions during the year
(105,848.3)
Closing Balance
36,233.6 
15,267.1 
-
51,500.7 
Floating Provisions
Opening Balance
1.9
Add: Additional provisions made during the year
-
Less: Amount drawn down during the year
-
Closing balance of floating provisions
1.9
Technical write-offs and the recoveries made thereon
Opening balance of Technical/ Prudential written-off accounts
476,579.1 
Add: Technical/ Prudential write-offs during the year
50,973.4 
Less: Recoveries made from previously technical/ prudential 
written-off accounts during the year
(18,348.5)
Less: Sacrifice made from previously technical/prudential 
written-off accounts during the year
(15,567.2)
Closing balance
493,636.8 

197
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, the classification of advances and provisions held at March 31, 2022.
` in million
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total 
Standard
Advances
Sub- 
standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non- 
Performing
Advances
Gross Standard Advances and NPAs
Opening Balance
7,247,016.0
127,338.7
235,111.8
45,963.7
408,414.2
7,655,430.2
Add: Additions during the year
192,910.1 
Less: Reductions during the year*
(268,375.1)
Closing balance
8,523,814.1 
85,308.8 
177,027.7 
70,612.7 
332,949.2 8,856,763.4
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:
i) 	
Upgradation
(104,438.2)
ii) 	
Recoveries (excluding recoveries from upgraded accounts)
(62,459.0)
iii) 	 Technical/ Prudential16 Write-offs
(91,597.9)
iv) 	 Write-offs other than those under (iii) above
(9,880.0)
Provisions (excluding Floating Provisions)
Opening balance of provisions held
901.7
56,319.6 
214,952.4 
45,963.7 
317,235.7 
318,137.4
Add: Fresh provisions made during the year
121,883.3
Less: Excess provision reversed/ Write-off loans
(175,482.1)
Closing balance of provisions held
2,920.2
39,040.1 
153,984.1 
70,612.7 
263,636.9 
266,557.1
Net NPAs
Opening Balance
71,017.2 
20,159.4 
-
91,176.6
Add: Fresh additions during the year
98,586.3
Less: Reductions during the year
(120,452.5)
Closing Balance
46,266.8
23,043.6 
-
69,310.4 
Floating Provisions
Opening Balance
1.9
Add: Additional provisions made during the year
-
Less: Amount drawn down15 during the year
-
Closing balance of floating provisions
1.9
Technical write-offs and the recoveries made thereon
Opening balance of Technical/ Prudential written-off accounts
416,422.5 
Add: Technical/ Prudential write-offs during the year
98,396.9 
Less: Recoveries made from previously technical/prudential 
written-off accounts during the year
(9,794.7)
Less: Sacrifice made from previously technical/prudential 
written-off accounts during the year
(28,445.6)
Closing balance
476,579.1

198
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
Following table sets forth, for the period indicated, NPA ratios of the Bank.
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
Gross NPA to Gross Advances
2.87%
3.76%
Net NPA to Net Advances
0.51%
0.81%
Provision coverage ratio
82.8%
79.2%
	
In accordance with RBI guidelines, the loans and advances held at the overseas branches that are identified as 
impaired as per host country regulations for reasons other than record of recovery, but which are standard as per the 
extant RBI guidelines, are classified as NPAs to the extent of amount outstanding in the host country. At March 31, 
2023, the Bank classified certain loans as NPAs at overseas branches amounting to ` 8,229.0 million (at March 31, 
2022: ` 4,547.6) as per the requirement of these guidelines and made a provision of ` 4,623.0 million (year ended 
March 31, 2022: ` 3,975.6 million) on these loans.
18.	 Divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs
	
In terms of the RBI circular no. //DBR.BP.BC.No.32/21.04.018/2018-19 dated April 1, 2019, banks are required to 
disclose the divergences in asset classification and provisioning consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process 
in their notes to accounts to the financial statements, wherever either (a) the additional provisioning requirements 
assessed by RBI exceed 10% of the reported net profits before provisions and contingencies or (b) the additional 
gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 15% of the published incremental gross NPAs for the reference period, or both. 
Based on the condition mentioned in RBI circular, no disclosure on divergence in asset classification and provisioning 
for NPAs is required with respect to RBI’s supervisory process for the year ended March 31, 2022 and for the year 
ended March 31, 2021
19.	 General provision on standard assets
	
The general provision on standard assets held by the Bank at March 31, 2023 was ` 47,022.4 million (March 31, 
2022: ` 40,942.9 million). The Bank made general provision on standard assets amounting to ` 5,795.6 million 
during the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 4,492.5 million). General provision on standard 
assets is made on global loan portfolio as below:
	
•	
Farm credit to agricultural activities, individual housing loans sanctioned on or after June 7, 2021 and advances 
to Small and Micro Enterprises (SMEs) sectors at 0.25%, advances to Commercial Real Estate sector at 1.00% 
and to Commercial Real Estate – Residential Housing Sector at 0.75%, all other loans and advances at 0.40%
	
•	
At overseas branches, provision is made at higher of RBI and host country guidelines
	
•	
Credit exposures computed as per the current marked-to-market (MTM) value of the contract arising 	
on account of the interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives, credit default swaps and gold exposures, 
provision is made at the rate applicable to respective categories of advances
	
•	
Loans and advances to entities with unhedged foreign currency exposures, provision is made ranging from 
0.10% to 0.80% depending on likely loss due to exchange rate movement
	
•	
Exposures to the wholly owned subsidiaries of the overseas subsidiaries of Indian companies at 2.00%
	
•	
Standard advances to stress sectors at 2.00%, based on evaluation of risk and stress in various sectors as per 
the Board approved policy of the Bank
	
•	
Incremental exposure of the banking system in excess of Normally Permitted Lending Limit (NPLL) on borrowers 
classified as specified borrower at 3.00%

199
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
20.	 Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs)
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, details of PSLCs purchased and sold by the Bank.
 ` in million 
Category
Year ended March 31, 2023
Year ended March 31, 2022
Bought
Sold
Bought
Sold
General 
-
454,245.0
-
655,300.0
Agriculture
704,965.0
-
673,065.0
-
Micro enterprise 
11,500.0
287,005.0
42,060.0
359,100.0
Total
716,465.0
741,250.0
715,125.0
1,014,400.0
21.	 Sale and acquisition of loans
a)	
Details of loan not in default sold/acquired by the Bank as per Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Transfer 
of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021 dated September 24, 2021.
	
1.	
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, details of loans not in default sold/acquired under 
assignment:
 ` in million 
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2023
Year ended March 31, 2022
Loans acquired
Loans sold Loans acquired
Loans sold
Amount of loan
94,688.2
1,875.0
45,127.9
4,386.9
Weighted average residual maturity 
(in years)
5.63
0.48
5.30
3.74
Weighted average holding period of 
the originator (in years)
1.63
0.01
1.64
2.08
Retention of beneficial economic 
interest by the originator
88,563.8
1,625.0
89,219.6
7,745.3
Tangible security coverage (times)
4.04
-
1.20
1.20
	
	
	
	
1.	 In addition, the Bank acquired unfunded loans amounting to ` 3,278.4 million (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 2,840.0 
million) and sold unfunded loans amounting to ` 6,540.0 million (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 1,250.0 million) for 
year ended March 31, 2023 through novation.
	
	
	
	
2.	 In addition, no loans were acquired by the Bank during the year ended March 31, 2023 through risk participation in 
the secondary market (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 2,192.4 million).
	
2.	
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, rating-wise distribution of the loans sold/acquired 
under assignment:
 ` in million 
Rating
Year ended March 31, 2023
Year ended March 31, 2022
Loans acquired
Loans sold Loans acquired
Loans sold
IND A-, A, A+
9,260.2
-
-
493.8
CARE A-
-
-
-
998.3
Moody’s B1
 5,998.4 
-
1,136.9
-
ICRA A-
5,000.0
-
-
-
Crisil A+, AA, A
6,410.0
1,875.0
-
2,894.8
Care BBB
838.0
-
-
-
	
	
	
	
1. 	Excluding retail and other unrated loans

200
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
b)	
Details of stressed loans sold/acquired by the Bank.
	
1.	
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, details of stressed loans classified as NPA sold by 
the Bank:
	
	
	
	
	
` in million, except number of accounts
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2023
Year ended March 31, 2022
To ARCs
To permitted 
transferees
To ARCs
To permitted 
transferees
Number of accounts
9
1
4
3
Aggregate principal outstanding of 
loans transferred2
3,045.4
30.2
3,302.1
1,046.5
Weighted average residual tenor of 
the loans transferred3
-
-
-
-
Net book value of loans transferred  
(at the time of transfer)4
123.8
-
244.8
188.6
Aggregate consideration
1,606.5
15.7
1,966.3
1,164.1
Additional consideration realized in 
respect of accounts transferred in 
earlier years
-
-
-
-
	
	
	
1.	 Excess provision reversed in profit and loss account due to sale of NPAs to ARCs was, ` 1,482.7 million and to 
other permitted transferees was ` 15.7 million (year ended March 31, 2022: ARCs ` 1,721.5 million and permitted 
transferees ` 975.5 million).
	
	
	
2.	 Net of write-off.
	
	
	
3.	 For NPAs, the Bank issues loan recall notice and initiates legal proceedings for recovery, due to which the weighted 
average residual tenor is not applicable. 
	
	
	
4.	 Net of write-off and provisions.
	
	
2.	
The Bank has not sold/acquired loan classified as Special Mention Account (SMA) during the year ended 
March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: Nil).
	
	
3.	
The Bank has not acquired non-performing loans during the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended 
March 31, 2022: Nil).
	
	
4.	
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, rating-wise distribution of SRs held by the bank. 
 ` in million
Rating
NAV estimate %
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
RR1
Above 100% 
4,286.0
6,798.9
RR2
Above 75% upto 100%
1,615.4
-
RR3
Above 50% upto 75%
2,681.1
4,680.4
RR4
Above 25% upto 50%
1,507.8
4,538.6
RR5
Upto 25%
6,002.2
2,009.7
Total
16,092.5
18,027.6
	
	
	
	
1.	 Amount represents net of provisions.
	
	
	
	
2.	 Additionally, the Bank holds, marked-to-market loss of ` 4,627.3 million (March 31, 2022: ` 3,660.4 million) and 
additional provision of ` 9,353.0 million (March 31, 2022: ` 6,293.3 million) at March 31, 2023.

201
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
22.	 Securitisation
	
Following table sets forth, for the period indicated, details of securitisation of standard assets of the Bank 
 ` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Year ended
 March 31, 2023
Year ended
 March 31, 2022
1.
Number of SPVs sponsored by the bank for securitisation 
transactions during the year
-
-
2.
Total a) No. and b) amount of securitised loans as per books of the 
SPVs sponsored by the bank during the year
-
-
3.
Total amount of exposures retained by the Bank to comply with 
Minimum Retention Requirement (MRR) during the year
a)	
Off-balance sheet exposures
	
•	
 First loss
	
•	
 Others
 
-
-
 -
-
b)	
On-balance sheet exposures
	
• 	
First loss
	
• 	
Others
 
-
-
 -
-
4.
Amount of exposure to securitisation transactions other than MRR 
during the year
Off-balance sheet exposures
a)	
Exposure to own securitisation
	
•	
 First loss
	
• 	
Others
b)	
Exposure to third party securitisation
	
• 	
First loss
	
• 	
Others
-
-
-
 941.2 
-
-
-
269.3
On-balance sheet exposures
a)	
Exposure to own securitisation
	
• 	
First loss
	
• 	
Others
b)	
Exposure to third party securitisation
	
• 	
First loss
	
• 	
Others
 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.
Sale consideration received for the securitised assets and gain/loss 
on sale on account of securitization1
-
-
6.
Outstanding amount of services provided by way of:
•	
credit enhancement2
• 	
liquidity support
• 	
post-securitisation asset servicing
 3,345.9 
 209.7
- 
4,064.9
209.7
-

202
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
 ` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Year ended
 March 31, 2023
Year ended
 March 31, 2022
7. 
Performance of facilities provided
a)	
First loss credit facility
	
• 	
Amount paid (0.00%)4
	
• 	
Repayment received (0.00%)4
	
• 	
Outstanding amount 
b)	
Second loss credit facility
	
• 	
Amount paid
	
• 	
Repayment received
	
• 	
Outstanding amount2
c)	
Liquidity facility
	
• 	
Amount paid (0.07%)4,5
	
• 	
Repayment received (0.07%)4,5
	
• 	
Outstanding amount 
 - 
 -
 734.9 
- 
-
 2,611.0 
 
0.13 
 0.13 
 209.7 
-3
-3
734.9
-
-
3,330.0
- 3
0.2
209.7
8. 
Average default rate of portfolios observed at the year end
a) 	 MBS deals (cumulative in %)
 1.4 
1.5
b)	
ABS deals (cumulative in %)
-
-
9. 
Amount and number of additional/top up loan given on same 
underlying loans. 
a)	
MBS deals
	
• 	
Gross Amount 
	
• 	
Count
 56.3
	
 86 
75.8
115
b)	
ABS deals
	
• 	
Gross Amount 
	
• 	
Count
-
-
-
-
10.
Investor complaints
(a) 	 Directly/Indirectly received and;
-
-
(b) 	 Complaints outstanding
-
-
	
	
1.	Includes gain/(loss) on deal closures, gain amortised during the year and expenses related to utilisation of credit enhancement 
for all the outstanding deals.
	
	
2.	Includes outstanding credit enhancement in the form of guarantees for third party originated securitisation transactions 
amounting to ` 1,920.0 million (for the year ended March 31, 2022: ` 2,639.0 million)
	
	
3.	Insignificant amount
	
	
4.	Percentage has been derived based on opening outstanding balance of the facility.
	
	
5.	For the year ended March 31, 2023, amount paid: 0.07% (for the year ended March 31, 2022: 0.02%) and repayment received: 
0.07% (for the year ended March 31, 2022: 0.08%)

203
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
23.	 Accounts restructured under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of accounts restructured under MSME sector 
under RBI guidelines issued in January 2019 and subsequent changes thereafter.
 ` in million, except number of accounts
At March 31, 2023
At March, 2022
Number of accounts 
restructured
Amount  
outstanding
Number of accounts 
restructured
Amount  
outstanding
 1,908 
 19,669.8 
2,500
28,181.8
24.	 Resolution of stressed assets
	
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Bank has implemented resolution plan for seven borrowers amounting 
to ` 19,286.3 million (March 31, 2022: five borrowers for ` 10,365.3 million) under the prudential framework for 
stressed assets issued by RBI on June 7, 2019.
25.	 Resolution Framework for Covid-19 related Stress
	
I.	
The following table sets forth, details of resolution plans implemented under the Resolution Framework for 
Covid-19 related stress of individuals and small borrowers as per RBI circular dated May 5, 2021 (Resolution 
Framework 2.0):
` in million, except number of accounts
For six months ended March 31, 2023
Type of borrower
Exposure to 
accounts classified 
as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation 
of resolution plan 
– at September, 
2022 (A)
Of (A), 
aggregate 
debt that 
slipped into 
NPA during six 
month ended 
March 31, 
20231
Of (A) 
amount 
written 
off during 
six month 
ended 
March 31, 
2023
Of (A) 
amount 
paid by the 
borrowers 
during six 
month ended 
March 31, 
20232
Exposure 
to accounts 
classified as 
Standard 
consequent to 
implementation 
of resolution plan 
at March 31, 2023
Personal Loans3
24,422.2 
1,707.7 
75.9
3,106.7 
 19,607.8 
Corporate persons4
17,499.5 
 7,887.3 
-
 1,503.2
 8,109.0 
Of which MSMEs
-
-
-
-
-
Others
 6,113.0 
 226.2 
 10.3
 199.2 
 5,687.6 
Total
 48,034.7 
 9,821.2 
 86.2 
 4,809.1 
 33,404.4 
	
	
	
1.	 Includes cases which have been written off during the period.
	
	
	
2.	 Net of increase in exposure during the period.
	
	
	
3.	 Includes various categories of retail loans.
	
	
	
4.	 As defined in Section 3(7) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 

204
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million, except number of accounts
For the six months ended September 30, 2022
Type of borrower
Exposure to 
accounts classified 
as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan – 
at March 31, 2022 
(A)
Of (A), 
aggregate 
debt that 
slipped into 
NPA during six 
month ended 
September 30, 
20221
Of (A) 
amount 
written off 
during six 
month ended 
September 
30, 2022
Of (A) amount 
paid by the 
borrowers 
during six 
month ended 
September 
30, 20222
Exposure to 
accounts classified 
as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan at 
September 
30, 2022
Personal Loans3
 31,154.8 
3,569.0 
260.4 
3,163.6 
24,422.2 
Corporate persons
 17,037.0 
- 
- 
 (462.5) 
17,499.5 
Of which, MSMEs
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Others
 7,677.3 
747.7 
 41.4 
816.6 
 6,113.0 
Total
 55,869.1 
4,316.7 
301.8 
3,517.7 
48,034.7 
	
	
	
1.	 Includes cases, which have been written off during the period.	
	
	
	
2.	 Net of increase in exposure during the period.	
	
	
	
3.	 Includes various categories of retail loans
For the year March 31, 2022
Type of borrower
Exposure to 
accounts classified 
as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan – 
at September 30, 
2021 (A)1
Of (A), 
aggregate 
debt that 
slipped into 
NPA during six 
month ended 
March 31, 
20222
Of (A) 
amount 
written off 
during six 
month ended 
March 31, 
2022
Of (A) amount 
paid by the 
borrowers 
during six 
month ended 
March 31, 
20223
Exposure to 
accounts classified 
as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan at 
March 31, 2022
Personal Loans4
43,275.3
6,382.4
232.3
5,738.1
31,154.8
Corporate 
persons5
29,001.8
-
-
11,964.8
 17,037.0
Of which MSMEs
-
-
-
- 
- 
Others
 8,634.2
 1,456.3
17.4
 (499.4)
7,677.3
Total
 80,911.3
7,838.7
249.7 
17,203.5 
55,869.1
	
	
	
	
1.	 Includes cases where request received till September 30, 2021 and implemented subsequently.
	
	
	
	
2.	 Includes cases which have been written off during the period.
	
	
	
	
3.	 Net of increase in exposure during the period.
	
	
	
	
4.	 Includes various categories of retail loans.
	
	
	
	
5.	 As defined in Section 3(7) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016

205
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
26.	 Concentration of Deposits, Advances, Exposures and NPAs 
	
 (I) 	Concentration of deposits, advances, exposures and NPAs
 ` in million except percentage
Concentration of deposits
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
Total deposits of 20 largest depositors
 410,099.2 
560,155.0
Deposits of 20 largest depositors as a percentage of total deposits 
of the Bank
3.47%
5.26%
 ` in million except percentage
Concentration of advances1
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
Total advances to 20 largest borrowers (including banks)
2,023,084.9
1,908,174.2
Advances to 20 largest borrowers as a percentage of total 
advances of the Bank
10.28%
11.84%
	
	
	
	
1.	 Represents credit exposure (funded and non-funded) including derivatives exposures as per RBI guidelines on exposure 
norms. 
 ` in million except percentage
Concentration of exposures1
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
Total exposure to 20 largest borrowers/customers (including banks)
2,069,491.6
2,002,175.1
Exposures to 20 largest borrowers/customers as a percentage of 
total exposure of the Bank 
10.22%
12.03%
	
	
	
	
1.	 Represents credit and investment exposures as per RBI guidelines on exposure norms.
 ` in million except percentage
Concentration of NPAs
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
Total exposure1 to top 20 NPA accounts
159,988.5
175,706.5
Exposure of 20 largest NPA as a percentage of total Gross NPAs.
42.71%
 42.30 %
	
	
	
	
1.	 Represents credit and investment exposures as per RBI guidelines on exposure norms.

206
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
(II) 	Sector-wise advances
 ` in million, except percentages
S  
No.
Particulars
At March 31, 2023
Outstanding 
advances
Gross NPAs1 % of gross NPAs1 
to total advances 
in that sector
A.
Priority sector 
1.
Agriculture and allied activities
 630,585.6 
 29,272.7
4.64%
2.
Advances to industries sector eligible as 
priority sector lending of which:
758,377.7
5,991.2
0.79%
3.
Services 
of which: 
	
Transport operators
	
Wholesale trade
1,038,753.5
150,076.4
234,252.1
12,951.7
2,642.6
2,972.6
1.25%
1.76%
1.27%
4.
Personal loans 
of which: 
	
Housing
414,876.7
402,748.5
6,486.0
6,427.1
1.56%
1.60%
Sub-total (A) 
 2,842,593.5
54,701.7 
1.92%
B.
Non-priority sector
1.
Agriculture and allied activities 
-
-
-
2.
Advances to industries sector
of which:
	
Infrastructure
1,699,823.5
480,462.6
157,301.1
34,621.6
9.25%
7.21%
3.
Services 
of which: 
 	
Wholesale Trade
	
Commercial real estate 
	
Financial Intermediation
 1,878,763.6
256,179.9
620,974.9
764,400.9
36,837.5
6,881.6
13,921.0
744.1
1.96%
2.69%
2.24%
0.10%
4.
Personal loans2
of which:
	
Housing
	
Vehicle/Auto Loans
4,025,346.4
1,759,930.0
434,159.6
51,020.5
17,044.0
6,465.4
1.27%
0.97%
1.49%
Sub-total (B) 
 7,603,933.5 
 245,159.1 
3.22%
Total (A)+(B)
10,446,527.0 
 299,860.7
2.87%
	
	
	
1.	 Represents loans and advances.	
	
	
	
2.	 Excludes commercial business loans and dealer funding.
	
	
	
3.	 Sub-sectors have been disclosed where advances exceed 10% of total advances in that sector at reporting date. 

207
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
 ` in million, except percentages
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
At March 31, 2022
Outstanding 
advances
Gross NPAs1
% of gross NPAs1 
to total advances 
in that sector
A.
Priority sector 
1.
Agriculture and allied activities
561,419.3
29,726.4
5.29%
2.
Advances to industries sector eligible as 
priority sector lending
611,332.1
8,836.5
1.45%
3.
Services 
of which: 
	
Transport operators 
	
Wholesale trade
 967,536.0
 154,289.1
143,318.9
20,461.2
5,050.1
1,665.5
2.11%
3.27%
1.16%
4.
Personal loans 
of which: 
	
Housing 
 388,528.4
 381,591.5
8,479.9
8,280.6
2.18%
2.17%
Sub-total (A) 
2,528,815.8
67,504.0
2.67%
B.
Non-priority sector
1.
Agriculture and allied activities 
-
-
-
2.
Advances to industries sector
of which:
	
Infrastructure 
 	
Basic metal and metal products
 1,652,669.8
 498,441.6
183,179.5
180,433.1
48,380.9
5,901.4
10.92%
9.71%
3.22%
3.
Services 
of which: 
	
Commercial real estate 
	
Financial Intermediation
	
Wholesale Trade
 1,518,441.2
 
 453,678.9
683,966.0
191,622.1
38,150.3
13,600.2
1,033.8
6,661.8
2.51%
3.00%
0.15%
3.48%
4.
Personal loans2 
of which:
 	
Housing 
	
Vehicle/Auto Loans
 3,156,836.6
1,527,478.5
325,837.0
46,861.8
21,193.0
5,171.5
1.48%
1.39%
1.59%
Sub-total (B) 
6,327,947.6
265,445.2
4.19%
Total (A)+(B)
8,856,763.4
332,949.2
3.76%
	
	
	
1.	  Represents loans and advances.
	
	
	
2.	  Excludes commercial business loans and dealer funding. 
	
	
	
3.	  Sub-sectors have been disclosed where advances exceed 10% of total advances in that sector at reporting date.

208
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
(III) 	Overseas assets, NPAs1 and revenue	
` in million
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Total assets2
731,796.0
865,806.3
Total NPAs (net)
3,790.9
6,236.0
Total revenue2
32,912.3
18,399.6
	
	
1.	
 Represents loans and advances.
	
	
2.	
 Represents the total assets and total revenue of foreign operations as reported in Schedule 18 of the financial statements, 
note no. 5 on information about business and geographical segments.
(IV) Off-balance sheet special purpose vehicles (SPVs) sponsored (which are required to be consolidated 
as per accounting norms) for the year ended March 31, 2023
1.	
The following table sets forth, the names of SPVs/trusts sponsored by the Bank/subsidiaries which are consolidated.
Sr. No.
Name of the SPV sponsored1
A.
Domestic
1. ICICI Strategic Investments Fund2	
2. India Advantage Fund-III2
3. India Advantage Fund-IV2
B.
Overseas
None
	
	
1.	SPVs/Trusts which are consolidated and set-up/sponsored by the Bank/subsidiaries of the Bank.
	
	
2.	The nature of business of the above entities is venture capital fund.
2. 	
There are no SPVs/trusts which are not sponsored by the Bank/subsidiaries and are consolidated.
27.	 Intra-group exposure
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of intra-group exposure.
` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
1.
Total amount of intra-group exposures
176,612.2
169,408.4
2.
Total amount of top 20 intra-group exposures
176,612.2
169,408.0
3.
Percentage of intra-group exposure to total exposures of the 
Bank on borrowers/customers
0.87%
1.02%
4.
Details of breach of limits on intra-group exposures and regulatory 
action thereon, if any
Nil
Nil

209
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
28.	 Exposure to sensitive sectors
	
The Bank has exposure to sectors, which are sensitive to asset price fluctuations. The sensitive sectors include 
capital markets and real estate.
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the position of exposure to capital market sector.
 ` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
1.
Direct investment in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible 
debentures and units of equity-oriented mutual funds, the corpus 
of which is not exclusively invested in corporate debt
48,803.9
46,902.8
2.
Advances against shares/bonds/debentures or other securities or 
on clean basis to individuals for investment in shares (including 
IPOs/ESOPs), convertible bonds, convertible debentures and units 
of equity-oriented mutual funds
1,394.3
1,545.2
3.
Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible 
bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual 
funds are taken as primary security 
23,224.9
22,361.0
4.
Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by the 
collateral security of shares or convertible bonds or convertible 
debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds i.e. where the 
primary security other than shares/convertible bonds/convertible 
debentures/units of equity oriented mutual funds does not fully 
cover the advances
-
-
5.
Secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers and guarantees 
issued on behalf of stock brokers and market makers 
162,337.0
123,510.6
6.
Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows/issues
-
-
7.
All exposures to venture capital funds (both registered and 
unregistered)
14,440.7
10,181.7
8.
Others
-
-
Total exposure to capital market1
250,200.8
204,501.3
	
1.	
At March 31, 2023, excludes investment in equity shares of ` 22,588.5 million (March 31, 2022: ` 21,779.6 
million) exempted from the regulatory ceiling, out of which investments of ` 4,650.0 million (March 31, 2022: 
` 3,054.6 million) were acquired due to conversion of debt to equity during restructuring process under RBI 
circular dated June 7, 2019 on “Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets” and investments of 
` 16,330.2 million (March 31, 2022: ` 17,116.6 million) were acquired under other resolution schemes of RBI.

210
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the summary of exposure to real estate sector. 
` in million
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
I
Direct exposure
4,405,419.9
3,641,419.7
1.	
Residential mortgages
3,434,920.2
2,897,232.4
	
of which: individual housing loans eligible for priority sector 
advances
418,496.4
397,578.1
2.	
Commercial real estate1
940,828.6
713,574.3
3.	
Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other 
securitised exposure
29,671.1
30,613.0
	
a.	
 Residential
25,420.4
26,310.2
	
b.	
Commercial real estate
4,250.7
4,302.8
II
Indirect exposure
191,342.0
162,163.3
Fund based and non-fund based exposures on National Housing 
Bank (NHB) and Housing Finance Companies (HFCs)
191,342.0
 162,163.3
Total exposure to real estate sector
4,596,761.9
3,803,583.0
	
	
1.	Commercial real estate exposure includes loans to individuals against non-residential premises, loans given to land and building 
developers for construction, corporate loans for development of special economic zone, loans to borrowers where servicing of 
loans is from a real estate activity and exposures to mutual funds/venture capital funds/private equity funds investing primarily 
in the real estate companies.
29.	 Factoring business
	
At March 31, 2023, the outstanding receivables acquired by the Bank under factoring business were ` 54,281.8 
million (March 31, 2022: ` 39,289.5 million) which are reported under ‘Bills purchased and discounted’ in Schedule 
9 – Advances of the balance sheet.
30.	 Risk category-wise country exposure
	
As per the extant RBI guidelines, the country exposure of the Bank is categorised into various risk categories listed in 
the following table. The funded country exposure (net) of the Bank as a percentage of total funded assets for United 
States of America was 2.74% (March 31, 2022: 3.53%). As the net funded exposure to United States of America 
at March 31, 2023, exceeded 1% of total funded assets (March 31, 2022: United States of America and United 
Kingdom), the Bank held a provision of ` 365.0 million on country exposure at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: 
` 580.0 million) based on RBI guidelines.
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of exposure (net) and provision held by the bank.
 ` in million 
Risk category
Exposure (net) at 
March 31, 2023
Provision held at 
March 31, 2023
Exposure (net) 
at March 31, 2022
Provision held at 
March 31,2022
Insignificant
1,023,324.6
365.0
1,109,785.2
580.0
Low
225,028.2
-
319,041.5
-
Moderately Low
30,962.3
-
3,540.2
-
Moderate
1,522.5
-
13,686.9
-
Moderately High
10,899.2
-
134.7
-
High
118.0
-
-
-
Very High
-
-
-
-
Total
1,291,854.8
365.0
1,446,188.5
580.0

211
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
31.	 Unsecured advances against intangible assets
	
The Bank has not made advances against intangible collaterals of the borrowers, which are classified as ‘Unsecured’ 
in the financial statements at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: Nil). 
32.	 Revaluation of fixed assets
	
The Bank follows the revaluation model for its premises (land and buildings) other than improvements to leasehold 
property	 as per AS 10 – ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’. As per the Bank’s policy, annual revaluation is carried out 
through external valuers, using methodologies such as direct sales comparison method and income capitalisation 
method and the incremental amount has been taken to revaluation reserve. The revalued amount at March 31, 2023 
was ` 54,723.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 57,269.6 million) as compared to the historical cost less accumulated 
depreciation of ` 24,099.2 million (March 31, 2022: ` 25,313.0 million). 
	
The revaluation reserve is not available for distribution of dividend.
33.	 Fixed Assets
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in software acquired by the Bank, as included 
in fixed assets. 
` in million
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
At cost at March 31 of preceding year
29,157.1
25,543.0
Additions during the year
4,466.7
3,922.1
Deductions during the year
(2,189.2)
(308.1)
Depreciation to date
(22,631.2)
(21,220.3)
Net block
8,803.4
7,936.7
34.	 Debt assets swap transactions
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Bank did not acquire any non-banking assets under debt-asset swap 
transactions (year ended March 31, 2022: Nil).
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Bank has not sold non-banking assets (year ended March 31, 2022: 
` 563.6 million, which were fully provided and sold for consideration of ` 430.5 million)
The net book value of non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims by the Bank outstanding at March 31, 2023 
amounted to Nil (March 31, 2022: Nil), net of provision held of ` 29,011.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 29,011.8 million).
35.	 Lease
	
I.	
Assets taken under operating lease 
	
Operating leases primarily comprise office premises which are renewable at the option of the Bank.
i.	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of liability for premises taken on non-
cancellable operating leases.
 ` in million
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
Not later than one year
 298.9 
102.7
Later than one year and not later than five years
 180.0 
67.3
Later than five years
 7.1 
9.9
Total
486.0
179.9

212
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
ii.	
Total of non-cancellable lease payments recognised in the profit and loss account for the year ended March 31, 
2023 is ` 552.6 million (year ended March 31, 2022 ` 283.6 million).
	
II.	
Assets taken under finance lease 
	
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of assets taken on finance leases.
	
 ` in million
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
1.	
Total Minimum lease payments outstanding
	
Not later than one year
271.3
269.2
	
Later than one year and not later than five years
596.1
792.3
	
Later than five years
14.9
76.4
Total 
882.3
1,137.9
2.	
Interest cost payable
	
Not later than one year
70.0
92.5
	
Later than one year and not later than five years
83.3
146.8
	
Later than five years
0.5
3.8
Total
153.8
243.1
3.	
Present value of minimum lease payments payable(A-B)
	
Not later than one year
201.3
176.7
	
Later than one year and not later than five years
512.8
645.5
	
Later than five years
14.4
72.6
Total
728.5
894.8
36.	 Description of contingent liabilities
	
The following table describes the nature of contingent liabilities of the Bank.
Sr. 
no.
Contingent liability
Brief Description
1.
Claims against 
the Bank, not 
acknowledged as 
debts
This item represents demands made in certain tax and legal matters against the 
Bank in the normal course of business and customer claims arising in fraud cases. 
In accordance with the Bank’s accounting policy and AS 29, the Bank has reviewed 
and classified these items as possible obligations based on legal opinion/judicial 
precedents/assessment by the Bank.
2.
Liability for partly 
paid investments
This item represents amounts remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid 
investments. These payment obligations of the Bank do not have any profit/loss 
impact.
3.
Liability on account 
of outstanding 
forward exchange 
contracts
The Bank enters into foreign exchange contracts in the normal course of its business, 
to exchange currencies at a pre-fixed price at a future date. This item represents the 
notional principal amount of such contracts, which are derivative instruments. With 
respect to the transactions entered into with its customers, the Bank generally enters 
into off-setting transactions in the inter-bank market. This results in generation of a 
higher number of outstanding transactions, and hence a large value of gross notional 
principal of the portfolio, while the net market risk is lower.

213
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Sr. 
no.
Contingent liability
Brief Description
4.
Guarantees 
given on behalf 
of constituents, 
acceptances, 
endorsements and 
other obligations
This item represents the guarantees and documentary credits issued by the Bank in 
favour of third parties on behalf of its customers, as part of its trade finance banking 
activities with a view to augment the customers’ credit standing. Through these 
instruments, the Bank undertakes to make payments for its customers’ obligations, 
either directly or in case the customers fail to fulfill their financial or performance 
obligations.
5.
Currency swaps, 
interest rate swaps, 
currency options and 
interest rate futures
This item represents the notional principal amount of various derivative instruments 
which the Bank undertakes in its normal course of business. The Bank offers these 
products to its customers to enable them to transfer, modify or reduce their foreign 
exchange and interest rate risks. The Bank also undertakes these contracts to 
manage its own interest rate and foreign exchange positions. With respect to the 
transactions entered into with its customers, the Bank generally enters into off-setting 
transactions in the inter-bank market. This results in generation of a higher number 
of outstanding transactions, and hence a large value of gross notional principal of the 
portfolio, while the net market risk is lower.
6.
Other items for 
which the Bank is 
contingently liable
Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable primarily include the amount 
of government securities bought/sold and remaining to be settled on the date 
of financial statements. This also includes amount transferred to RBI under the 
Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (S), commitment towards contribution to 
venture fund, the amount that the Bank is obligated to pay under capital contracts 
and letter of undertaking and indemnity letters. Capital contracts are job orders of a 
capital nature which have been committed. 
37.	 Insurance business
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of income derived from insurance business. 
 ` in million
Sr. 
No. Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
1.
Income from selling life insurance policies
3,821.2
5,775.8
2.
Income from selling non-life insurance policies
1,030.6
901.9
38.	 Marketing & Distribution 
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, income received from marketing and distribution function.
	
	
	
	
	
	
 	
	
 ` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Income received in respect of the marketing and distribution 
 4,928.2 
4,721.6
	
	
1.	Includes referral fees, commission and fees received on distribution/cross selling of various products including mutual funds.

214
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
39.	 Employee benefits	
	
Pension
	
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for pension benefits.
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended
 March 31, 2022
Opening obligations
18,661.0
20,265.6
Service cost
151.7
204.6
Interest cost
1,150.6
1,145.3
Actuarial (gain)/loss
758.2
(546.5)
Liabilities extinguished on settlement
(2,192.6)
(2,289.8)
Benefits paid
(99.8)
(118.2)
Obligations at the end of year
18,429.1
18,661.0
Opening plan assets, at fair value
19,843.3
21,162.2
Expected return on plan assets
1,522.0
1,620.7
Actuarial gain/(loss)
(682.0)
(331.9)
Assets distributed on settlement
(2,436.2)
(2,544.2)
Contributions
42.9
54.7
Benefits paid
(99.8)
(118.2)
Closing plan assets, at fair value
18,190.2
19,843.3
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
18,190.2
19,843.3
Present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year
(18,429.1)
(18,661.0)
Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in Para 59(b) of AS 15 on 
‘employee benefits’)
-
(401.9)
Asset/(liability) 
(238.9)
780.4
Cost1
Service cost
151.7
204.6
Interest cost
1,150.6
1,145.3
Expected return on plan assets
(1,522.0)
(1,620.7)
Actuarial (gain)/loss
1,440.2
(214.6)
Curtailments & settlements (gain)/loss
243.6
254.4
Effect of the limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’
(401.9)
97.1
Net cost
1,062.2
(133.9)
Actual return on plan assets
840.0
1,288.8
Expected employer’s contribution next year
1,000.0
2,000.0
Investment details of plan assets
Government of India securities
41.74%
46.69%
Corporate bonds
48.30%
46.45%
Equity securities in listed companies
7.08%
6.46%
Others
2.87%
0.40%
Assumptions
Discount rate
7.30%
6.30%
Salary escalation rate:
	
On Basic pay
1.50%
1.50%
	
On Dearness relief
8.00%
7.00%
Estimated rate of return on plan assets
7.50%
7.50%
	
	
1.	Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule-16 Operating expenses.

215
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
Estimated rate of return on plan assets is based on the expected average long-term rate of return on investments of 
the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations. 
	
Experience adjustment
 ` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2021
Year ended 
March 31, 2020
Year ended 
March 31, 2019
Plan assets
18,190.2
19,843.3
21,162.2
16,972.1
15,438.8
Defined benefit obligations
(18,429.1)
(18,661.0)
(20,265.6)
(19,914.3)
(16,540.3)
Amount not recognised as an 
asset (limit in para 59(b) of 
AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’)
-
(401.9)
(304.8)
-
-
Surplus/(deficit)
(238.9)
780.4
591.8
(2,942.2)
(1,101.5)
Experience adjustment on 
plan assets
(682.0)
(331.9)
521.9
741.1
(125.9)
Experience adjustment on 
plan liabilities
805.8
809.0
613.4
2,186.1
1,038.6
	
Gratuity
	
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for gratuity benefits.
 ` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Opening obligations
13,590.0
12,842.8
Add: Adjustment for exchange fluctuation on opening obligations
12.2
6.0
Adjusted opening obligations
13,602.2
12,848.8
Service cost
1,342.3
1,294.5
Interest cost
963.0
875.8
Actuarial (gain)/loss
1,178.0
(112.0)
Past service cost
-
-
Liability transferred from/to other companies
34.5
1.9
Benefits paid
(1,553.6)
(1,319.0)
Obligations at the end of the year
15,566.4
13,590.0
Opening plan assets, at fair value
13,577.4
12,934.8
Expected return on plan assets
985.5
945.7
Actuarial gain/(loss)
(499.4)
(64.9)
Contributions
1,375.9
1,078.9
Asset transferred from/to other companies
34.5
1.9
Benefits paid
(1,553.6)
(1,319.0)
Closing plan assets, at fair value
13,920.3
13,577.4
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
13,920.3
13,577.4
Present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year
(15,566.4)
(13,590.0)
Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in Para 59(b) of AS 15 on 
‘employee benefits’)
-
-
Asset/(liability)
(1,646.1)
(12.6)

216
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
 ` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Cost1
Service cost
1,342.3
1,294.5
Interest cost
963.0
875.8
Expected return on plan assets
(985.5)
(945.7)
Actuarial (gain)/loss
1,677.4
(47.1)
Past service cost
-
-
Exchange fluctuation loss/(gain)
12.2
6.0
Effect of the limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’
-
-
Net cost
3,009.4
1,183.6
Actual return on plan assets
486.1
880.7
Expected employer’s contribution next year
1,500.0
800.0
Investment details of plan assets
Insurer managed funds
-
-
Government of India securities
33.40%
29.29%
Corporate bonds
47.63%
47.96%
Equity
16.71%
20.65%
Others
2.26%
2.10%
Assumptions
Discount rate
7.35%
6.85%
Salary escalation rate
8.00%
7.00%
Estimated rate of return on plan assets
7.50%
7.50%
	
	
1.	Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule-16 Operating expenses.
Estimated rate of return on plan assets is based on the expected average long-term rate of return on investments 
of the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
	
Experience adjustment
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31,2021
Year ended 
March 31, 2020
Year ended 
March 31, 2019
Plan assets
13,920.3
13,577.4
12,934.8
10,877.1
9,821.2
Defined benefit obligations
(15,566.4)
(13,590.0)
(12,842.8)
(11,938.7)
(10,114.4)
Amount not recognised as an 
asset (limit in para 59(b) of 
AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’)
-
-
-
-
-
Surplus/(deficit)
(1,646.1)
(12.6)
92.0
(1,061.6)
(293.2)
Experience 
adjustment 
on 
plan assets
(499.4)
(64.9)
720.2
(125.0)
(60.3)
Experience 
adjustment 
on 
plan liabilities
731.6
368.0
(484.5)
181.3
118.4
	
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take into consideration inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors.

217
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
Provident Fund (PF)
As there is no liability towards interest rate guarantee on exempt provident fund on the basis of actuarial valuation, 
the Bank has not made any provision for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: Nil).
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for provident fund. 
` in million
Particulars
Year ended March 
31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Opening obligations
43,128.7
39,349.2
Service cost
2,458.4
1,972.5
Interest cost
3,024.7
2,620.3
Actuarial (gain)/loss
862.8
(150.8)
Employees contribution
4,163.2
3,558.4
Liability transferred from/to other companies
934.6
588.8
Benefits paid
(5,502.7)
(4,809.7)
Obligations at end of the year
49,069.7
43,128.7
Opening plan assets
44,339.6
39,349.2
Expected return on plan assets
3,741.0
3,434.2
Actuarial gain/(loss)
(329.0)
246.2
Employer contributions 
2,458.4
1,972.5
Employees contributions 
4,163.2
3,558.4
Asset transferred from/to other companies
934.6
588.8
Benefits paid
(5,502.7)
(4,809.7)
Closing plan assets
49,805.1
44,339.6
Plan assets at the end of the year
49,805.1
44,339.6
Present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year
(49,069.7)
(43,128.7)
Amount not recognised as asset (limit in para 59(b) od AS-15 on 
‘employee benefits’)1
(735.4)
(1,210.9)
Asset/(liability) 
-
-
Cost2
Service cost
2,458.4
1,972.5
Interest cost
3,024.7
2,620.3
Expected return on plan assets
(3,741.0)
(3,434.2)
Actuarial (gain)/loss
1,191.8
(397.0)
Effect of the limit in Para 59(b)1
(475.5)
 1,210.9
Net cost
2,458.4
1,972.5
Actual return on plan assets
3,412.0
3,680.4
Expected employer’s contribution next year
2,655.0
2,110.6
Investment details of plan assets
Government of India securities
55.17%
53.53%
Corporate bonds
35.12%
36.18%
Special deposit scheme
1.08%
1.22%
Others
8.63%
9.07%
Assumption
Discount rate
7.35%
6.85%
Expected rate of return on assets
7.97%
8.25%
Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of investments
7.40%
6.85%
Average historic yield on the investment
8.01%
8.25%
Guaranteed rate of return
8.15%
8.10%
	
	
1.	Pursuant to revised Guidance Note 29 on “Valuation of Interest Rate Guaranatees on Exempt Provident Funds under AS15 
(Revised)” issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India on February 16, 2022, plan assets held by the PF Trust have been fair 
valued. The amount represents the fair value gain on plan assets.
	
	
2.	Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule-16 Operating expenses.

218
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
Experience adjustment 
 ` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2021
Year ended 
March 31, 2020
Year ended 
March 31, 2019
Plan assets
49,805.1
44,339.6
39,349.2
33,424.3
28,757.5
Defined benefit obligations
(49,069.7)
(43,128.7)
(39,349.2)
(33,424.3)
(28,757.5)
Amount not recognised as an 
asset (limit in para 59(b) of 
AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’)
(735.4)
(1,210.9)
-
-
-
Surplus/(deficit)
-
-
-
-
-
Experience 
adjustment 
on 
plan assets
(329.0)
246.3
530.5
(626.7)
11.8
Experience 
adjustment 
on 
plan liabilities
476.1
(812.5)
1,467.8
(171.5)
402.6
	
	
3.	Pursuant to revised Guidance Note 29 on “Valuation of Interest Rate Guaranatees on Exempt Provident Funds under AS15 
(Revised)” issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India on February 16, 2022, plan assets held by the PF Trust have been fair 
valued. The amount represents the fair value gain on plan assets.
	
The Bank has contributed ` 3,846.1 million to provident fund for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 
2022: ` 3,224.9 million), which includes compulsory contribution made towards employee pension scheme under 
Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952.
	
Superannuation Fund 
	
The Bank has contributed ` 302.0 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 255.9 
million) to Superannuation Fund for employees who had opted for the scheme.
	
National Pension Scheme (NPS) 
	
The Bank has contributed ` 279.8 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 224.8 
million) to NPS for employees who had opted for the scheme.
  	 Compensated absence 
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, movement in provision for compensated absence.
` in million
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Total actuarial liability
3,079.8
3,081.6
Cost1
694.0
752.2
Assumptions
Discount rate
7.35%
6.85%
Salary escalation rate
8.00%
7.00%
	
	
1. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule-16 Operating expenses.

219
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
40.	 Movement in provision for credit cards/debit cards/savings accounts and direct marketing agents 
reward points
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, movement in provision for credit cards/debit cards/savings 
accounts reward points.
	
` in million
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Opening provision for reward points
3,278.3
2,612.6
Provision for reward points made during the year
12,377.7
7,877.7
Utilisation/write-back of provision for reward points
(10,930.5)
(7,212.0)
Closing provision for reward points1 
4,725.5
3,278.3
	
	
1.	The closing provision is based on the actuarial valuation of accumulated credit cards/debit cards/savings accounts reward 
points. 
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, movement in provision for reward points to direct marketing 
agents.
 ` in million
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Opening provision for reward points
248.0
172.2
Provision for reward points made during the year
103.3
214.5
Utilisation/write-back of provision for reward points
(151.6)
(138.7)
Closing provision for reward points
199.7
248.0
41.	 Provisions and contingencies 
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of provisions and contingencies included in 
profit and loss account. 
 ` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Provisions for depreciation of investments
12,995.4
3,771.1
Provision towards non-performing and other assets1
(6,222.9)
61,640.4
Provision towards income tax
1.	
Current
102,544.8
62,976.8
2.	
Deferred
2,702.5
9,717.2
Other provisions and contingencies2,3
59,883.3
21,002.7
Total provisions and contingencies
171,903.1
159,108.2
	
	
1.	Includes provision towards NPA amounting to ` 10,166.1 million (March 31, 2022: ` 37,077.5 million).
	
	
2.	Includes contingency provision made amounting to ` 56,500.0 million on a prudent basis during the year ended March 31, 2023 
(March 31, 2022: wrote-back provision ` 250.0 million).
	
	
3.	Includes general provision made towards standard assets, provision on fixed assets acquired under debt-asset swap and non-
fund based facilities.

220
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
The Bank has assessed its obligations arising in the normal course of business, including pending litigations, 
proceedings pending with tax authorities and other contracts including derivative and long term contracts. In 
accordance with the provisions of AS 29 on ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’, the Bank 
recognises a provision for material foreseeable losses when it has a present obligation as a result of a past event 
and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable 
estimate can be made. In cases where the available information indicates that the loss on the contingency is 
reasonably possible or the amount of loss cannot be reasonably estimated, a disclosure to this effect is made as 
contingent liabilities in the financial statements. The Bank does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have 
a materially adverse effect on its financial results.
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in provision for legal and fraud cases, 
operational risk and other contingencies. 
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Opening provision
 43,991.3 
27,527.9
Movement during the year (net)
 (2,700.3)
16,463.4
Closing provision
 41,291.0 
43,991.3
	
	
1.	 Excludes provision towards sundry expenses.
42.	  Provision for income tax 
	
The provision for income tax (including deferred tax) for the year ended March 31, 2023 amounted to ` 105,247.3 
million (March 31, 2022: ` 72,693.9 million). 
	
The Bank has a comprehensive system of maintenance of information and documents required by transfer pricing 
legislation under section 92-92F of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The Bank is of the opinion that all transactions with 
international related parties and specified transactions with domestic related parties are primarily at arm's length 
so that the above legislation does not have material impact on the financial statements.
43.	 Deferred tax
	
At March 31, 2023, the Bank has recorded net deferred tax assets of ` 75,034.5 million (March 31, 2022: ` 77,732.7 
million), which have been included in other assets.
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of deferred tax assets and liabilities into major 
items.
` in million
At
 March 31, 2023
At
 March 31, 2022
Deferred tax assets
Provision for bad and doubtful debts
 104,040.7 
104,563.5
Provision for operating expenses
 4,026.9 
-
Others
 8,973.7 
8,911.3
Total deferred tax assets
 117,041.3 
113,474.8
Deferred tax liabilities
Special reserve deduction
 36,735.9 
30,284.3
Depreciation on fixed assets
 4,449.7 
4,043.8
Interest on refund of taxes2
 206.2 
168.4
Foreign currency translation reserve2
615.0 
1,245.6
Total deferred tax liabilities
 42,006.8 
35,742.1
Total net deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
 75,034.5 
77,732.7
	
	
1.	Tax rate of 25.168% is applied based on the prevailing provisions of the Income tax Act, 1961.
	
	
2.	These items are considered in accordance with the requirements of Income Computation and Disclosure Standards (ICDS).

221
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
44.	 Details of provisioning pertaining to fraud accounts
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of provisioning pertaining to fraud accounts.
 ` in million, except number of frauds
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Number of frauds reported
6,642
5,678
Amount involved in frauds
3,853.9
31,000.5
Provision made1
1,570.8
3,730.3
Unamortised provision debited from balance in profit and loss account 
under ‘Reserves and Surplus’ 
- 
-
	
	
1.	Excludes amount written off and interest reversal. 
45.	 Proposed dividend on equity shares 
 	
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 22, 2023 has recommended a dividend of ` 8 per equity share for 
the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 5 per equity share). The declaration and payment of 
dividend is subject to requisite approvals. 
46.	 Related party transactions 
	
The Bank has transactions with its related parties comprising subsidiaries, associates/joint ventures/other related 
entities, key management personnel and relatives of key management personnel.
	
I.	
Subsidiaries, associates/joint ventures/other related entities
Sr. no. Name of the entity
Nature of relationship
1.
ICICI Bank Canada
Subsidiary
2.
ICICI Bank UK PLC
Subsidiary
3.
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited
Subsidiary
4.
ICICI International Limited
Subsidiary
5.
ICICI Investment Management Company Limited
Subsidiary
6.
ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited
Subsidiary
7.
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
Subsidiary
8.
ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company Limited
Subsidiary
9.
ICICI Prudential Trust Limited
Subsidiary
10.
ICICI Securities Holdings Inc.
Subsidiary
11.
ICICI Securities Inc.
Subsidiary
12.
ICICI Securities Limited
Subsidiary
13.
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited
Subsidiary
14.
ICICI Trusteeship Services Limited
Subsidiary
15.
ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited
Subsidiary
16.
Arteria Technologies Private Limited
Associate
17.
India Advantage Fund-III
Associate
18.
India Advantage Fund-IV
Associate
19.
India Infradebt Limited
Associate
20.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
Associate
21.
ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited
Associate
22.
I-Process Services (India) Private Limited
Associate
23.
NIIT Institute of Finance, Banking and Insurance Training Limited
Associate
24.
ICICI Strategic Investments Fund
Consolidated as per Accounting 
Standard (‘AS’) 21
25.
Comm Trade Services Limited
Other related entity
26.
ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth
Other related entity
27.
Cheryl Advisory Private Limited 
Other related entity

222
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
	
Key management personnel
Sr. no. Name of the Key management personnel
Relatives of the Key management personnel
1.
Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi
Ms. Mona Bakhshi
Mr. Shivam Bakhshi
Ms. Aishwarya Bakhshi
Ms. Esha Bakhshi
Ms. Minal Bakhshi
Mr. Sameer Bakhshi
Mr. Ritwik Thakurta
Mr. Ashwin Pradhan
Ms. Radhika Bakhshi
2.
Mr. Anup Bagchi
Ms. Mitul Bagchi
Mr. Aditya Bagchi
Mr. Shishir Bagchi
Mr. Arun Bagchi
3.
Mr. Sandeep Batra
Mr. Pranav Batra
Ms. Arushi Batra
Mr. Vivek Batra
Ms. Veena Batra
4.
Mr. Rakesh Jha
(w.e.f. September 2, 2022)
Mr. Narendra Kumar Jha
Mr. Navin Ahuja
Mr. Sharad Bansal
Ms. Aparna Ahuja
Ms. Apoorva Jha Bansal
Ms. Pushpa Jha
Ms. Sanjali Jha
Ms. Swati Jha
5.
Ms. Vishakha Mulye
(upto May 31, 2022)
Mr. Vivek Mulye
Ms. Vriddhi Mulye
Mr. Vighnesh Mulye
Dr. Gauresh Palekar
Ms. Shalaka Gadekar
Dr. Nivedita Palekar
	
II.	
Transactions with related parties
	
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the significant transactions between the Bank and its 
related parties.
` in million
Items
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Interest income
884.6
779.4
Subsidiaries
448.8
279.3
Associates/joint ventures/others
432.6
494.1
Key management personnel
3.2
6.0
Income from services rendered
6,709.3
8,748.1
Subsidiaries
5,365.9
7,579.2
Associates/joint ventures/others
1,343.4
1,168.9
Key management personnel
0.0
0.0
Relatives of key management personnel
0.0
0.0

223
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Items
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Gain/(loss) on forex and derivative transactions (net)2
(49.0)
45.5
Subsidiaries
(99.8)
8.9
Associates/joint ventures/others
50.8
36.6
Dividend income
17,845.6
18,287.9
Subsidiaries
15,498.5
16,294.6
Associates/joint ventures/others
2,347.1
1,993.3
Insurance claims received
1,809.4
948.9
Subsidiaries
1,650.0
719.5
Associates/joint ventures/others
159.4
229.4
Income from shared services
2,568.6
2,225.0
Subsidiaries
2,279.4
1,888.9
Associates/joint ventures/others
289.2
336.1
Interest expense
387.8
116.4
Subsidiaries
303.0
81.4
Associates/joint ventures/others
64.9
28.8
Key management personnel
15.3
4.8
Relatives of key management personnel
4.6
1.4
Expenses for services received
16,446.3
12,941.5
Subsidiaries
745.0
647.3
Associates/joint ventures/others
15,701.3
12,294.2
Insurance premium paid
9,521.8
10,189.9
Subsidiaries
6,717.7
7,537.2
Associates/joint ventures/others
2,804.1
2,652.7
Expenses for shared services and other payments
646.9
456.3
Subsidiaries
646.9
456.3
CSR related reimbursement of expenses
4,441.1
2,239.2
Associates/joint ventures/others
4,441.1
2,239.2
Purchase of investments
16,750.8
8,821.6
Subsidiaries
16,750.8
8,821.6
Investments in the securities issued by related parties
-
2,706.8
Subsidiaries
-
2,706.8
Capital Infusion by Parent
2,649.9
-
Subsidiaries
2,649.9
-
Sale of investments
56,799.5
20,477.8
Subsidiaries
41,334.4
18,967.1
Associates/joint ventures/others
15,465.1
1,510.7
Redemption/buyback of investments
50.0
28,683.6
Subsidiaries
50.0
28,153.6
Associates/joint ventures/others
-
530.0
Purchase of loans
20,574.6
7,296.5
Subsidiaries
20,574.6
7,296.5
Purchase of unfunded risk participation
-
861.1
Subsidiaries
-
861.1

224
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Items
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Purchase of fixed assets
4.9
4.8
Subsidiaries
1.5
-
Associates/joint ventures/others
3.4
4.8
Remuneration to wholetime directors3
336.6
262.3
Key management personnel
336.6
262.3
Dividend paid
3.8
2.4
Key management personnel
3.1
2.4
Relatives of key management personnel
0.7
0.0
Value of employee stock options exercised
290.6
394.2
Key management personnel
290.6
394.2
Sale of fixed assets
0.2
-
Key management personnel
0.2
-
	
	
	
1.	 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
	
	
	
2.	 The Bank undertakes derivative transactions with its subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other related entities. The 
Bank manages its foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from these transactions by covering them in the market. 
While the Bank, within its overall position limits covers these transactions in the market, the above amounts represent only 
the transactions with its subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other related entities and not the offsetting/covering 
transactions.
	
	
	
3.	 Excludes the perquisite value on employee stock options exercised and includes performance bonus paid during the 
period.
	
III.	 Material transactions with related parties
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the material transactions between the Bank and its 
related parties. A specific related party transaction is disclosed as a material related party transaction wherever 
it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in that category. 
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Interest income
1
India Infradebt Limited
419.0
488.7
2
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited
317.0
241.4
3
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited
116.6
14.9
Income from services rendered
1
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
3,927.8
5,892.2
2
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
1,192.5
1,032.5
3
ICICI Securities Limited
858.2
1,185.4
Gain/(loss) on forex and derivative transactions (net)1
1
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited
124.2
(45.0)
2
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
50.8
36.6
3
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited
(211.3)
74.2
4
ICICI Bank Canada
(11.1)
(22.7)

225
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Dividend income
1
ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited
6,220.8
6,139.8
2
ICICI Securities Limited
5,437.2
5,980.9
3
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
2,240.5
1,886.8
Insurance claims received
1
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
1,650.0
719.5
2
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
159.4
229.4
Income from shared services
1
ICICI Bank UK PLC
540.8
473.2
2
ICICI Securities Limited
536.4
339.1
3
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
384.0
370.9
4
ICICI Bank Canada
326.8
286.6
5
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
224.7
281.5
Interest expense
1
ICICI Securities Limited
289.8
71.8
Expenses for services received
1
I-Process Services (India) Private Limited
10,406.5
8,450.3
2
ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited
5,225.3
3,787.6
Insurance premium paid
1
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
6,717.7
7,537.2
2
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
2,804.1
2,652.7
Expenses for shared services and other payments
1
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited
599.6
366.7
CSR related reimbursement of expenses
1
ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth
4,441.1
2,239.2
Purchase of investments
1
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited
16,246.1
7,945.8
Investments in the securities issued by related parties
1
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited
-
2,706.8
Capital Infusion by Parent
1
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited
2,500.0
-
Sale of investments
1
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited
21,625.8
7,319.8
2
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
19,408.7
11,543.5
3
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
8,445.4
-
4
India Infradebt Limited
7,019.7
1,510.7
Redemption/buyback of investments
1
ICICI Securities Limited
50.0
-
2
ICICI Bank UK PLC
-
14,846.0
3
ICICI Bank Canada
-
13,307.6

226
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Purchase of loans
1
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited
19,290.7
6,766.5
Purchase of unfunded risk participation
1
ICICI Bank UK PLC
-
861.1
Purchase of fixed assets
1
Arteria Technologies Private Limited
3.2
1.7
2
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited
1.3
-
3
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
0.1
3.1
Remuneration to wholetime directors2
1
Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi
95.7
70.5
2
Mr. Anup Bagchi
86.5
66.3
3
Mr. Sandeep Batra
85.3
61.9
4
Mr. Rakesh Jha
45.9
N.A.
5
Ms. Vishakha Mulye
23.2
63.6
Dividend paid
1
Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi
1.7
0.4
2
Mr. Sandeep Batra
0.6
0.2
3
Mr. Rakesh Jha
0.7
N.A.
4
Mr. Shivam Bakhshi
0.4
-
5
Ms. Vishakha Mulye
N.A.
1.8
Value of employee stock options exercised
1
Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi
27.2
277.1
2
Mr. Anup Bagchi
183.2
56.0
3
Mr. Sandeep Batra
6.4
4.8
4
Ms. Vishakha Mulye
73.8
56.3
Sale of fixed assets
1
Mr. Rakesh Jha
0.1
N.A.
2
Ms. Vishakha Mulye
0.1
-
	
	
	
1.	 The Bank undertakes derivative transactions with its subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other related entities. 
The Bank manages its foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from these transactions by covering them in the 
market. While the Bank, within its overall position limits covers these transactions in the market, the above amounts 
represent only the transactions with its subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other related entities and not the 
offsetting/covering transactions.
	
	
	
2.	 Excludes the perquisite value on employee stock options exercised and includes performance bonus paid during 
the period.

227
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
IV.	 Related party outstanding balances
	
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the balances payable to/receivable from related parties.
` in million
Items
At 
March 31, 2023
At
March 31, 2022
Deposits with the Bank
24,829.0
23,987.7
Subsidiaries
21,913.1
20,405.8
Associates/joint ventures/others
2,603.0
3,424.7
Key management personnel
224.6
125.1
Relatives of key management personnel
88.3
32.1
Investments of related parties in the Bank
1.2
50.2
Subsidiaries
-
45.7
Key management personnel
1.0
2.0
Relatives of key management personnel
0.2
2.5
Call/term money lent by the Bank
6,000.0
-
Subsidiaries
6,000.0
-
Payables2
3,860.5
3,591.0
Subsidiaries
142.1
108.3
Associates/joint ventures/others
3,717.0
3,482.6
Key management personnel
0.4
0.0
Relatives of key management personnel
1.0
0.1
Deposits by the Bank
1,519.9
628.9
Subsidiaries
1,519.9
628.9
Investments of the Bank
94,344.5
93,105.0
Subsidiaries
69,772.9
68,623.0
Associates/joint ventures/others
24,571.6
24,482.0
Advances by the Bank
3,280.6
4,767.3
Subsidiaries
3,003.2
4,500.2
Associates/joint ventures/others
191.3
127.7
Key management personnel
85.7
139.1
Relatives of key management personnel
0.4
0.3
Receivables2
3,633.8
2,836.8
Subsidiaries
2,190.4
1,116.0
Associates/joint ventures/others
1,443.4
1,720.8
Guarantees/letters of credit/indemnity given by the Bank
2,356.5
6,701.4
Subsidiaries
2,293.4
6,642.4
Associates/joint ventures/others
63.1
59.0
Guarantees/letters of credit/indemnity issued by related parties
12,950.3
9,615.0
Subsidiaries
12,950.3
9,615.0
Swaps/forward contracts (notional amount)
10,648.9
55,104.5
Subsidiaries
10,648.9
55,104.5
Unfunded risk participation
953.3
879.3
Subsidiaries
953.3
879.3
	
	
	
1.	 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
	
	
	
2.	 Excludes mark-to-market on outstanding derivative transactions.

228
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
V.	 Related party maximum balances
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the maximum balances payable to/receivable from related 
parties.
` in million
Items
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Deposits with the Bank
34,787.5
44,081.7
Subsidiaries
27,024.5
36,999.2
Associates/joint ventures/others
7,119.8
6,637.2
Key management personnel
384.6
277.4
Relatives of key management personnel
258.6
167.9
Investments of related parties in the Bank1
50.9
51.1
Subsidiaries
48.8
45.7
Key management personnel
1.8
2.9
Relatives of key management personnel
0.3
2.5
Call/term money lent by the Bank
11,083.0
8,200.0
Subsidiaries
11,083.0
8,200.0
Payables1,2
6,199.8
5,055.3
Subsidiaries
169.8
150.5
Associates/joint ventures/others
6,028.6
4,904.6
Key management personnel
0.4
0.1
Relatives of key management personnel
1.0
 0.1 
Deposits by the Bank
3,461.2
3,274.3
Subsidiaries
3,461.2
3,274.3
Investments of the Bank
97,704.9
125,624.0
Subsidiaries
69,772.9
97,565.7
Associates/joint ventures/others
27,932.0
28,058.3
Advances by the Bank
9,945.7
12,458.0
Subsidiaries
9,608.9
12,003.8
Associates/joint ventures/others
195.3
183.1
Key management personnel
139.2
269.2
Relatives of key management personnel
2.3
1.9
Receivables1,2
6,111.7
5,676.0
Subsidiaries
3,930.7
3,499.9
Associates/joint ventures/others
2,181.0
2,176.1
Guarantees/letters of credit/indemnity given by the Bank
4,274.9
12,048.4
Subsidiaries
4,211.8
11,988.1
Associates/joint ventures/others
63.1
60.3
Guarantees/letters of credit/indemnity issued by related parties1
12,950.3
11,422.4
Subsidiaries
12,950.3
11,422.4
Swaps/forward contracts (notional amount)
55,163.8
222,791.6
Subsidiaries
55,163.8
222,791.6
Unfunded risk participation1
959.7
879.3
Subsidiaries
959.7
879.3
	
	
1.	Maximum balance is determined based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each quarter end during the financial 
year.
	
	
2.	Excludes mark-to-market on outstanding derivative transactions.

229
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
Letters of comfort
	
The Bank has issued letters of comfort on behalf of its banking subsidiary ICICI Bank UK PLC to Financial Services 
Authority, UK (now split into two separate regulatory authorities, the Prudential Regulation Authority and the 
Financial Conduct Authority) to confirm that the Bank intends to financially support ICICI Bank UK PLC in ensuring 
that it meets all of its financial obligations as they fall due.
	
The Bank has issued an undertaking on behalf of ICICI Securities Inc. Singapore for Singapore dollar 10.0 million 
(currently equivalent to ` 617.9 million) (March 31, 2022: ` 559.7 million) to the Monetary Authority of Singapore 
(MAS) and has also executed six indemnity agreements on behalf of ICICI Bank Canada to its independent directors 
for a sum not exceeding Canadian dollar 2.5 million each (currently equivalent to ` 151.7 million), aggregating to 
Canadian dollar 15.0 million (currently equivalent to ` 910.0 million) (March 31, 2022: ` 756.0 million). The aggregate 
amount of ` 1,527.9 million at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: ` 1,315.7 million) is included in the contingent 
liabilities. 
	
The Bank has issued an undertaking on behalf of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited to the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India in relation to the demerger of the general insurance business of 
Bharti AXA General Insurance Company Limited and transferring the same into ICICI Lombard General Insurance 
Company Limited through a scheme of arrangement.
	
The letters of indemnity are issued to IDBI Trusteeship Services Ltd (trustee of ICICI Strategic Investment Fund) on 
behalf of ICICI Strategic Investment Fund to indemnify against any potential liabilities.
	
The letters of comfort in the nature of letters of awareness that were outstanding at March 31, 2023 issued by 
the Bank on behalf of its subsidiaries in respect of their borrowings made or proposed to be made, aggregated to 
` 11,514.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 16,226.7 million). 
	
In addition to the above, the Bank has also issued letters of comfort in the nature of letters of awareness on behalf 
of its subsidiaries for other incidental business purposes. These letters of awareness are in the nature of factual 
statements or confirmation of facts and do not create any financial impact on the Bank.
47.	 Details of amount transferred to The Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (the Fund) of RBI
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in amount transferred to the Fund.
 ` in million
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Opening balance 
14,398.8
12,184.0
Add: Amounts transferred during the year
2,150.6
2,371.7
Less: Amounts reimbursed by the Fund towards claims during the year 
(278.8)
(156.9)
Closing balance
16,270.6
14,398.8
48.	 Details of payment of DICGC insurance premium 
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the payment of insurance premium and arrears.
 ` in million
Sr.  
No.
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
1.
Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium1
12,673.7
11,166.2
2.
Arrears in payment of DICGC premium
-
-
	
	
1.	Excludes goods and service tax.

230
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
49.	 Small and micro enterprises
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, details relating to enterprises covered under the Micro, Small 
and Medium Enterprises Development (MSMED) Act, 2006.
` in million 
Sr. 
No. Particulars
At March 31, 2023
At March 31, 2022
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
1.
The Principal amount and the interest due thereon 
remaining unpaid to any supplier 
-
-
-
-
2.
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of 
Section 16, along with the amount of the payment 
made to the supplier beyond the due date 
- 
-
-
-
3.
The amount of interest due and payable for the period 
of delay in making payment (which have been paid 
but beyond the due date during the year) but without 
adding the interest specified under MSMED Act, 2006
-
0.1
N.A.
0.4
4.
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid
 -
0.1
N.A.
0.4
5.
The amount of further interest remaining due and 
payable even in the succeeding years, until such date 
when the interest dues as above are actually paid to 
the small enterprise, for the purpose of disallowed as 
a deductible expenditure under Section 23
-
-
N.A.
-
50.	 Penalties/fines imposed by RBI and other banking regulatory bodies
	
There was no penalty imposed by RBI and other overseas banking regulatory bodies during the year ended March 31, 
2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 33.0 million).
51.	 Disclosure on Remuneration 
	
Compensation Policy and practices 
	
(A)	 Qualitative Disclosures
	
	
a)	
Bodies that oversee remuneration. 
	
	
	
•	
Name, composition and mandate of the main body overseeing remuneration
	
	
	
	
The Board Governance, Remuneration and Nomination Committee (BGRNC/ Committee) is the body 
which oversees the remuneration aspects. The functions of the Committee include recommending 
appointments of Directors to the Board, identifying persons who are qualified to become Directors 
and who may be appointed in senior management in accordance with the criteria laid down and 
recommending to the Board their appointment and removal, formulate a criteria for the evaluation 
of the performance of the whole time/ independent Directors and the Board and to extend or 
continue the term of appointment of independent Directors on the basis of the report of performance 
evaluation of independent Directors, recommending to the Board a policy relating to the remuneration 
for the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, Material Risk takers (MRTs) and other employees, 
recommending to the Board the remuneration (including performance bonus, share-linked instruments 
and perquisites) to wholetime Directors (WTDs) and senior management, approving the policy for 
and quantum of variable pay payable to members of the staff including senior management key 
managerial personnel, material risk takers and formulating the criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of a Director, framing policies on Board diversity, framing 
guidelines for share-linked instruments such as the Employees Stock Option Scheme (ESOS) Scheme 
2000), Employees Stock Unit Scheme (Scheme 2022) and deciding on the grant of the Bank’s stock 
options/units to employees and WTDs of the Bank and its subsidiary companies as applicable

231
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
	
	
•	
External consultants whose advice has been sought, the body by which they were commissioned, 
and in what areas of the remuneration process
	
	
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Bank employed the services of a reputed consulting firm 
for market benchmarking in the area of compensation, including executive compensation. 
	
	
	
•	
Scope of the Bank’s remuneration policy (eg. by regions, business lines), including the extent to 
which it is applicable to foreign subsidiaries and branches
	
	
	
	
The Compensation Policy of the Bank, as last amended by the BGRNC in its meeting dated October 21, 
2022 and the Board at its meeting held on October 22, 2022 covers all employees of the Bank, 
including those in overseas branches of the Bank. In addition to the Bank’s Compensation Policy 
guidelines, the overseas branches also adhere to relevant local regulations.
	
	
	
•	
Type of employees covered and number of such employees
	
	
	
	
All employees of the Bank are governed by the Compensation Policy. The total number of permanent 
employees of the Bank at March 31, 2023 was 126,660.
	
	
b)	
Design and structure of remuneration processes
	
	
	
•	
Key features and objectives of remuneration policy
	
	
	
	
The Bank has under the guidance of the Board and the BGRNC, followed compensation practices 
intended to drive performance within the framework of prudent risk management. This approach has 
been incorporated in the Compensation Policy, the key elements of which are given below.
	
	
	
	
o	
Effective governance of compensation: The BGRNC has oversight over compensation. The 
Committee defines Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for WTDs and equivalent positions and 
the organisational performance norms for variable pay based on the financial and strategic plan 
approved by the Board. The KPIs include both quantitative and qualitative aspects defined with 
sub parameters. The BGRNC assesses organisational performance and based on its assessment, 
it makes recommendations to the Board the compensation for WTDs, & equivalent positions and 
senior management subject to necessary approvals, wherever applicable.
	
	
	
•	
Alignment of compensation philosophy with prudent risk taking: The Bank seeks to achieve a 
prudent mix of fixed and variable pay, with a higher proportion of variable pay at senior levels and 
no guaranteed bonuses. Compensation is sought to be aligned to both financial and non- financial 
indicators of performance including aspects like risk management, other assurance areas and 
customer service. The Bank’s Employees stock option scheme and Employees stock unit scheme aim 
at aligning compensation to long-term performance through grants that vest over a period of time. 
Compensation of staff in audit, compliance and risk control functions is independent of the business 
areas they oversee. 
	
	
	
	
Changes, if any, made by the remuneration committee in the firm’s remuneration policy during the 
past year, and if so, an overview of any changes that were made
	
	
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Bank’s Compensation Policy was reviewed by the BGRNC 
and the Board as below:
BGRNC date
Board date
Overview of Changes
April 23,  
2022
April 23,  
2022
Change in criteria for MRT identification
October 21,  
2022
October 22,  
2022
Incorporate ‘Employees Stock Unit Scheme’ in the compensation policy.
Extend malus/clawback coverage to employees transferred or deputed 
or resigned to join a subsidiary/ associate company/ holding company.
To include that bonus clawback survives the resignation, retirement, 
early retirement or termination of services of the employee as per the 
terms mentioned in the compensation policy.

232
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
	
	
•	
Process followed by the Bank to ensure that the risk and compliance employees are remunerated 
independently of the businesses they oversee
	
	
	
	
The compensation of staff engaged in control functions like Audit, Risk and Compliance depends on 
their performance, which is based on achievement of the key goals of their respective functions. They 
are not assessed on business targets.
	
	
c)	
Ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the remuneration processes.
	
	
	
•	
Key risks that the Bank takes into account when implementing remuneration measures
	
	
	
	
The Board approves the Enterprise Risk Management framework (ERM) for the Bank. The business 
activities of the Bank are undertaken within this framework. The r RAF includes the definition of risk 
capacity, risk appetite statements and drill down of the same into limits /thresholds for various risk 
categories. The Bank’s KPIs which are applicable to WTDs & equivalent positions as well as employees 
(excluding control functions), incorporate relevant risk management related aspects. For example, in 
FY2023 in addition to performance indicators in areas such as risk calibrated core operating profit 
(profit before provisions and tax excluding treasury income), performance indicators included aspects 
such as asset quality, risk management framework, stakeholder relationships, customer service and 
leadership development. The BGRNC takes into consideration all the above aspects while assessing 
organisational performance and making compensation-related recommendations to the Board.
	
	
	
•	
Nature and type of key measures used to take account of these risks, including risk difficult to measure
	
	
	
	
The annual Key Performance Indicators and performance evaluation incorporated both qualitative 
and quantitative aspects including asset quality and provisioning, risk management framework, 
stakeholder relationships, customer service and leadership development.
	
	
	
•	
Ways in which these measures affect remuneration
	
	
	
	
Every year, the financial plan/targets are formulated in conjunction with a risk framework with limit 
structures for various areas of risk/lines of business, within which the Bank operates. To ensure 
effective alignment of compensation with prudent risk taking, the BGRNC takes into account adherence 
to the risk framework in conjunction with which the financial plan/targets have been formulated. 
The Bank’s KPIs which are applicable to WTDs and equivalent positions as well as employees 
(excluding control functions), incorporate relevant risk management related aspects and regulatory 
compliance. For example in FY2023, in addition to risk calibrated core operating profit, performance 
indicators also included aspects such as asset quality risk management framework, stakeholder 
relationships, customer service and leadership development. The BGRNC takes into consideration all 
the above aspects while assessing organisational performance and making compensation-related 
recommendations to the Board.
	
	
	
•	
The nature and type of these measures that have changed over the past year and reasons for the 
changes, as well as the impact of changes on remuneration.
	
	
	
	
The nature and type of these measures have not changed over the past year and hence, there is no 
impact on remuneration.
	
	
d)	
Ways in whic	h the Bank seeks to link performance during a performance measurement period with 
levels of remuneration
	
	
	
•	
Main performance metrics for Bank, top level business lines and individuals
	
	
	
	
The main performance metrics for FY2023 included risk calibrated core operating profit (profit before 
provisions and tax, excluding treasury income), asset quality metrics (such as provisions in absolute 
terms and as a percentage of core operating profit), regulatory compliance, risk management 
processes, stakeholder relationships, customer service and leadership development.

233
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
	
	
•	
Methodology followed whereby individual remuneration is linked to the Bank-wide and individual 
performance
	
	
	
	
The BGRNC takes into consideration above mentioned aspects while assessing performance and 
making compensation-related recommendations to the Board regarding the performance assessment 
of WTDs and equivalent positions.
	
	
	
•	
The measures that the Bank will in general implement to adjust remuneration in the event that 
performance metrics are weak, including the Bank’s criteria for determining ‘weak’ performance metrics
	
	
	
	
The Bank’s Compensation Policy outlines the measures the Bank will implement in the event of a 
reasonable evidence of deterioration in financial performance. Should such an event occur in the 
manner outlined in the policy, the BGRNC may decide to apply malus/clawback on none, part or all of 
the relevant variable compensation
	
	
e)	
Ways in which the Bank seeks to adjust remuneration to take account of the longer term performance
	
	
	
•	
The Bank’s policy on deferral and vesting of variable remuneration and, if the fraction of variable 
remuneration that is deferred differs across employees or groups of employees, a description of the 
factors that determine the fraction and their relative importance
	
	
	
	
The variable compensation is in the form of share-linked instruments) or cash or a mix of cash and 
share-linked instruments (The quantum of variable pay for an employee does not exceed a certain 
percentage (as stipulated in the compensation policy) of the total fixed pay in a year. The proportion 
of variable pay to total compensation is higher at senior levels and lower at junior levels. At least 50% 
of the compensation is variable for WTDs, CEO and MRTs as a design. However, they can earn lesser 
variable pay based on various performance criteria. For WTDs, CEO and MRTs, a minimum of 60% 
of the total variable pay is under deferral arrangement (deferment). Additionally, at least 50% of the 
cash component of the variable pay is under deferment. If the cash component is under ` 2.5 million, 
the deferment is not applicable.
	
	
	
•	
The Bank’s policy and criteria for adjusting deferred remuneration before vesting and (if permitted by 
national law) after vesting through claw back arrangements
	
	
	
	
The deferred portion of variable pay pertaining to the assessment year or previous year/s (as defined 
in the policy) is subject to malus, under which the Bank prevents vesting of all or part or none of the 
unvested variable pay in the event of the assessed divergence in the Bank’s provisioning for NPAs 
or in the event of a reasonable evidence of deterioration in financial performance or in the event of 
gross misconduct and/or other acts as mentioned in the policy. In such cases (other than assessed 
divergence), variable pay already paid out may also be subjected to clawback arrangements, as 
defined in the compensation policy.
	
	
f)	
Different forms of variable remuneration that the Bank utilises and the rationale for using these 
different forms
	
	
	
•	
Forms of variable remuneration offered. A discussion of the use of different forms of variable 
remuneration and, if the mix of different forms of variable remuneration differs across employees or 
group of employees, a description of the factors that determine the mix and their relative importance
	
	
	
	
The variable compensation is in the form of share-linked instruments or cash or a mix of cash and 
share-linked instruments. The Bank pays performance linked retention pay (PLRP) to its front-line 
staff and junior management. PLRP aims to reward front line and junior managers, mainly on the 
basis of skill maturity attained through experience and continuity in role which is a key differentiator 
for customer service. The Bank pays performance bonus and share-linked instruments to relevant 
employees in its middle and senior management. The variable pay payout schedules are sensitive to 
the time horizon of risks as defined in the policy.
	
	
	
	
The Bank ensures higher proportion of variable pay at senior levels and lower variable pay for front-
line staff and junior management levels.

234
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
(B)	 Quantitative disclosures
	
	
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, the details of quantitative disclosure for remuneration of 
WTDs (including MD & CEO) and other Material Risk Takers.
` in million, except numbers
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
1.	
Number of meetings held by the BGRNC during the financial year
5
4
	
Remuneration paid to its members during the financial year (sitting 
fees)
1.5 
0.8
2.	
Number of employees having received a variable remuneration 
award during the financial year1
48
50
3.	
Number and total amount of sign-on/joining bonus made during the 
financial year
-
-
4.	
Details of severance pay, in addition to accrued benefits, if any
-
-
5.	
Breakdown of amount of remuneration awards for the financial year
 	
Fixed2
 	
Variable3
 	
- Deferred
 	
- Non-deferred
 	
Share-linked instruments3(nos.)
 	
- Deferred (nos.)
 	
- Non-deferred (nos.)
1,142.9 
485.6 
 246.6 
 239.0 
 4,277,800 
 4,277,800 
-
1,216.3
426.1
211.1
215.0
5,977,650
5,977,650
 -
6.	
Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out during the year
	
- Bonus4
	
- Share-linked instruments4 (nos.)
 68.0 
8,015,135 
-
9,529,100
7.	
Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration
	
Cash5 
 	
Shares (nos)
 	
Shares-linked instruments5 (nos.)
 	
Other
 381.8 
-
10,311,910 
-
 211.1
-
16,098,240
-
8.	
Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration and retained 
remuneration exposed to ex-post explicit and/or implicit adjustments
	
- Bonus
	
- Share-linked instruments (nos.)
 381.8 
10,311,910 
211.1
12,187,480
9.	
Total amount of reductions during the year due to ex-post explicit 
adjustments6
N.A.
N.A.
10.	 Total amount of reductions during the year due to ex-post implicit 
adjustments
N.A.
N.A.
11.	 Number of MRTs identified7
42
48
12.	 Number of cases where malus has been exercised
-
-
	
Number of cases where clawback has been exercised6
-
-
	
Number of cases where malus and clawback have been exercised
-
-
	
The mean pay for the bank as a whole (excluding sub-staff) and the 
deviation of the pay of each of its WTDs from the mean pay
	
Mean pay of the bank8
	
Deviation - MD&CEO9
	
Deviation - WTD19
	
Deviation - WTD29
	
Deviation - WTD39
 790,345 
74,214,867 
 52,075,390 
67,836,208 
 65,872,493 
755,429
59,094,291
 54,049,788 
54,788,776
51,573,500
	
	
	
1.	 Includes MD & CEO, WTDs and other Material Risk Takers (MRTs) based on the revised criteria given by RBI in its guideline 
dated November 4, 2019. Also includes MRTs who have resigned, retired or transferred to group companies (separated) 
who were paid bonus or stock options granted/vested during the year. Variable remuneration includes cash bonus and 
stock options (as per RBI guideline dated November 4, 2019) that are paid/ granted/ vested during the year.

235
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
	
	
2.	 Fixed pay includes basic salary, supplementary allowances, superannuation, contribution to provident fund, gratuity fund 
and value of perquisites The value of perquisite is calculated as cost to the Bank. The salaries of separated MRTs have 
been considered for the period they were in service with the Bank. For FY2022, the remuneration approved for FY2021 (as 
paid during FY2022) has been considered for MD & CEO and WTDs. For FY2023, the remuneration also includes arrear 
payments pertaining to increments of MD & CEO and WTDs for FY2022.
	
	
	
3.	 Variable and share-linked instruments represent amounts/options awarded for the year ended March 31, 2021 and 
March 31, 2022 respectively as per RBI approvals wherever applicable.
	
	
	
4.	 Includes bonus/options that was paid/vested during the year. 
	
	
	
5.	 Includes outstanding bonus/options at the end of the financial year. 
	
	
	
6.	 Excludes ` 74.1 million variable pay to the former MD & CEO for past years which has been directed for claw-back in 
respect of which the Bank has filed a recovery suit against the former MD & CEO.
	
	
	
7.	 Includes MD & CEO/WTDs/and other MRTs based on the revised criteria given by RBI in its guidelines dated 
November 4, 2019.
	
	
	
8.	 Mean pay is computed on annualised fixed pay that includes basic salary, supplementary allowances, superannuation, 
contribution to provident fund, gratuity fund and value of perquisites. The value of perquisite is calculated as cost to 
the Bank.
	
	
	
9.	 The remuneration includes arrear payments made during FY2023 pertaining to increments of MD & CEO and WTDs for 
FY2022.
	
Payment of compensation in the form of profit related commission to the non-executive directors
	
The Bank pursuant to RBI circular dated April 26, 2021, has discontinued paying profit related commission to Non-
Executive Directors/Independent Directors (other than part-time chairman) from April 1, 2021 and instead fixed 
remuneration of ` 14.0 million has been paid for the year ended March 31, 2023 (FY2023). Mr. Girish Chandra 
Chaturvedi (part-time Chairman) was paid a remuneration of ` 3.5 million during FY2023. This is excluding sitting 
fees.
	
For the year ended March 31, 2022, fixed remuneration of ` 14.0 million had been paid to Non-Executive Directors/
Independent Directors (other than part-time chairman) and Mr. Girish Chandra Chaturvedi (part-time Chairman) 
was paid a remuneration of ` 3.5 million. Further, profit related commission of ` 7.0 million pertaining to FY2021 was 
paid to Non-Executive Directors/Independent Directors (other than part-time chairman) in FY2022.
52.	 Corporate Social Responsibility
	
The gross amount required to be spent by the Bank on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) related activities during 
the year ended March 31, 2023 was ` 4,008.5 million (March 31, 2022: ` 2,617.2 million).
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amount spent by the Bank on CSR related activities.
` in million
Sr. 
No. Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2023
Year ended March 31, 2022
In cash
Yet to be 
paid in cash
Total
In cash
Yet to be 
paid in cash
Total
1.
Construction/acquisition of any 
asset
-
-
-
-
-
-
2.
On purposes other than (1) 
above1
4,626.6
-
4,626.6
2,641.3
24.9
2,666.2
	
	
1.	CSR activities were in the areas of affordable and accessible healthcare, environmental and ecological projects like afforestation, 
rain water harvesting and climate smart agriculture, urban and rural livelihood projects, rural development, social awareness 
programme and Har Ghar Tiranga programme.

236
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
As required under the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021, surplus of 
` 171.2 million during the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 139.9 million), from CSR 
activities transferred to the unspent CSR account.
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of related party transactions pertaining to CSR 
related activities.
` in million
Sr. 
No.
Related Party
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
1.
ICICI Foundation for inclusive Growth1
4,401.1
2,239.2
 Total
4,401.1
2,239.2
	
	
1.	The above excludes ` 40.0 million of surplus during the year ended March 31, 2022 from CSR activities, transferred to unspent 
CSR account and spent by September 30, 2022, as required by law.
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of movement in provision pertaining to CSR 
related activities.
	
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Opening balance of provision 
24.9
119.2
Add: Provision for expenses during the year 
-
24.9
Less: payment out of opening balance 
24.9
119.2
Closing balance 
-
24.9
53.	 Disclosure of customer complaints
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement of complaints received by the Bank from its 
customers.
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
1.	
No. of complaints pending at the beginning of the year
10,401
30,096
2.	
No. of complaints received during the year
248,337
409,670
3.	
No. of complaints disposed during the year
244,309
429,365
	
3a. Of which, number of complaints rejected by the Bank 
101,227
164,458
4.	
No. of complaints pending at the end of the year
14,429
10,401
	
	
1.	Complaints do not include complaints redressed by the Bank within one working day.

237
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of maintainable complaints received. 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
i.	
Number of maintainable complaints received by the Bank from Office 
of Banking Ombudsmans (OBOs)1
12,114
12,174
	
Of (i), number of complaints resolved in favour of the Bank by Banking 
Ombudsmans (BOs)
5,627
 5,566
 	
Of (i), number of complaints resolved through conciliation/mediation/
advisories issued by BOs2
6,487
 6,608
	
Of (i), number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by 
BOs against the Bank
-
 -
ii.	
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other 
than those appealed)
-
 -
	
	
1.	Maintainable complaints are as per data received from RBI. 
	
	
2.	For year ended March 31, 2023, 432 complaints (March 31, 2022: 361 complaints) were resolved based on advisories received 
from BOs.
	
The following table sets forth, top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from customers for the year 
ended March 31, 2023.
Grounds of complaints
No. of 
complaints 
pending at the 
beginning of 
the year
No. of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
% increase/ 
decrease in the 
no. of complaints 
received over 
previous year
No. of 
complaints 
pending at 
the end of the 
year
Of 5, No. of 
complaints 
pending 
beyond 30 
days
1
2
3
4
5
6
ATM/Debit Cards
3,655
76,049
(50.4%)
1,343
148
Credit Cards
3,312
70,225
(49.1%)
2,618
367
Internet/Mobile/ Electronic 
Banking
2,018
53,011
25.9%
9,109
3,546
Loans and advances
270
11,026
(30.3%)
211
3
Account opening/difficulty 
in operation of accounts
144
7,708
(27.4%)
184
5
Others
1,002
30,318
(39.3%)
964
56
Total
10,401
248,337
(39.4%)
14,429
4,125

238
Annual Report 2022-23 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from customers for the year 
ended March 31, 2022.
Grounds of complaints
No. of 
complaints 
pending at 
the beginning 
of the year
No. of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
% increase/ 
decrease in the 
no. of complaints 
received over 
previous year
No. of 
complaints 
pending at 
the end of the 
year
Of 5, No. of 
complaints 
pending 
beyond 30 
days
1
2
3
4
5
6
ATM/Debit Cards
11,760
153,340
(37.2%)
3,655
742
Credit Cards
10,107
137,857
12.5%
3,312
525
Internet/Mobile/ Electronic 
Banking
6,877
42,091
0.0%
2,018
130
Loans and advances
268
15,817
7.9%
270
2
Account opening/ difficulty 
in operation of accounts
257
10,614
(3.3%)
144
0
Others
827
49,951
4.4%
1,002
64
Total
30,096
409,670
(15.0%)
10,401
1,463
54.	 Drawdown from reserves
	
The Bank has not drawn any amount from reserves during the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 
2022: Nil).
55.	 Investor Education and Protection Fund
	
The unclaimed dividend amount, due for transfer to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) during the 
year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, has been transferred without any delay.
56.	 Implementation of IFRS converged Indian Accounting Standards
	
In January 2016, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs issued the roadmap for implementation of new Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS), converged with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), for scheduled commercial 
banks, insurance companies and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs). However, currently the implementation 
of Ind AS for banks has been deferred by RBI till further notice pending the consideration of some recommended 
legislative amendments by the Government of India. The Bank is in an advanced stage of preparedness for 
implementation of Ind AS, as and when these are made applicable to the Indian banks. Further, there may be new 
regulatory guidelines and clarifications in some critical areas of Ind AS application, which the Bank will need to 
suitably incorporate in its implementation.
57.	 Disclosure on lending and borrowing activities
	
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances, makes investment, provides guarantees 
to and accept deposits and borrowings from its customers, other entities and persons. These transactions are part 
of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted ensuring adherence to all regulatory requirements.

239
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
	
Other than the transactions described above, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from 
borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank to or in any other persons or 
entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”) with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall lend or invest in party identified by or on behalf of the Bank (Ultimate Beneficiaries). The 
Bank has also not received any fund from any parties (Funding Party) with the understanding that the Bank shall 
whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
58.	 Comparative Figures
	
Figures of the previous year have been re-grouped to conform to the current year presentation.
Signatures to Schedules 1 to 18
As per our Report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105047W
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Chairman
DIN-00110996
Uday M. Chitale
Director
DIN-00043268
Sandeep Bakhshi 
Managing Director & CEO
DIN-00109206
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership no.: 118580
Anup Bagchi
Executive Director
DIN-00105962
Rakesh Jha
Executive Director
DIN-00042075
Sandeep Batra
Executive Director
DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Anindya Banerjee
Group Chief Financial Officer
Prachiti Lalingkar 
Company Secretary
Rajendra Khandelwal
Chief Accountant
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
UDIN :
Mumbai
April 22, 2023

240
Annual Report 2022-23 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of 
ICICI Bank Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of ICICI Bank Limited (hereinafter referred to 
as the “Bank” or ‘Holding Company’) and its subsidiaries (Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred 
to as “the Group”), and its associates, which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2023, the 
Consolidated Profit and Loss account, and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and 
notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and based on 
consideration of the reports of the other auditors on separate financial statements and the other financial information 
of subsidiaries and associates, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the information required by the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), and circulars and guidelines issued 
by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) from time to time (‘RBI Guidelines’) in the manner so required for banking 
companies and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Accounting Standards prescribed under Section 133 
of the Act read with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 and other and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group and its associates as at 31 March 2023, 
and their consolidated profit, and their consolidated cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (‘SAs’) specified under section 143(10) of 
the Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group and its associates 
in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements 
in India in terms of the Code of Ethics issued by Institute of Chartered Accountant of India (‘ICAI’), and the relevant 
provisions of the Act and the rules thereunder and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained along with the consideration of audit 
reports of other auditors referred to in the “Other Matters” paragraph below is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Key Audit Matters
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, and based on the consideration of the 
reports of the other auditors on separate financial statements and other financial information of the subsidiaries and 
associates, as referred to in paragraph 17 below, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on 
these matters.

241
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
5.	
We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
Identification and provisioning of non-performing advances (NPA): 
Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at 31 March 2023: ` 10,838,663,147 (in ‘000s) Provision for 
NPA as at 31 March 2023: ` 256,291,070 (in ‘000s) of which Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at 
31 March 2023: ` 10,196,383,053 (in ‘000s)* & Provision for NPA as at 31 March 2023: ` 248,358,100 
(in ‘000s)* relates to Bank.
(Refer Schedule 9, Schedule 17(13))
* the amounts relating to the Bank are before consolidation adjustments including intercompany eliminations, if any.
The Reserve Bank of India’s (“RBI”) guidelines 
on Income recognition and asset classification & 
Provisioning (“IRAC”) and other circulars and directives 
issued by the RBI from time to time, which prescribe the 
prudential norms for identification and classification of 
performing & non-performing assets (“NPA”) and the 
minimum provision required for such assets. The Bank 
is required to have Board approved policy as per IRAC 
guidelines for NPA identification & classification of 
advances and provision thereon.
The provision on NPA is estimated based on ageing 
and classification of NPAs, recovery estimates, nature 
of loan product, value of security and other qualitative 
factors and is subject to the minimum provisioning 
norms specified by RBI and approved policy of the 
Bank in this regard.
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to 
determine the identification and provision required 
against NPAs by applying quantitative as well as 
qualitative factors. The risk of identification of NPAs is 
affected by factors like stress and liquidity concerns in 
certain sectors.
Additionally, the Bank makes provisions on exposures 
that are not classified as NPA including advances 
to certain sectors and identified advances or group 
advances. These are classified as contingency 
provisions.
Since the identification of NPAs and provisioning for 
advances require significant level of estimation and 
given its significance to the overall audit including 
possible observation by RBI which could result into 
disclosure in the financial statements, we have 
ascertained identification and provisioning for NPAs as 
a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter 
included:
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of 
key controls (including application controls) over 
approval, recording, monitoring and recovery of loans, 
monitoring overdue / stressed accounts, identification 
of NPA, provision for NPA and valuation of security and 
collateral on a test check basis. Further obtained an 
understanding of the contingency provision carried by 
the Bank and verified the underlying assumptions used 
by the Bank for such estimate.
Tested application controls included test of automated 
controls, reports and system reconciliations.
Reviewed existence and effectiveness of monitoring 
mechanisms such as Internal Audit, Systems Audit, and 
Concurrent Audit as per the policies and procedures of 
the Bank;
Evaluated the governance process and review controls 
over calculations of provision of non-performing 
advances, basis of provisioning in accordance with the 
Board approved policy.
Selected a sample of borrowers based on quantitative 
and qualitative risk factors for their assessment of 
appropriate identification & classification as NPA 
including computation of overdue ageing to assess 
its correct classification and provision amount as per 
extant IRAC norms and the Bank policy.
Performed other substantive procedures included and 
not limited to the following:
	
Selected samples of performing loans and 
assessed independently as to whether those 
should be classified as NPA;
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)

242
Annual Report 2022-23 
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
	
For samples selected, reviewed the collateral 
valuations, 
financial 
statements 
and 
other 
qualitative information
	
Considered the accounts reported by the Bank 
and other Banks as Special Mention Accounts 
(“SMA”) in RBI’s Central Repository of Information 
on Large Credits (CRILC) to identify stress.
	
For selected samples, assessed independently, 
the accounts that can potentially be classified as 
NPA and Red flagged accounts.
	
Inquired with the credit and risk departments to 
ascertain if there were indicators of stress or an 
occurrence of an event of default in a particular 
loan account or any product category which 
needed to be considered as NPA.
	
Examined the accounts under watchlist report 
provided by the risk department.
	
Discussed with the management of the Bank on 
sectors where there is a perceived credit risk and 
the steps taken to mitigate the risks to identified 
sectors.
	
Selected and tested samples for accounts which 
are restructured as per RBI Master Circular - 
Prudential norms on Income Recognition, Asset 
Classification and Provisioning pertaining to 
Advances; and
	
Assessed appropriateness & the adequacy of 
disclosures against the relevant accounting 
standards and RBI requirements relating to NPAs.
Evaluation of Litigations included in Contingent Liabilities
As at 31 March 2023, the Group has reported ‘Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts’ of 
`  88,006,837 (in ‘000s) (31 March 2022 – ` 89,527,688 (in ‘000s)), of which the following relate to the Bank:
(Included under contingent liabilities) (in ‘000)
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2023
As at 
31 March 2022
Legal Cases
3,027,295
3,201,365
Taxes
78,935,723
79,637,364
Total Claims against Bank not acknowledged as Debt
81,963,018 
82,838,729
((Refer Schedule 12 and Schedule 17(10))
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)

243
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Bank has material open tax litigations including 
matters under dispute which involve significant 
judgement to determine the possible outcome of these 
disputes.
Significant management judgement is needed in 
determining whether an obligation exists and whether 
a provision should be recognised as at the reporting 
date, in accordance with the accounting criteria set 
under Accounting Standard 29 - Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets (‘AS 29’), or whether it 
needs to be disclosed as a contingent liability. Further, 
significant judgements are also involved in measuring 
such obligations, the most significant of which are:
	
Assessment of Liability: Judgement is involved in 
determination of whether outflow in respect of 
identified material matters are probable and can 
be estimated reliably.
	
Adequacy of provisions: The appropriateness of 
assumption and judgements used in estimation of 
significant provisions; and
	
Adequacy of disclosures of provision for liabilities 
and charges, and contingent liabilities.
The Bank’s assessment is supported by the facts of 
matter, their own judgement, experience, and advises 
from legal and independent tax consultants wherever 
considered necessary.
Since the assessment of these open litigations requires 
significant level of judgement in interpretation of law, 
we have included this as a key audit matter.
Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter 
included:
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of the 
Bank’s key controls over the estimation, monitoring 
and disclosure of provisions and contingent liabilities 
on test check basis.
Our substantive audit procedures included and were 
not limited to the following:
	
Obtained an understanding of Bank’s process 
for determining tax liabilities, tax provisions 
and contingent liabilities pertaining to legal and 
taxation matters;
	
Obtained a list of cases /matters in respect of 
which the litigations were outstanding as at 
reporting date:
	
•	
For significant legal matters, we obtained 
external confirmations and corroborated 
with management’s documented conclusions 
on the assessment of outstanding litigations 
against the Bank;
	
•	
For significant taxation matters, we involved 
our tax specialists to gain an understanding 
of 
status 
of 
the 
litigations 
including 
understanding of various orders/ notices 
received by the Bank and management’s 
grounds of appeals before the relevant 
appellate authorities.
	
Evaluated the merit of the subject matter under 
consideration with reference to the grounds 
presented therein and available independent legal 
/ tax advice;
	
Inquired with appropriate level of the management 
including status update, expectation of outcomes 
with the basis, and the future course of action 
contemplated by the Bank;
	
Reviewed minutes of meetings with Board, and 
Audit committee in this regard
	
Agreed underlying tax balances to supporting 
documentation including correspondence with the 
Tax authorities; and
	
Assessed 
the 
appropriateness 
& 
adequacy 
of disclosures within the standalone financial 
statements in accordance with the applicable 
accounting standards and requirements of RBI in 
this regard.

244
Annual Report 2022-23 
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
Information Technology (‘IT’) systems and controls impacting financial controls.
The Bank has a complex IT architecture to support 
its day-to-day business operations. High volume of 
transactions is processed and recorded on single or 
multiple applications.
The reliability and security of IT systems plays a key 
role in the business operations of the Bank. Since 
large volume of transactions are processed daily, the 
IT controls are required to ensure that applications 
process data as expected and that changes are made 
in an appropriate manner.
Appropriate IT general controls and application controls 
are required to ensure that such IT systems are able to 
process the data, as required, completely, accurately 
and consistently for reliable financial reporting.
We have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as key 
audit matter because of the high level automation, 
significant number of systems being used by the 
management and the complexity of the IT architecture 
and its impact on the financial reporting system.
Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter 
included:
For testing the IT general controls, application controls 
and IT dependent manual controls, we involved IT 
specialists as part of the audit. The team also assisted 
in testing the accuracy of the information produced by 
the Bank’s IT systems.
Obtained a comprehensive understanding of IT 
applications landscape implemented at the Bank. It 
was followed by process understanding, mapping of 
applications to the same and understanding financial 
risks posed by people-process and technology.
Key IT audit procedures includes testing design and 
operating effectiveness of key controls operating over 
user access management (which includes user access 
provisioning, de-provisioning, access review, password 
configuration review, segregation of duties and privilege 
access), change management (which include change 
release in production environment are compliant to the 
defined procedures and segregation of environment is 
ensured), program development (which include review 
of data migration activity), computer operations (which 
includes testing of key controls pertaining to, backup, 
Batch processing (including interface testing), incident 
management and data centre security), System 
interface controls. This included testing that requests 
for access to systems were appropriately logged, 
reviewed, and authorized.
In addition to the above, the design and operating 
effectiveness of certain automated controls, that were 
considered as key internal system controls over financial 
reporting were tested. Using various techniques such 
as inquiry, review of documentation / record / reports, 
observation, and re-performance. We also tested few 
controls using negative testing technique.
Tested compensating controls and performed alternate 
procedures, where necessary. In addition, understood 
where relevant changes made to the IT landscape 
during the audit period.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)

245
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
Valuation of Derivatives:
As at 31 March 2023, the Group has reported notional value of derivatives of ` 48,498,441,596 (in ‘000) 
(31 March 2022 – ` 43,893,514,404 (in ‘000s)), of which the following relate to the Bank:
 (Included under contingent liabilities) (in ‘000)
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2023
As at 
31 March 2022
Notional amounts *
40,984,024,707
37,056,016,613
(Refer Schedule 12.III, 12.VI, 12.VII, Schedule 18(14) to the standalone financial statements)
* the amounts relating to the Bank are before consolidation adjustments including intercompany eliminations, if any.
Derivatives are valued through models with external 
inputs. The derivatives portfolio of the Bank primarily 
includes transactions which are carried out on behalf 
of its clients (and are covered on a back-to-back basis) 
and transactions to hedge the Bank’s interest and 
foreign currency risk.
A significant degree of management judgement is 
involved in the application of valuation techniques 
through which the value of the Bank’s derivatives 
is determined. The financial statement risk arises 
particularly with respect to complex valuation models, 
valuation parameters, and inputs that are used in 
determining fair values.
Considering the significance of the above matter to 
the financial statements, significant management 
estimates and judgements, and auditor attention 
required to test such estimates and judgements, we 
have identified this as a key audit matter for current 
year audit.
Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to, 
the following:
	
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the 
design, and tested the operating effectiveness 
of the key controls over the valuation processes, 
including: 
- 
independent 
price 
verification 
performed by a management expert; and model 
governance and validation.
On a sample basis, we performed an independent 
reassessment of the valuation of derivatives and 
evaluated significant models and methodologies used 
in valuation, to ensure compliance with the relevant 
RBI regulations, reasonableness of the valuation 
methodology and the inputs used.

246
Annual Report 2022-23 
The joint auditors of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, vide their audit report dated 20 April 2023, 
have expressed an unmodified opinion on the financial statements. Based on consideration of their report, the 
following Key Audit Matter was included in the audit report.
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
Information Technology (IT) systems relating to ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
The Company is highly dependent on information 
technology systems and controls to process and record 
large volume of transactions, such that there exists a 
risk that gaps in the IT control environment could result 
in the financial accounting and reporting records being 
materially misstated.
Further, IT systems are accessible to employees 
on a remote basis which could result in increasing 
challenges around the data protection.
Due 
to 
the 
pervasive 
nature, 
complexity 
and 
importance of the impact of the IT systems and related 
control environment on the Company’s financial 
statements, testing of such IT systems and related 
control environment has been identified as a key audit 
matter for the current year audit.
Involvement of IT specialists in assessment of the 
IT systems and controls over financial reporting, 
which included carrying out the following key audit 
procedures:
	
Understood General IT Controls (GITC) over key 
financial accounting and reporting systems
(referred to as “in-scope systems”) which covered 
access 
controls, 
program/ 
system 
changes, 
program development and computer operations 
i.e. job processing, data/ system backup and 
incident management;
	
Tested controls over IT infrastructure covering 
user access including privilege users and system 
changes;
	
Evaluated design and operating effectiveness for 
in-scope systems and application controls which 
covered segregation of duties, system interfaces, 
completeness and accuracy of data feeds and 
system reconciliation controls;
	
Evaluated policies and strategies adopted by 
the Company in relation to operational security 
of key information infrastructure, data and client 
information management and monitoring and 
crisis management; and
	
Assessed 
whether 
controls 
have 
remained 
unchanged during the year or were changed after 
considering controls around change management 
process.
Valuation and Impairment determination of Investments relating to ICICI Prudential Life 
Insurance Company Limited (31 March 2023 : ` 2,482,204,207 (in ‘000s)  
(31 March 2022 : ` 2,381,077,786 (in ‘000s))
(Refer Schedule 8, Schedule 17(12))
* the amounts relating to ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited are before consolidation adjustments including 
intercompany eliminations, if any.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)

247
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Company’s investment portfolio consists of 
Policyholders investments (unit linked and non-linked) 
and Shareholders investments. Total investment 
portfolio represents 99 percent of the Company’s total 
assets as at 31 March 2023.
Investments are valued in accordance with the 
provisions of the Insurance Act, the IRDA Financial 
Statements 
Regulations, 
IRDAI 
(Investment) 
Regulations, 2016 orders/ directions/ circulars issued 
by IRDAI and / or policies as approved by the Board of 
Directors of the Company (collectively the “Accounting 
Policy”).
Investments in unit linked portfolio of ` 1,440,580,565 
(in ‘000s) are valued based on observable inputs as per 
their accounting policy and gains/losses are recognized 
in Revenue account. These unit linked portfolio 
investments do not represent higher risk of material 
misstatement however, are considered to be a key 
audit matter due to their materiality to the standalone 
financial statements.
Investments in non-linked and shareholders portfolio 
of ` 1,041,623,642 (in ‘000s) are valued as per their 
accounting policy, based on which:
	
the unrealized gains/ losses arising due to changes 
in fair value of listed equity shares and mutual 
fund units are recorded in the “Fair Value Change 
Account” in the Balance Sheet; and
	
debt securities and unlisted equity shares are 
valued at historical cost.
Further, 
investments 
in 
the 
non-linked 
and 
shareholders portfolio are assessed for impairment as 
per the Company’s investment policy which involves 
significant management judgement. There is increased 
economic stress on account of external factors, which 
may impact the valuation of these investments.
Accordingly, valuation of investments (including 
impairment assessment) was considered to be one of 
the areas which required significant auditor attention 
and was one of the matter of most significance in the 
standalone financial statements.
Carried out the following key audit procedures:
	
Understood the Company’s process and tested 
the controls on the valuation of investments;
	
Tested the design, implementation and operating 
effectiveness of key controls over the valuation 
process, including the Company’s assessment 
and approval of assumptions used for valuation, 
including key authorization and data input controls 
thereof;
	
Assessed valuation methodologies with reference 
to the Accounting Policy and the Company’s Board 
approved valuation policy;
	
For selected samples of listed investments, 
performed 
independent 
price 
checks 
using 
external quoted prices and by agreeing the inputs 
which were used in the Company’s valuation 
techniques to external data;
	
For 
selected 
samples 
of 
cost 
measured 
investments, tested Company’s assessment of 
impairment and evaluated whether the same 
was in accordance with the Company’s updated 
impairment policy; and
	
Evaluated how the Company has factored the 
impact of economic stress in investment valuation 
process (including impairment assessment).

248
Annual Report 2022-23 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
The joint auditors of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited, vide their audit report dated 18 April 2023, 
have expressed an unmodified opinion on the financial statements. Based on consideration of their report, the 
following Key Audit Matter was included in the audit report.
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
Information Technology (IT) systems relating to ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
The company is highly dependent on its complex IT 
architecture comprising hardware, software, multiple 
applications, automated interfaces and controls in 
systems for recording, storing and reporting financial 
transactions.
Key audit procedures included but were not limited to 
the following:
Obtained an understanding of the entity's IT related 
control environment. Furthermore, conducted a risk 
assessment and identified IT applications that are key 
for the Company’s financial reporting.
Large volume of transactions that are processed on 
daily basis as part of its operations, which impacts 
key financial accounting and reporting items such as 
premium income, claims, commission expenses and 
investments among others.
There exists a risk that, gaps in the IT control environment 
could result in the financial accounting and reporting 
records being materially misstated.
The controls implemented by the entity in its IT 
environment 
determine 
the 
integrity, 
accuracy, 
completeness, and the validity of the data that is 
processed by the applications and is ultimately used 
for financial reporting. These controls contribute to 
mitigating risk of potential misstatements caused by 
fraud or errors.
Audit approach relies on automated controls and 
therefore procedures are designed to test control over 
IT systems, segregation of duties, interface and system 
application controls over key financial accounting and 
reporting systems.
For the key IT systems relevant to reporting of financial 
information, areas of audit focus included access, 
program change management, automated transaction 
and interface controls. In particular:
	
Obtained an understanding of the entity's IT 
environment and key changes if any during the 
audit period that may be relevant to the audit.
	
On sample basis tested the design, implementation 
and operating effectiveness of the General IT 
controls over the key IT systems that are critical 
to financial reporting. This included evaluation of 
entity's controls to ensure segregation of duties 
and appropriate access rights.
	
Controls over changes to software applications 
were evaluated to verify whether the changes 
were approved, tested in an environment that 
was segregated from operation and moved to 
production by appropriate users.
	
Evaluated the design and tested the operating 
effectiveness of critical & key automated controls 
within various business processes around the 
Software system. This included testing the 
integrity of system interfaces, the completeness 
and accuracy of data feeds, system reconciliation 
controls and automated calculations.
	
Reviewed the Information System Audit Reports 
and Key audit findings of Internal Audit to assess 
the impact of observations and management’s 
response if any on financial reporting.
Results of the tests has provided audit evidence 
which have been used to draw conclusions including 
reporting.

249
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
Investments of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
The Company’s investments represent 78% of the 
assets as at 31 March 2023 which are to be valued in 
accordance with accounting policy framed as per the 
extant regulatory guidelines.
The valuation of all investments should be as per the 
investment policy framed by the Company which in turn 
should be in line with IRDAI Investment Regulations 
and Preparation of Financial Statement Regulations.
Audit procedures on Investments included the following:
	
Understood Management’s process and controls 
to ensure proper classification and valuation of 
Investment.
	
Verified 
and 
obtained 
appropriate 
external 
confirmation for availability and ownership rights 
related to these investments.
The valuation methodology specified in the regulation 
is to be used for each class of investment.
The Company has a policy framework for Valuation and 
impairment of Investments. The Company performs an 
impairment review of its investments periodically and 
recognizes impairment charge when the investments 
meet the trigger/s for impairment provision as per the 
criteria set out in the investment policy of the Company. 
Further, the assessment of impairment involves 
significant management judgment.
The classification and valuation of these investments 
was considered one of the matters of material 
significance in the financial statements due to the 
materiality of the total value of investments to the 
financial statements.
	
Tested the design, implementation, management 
oversight and operating effectiveness of key 
controls over the classification and valuation 
process of investments.
	
Test-checked valuation of different class of 
investments to assess appropriateness of the 
valuation methodologies with reference to IRDAI 
Investment Regulations along with Company’s 
own investment policy.
	
Examining the rating downgrades by credit rating 
agencies and assessing the risk of impairments to 
various investments.
	
Reviewed the Company’s impairment policy and 
assessed the adequacy of its impairment charge 
on investments outstanding at the year end.
Based on procedures above, found the Company’s 
impairment, valuation and classification of investments 
in its financial statements in all material respects to be 
fair.

250
Annual Report 2022-23 
Key Audit Matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
Migration of databases used by erstwhile Bharti Axa General Insurance Limited's insurance 
business ("Insurance Undertaking") with the ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
During the year the Company formulated a plan and 
started migrating the historical and as well currently 
active, Policy, claims and other relevant electronic data 
as part of the integration of the Insurance Undertaking.
Data Migration involves carefully planning the cutover 
and data movement strategy, controls to ensure 
accuracy, completeness, system of validation and a 
process for handling errors in Data Migration. Data 
Migration is crucial to ensuring integrity and accuracy of 
the data flowing into financial accounting system that 
generates the Financial Statements of the Company.
Being a one-time activity carrying an important audit risk 
which required appropriate response as critical part of 
audit strategy.
Audit procedures included following;
	
Obtained understanding of internally approved 
migration strategy and timelines, which also includes 
business criteria for identifying data that needs to be 
migrated
	
Obtained understanding of controls designed and 
implemented as part of migration strategy at various 
stages of migration and evaluated their adequacy.
	
Test the checked the operating effectiveness of the 
designed controls
	
Enquired and reviewed the process of error handling 
including their ultimate resolution Designed and 
executed few audit tests to validate accuracy and 
completeness of the Migrated data
Results of tests has provided audit evidence which have 
used to draw conclusions including our reporting.
Information Other than the Consolidated Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
6.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises 
the information included in the Annual Report but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. The Annual Report is expected to be made available to us after that date of this auditor’s 
report.
	
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we will not express 
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
	
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information 
is materially inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
	
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the 
relevant laws and regulations.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)

251
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
7.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with 
respect to the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair 
view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated financial performance and consolidated cash flows of the 
Group including its associates in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including 
the Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Accounting Standard) 
Rules, 2021, provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and circulars and guidelines issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) from time to time (‘RBI Guidelines’). The respective Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company and the subsidiary companies included in the Group and of its associate companies are responsible for 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI guidelines 
for safeguarding of the assets of the Group and of its associates and for preventing and detecting frauds and other 
irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the 
preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of 
the consolidated financial statements by the Management and Directors of the Bank, as aforesaid.
8.	
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in 
the Group and of its associates are responsible for assessing the ability of the respective companies included in 
the Group and of its associates to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the respective Board of Directors either intends to 
liquidate the companies included in the Group and its associates or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative 
but to do so.
9.	
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates are also responsible 
for overseeing the financial reporting process of the subsidiary companies included in the Group and of its associates.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
10.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes 
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted 
in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from 
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
11.	 As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
	
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
	
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Bank has adequate internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls;

252
Annual Report 2022-23 
	
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by the Management;
	
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based 
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that 
may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group and its associates to continue as a going concern. If we 
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the 
related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify 
our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. 
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and its associates to cease to continue as a going 
concern;
	
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including 
the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation;
	
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities within the Group 
and its associates to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent auditors. For the other entities included in 
the consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors remain 
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain solely 
responsible for our audit opinion.
12.	 We communicate with those charged with governance of the Bank and such other entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit.
13.	 We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
14.	 From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current year and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
15.	 The joint statutory auditors of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited (‘ICICI Life’), vide their audit report 
dated 20 April 2023 have expressed an unmodified opinion and have reported in the 'Other Matter' section that 
‘The actuarial valuation of liabilities for life policies in force and policies in respect of which premium has been 
discontinued but liability exists as at 31 March 2023 is the responsibility of the Company’s Appointed Actuary (the 
"Appointed Actuary"). The actuarial valuation of these liabilities for life policies in force and for policies in respect 
of which premium has been discontinued but liability exists as at 31 March 2023 has been duly certified by the 
Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, the assumptions for such valuation are in accordance with the guidelines 
and norms issued by the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the Authority. Accordingly, 
the joint auditors have relied upon the Appointed Actuary’s certificate in this regard for forming their opinion on the 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)

253
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
valuation of liabilities for life policies in force and for policies in respect of which premium has been discontinued but 
liability exists in the standalone financial statements of the Company’. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this 
matter based on the opinion expressed by the joint statutory auditors of ICICI Life.
16.	 The joint statutory auditors of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited (‘ICICI General’), vide their audit 
report dated 18 April 2023, have expressed an unmodified opinion and have reported in the 'Other Matter' section 
that, 'The actuarial valuation of liabilities in respect of Incurred But Not Reported (‘IBNR'), Incurred But Not Enough 
Reported ('IBNER') and the Premium Deficiency Reserve ('PDR') is the responsibility of the Company's Appointed 
Actuary (the 'Appointed Actuary'). The actuarial valuation of these liabilities, that are estimated using statistical 
methods as at 31 March 2023 has been duly certified by the Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, the assumptions 
considered by him for such valuation are in accordance with the guidelines and norms issued by the IRDAI and the 
Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with IRDAI. The joint auditors have relied upon the Appointed Actuary's 
certificate in this regard for forming their opinion on the valuation of liabilities for outstanding claims reserves and 
the PDR contained exists in the financial statements of the Company’. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this 
matter based on the opinion expressed by the joint statutory auditors of ICICI General.
17.	 We did not audit the financial Statement of fifteen subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total assets of 
` 3,44,94,39,942(in ‘000s) (before consolidation adjustments) as at 31 March 2023, total revenue of ` 58,35,04,685 
(in ‘000s) (before consolidation adjustments), total net profit after tax of `  4,06,07,417 (in ‘000s) (before consolidation 
adjustments) and total net cash flows of ` 2,19,71,269 (in ‘000s) respectively for the year ended 31 March 2023, 
which have been audited by their respective independent auditors. The consolidated financial Statement includes 
the Group's share of net profit of ` 98,63,014 (in ‘000s) (before consolidation adjustments) for year ended 31 
March 2023 in respect of four associates whose financial statements have not been audited by us. These financial 
statements have been audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the management and 
our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included 
in respect of these subsidiaries and associates, and our report in terms of section 143(3) of the Act, in so far as it 
relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries and associates, is based solely on the reports of the other auditors. Further, of 
these subsidiaries, two subsidiaries are located outside India whose financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their respective country and which have been audited 
by their respective auditors under generally accepted auditing standards applicable in their respective countries. 
Our audit report in so far as it relates to the balances and affairs of such subsidiaries located outside India, is based 
on the report of other auditors. According to the information and explanations given to us by the management, the 
financial statements of these subsidiaries are not material to the Group. Our opinion is not modified in respect of 
these matters.
18.	 We did not audit the financial Statement of one subsidiary, whose financial statements reflect total assets of 
`  36,34,64,682 (in ‘000s) (before consolidation adjustments), total revenue of ` 1,40,60,301 (in ‘000s) (before 
consolidation adjustments), total net profit after tax of ` 28,18,931 (in ‘000s) (before consolidation adjustments) and 
total net cashflows of ` 31,01,992 (in ‘000s) for the year ended 31 March 2023. Further, this subsidiary is located 
outside India whose financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally 
accepted in their respective country. The Statement also includes the Group's share of net profit of ` 1,19,062 (in 
‘000s) (before consolidation adjustments) for the year ended 31 March 2023 respectively in respect of four associates 
whose financial statements have not been audited. These financial statements / financial information are unaudited 
and have been furnished to us by the management and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in 
so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries and associates and our 
report in terms of section 143(3) of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries and associates, is based 
solely on such unaudited financial statements / financial information. In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us by the Management, these financial statements / financial information are not material 
to the Group. Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters.

254
Annual Report 2022-23 
19.	 Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
below, is not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports 
of the other auditors and the financial statements / financial information certified by the management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
20.	 The Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account have been drawn up in accordance 
with the provisions of section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and section 133 of the Act and the relevant 
rules issued thereunder.
21.	 In our opinion and according to the information and explanation given to us and based on reports of the statutory 
auditors of such subsidiary companies and associates companies incorporated in India which were not audited 
by us, the remuneration paid during the current year by the subsidiaries and associate companies incorporated 
in India to its directors is in accordance with the provisions of and the limits laid down under section 197 read 
with Schedule V of the Act. Further, for four associates, as referred to in paragraph 18 above, whose financial 
statements/information have not been audited, in absence of reporting of such entities with respect to compliance of 
the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act during the year ended 31 March 2023, we are unable 
to comment on such compliance for the said entities as required to be reported by us under section 197(16) of the 
Act. Further, since the Holding Company is a banking company, as defined under Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the 
reporting under section 197(16) in relation to whether the remuneration paid by the Bank is in accordance with the 
provisions of section 197 of the Act and whether any excess remuneration has been paid in accordance with the 
aforesaid section, is not applicable.
22.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other auditor 
on separate financial statements and the other financial information of the the subsidiaries and associates we 
report, to the extent applicable, that:
	
a.	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
	
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports 
of the other auditors.
	
c.	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, and the Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the 
purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
	
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified 
under Section 133 of the Act read with relevant rules issued thereunder, to the extent they are not inconsistent 
with the guidelines prescribed by RBI.
	
e.	
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Bank as on 31 March 2023 taken 
on record by the Board of Directors of the Bank and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary 
companies and associate companies incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Group companies and 
its associate companies incorporated in India are disqualified as on 31 March 2023 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
	
f.	
With respect to the adequacy of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
of the Group and its associates and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in 
“Annexure A”.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)

255
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
	
g.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014 as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other 
auditor on separate financial statements of such subsidiaries and associates as noted in the ‘Other Matters’ 
paragraph:
	
i.	
The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2023 on 
the consolidated financial position of the Group and its associates. (Refer Schedule 12, Schedule 17(10) and 
Schedule 18(6) to the consolidated financial statements)
	
ii.	
Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements as at 31 March 2023, as required under the 
applicable law or accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including 
derivative contracts – (Refer Schedule 17(10) and Schedule 18(6) to the consolidated financial statements), in 
respect of such items as it relates to the Group and its associates and the Group’s share of net profit in respect 
of its associates.
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Bank and its subsidiary companies, associate companies incorporated in India.
	
iv.	
(1)	 The respective Managements of the Bank, subsidiaries and its associates which are companies incorporated 
in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us, and the other 
auditors of such subsidiaries and associates respectively that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, 
as disclosed in schedule 18(16) to the consolidated financial statements, no funds (which are material 
either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed 
funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank or any of such subsidiaries and 
associates to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly, 
lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank 
or any of such subsidiaries and associates (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or 
the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
(2)	 The respective Managements of the Bank, its subsidiaries and associate which are companies incorporated 
in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and the 
other auditors of such subsidiaries and associates respectively that, as disclosed in schedule 18(16) to the 
consolidated financial statements, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material 
either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the Company or any of such subsidiaries 
and associates from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Bank or any of such subsidiaries and 
associates shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
(3)	 Based on the audit procedures, that which we have has been considered reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances, performed by us and those performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries and associates 
which are companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, 
nothing has come to our or other auditor’s notice that has caused us or the other auditors to believe that 
the representations under sub-clause (1) and (2) of Rule 11(e) contain any material misstatement.

256
Annual Report 2022-23 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
	
v.	
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the dividend declared and / or 
paid during the year the Group is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
	
vi.	
As the proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 (as amended), which provides for the 
accounting software used by the Group and its associate companies for maintaining their books of account to 
have the feature for recording of audit trail (edit log) facility and related matters, is applicable for the Group and 
its associate companies only with effect from financial year beginning 01 April 2023, the reporting under clause 
(g) of Rule 11 is currently not applicable.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No.105047W
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.105146W/W100621
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership Number.: 118580
UDIN: 23118580BGXROZ3409
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership Number.: 117348
UDIN: 23117348BGSZHP2495
Place: Mumbai
Date: 22 April 2023
Place: Mumbai
Date: 22 April 2023

257
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’ Report on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements Of ICICI Bank Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023
(Referred to in paragraph “22f” under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of 
even date)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the aforesaid Consolidated Financial 
Statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
Opinion
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Bank as of and for the year ended 31 
March 2023, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of 
ICICI Bank Limited (“the Holding Company”) and its subsidiary companies and its associate companies, which are 
companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
2.	
In our opinion, and based on the consideration of the reports of the other auditors on internal financial controls 
with reference to the consolidated financial statements, to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us, the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies and its associate companies, which 
are companies incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements and such internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements were operating effectively as at 31 March 2023, based on the internal control with reference 
to consolidated financial statements criteria established by the respective companies considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“the ICAI”).
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for Internal Financial Controls
3.	
The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies and its associate companies, 
to whom reporting under clause (i) of sub-section 143 of the Act in respect of adequacy of the internal control 
with reference to financial statements is applicable, which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control with reference to consolidated 
financial statements criteria established by the respective companies considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (‘the 
Guidance Note’) issued by the ICAI. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of 
its business, including adherence to the respective Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation 
of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements
4.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies and its associate companies, which are companies 
incorporated in India, based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note issued 
by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to 
an audit of internal financial controls. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements were established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects.
5.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements included obtaining an understanding of such 
internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements, assessing the risk that a material 
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the 

258
Annual Report 2022-23 
assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
6.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms 
of their reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of the Holding 
Company, its subsidiary companies and its associate companies, which are companies incorporated in India.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements
7.	
A Bank's internal financial control with reference to the consolidated financial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
Bank's internal financial control with reference to consolidated financial statements includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Bank are being made only in accordance 
with authorizations of management and directors of the Bank; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Bank's assets that could have a 
material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
8.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to 
error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Other Matters
9.	
The auditors of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited have reported, ‘The actuarial valuation of liabilities 
for life policies in force and policies in respect of which premium has been discontinued but liability exists as at 
31 March 2023 has been certified by the Appointed Actuary as per the IRDA Financial Statements Regulations, 
and has been relied upon by us, as mentioned in “Other Matters” of our audit report on the standalone financial 
statements for the year ended 31 March 2023. Accordingly, our opinion on the internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements does not include reporting on the design and operating effectiveness 
of the management’s internal controls over the valuation and accuracy of the aforesaid actuarial valuation’.
10.	 The auditors of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited have reported, ‘The actuarial valuation of 
liabilities in respect of Incurred But Not Reported (the “IBNR”), Incurred But Not Enough Reported (the “IBNER”) and 
Premium Deficiency Reserve (the “PDR”) is the responsibility of the Company’s Appointed Actuary (the “Appointed 
Actuary”). The actuarial valuation of these liabilities, that are estimated using statistical methods as at 31 March 2023 
has been duly certified by the Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, the assumptions considered by him for such 
valuation are in accordance with the guidelines and norms issued by the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India 
in concurrence with the IRDAI.
	
The said actuarial valuations of liabilities for outstanding claims reserves and the PDR have been relied upon by 
them as mentioned in “Other Matters” paragraph in our Audit Report on the financial statements for the year ended 
31 March 2023. Accordingly, our opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial reporting 
Annexure A (Contd.)

259
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
does not include reporting on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls over the 
valuation and accuracy of the aforesaid actuarial liabilities’.
11.	 Our report on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements for the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, and its associate companies, as aforesaid, under 
Section 143(3)(i) of the Act in so far as it relates to such subsidiary companies, and associate company, is based 
solely on the reports of the auditors of such companies. Our opinion is not modified in respect of the matters with 
respect to our reliance on the work done by and on the reports of the other auditors.
12.	 Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal 
financial controls system with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements in so far as it relates to ten 
subsidiary companies and two associate company, which are companies incorporated in India, is based on the 
corresponding reports of the auditors of such subsidiaries and associates incorporated in India.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No.105047W
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
ICAI Firm Registration No.105146W/W100621
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership Number.: 118580
UDIN: 23118580BGXROZ3409
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership Number.: 117348
UDIN: 23117348BGSZHP2495
Place: Mumbai
Date: 22 April 2023
Place: Mumbai
Date: 22 April 2023
Annexure A (Contd.)

260
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
at March 31, 2023
` in ‘000s
Schedule
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital
1
13,967,750
13,899,662
Employees stock options outstanding
1A
7,608,859
2,664,141
Reserves and surplus
2
2,123,401,284
1,803,961,070
Minority interest
2A
66,867,526
59,808,935
Deposits
3
12,108,321,521
10,913,657,932
Borrowings
4
1,890,618,073
1,616,026,828
Liabilities on policies in force
2,388,673,665
2,288,271,963
Other liabilities and provisions
5
985,446,292
828,083,306
TOTAL CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
19,584,904,970
17,526,373,837
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India
6
686,489,413
1,096,307,069
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice
7
678,075,515
734,952,763
Investments
8
6,395,519,671
5,670,977,180
Advances
9
10,838,663,147
9,203,081,390
Fixed assets
10
109,690,036
106,054,107
Other assets
11
875,453,870
713,988,010
Goodwill on consolidation
1,013,318
1,013,318
TOTAL ASSETS
19,584,904,970
17,526,373,837
Contingent liabilities
12
50,359,511,032
45,523,411,167
Bills for collection
864,576,684
752,325,958
Significant accounting policies and notes to accounts
17 & 18
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
As per our Report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.:  
105047W
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Chairman
DIN-00110996
Uday M. Chitale
Director
DIN-00043268
Sandeep Bakhshi 
Managing Director & CEO
DIN-00109206
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership no.: 118580
Anup Bagchi
Executive Director
DIN-00105962
Rakesh Jha
Executive Director
DIN-00042075
Sandeep Batra
Executive Director
DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Anindya Banerjee
Group Chief Financial Officer
Prachiti Lalingkar 
Company Secretary
Rajendra Khandelwal
Chief Accountant
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
Mumbai
April 22, 2023

261
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
for the year ended March 31, 2023
` in ‘000s
Schedule
Year ended
31.03.2023
Year ended
31.03.2022
I. 	
INCOME
	
Interest earned
13
 1,210,668,098 
 954,068,654 
	
Other income
14
 651,119,912 
 621,294,514 
	
TOTAL INCOME
 1,861,788,010 
 1,575,363,168 
II.	
EXPENDITURE
	
Interest expended
15
 505,433,879 
 411,666,711 
	
Operating expenses
16
 824,390,232 
 731,517,275 
	
Provisions and contingencies (refer note 18.6)
 187,333,629 
 174,340,856 
	
TOTAL EXPENDITURE
 1,517,157,740 
 1,317,524,842 
III.	
PROFIT/(LOSS)
	
Net profit for the year (before share in profit of associates 
and minority interest)
 344,630,270 
 257,838,326 
	
Add: Share of profit in associates
 9,982,876 
 7,544,279 
	
Net profit for the year before minority interest
 354,613,146 
 265,382,605 
	
Less: Minority interest
 14,246,738 
 14,281,645 
	
Net profit after minority interest
 340,366,408 
 251,100,960 
	
Profit brought forward
 508,988,514 
 385,155,990 
	
TOTAL PROFIT/(LOSS)
 849,354,922 
 636,256,950 
IV.	 APPROPRIATIONS/TRANSFERS 
	
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 79,742,000 
 58,349,000 
	
Transfer to/(from) Reserve Fund
-
-
	
Transfer to Capital Reserve
 878,200 
 15,742,037 
	
Transfer to Capital Redemption Reserve
-
-
	
Transfer to/(from) Investment Reserve Account
-
-
	
Transfer to/(from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 1,043,810 
 3,828,798 
	
Transfer to Special Reserve
 26,254,000 
 15,328,500 
	
Transfer to/(from) Revenue and other reserves
 50,255,680 
 657,420 
	
Dividend paid during the year
 34,794,463 
 13,852,335 
	
Balance carried over to balance sheet
 656,386,769 
 528,498,860 
	
TOTAL
 849,354,922 
 636,256,950 
Significant accounting policies and notes to accounts
17 & 18
Earnings per share (refer note 18.1)
	
Basic (`)
 48.86 
 36.21 
	
Diluted (`)
 47.84 
 35.44 
Face value per share (`)
 2.00 
 2.00 
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
As per our Report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.: 
105047W
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Chairman
DIN-00110996
Uday M. Chitale
Director
DIN-00043268
Sandeep Bakhshi 
Managing Director & CEO
DIN-00109206
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership no.: 118580
Anup Bagchi
Executive Director
DIN-00105962
Rakesh Jha
Executive Director
DIN-00042075
Sandeep Batra
Executive Director
DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Anindya Banerjee
Group Chief Financial Officer
Prachiti Lalingkar 
Company Secretary
Rajendra Khandelwal
Chief Accountant
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
Mumbai
April 22, 2023

262
Annual Report 2022-23 
` in ‘000s
Year ended
31.03.2023
Year ended
31.03.2022
Cash flow from/(used in) operating activities
Profit/(loss) before taxes
458,300,782
335,675,367
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation
16,455,886
14,794,572
Net (appreciation)/depreciation on investments
27,053,455
18,320,870
Provision in respect of non-performing and other assets
(3,653,501)
63,775,215
General provision for standard assets
4,898,941
4,065,438
Provision for contingencies & others
54,236,861
16,513,472
(Profit)/loss on sale of fixed assets
(542,579)
(56,635)
Employees stock options expense
5,180,508
2,669,253
(i)
561,930,353
455,757,552
Adjustments for:
(Increase)/decrease in investments
(158,286,285)
(166,685,392)
(Increase)/decrease in advances
(1,638,931,648)
(1,349,047,011)
Increase/(decrease) in deposits
1,194,663,589
1,314,257,752
(Increase)/decrease in other assets
(166,076,201)
46,655,269
Increase/(decrease) in other liabilities and provisions
277,742,529
329,993,864
(ii)
(490,888,016)
175,174,482
Refund/(payment) of direct taxes
(iii)
(108,754,258)
(49,817,733)
Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities (i)+(ii)+(iii)
(A)
(37,711,921)
581,114,301
Cash flow from/(used in) investing activities
Purchase of fixed assets
(24,676,808)
(18,599,746)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets
2,874,176
1,174,397
(Purchase)/sale of held to maturity securities
(658,250,590)
(375,789,070)
Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities
(B)
(680,053,222)
(393,214,419)
Cash flow from/(used in) financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital (including ESOPs)
9,420,691
7,979,764
Proceeds from long-term borrowings
417,361,966
356,976,668
Repayment of long-term borrowings
(268,917,978)
(346,030,278)
Net proceeds/(repayment) of short-term borrowings
124,836,960
169,436,188
Dividend paid
(34,794,463)
(13,852,335)
Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities
(C)
247,907,176
174,510,007
Effect of exchange fluctuation on translation reserve
(D)
3,163,063
(1,268,443)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
(A) + (B) + (C) + (D)
(466,694,904)
361,141,446
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
1,831,259,832
1,470,118,386
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
1,364,564,928
1,831,259,832
1. Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances with RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and short notice.
As per our Report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.: 
105047W
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Chairman
DIN-00110996
Uday M. Chitale
Director
DIN-00043268
Sandeep Bakhshi 
Managing Director & CEO
DIN-00109206
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership no.: 118580
Anup Bagchi
Executive Director
DIN-00105962
Rakesh Jha
Executive Director
DIN-00042075
Sandeep Batra
Executive Director
DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Anindya Banerjee
Group Chief Financial Officer
Prachiti Lalingkar 
Company Secretary
Rajendra Khandelwal
Chief Accountant
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
Mumbai
April 22, 2023
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended March 31, 2023

263
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 1 - CAPITAL
Authorised capital
12,500,000,000 equity shares of ` 2 each  
(March 31, 2022: 12,500,000,000 equity shares of ` 2 each)
 25,000,000 
 25,000,000 
Equity share capital
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital
6,948,771,375 equity shares of ` 2 each  
(March 31, 2022: 6,915,992,387 equity shares)
 13,897,543 
 13,831,985 
Add: 34,044,356 equity shares of ` 2 each  
(March 31, 2022: 32,778,988 equity shares) issued during the year
 68,088 
 65,558 
 13,965,631 
 13,897,543 
Add: Forfeited equity shares1
 2,119 
 2,119 
TOTAL CAPITAL
 13,967,750 
 13,899,662 
1.	On account of forfeiture of 266,089 equity shares of ` 10 each.
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 1A - EMPLOYEES STOCK OPTIONS OUTSTANDING
Opening balance
 2,664,141 
 31,010 
Additions during the year1
 5,172,383 
 2,642,190 
Deductions during the year2
 (227,665)
 (9,059)
Closing balance
 7,608,859 
 2,664,141 
1.	Represents cost of stock options amortised over the vesting period recognised during the year.
2.	Represents amount transferred to Securities Premium on account of exercise of employee stock options and to General Reserve on 
lapses of employee stock options during the year.
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 2 - RESERVES AND SURPLUS
I.	
Statutory reserve
	
	
Opening balance
 356,036,519 
 297,687,519 
	
	
Additions during the year
 79,742,000 
 58,349,000 
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance
 435,778,519 
 356,036,519 
II.	
Special Reserve
	
	
Opening balance
 133,978,000 
 118,649,500 
	
	
Additions during the year
 26,254,000 
 15,328,500 
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance
 160,232,000 
 133,978,000 
III.	 Securities premium
	
	
Opening balance 
 497,645,058 
 489,694,731 
	
	
Additions during the year1
 9,584,456 
 7,950,327 
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance
 507,229,514 
 497,645,058 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet

264
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
IV. 	 Investment reserve account
	
	
Opening balance
-
-
	
	
Additions during the year
-
-
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance
-
-
V. 	 Investment fluctuation reserve2
	
	
Opening balance
 20,714,999 
 16,886,201 
	
	
Additions during the year
 1,043,810 
 3,828,798 
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance
 21,758,809 
 20,714,999 
VI. 	 Unrealised investment reserve3
	
	
Opening balance
 (358,641)
 (56,658)
	
	
Additions during the year
 3,620 
-
	
	
Deductions during the year
 (874)
 (301,983)
	
	
Closing balance
 (355,895)
 (358,641)
VII. 	Capital reserve
	
	
Opening balance 
 149,784,353 
 134,042,316 
	
	
Additions during the year4,5
 878,200 
 15,742,037 
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance6
 150,662,553 
 149,784,353 
VIII. 	Capital redemption reserve
	
	
Opening balance 
 3,500,000 
 3,500,000 
	
	
Additions during the year
-
-
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
	
Closing balance
 3,500,000 
 3,500,000 
IX. 	 Foreign currency translation reserve
	
	
Opening balance
 12,431,431 
 13,699,874 
	
	
Additions during the year
 3,163,063 
 599,449 
	
	
Deductions during the year
-
 (1,867,892)
	
	
Closing balance 
 15,594,494 
 12,431,431 
X. 	 Revaluation reserve 
	
	
Opening balance 
 32,284,975 
 31,252,824 
	
	
Additions during the year7
 839,517 
 1,742,847 
	
	
Deductions during the year8
 (2,206,076)
 (710,696)
	
	
Closing balance 
 30,918,416 
 32,284,975 
XI. 	 Revenue and other reserves
	
	
Opening balance  
 88,955,862 
 71,497,594 
	
	
Additions during the year9
 52,795,238 
 20,297,813 
	
	
Deductions during the year9
 (54,995)
 (2,839,545)
	
	
Closing balance10
 141,696,105 
 88,955,862 
XII.	 Balance in profit and loss account5
 656,386,769 
 528,498,860 
	
	
Deductions during the year11
-
 (19,510,346)
	
	
Balance in profit and loss account
 656,386,769 
 508,988,514 
	
TOTAL RESERVES AND SURPLUS
 2,123,401,284 
 1,803,961,070 
1.	Includes ` 9,576.3 million (March 31, 2022: ` 7,923.3 million) on exercise of employee stock options.
2.	Represents amount transferred by the Bank to Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR) on net profit on sale of AFS and HFT investments 
during the period. The amount not less than the lower of net profit on sale of AFS and HFT category investments during the period 
or net profit for the period less mandatory appropriations is required to be transferred to IFR, until the amount of IFR is at least 2% of 
the HFT and AFS portfolio.

265
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
3.	Represents unrealised profit/(loss) pertaining to the investments of venture capital funds.
4.	Includes appropriations made by the Bank for profit on sale of investments in held-to-maturity category, net of taxes and transfer to 
Statutory Reserve and profit on sale of land and buildings, net of taxes and transfer to Statutory Reserve.
5.	The Bank had shifted certain securities from held-to-maturity category to available-for-sale category on May 3, 2017. RBI through 
its order dated May 3, 2021 has directed the Bank to appropriate the net profit made on sale of these investments during FY2018 to 
Capital Reserve. Accordingly, an amount of ` 15,091.1 million was transferred by the Bank from Balance in Profit and Loss account 
to Capital Reserve during FY2022. 
6.	Includes capital reserve on consolidation amounting to ` 79.1 million (March 31, 2022: ` 79.1 million).
7.	Represents gain on revaluation of premises carried out by the Bank and ICICI Home Finance Company Limited.
8.	Represents amount transferred from Revaluation Reserve to General Reserve on account of incremental depreciation charge on 
revaluation, revaluation surplus on premises sold or loss on revaluation on account of certain assets which were held for sale.
9.	Includes ` 1,482.1 million towards addition in fair value change account (March 31, 2022: reduction amounting to ` 2,471.4 million) of 
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited.
10. Includes unrealised profit/(loss), net of tax, of ` 161.5 million (March 31, 2022: ` 206.4 million) pertaining to the investments in the 
available-for-sale category of ICICI Bank UK PLC.
11. Represents reduction due to discontinuation of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited from consolidation during FY2022.
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 2A - MINORITY INTEREST
Opening minority interest
 59,808,935 
 95,883,393 
Subsequent increase/(decrease) during the year1
 7,058,591 
 (36,074,458)
CLOSING MINORITY INTEREST
 66,867,526 
 59,808,935 
1.	FY2022 includes deduction of minority interest of ` 39,052.5 million relating to ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 
subsequent to ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited being ceased to be a subsidiary.
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 3 - DEPOSITS
  
A.	
I.	
Demand deposits
  
	
	
i) 	
From banks
 49,978,962 
 79,321,836 
	
	
ii) 	
From others
 1,608,349,299 
 1,554,865,124 
	
II.	
Savings bank deposits
 3,848,298,564 
 3,670,305,566 
	
III.	 Term deposits
	
	
i) 	
From banks
 113,475,314 
 71,532,495 
	
	
ii) 	
From others
 6,488,219,382 
 5,537,632,911 
TOTAL DEPOSITS
 12,108,321,521 
 10,913,657,932 
B.	
I.	
Deposits of branches in India
 11,638,079,242 
 10,527,203,264 
	
II.	
Deposits of branches/subsidiaries outside India
 470,242,279 
 386,454,668 
TOTAL DEPOSITS
 12,108,321,521 
 10,913,657,932 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)

266
Annual Report 2022-23 
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 4 - BORROWINGS
I. 	
Borrowings in India
	
i)	
Reserve Bank of India1
 18,899,200 
-
	
ii)	
Other banks
 71,911,178 
 50,892,853 
	
iii)	
Financial institutions2
 608,942,331 
 323,264,820 
	
iv) 	 Borrowings in the form of
	
	
a)	
Deposits
 36,624,470 
 31,004,597 
	
	
b)	
Commercial paper
 98,022,849 
 90,353,072 
	
	
c) 	
Bonds and debentures (excluding subordinated debt)
 506,782,072 
 430,564,188 
	
v)	
Capital instruments
	
	
a) 	 Innovative Perpetual Debt Instruments (IPDI) 
(qualifying as additional Tier 1 capital)
 51,400,000 
 66,950,000 
	
	
b) 	 Unsecured redeemable debentures/bonds 
(subordinated debt included in Tier 2 capital)
 53,206,653 
 93,504,927 
TOTAL BORROWINGS IN INDIA
 1,445,788,753 
 1,086,534,457 
II. 	 Borrowings outside India
	
i) 	
Capital instruments
	
	
Unsecured redeemable debentures/bonds  
(subordinated debt included in Tier 2 capital)
 5,962,274 
 5,529,406 
	
ii)	
Bonds and notes
 133,419,412 
 181,504,693 
	
iii)	
Other borrowings
 305,447,634 
 342,458,272 
TOTAL BORROWINGS OUTSIDE INDIA
 444,829,320 
 529,492,371 
TOTAL BORROWINGS
 1,890,618,073 
 1,616,026,828 
1.	Represents borrowings made under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) and Standing Liquidity Facility (SLF).
2.	Includes borrowings made by the Group under repo and refinance.
3.	Secured borrowings in I and II above amounting to ` 239,969.1 million (March 31, 2022: ` 232,515.3 million) other than the borrowings 
under collateralised borrowing and lending obligation, market repurchase transactions (including tri-party repo) with banks and 
financial institutions and transactions under liquidity adjustment facility and marginal standing facility.
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
I.	
Bills payable
136,037,076
130,686,122
II.	
Inter-office adjustments (net)
3,228,016
4,418,106
III.	 Interest accrued
33,390,137
27,524,211
IV.	 Sundry creditors
242,830,603
206,506,321
V.	
General provision for standard assets
49,946,771
44,586,271
VI.	 Unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts
183,764,747
112,918,929
VII.	 Others (including provisions)1
336,248,942
301,443,346
TOTAL OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
985,446,292
828,083,306
1.	Includes contingency provision of the Bank amounting to ` 131,000.0 million (March 31, 2022: ` 74,500.0 million) and specific provision 
for standard loans amounting to ` 14,946.9 million (March 31, 2022: ` 30,203.0 million) by the Bank.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)

267
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 6 - CASH AND BALANCES WITH RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
  
I.	
Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)
 86,812,982 
 72,274,785 
II.	
Balances with Reserve Bank of India
	
(a) 	 in current account
 480,256,431 
 530,012,284 
	
(b) 	 in other accounts1
 119,420,000 
 494,020,000 
TOTAL CASH AND BALANCES WITH RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
 686,489,413 
 1,096,307,069 
1.	Represents lending under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) and Standing Deposit Facility (SDF).
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND 
SHORT NOTICE
  
I.	
In India
	
i)	
Balances with banks
	
	
a) 	 In current accounts
 3,103,280 
 2,150,158 
	
	
b)	
In other deposit accounts
 107,287,660 
 58,739,519 
	
ii)	
Money at call and short notice
	
	
a) 	 With banks
 8,217,000 
-
	
	
b)	
With other institutions1
 59,652,392 
 58,284,515 
TOTAL
 178,260,332 
 119,174,192 
II.	
Outside India
	
i)	
In current accounts
 310,635,743 
 332,048,410 
	
ii)	
In other deposit accounts
 26,782,094 
 179,630,804 
	
iii)	
Money at call and short notice
 162,397,346 
 104,099,357 
TOTAL
 499,815,183 
 615,778,571 
TOTAL BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE
 678,075,515 
 734,952,763 
1.	Includes lending under reverse repo.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)

268
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 8 - INVESTMENTS
I.	
Investments in India [net of provisions]
	
i)	
Government securities
 3,960,623,208 
 3,255,021,732 
	
ii)	
Other approved securities
-
-
	
iii)	
Shares (includes equity and preference shares)
 127,225,123 
 131,221,761 
	
iv)	
Debentures and bonds (including commercial paper and certificate 
of deposits)
 526,539,870 
 415,992,085 
	
v)	
Assets held to cover linked liabilities of life insurance business1
 1,440,580,565 
 1,508,663,020 
	
vi)	
Cost of equity investment in associates2
 20,040,640 
 20,040,640 
	
vii)	 Others (mutual fund units, pass through certificates, security 
receipts and other related investments)3
 172,557,780 
 134,270,515 
TOTAL INVESTMENTS IN INDIA
 6,247,567,186 
 5,465,209,753 
II.	
Investments outside India [net of provisions]
	
i)	
Government securities
 89,972,472 
 152,078,246 
	
ii)	
Others (equity shares, bonds and certificate of deposits)
 57,980,013 
 53,689,181 
TOTAL INVESTMENTS OUTSIDE INDIA
 147,952,485 
 205,767,427 
TOTAL INVESTMENTS
 6,395,519,671 
 5,670,977,180 
A.	
Investments in India
	
Gross value of investments1
 6,275,011,504 
 5,486,621,394 
	
Less: Aggregate of provision/depreciation/(appreciation) 
 27,444,318 
 21,411,641 
	
Net investments
 6,247,567,186 
 5,465,209,753 
B.	
Investments outside India
	
Gross value of investments
 153,368,477 
 208,954,192 
	
Less: Aggregate of provision/depreciation/(appreciation) 
 5,415,992 
 3,186,765 
	
Net investments 
 147,952,485 
 205,767,427 
TOTAL INVESTMENTS
 6,395,519,671 
 5,670,977,180 
1. 	Includes net appreciation amounting to ` 169,588.6 million (March 31, 2022: ` 244,271.4 million) on investments held to cover linked 
liabilities of life insurance business.
2.	Includes goodwill on consolidation of associates amounting to ` 221.9 million (March 31, 2022: ` 221.9 million).
3.	Includes share in networth of associates as per equity method as prescibed by AS 23.

269
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 9 - ADVANCES [net of provisions]
  
A.	
i)	
Bills purchased and discounted1
 497,557,667 
 482,956,949 
	
ii)	
Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand
 2,866,747,206 
 2,342,314,744 
	
iii)	
Term loans
 7,474,358,274 
 6,377,809,697 
TOTAL ADVANCES
 10,838,663,147 
 9,203,081,390 
B.	
i)	
Secured by tangible assets (includes advances against book debts)
 7,713,019,424 
 6,701,716,660 
	
ii)	
Covered by bank/government guarantees
 159,202,710 
 185,673,079 
	
iii)	
Unsecured
 2,966,441,013 
 2,315,691,651 
TOTAL ADVANCES
 10,838,663,147 
 9,203,081,390 
C.	
I.	
Advances in India
	
	
i)	
Priority sector
 2,807,812,582 
 2,491,680,887 
	
	
ii)	
Public sector
 516,152,443 
 483,782,406 
	
	
iii)	
Banks
 7,698,171 
 432,346 
	
	
iv)	
Others
 6,769,499,593 
 5,417,164,764 
TOTAL ADVANCES IN INDIA
 10,101,162,789 
 8,393,060,403 
	
II.	
Advances outside India
	
	
i)	
Due from banks
 8,076,480 
 7,165,905 
	
	
ii)	
Due from others
	
	
	
a)	
Bills purchased and discounted
 152,553,948 
 175,464,049 
	
	
	
b)	
Syndicated and term loans
 245,267,859 
 235,061,192 
	
	
	
c)	
Others
 331,602,071 
 392,329,841 
TOTAL ADVANCES OUTSIDE INDIA
 737,500,358 
 810,020,987 
TOTAL ADVANCES
 10,838,663,147 
 9,203,081,390 
1.	Net of bills re-discounted amounting to ` 10,000.0 million (March 31, 2022: Nil).

270
Annual Report 2022-23 
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 10 - FIXED ASSETS
I.	
Premises
  
	
Gross block
	
At cost at March 31 of preceding year
 94,345,827 
 95,782,081 
	
Additions during the year1
 2,793,216 
 3,334,955 
	
Deductions during the year
 (2,798,606)
 (4,771,209)
	
Closing balance
 94,340,437 
 94,345,827 
	
Depreciation
	
At March 31 of preceding year
 23,514,011 
 21,854,971 
	
Charge during the year2
 2,486,973 
 2,375,067 
	
Deductions during the year
 (455,659)
 (716,027)
	
Total depreciation
 25,545,325 
 23,514,011 
	
Net block3
 68,795,112 
 70,831,816 
II.	
Other fixed assets (including furniture and fixtures)
	
Gross block
	
At cost at March 31 of preceding year
 98,784,940 
 97,137,491 
	
Additions during the year
 18,437,437 
 15,252,194 
	
Deductions during the year
 (6,219,745)
 (13,604,745)
	
Closing balance
 111,002,632 
 98,784,940 
	
Depreciation
	
At March 31 of preceding year
 66,817,309 
 66,259,069 
	
Charge during the year
 12,459,081 
 10,737,093 
	
Deductions during the year
 (6,101,926)
 (10,178,853)
	
Total depreciation
 73,174,464 
 66,817,309 
	
Net block
 37,828,168 
 31,967,631 
III.	 Lease assets
	
Gross block
	
At cost at March 31 of preceding year
 17,890,746 
 17,735,221 
	
Additions during the year
 11,660 
 155,525 
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
Closing balance4
 17,902,406 
 17,890,746 
	
Depreciation
	
At March 31 of preceding year
 14,636,086 
 14,448,172 
	
Charge during the year
 199,564 
 187,914 
	
Deductions during the year
-
-
	
Total depreciation, accumulated lease adjustment and provisions
 14,835,650 
 14,636,086 
	
Net block
 3,066,756 
 3,254,660 
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS
 109,690,036 
 106,054,107 
1.	Includes net revaluation gain amounting to ` 811.7 million (March 31, 2022: ` 1,742.8 million) on account of revaluation carried out by 
the Bank and its housing finance subsidiary.
2.	Including depreciation charge on account of revaluation of ` 755.2 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 
2022: ` 703.1 million).
3.	Includes assets amounting to ` 428.8 million of the Bank (March 31, 2022: ` 558.5 million) which are held for sale.
4.	Includes assets taken on lease by the Bank amounting to ` 1,187.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 1,176.1 million).
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)

271
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 11 - OTHER ASSETS
I. 	
Inter-office adjustments (net)
-
-
II.	
Interest accrued
 151,100,647 
 108,389,915 
III.	 Tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net)
 20,372,701 
 26,241,723 
IV.	 Stationery and stamps
 379,124 
 337,907 
V.	
Non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims1,2
-
-
VI.	 Advance for capital assets
 9,009,963 
 4,460,876 
VII.	 Deposits
 54,892,587 
 40,100,556 
VIII.	Deferred tax asset (net) (refer note 18.9)
 76,194,441 
 79,484,847 
IX.	 Deposits in Rural Infrastructure and Development Fund
 216,216,187 
 264,194,161 
X.	
Unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts
 178,022,993 
 105,347,160 
XI.	 Others
 169,265,227 
 85,430,865 
TOTAL OTHER ASSETS
 875,453,870 
 713,988,010 
1.	No assets were sold by the Bank during the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 563.6 million).
2.	Net of provision held by the Bank amounting to ` 29,011.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 29,011.8 million).
	
` in ‘000s
At
31.03.2023
At
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 12 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
  
I.	
Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts
 88,006,837 
 89,527,688 
II.	
Liability for partly paid investments
 4,790,087 
 7,009,157 
III.	 Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts1
 15,492,543,076 
 10,757,369,659 
IV.	 Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
	
a)	
In India
 1,102,115,003 
 877,490,076 
	
b)	
Outside India
 134,004,861 
 158,594,796 
V.	
Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
 435,202,811 
 458,778,736 
VI.	 Currency swaps1
 570,626,929 
 502,108,785 
VII.	 Interest rate swaps, currency options and interest rate futures1
 32,435,271,591 
 32,634,035,960 
VIII.	Other items for which the Group is contingently liable
 96,949,837 
 38,496,310 
TOTAL CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
 50,359,511,032 
 45,523,411,167 
1.	Represents notional amount.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)

272
Annual Report 2022-23 
	
` in ‘000s
 Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED
I.	
Interest/discount on advances/bills
 879,292,351 
 668,865,377 
II.	
Income on investments (including dividend)
 279,050,297 
 219,906,420 
III.	 Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and other inter-bank 
funds
 23,054,570 
 18,195,960 
IV.	 Others1,2
 29,270,880 
 47,100,897 
TOTAL INTEREST EARNED
 1,210,668,098 
 954,068,654 
1.	Includes interest on income tax refunds amounting to ` 1,203.2 million (March 31, 2022: ` 2,434.3 million).
2.	Includes interest and amortisation of premium on non-trading interest rate swaps and foreign currency swaps.
	
` in ‘000s
 Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 14 - OTHER INCOME
I.	
Commission, exchange and brokerage
196,484,672
172,883,870
II.	
Profit/(loss) on sale of investments (net)
12,730,117
23,145,295
III.	 Profit/(loss) on revaluation of investments (net)
(1,317,590)
1,981,586
IV.	 Profit/(loss) on sale of land, buildings and other assets (net)1
542,579
56,635
V.	
Profit/(loss) on exchange/derivative transactions (net)
30,509,008
29,933,143
VI.	 Premium and other operating income from insurance business
411,367,848
389,595,741
VII.	 Miscellaneous income (including lease income)
803,278
3,698,244
TOTAL OTHER INCOME
651,119,912
621,294,514
1.	Includes profit/(loss) on sale of assets given on lease.
	
` in ‘000s
 Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 15 - INTEREST EXPENDED
I.	
Interest on deposits
 394,765,407 
 336,132,833 
II.	
Interest on Reserve Bank of India/inter-bank borrowings
 13,380,975 
 4,402,009 
III.	 Others (including interest on borrowings of erstwhile ICICI Limited)
 97,287,497 
 71,131,869 
TOTAL INTEREST EXPENDED
 505,433,879 
 411,666,711 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account

273
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
` in ‘000s
 Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022
SCHEDULE 16 - OPERATING EXPENSES
  
I.	
Payments to and provisions for employees
 152,341,687 
 123,416,025 
II.	
Rent, taxes and lighting1
 15,846,567 
 14,085,917 
III.	 Printing and stationery
 2,713,187 
 2,232,877 
IV.	 Advertisement and publicity
 32,807,911 
 23,313,796 
V.	
Depreciation on property
 14,946,054 
 13,112,160 
VI.	 Depreciation (including lease equalisation) on leased assets
 199,538 
 187,914 
VII.	 Directors' fees, allowances and expenses
 137,405 
 123,496 
VIII.	Auditors' fees and expenses
 248,666 
 219,598 
IX.	 Law charges
 1,771,894 
 1,707,140 
X. 	 Postages, courier, telephones, etc.
 7,475,175 
 7,092,062 
XI. 	 Repairs and maintenance
 34,644,161 
 26,994,748 
XII. 	Insurance
 14,788,575 
 13,025,817 
XIII.	Direct marketing agency expenses
 32,599,179 
 25,697,664 
XIV.	Claims and benefits paid pertaining to insurance business
 53,426,955 
 59,037,802 
XV.	 Other expenses pertaining to insurance business2
 363,124,210 
 339,724,982 
XVI.	Other expenditure3
 97,319,068 
 81,545,277 
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES
 824,390,232 
 731,517,275 
1.	Includes lease expense amounting to ` 12,512.8 million (March 31, 2022: ` 11,389.0 million).
2.	Includes commission expenses and reserves for actuarial liabilities (including the investible portion of the premium on the unit-linked 
policies).
3.	Includes expenses on purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLC) for the Bank amounting to ` 15,035.2 million (March 31, 
2022: ` 13,206.1 million).
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account (Contd.)

274
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts
SCHEDULE 17
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Overview
ICICI Bank Limited, together with its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (collectively, the Group), is a diversified 
financial services group providing a wide range of banking and financial services including commercial banking, retail 
banking, project and corporate finance, working capital finance, insurance, venture capital and private equity, investment 
banking, broking and treasury products and services.
ICICI Bank Limited (the Bank), incorporated in Vadodara, India is a publicly held banking company governed by the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
Principles of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the financials of ICICI Bank, its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
Entities, in which the Bank holds, directly or indirectly, through subsidiaries and other consolidating entities, more than 
50.00% of the voting rights or where it exercises control, over the composition of board of directors/governing body, 
are fully consolidated on a line-by-line basis in accordance with the provisions of AS 21 on ‘Consolidated Financial 
Statements’. Investments in entities where the Bank has the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for 
under the equity method of accounting and the pro-rata share of their profit/(loss) is included in the consolidated profit 
and loss account. Assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of jointly controlled entities are consolidated using the 
proportionate consolidation method. Under this method, the Bank’s share of each of the assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses of the jointly controlled entity is reported in separate line items in the consolidated financial statements. The 
Bank does not consolidate entities where the significant influence/control is intended to be temporary or entities which 
operate under severe long-term restrictions that impair their ability to transfer funds to parent/investing entity or where 
the objective of control is not to obtain economic benefit from their activities. All significant inter-company balances and 
transactions with subsidiaries and entities consolidated as per AS 21 have been eliminated on consolidation.
Basis of preparation
The accounting and reporting policies of the Group used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements 
conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (Indian GAAP), the guidelines issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI), Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
of India (IRDAI) from time to time and the Accounting Standards notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 
2013 read together with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, as applicable to relevant companies and 
practices generally prevalent in the banking industry in India. In the case of the foreign subsidiaries, Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles as applicable to the respective foreign subsidiaries are followed. The Group follows the accrual 
method of accounting except where otherwise stated, and the historical cost convention. In case the accounting policies 
followed by a subsidiary or joint venture are different from those followed by the Bank, the same have been disclosed in 
the respective accounting policy.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that 
are considered in the reported amounts of assets and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as of the date of the 
consolidated financial statements and the reported income and expenses during the reporting period. Management 
believes that the estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prudent and reasonable. 
Actual results could differ from these estimates. The impact of any revision in these estimates is recognised prospectively 
from the period of change.

275
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
The consolidated financial statements include the results of the following entities in addition to the Bank.
Sr. 
no.
Name of the entity
Country of 
incorporation
Nature of 
relationship
Nature of business
Ownership 
interest
1.
ICICI Bank UK PLC
United Kingdom
Subsidiary
Banking
100.00%
2.
ICICI Bank Canada
Canada
Subsidiary
Banking
100.00%
3.
ICICI Securities Limited
India
Subsidiary
Securities broking and 
merchant banking
74.85%
4.
ICICI Securities Holdings Inc.1
USA
Subsidiary
Holding company
100.00%
5.
ICICI Securities Inc.1
USA
Subsidiary
Securities broking
100.00%
6.
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership 
Limited
India
Subsidiary
Securities investment, 
trading and underwriting
100.00%
7.
ICICI Venture Funds Management 
Company Limited
India
Subsidiary
Private equity/venture 
capital fund management
100.00%
8.
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited
India
Subsidiary
Housing finance
100.00%
9.
ICICI Trusteeship Services Limited
India
Subsidiary
Trusteeship services
100.00%
10. ICICI Investment Management 
Company Limited
India
Subsidiary
Asset management and
Investment advisory
100.00%
11. ICICI International Limited
Mauritius
Subsidiary
Asset management
100.00%
12. ICICI Prudential Pension Funds 
Management Company Limited2
India
Subsidiary
Pension fund 
management and Points 
of Presence
100.00%
13. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance 
Company Limited
India
Subsidiary
Life insurance
51.27%
14. ICICI Prudential Asset Management 
Company Limited
India
Subsidiary
Asset management
51.00%
15. ICICI Prudential Trust Limited
India
Subsidiary
Trusteeship services
50.80%
16. ICICI Strategic Investments Fund
India
Consolidated 
as per AS 21
Venture capital fund
100.00%
17. ICICI Lombard General Insurance 
Company Limited3
India
Associate
General insurance
48.02%
18. I-Process Services (India) Private 
Limited3
India
Associate
Services related to back 
end operations
19.00%
19. NIIT Institute of Finance Banking and 
Insurance Training Limited3
India
Associate
Education and
training in banking, 
finance and insurance
18.79%
20. ICICI Merchant Services Private 
Limited3
India
Associate
Merchant acquiring and 
servicing
19.01%
21. India Infradebt Limited3
India
Associate
Infrastructure finance
42.33%
22. India Advantage Fund-III3
India
Associate
Venture capital fund
24.10%
23. India Advantage Fund-IV3
India
Associate
Venture capital fund
47.14%
24. Arteria Technologies Private Limited3
India
Associate
Software company
19.98%
1.	ICICI Securities Holding Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of ICICI Securities Limited. ICICI Securities Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary 
of ICICI Securities Holding Inc.
2.	ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance 
Company Limited.
3.	These entities have been accounted as per the equity method as prescribed by AS 23 on ‘Accounting for Investments in Associates in 
Consolidated Financial Statements’.

276
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
Comm Trade Services Limited has not been consolidated under AS 21, since the investment is temporary in nature. 
Falcon Tyres Limited, in which the Bank holds 26.39% equity shares has not been accounted as per equity method under 
AS 23, since the investment is temporary in nature.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1.	
Translation of foreign currency items
	
The consolidated financial statements of the Group are reported in Indian rupees (`), the national currency of 
India. Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic operations are translated at the exchange rates 
prevailing on the date of the transaction. Income and expenditure items of integral foreign operations (representative 
offices) are translated at daily closing rates, and income and expenditure items of non-integral foreign operations 
(foreign branches, offshore banking units, foreign subsidiaries) are translated at quarterly average closing rates.
	
Monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities of domestic and integral foreign operations are translated at closing 
exchange rates notified by Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) relevant to the balance sheet 
date and the resulting gains/losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations are 
translated at relevant closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI at the balance sheet date and the resulting gains/
losses from exchange differences are accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve until the disposal of 
the net investment in the non-integral foreign operations. Pursuant to RBI guideline, the Bank does not recognise the 
cumulative/proportionate amount of such exchange differences as income or expenses, which relate to repatriation 
of accumulated retained earnings from overseas operations, in the profit and loss account.
	
Contingent liabilities on account of guarantees, endorsements and other obligations denominated in foreign 
currencies are disclosed at the closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI relevant to the balance sheet date.
2.	
Revenue recognition
	
a)	
Interest income is recognised in the profit and loss account as it accrues, except in the case of non-performing 
assets (NPAs) where it is recognised upon realisation, as per the income recognition and asset classification 
norms of RBI/NHB/other applicable guidelines.
	
b)	
Income on discounted instruments is recognised over the tenure of the instrument.
	
c)	
Dividend income is accounted on an accrual basis when the right to receive the dividend is established.
	
d)	
Loan processing fee is accounted for upfront when it becomes due except in the case of foreign banking 
subsidiaries, where it is amortised over the period of the loan.
	
e)	
Project appraisal/structuring fee is accounted for on the completion of the agreed service.
	
f)	
Arranger fee is accounted for as income when a significant portion of the arrangement is completed and right 
to receive is established.
	
g)	
Commission received on guarantees and letters of credit issued is amortised on a straight-line basis over the 
period of the guarantee/letters of credit.
	
h)	
Fund management and portfolio management fees are recognised on an accrual basis.
	
i)	
The annual/renewal fee on credit cards, debit cards and prepaid cards are amortised on a straight line basis 
over one year.
	
j)	
All other fees are accounted for as and when they become due where the Group is reasonably certain of 
ultimate collection.
	
k)	
Fees paid/received for priority sector lending certificates (PSLC) is amortised on straight-line basis over the 
period of the certificate.

277
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
l)	
Income from securities brokerage activities is recognised as income on the trade date of the transaction. 
Brokerage income in relation to public or other issuances of securities is recognised based on mobilisation and 
terms of agreement with the client.
	
m)	 Life insurance premium for non-linked policies is recognised as income (net of goods and service tax) when 
due from policyholders. For unit linked business, premium is recognised when the associated units are created. 
Premium on lapsed policies is recognised as income when such policies are reinstated. Top-up premiums paid by 
unit linked policyholders’ are considered as single premium and recognised as income when the associated units 
are created. Income from unit linked policies, which includes fund management charges, policy administration 
charges, mortality charges and other charges, if any, are recovered from the linked funds in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and are recognised when due.
	
n)	
In case of life insurance business, reinsurance premium ceded/accepted is accounted in accordance with the 
terms of the relevant treaties/arrangements with the reinsurer/insurer. Profit commission on reinsurance ceded 
is netted off against premium ceded on reinsurance.
3.	
Stock based compensation
	
The following entities within the group have granted stock options to their employees:
	
•	
ICICI Bank Limited
	
•	
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
	
•	
ICICI Securities Limited
	
The Employees Stock Option Scheme (the Scheme) of the Bank provides for grant of options on the Bank’s equity 
shares to wholetime directors and employees of the Bank and its subsidiaries. The options granted vest in a graded 
manner and may be exercised within a specified period.
	
Till March 31, 2021, the Bank recognised cost of stock options granted under Employee Stock Option Scheme, using 
intrinsic value method. Under Intrinsic value method, options cost is measured as the excess, if any, of the fair market 
price of the underlying stock over the exercise price on the grant date.
	
Pursuant to RBI clarification dated August 30, 2021, the cost of stock options granted after March 31, 2021 is 
recognised based on fair value method. The cost of stock options granted up to March 31, 2021 continues to be 
recognised on intrinsic value method. The Bank uses Black-Scholes model to fair value the options on the grant 
date and the inputs used in the valuation model include assumptions such as the expected life of the share option, 
volatility, risk free rate and dividend yield.
	
The cost of stock options is recognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period.
	
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited and ICICI Securities Limited have also formulated similar stock 
option schemes for their employees for grant of equity shares of their respective companies. The intrinsic value 
method is followed by them to account for their stock-based employee compensation plans. Compensation cost is 
measured as the excess, if any, of the fair market price of the underlying stock over the exercise price on the grant 
date and amortised over the vesting period. The fair market price is the closing price on the stock exchange with the 
highest trading volume of the underlying shares of the Bank, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited and 
ICICI Securities Limited, immediately prior to the grant date.
	
The banking subsidiaries namely, ICICI Bank UK PLC and ICICI Bank Canada, account for the cost of the options 
granted to employees by ICICI Bank using the fair value method as followed by the Bank.
4. 	 Income taxes
	
Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current tax and deferred tax expense incurred by the Group. The 
current tax expense and deferred tax expense is determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 

278
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
1961 and as per Accounting Standard 22 - Accounting for Taxes on Income respectively. Deferred tax adjustments 
comprise changes in the deferred tax assets or liabilities during the year and change in tax rate.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised by considering the impact of timing differences between taxable 
income and accounting income for the current year, and carry forward losses. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
The impact of changes in the deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised and re-assessed at each reporting date, based upon the management’s judgement 
as to whether their realisation is considered as reasonably certain. However, in case of domestic companies, where 
there is unabsorbed depreciation or carried forward loss under taxation laws, deferred tax assets are recognised 
only if there is virtual certainty of realisation of such assets.
	
In the consolidated financial statements, deferred tax assets and liabilities are computed at an individual entity level 
and aggregated for consolidated reporting.
	
Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) credit is recognised as an asset to the extent there is convincing evidence that the 
Group will pay normal income tax during specified period, i.e., the period for which MAT credit is allowed to be 
carried forward as per prevailing provisions of the Income Tax Act 1961. In accordance with the recommendation 
contained in the guidance note issued by ICAI, MAT credit is to be recognised as an asset in the year in which it 
becomes eligible for set off against normal income tax. The Group reviews MAT credit entitlements at each balance 
sheet date and writes down the carrying amount to the extent there is no longer convincing evidence to the effect 
that the Group will pay normal income tax during the specified period.
5.	
Claims and benefits paid
	
In the case of life insurance business, benefits paid comprise policy benefits and claim settlement costs, if any. Death 
and rider claims are accounted for on receipt of intimation. Survival and maturity benefits are accounted when 
due. Withdrawals and surrenders under non linked policies are accounted on the receipt of intimation. Amount 
payable on lapsed/discontinued policies are accounted for on expiry of lock-in-period of these policies. Surrenders, 
withdrawals and lapsation are disclosed at net of charges recoverable. Claim settlement cost, legal and other fees 
form part of claim cost wherever applicable. Reinsurance claims receivable are accounted for in the period in which 
the claim is intimated. Repudiated claims and other claims disputed before the judicial authorities are provided for 
on prudent basis as considered appropriate by the management.
6.	
Liability for life policies in force
	
In the case of life insurance business, the actuarial liabilities for life policies in force and policies where premiums 
are discontinued but a liability exists as at the valuation date, are calculated in accordance with accepted actuarial 
practice, requirements of Insurance Act, 1938, as amended from time to time, and regulations notified by the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India, relevant Guidance Notes and Actuarial Practice Standards of the 
Institute of Actuaries of India.
7.	
Actuarial method and valuation
	
In the case of life insurance business, the actuarial liability on both participating and non-participating policies 
is calculated using the gross premium method, using assumptions for interest, mortality, morbidity, expense and 
inflation, and in the case of participating policies, future bonuses together with allowance for taxation and allocation 
of profits to shareholders. These assumptions are determined as prudent estimates at the date of valuation with 
allowances for adverse deviations.
	
The liability for the unexpired portion of the risk for the non-unit liabilities of linked business and attached riders is 
the higher of liability calculated using discounted cash flows and unearned premium reserves.
	
The unit liability in respect of linked business has been taken as the value of the units standing to the credit of 
policyholders, using the Net Asset Value (NAV) prevailing at the valuation date.

279
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
An unexpired risk reserve and a reserve in respect of claims incurred but not reported are created, for one year 
renewable group term insurance.
	
The interest rates used for valuing the liabilities are in the range of 4.99% to 6.58% per annum (previous year – 
3.67% to 6.30% per annum).
	
Mortality rates used are based on the published “Indian Assured Lives Mortality (2012-2014) Ult.” mortality table 
for assurances and “Indian Individual Annuitant’s Mortality Table (2012-15)” table for annuities, adjusted to reflect 
expected experience while morbidity rates used are based on CIBT 93 table, adjusted for expected experience, or on 
risk rates supplied by reinsurers.
	
Expenses are provided for at least at current levels, in respect of renewal expenses, with no allowance for future 
improvements. Per policy renewal expenses for regular premium policies are assumed to inflate at 4.90% per annum 
(previous year – 4.59%).
8.	
Acquisition costs for insurance business
	
Acquisition costs are those costs that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of insurance contracts 
and are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
9.	
Employee benefits
	
Gratuity
	
The Group pays gratuity, a defined benefit plan, to employees who retire or resign after a minimum prescribed 
period of continuous service and in case of employees at overseas locations as per the rules in force in the respective 
countries. The Group makes contribution to recognised trusts which administer the funds on their own account or 
through insurance companies.
	
Actuarial valuation of the gratuity liability is determined by an independent actuary appointed by the Group. Actuarial 
valuation of gratuity liability is determined based on certain assumptions regarding rate of interest, salary growth, 
mortality and staff attrition as per the projected unit credit method. The actuarial gains or losses arising during the 
year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
Superannuation Fund and National Pension Scheme
	
The Bank has a superannuation fund, a defined contribution plan, which is administered by trustees and managed 
by insurance companies. The Bank contributes 15.0% of the total annual basic salary for certain employees to 
superannuation funds. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, ICICI Prudential Asset Management 
Company Limited, ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited and ICICI Investment Management Company 
Limited have accrued for superannuation liability based on a percentage of basic salary payable to eligible employees 
for the period of service.
	
The Group contributes upto 10.0% of the total basic salary of certain employees to National Pension Scheme (NPS), 
a defined contribution plan, which is managed and administered by pension fund management companies. The 
employees are given an option to receive the amount in cash in lieu of such contributions along with their monthly 
salary during their employment.
	
The amounts so contributed/paid by the Group to the superannuation fund and NPS or to employees during the year 
are recognised in the profit and loss account. The Group has no liability towards future benefits under superannuation 
fund and national pension scheme other than its annual contribution.
	
Pension
	
The Bank provides for pension, a defined benefit plan covering eligible employees of erstwhile Bank of Madura, 
erstwhile Sangli Bank and erstwhile Bank of Rajasthan. The Bank makes contribution to a trust which administers 
the funds on its own account or through insurance companies. The plan provides for pension payment including 

280
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
dearness relief on a monthly basis to these employees on their retirement based on the respective employee’s years 
of service with the Bank and applicable salary.
	
Actuarial valuation of the pension liability is determined by an independent actuary appointed by the Bank. Actuarial 
valuation of pension liability is calculated based on certain assumptions regarding rate of interest, salary growth, 
mortality and staff attrition as per the projected unit credit method.
	
The actuarial gains or losses arising during the year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
Employees covered by the pension plan are not eligible for employer’s contribution under the provident fund plan.
	
Provident fund
	
The Group is statutorily required to maintain a provident fund, a defined benefit plan, as a part of retirement 
benefits to its employees. Each employee contributes a certain percentage of his or her basic salary and the Group 
contributes an equal amount for eligible employees. The Group makes contribution as required by The Employees’ 
Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 to Employees’ Pension Scheme administered by the 
Regional Provident Fund Commissioner and the balance contributions are transferred to funds administered by 
trustees. The funds are invested according to the rules prescribed by the Government of India. The Group recognises 
such contribution as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
	
Interest payable on provident fund should not be lower than the statutory rate of interest declared by the Central 
Government under the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. Actuarial valuation for 
the interest obligation on the provident fund balances is determined by an actuary appointed by the Group.
	
The actuarial gains or losses arising during the year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
The overseas branches of the Bank and its eligible employees contribute a certain percentage of their salary towards 
respective government schemes as per local regulatory guidelines. The contribution made by the overseas branches 
is recognised in profit and loss account at the time of contribution.
	
Compensated absences
	
The Group provides for compensated absences based on actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary.
10.	 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
	
The Group estimates the probability of any loss that might be incurred on outcome of contingencies on the basis 
of information available upto the date on which the consolidated financial statements are prepared. A provision is 
recognised when an enterprise has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. Provisions 
are determined based on management estimates of amounts required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet 
date, supplemented by experience of similar transactions. These are reviewed at each balance sheet date and 
adjusted to reflect the current management estimates. In cases where the available information indicates that the 
loss on the contingency is reasonably possible but the amount of loss cannot be reasonably estimated, a disclosure 
to this effect is made in the consolidated financial statements. In case of remote possibility, neither provision nor 
disclosure is made in the consolidated financial statements. The Group does not account for or disclose contingent 
assets, if any.
	
The Bank estimates the probability of redemption of customer loyalty reward points using an actuarial method by 
employing an independent actuary and accordingly makes provision for these reward points. Actuarial valuation is 
determined based on certain assumptions regarding mortality rate, discount rate, cancellation rate and redemption rate.
11.	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances with RBI, balances with other banks and money at call 
and short notice.

281
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
12.	 Investments
i)	
Investments of the Bank are accounted for in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines on investment classification 
and valuation.
	
a.	
The Bank follows trade date method of accounting for purchase and sale of investments, except for government 
of India and state government securities where settlement date method of accounting is followed in accordance 
with RBI guidelines.
	
b.	
All investments are classified into ‘Held to Maturity’ (HTM), ‘Available for Sale’ (AFS) and ‘Held for Trading’ 
(HFT) on the date of purchase as per the extant RBI guidelines on investment classification and valuation. 
Reclassifications, if any, in any category are accounted for as per the RBI guidelines. Under each classification, 
the investments are further categorised as (a) government securities, (b) other approved securities, (c) shares, 
(d) bonds and debentures and (e) others.
	
c.	
Investments that are held principally for resale within 90 days from the date of purchase are classified as HFT 
securities. Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity are classified as HTM securities. Investments 
which are not classified in either of the above categories are classified under AFS securities.
	
d.	
Costs including brokerage and commission pertaining to investments paid at the time of acquisition and broken 
period interest (the amount of interest from the previous interest payment date till the date of purchase of 
instruments) on debt instruments are charged to the profit and loss account.
	
e.	
Securities are valued scrip-wise. Depreciation/appreciation on securities, other than those acquired by way 
of conversion of outstanding loans, is aggregated for each category. Net appreciation in each category under 
each investment classification, if any, being unrealised, is ignored, while net depreciation is provided. The 
depreciation on securities acquired by way of conversion of outstanding loans is fully provided. Non-performing 
investments are identified based on the RBI guidelines.
	
f.	
HTM securities are carried at their acquisition cost or at amortised cost, if acquired at a premium over the face 
value. Any premium over the face value of fixed rate and floating rate securities acquired is amortised over the 
remaining period to maturity on a constant yield basis and straight line basis respectively.
	
g.	
AFS and HFT securities are valued periodically as per RBI guidelines. Any premium over the face value of fixed 
rate and floating rate investments in government securities, classified as AFS, is amortised over the remaining 
period to maturity on constant yield basis and straight line basis respectively. Quoted investments are valued 
based on the closing quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or prices declared by Primary Dealers 
Association of India (PDAI) jointly with Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association (FIMMDA)/
Financial Benchmark India Private Limited (FBIL), periodically.
	
h.	
The market/fair value of unquoted government securities which are in the nature of Statutory Liquidity Ratio 
(SLR) securities included in the ‘AFS’ and ‘HFT’ categories is as per the rates published by FBIL. The valuation 
of other unquoted fixed income securities, including Pass Through Certificates, wherever linked to the Yield-
to-Maturity (YTM) rates, is computed with a mark-up (reflecting associated credit risk) over the YTM rates for 
government securities published by FIMMDA. The sovereign foreign securities and non-INR India linked bonds 
are valued on the basis of prices published by the sovereign regulator or counterparty quotes.
	
i.	
Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of deposits being discounted instruments, are valued at 
carrying cost.
	
j.	
The units of mutual funds are valued at the latest repurchase price/net asset value declared by the mutual fund. 
Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-up value, if the latest balance sheet is available, or at ` 1, as 
per RBI guidelines.
	
k.	
The units of Venture Capital Funds (VCFs) are valued at the net asset value (NAV) declared by the VCF. If the 
latest balance sheet is not available continuously for more than 18 months, the units of VCF are valued at ` 1, 
as per RBI guidelines.

282
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
l.	
At the end of each reporting period, security receipts issued by the asset reconstruction companies are valued in 
accordance with the guidelines applicable to such instruments, prescribed by RBI from time to time. Accordingly, 
in cases where the cash flows from security receipts issued by the asset reconstruction companies are limited 
to the actual realisation of the financial assets assigned to the instruments in the concerned scheme, the Bank 
reckons the net asset value obtained from the asset reconstruction company from time to time, for valuation of 
such investments at each reporting period end. The Bank makes additional provisions on the security receipts 
based on the remaining period to end. The security receipts which are outstanding and not redeemed as at the 
end of the resolution period are treated as loss assets and are fully provided.
	
m.	
Depreciation/provision on non-performing investments is made as per internal provisioning norms, subject to 
minimum provisioning requirements of RBI.
	
n.	
Gain/loss on sale of investments is recognised in the profit and loss account. Cost of investments is computed 
based on the First-In-First-Out (FIFO) method. The profit from sale of investment under HTM category, net of 
taxes and transfer to statutory reserve is transferred to “Capital Reserve” in accordance with the RBI Guidelines.
	
o.	
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in dated central government securities in accordance with RBI 
guidelines. The short positions are categorised under HFT category and are marked-to-market. The mark-to-
market loss is charged to profit and loss account and gain, if any, is ignored as per RBI guidelines.
	
p.	
Market repurchase, reverse repurchase and transactions with RBI under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) are 
accounted for as borrowing and lending transactions in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines.
ii)	
The Bank’s consolidating venture capital fund carries investments at fair values, with unrealised gains and temporary 
losses on investments recognised as components of investors’ equity and accounted for in the unrealised investment 
reserve account. The realised gains and losses on investments and units in mutual funds and unrealised gains or 
losses on revaluation of units in mutual funds are accounted for in the profit and loss account. Provisions are made in 
respect of accrued income considered doubtful. Such provisions as well as any subsequent recoveries are recorded 
through the profit and loss account. Subscription to/purchase of investments are accounted at the cost of acquisition 
inclusive of brokerage, commission and stamp duty.
iii)	
The Bank’s primary dealership and securities broking subsidiaries classify the securities held with the intention of 
holding for short-term and trading as stock-in-trade which are valued at lower of cost or market value. The securities 
classified by primary dealership subsidiary as held-to-maturity, as permitted by RBI, are carried at amortised cost. 
Appropriate provision is made for other than temporary diminution in the value of investments. Commission earned 
in respect of securities acquired upon devolvement is reduced from the cost of acquisition.
iv)	
The Bank’s housing finance subsidiary classifies its investments as current investments and long-term investments. 
Investments that are readily realisable and intended to be held for not more than a year are classified as current 
investments, which are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. All other investments are classified as 
long-term investments, which are carried at their acquisition cost or at amortised cost, if acquired at a premium over 
the face value. Any premium over the face value of the securities acquired is amortised over the remaining period to 
maturity on a constant yield basis. However, a provision for diminution in value is made to recognise any other than 
temporary decline in the value of such long-term investments.
v)	
The Bank’s overseas banking subsidiaries account for unrealised gain/loss, net of tax, on investment in ‘AFS’/‘Fair 
Value Through Other Comprehensive Income’ (FVOCI) category directly in their reserves. Further unrealised gain/
loss on investment in ‘HFT’/‘Fair Value Through Profit and Loss’ (FVTPL) category is accounted directly in the profit 
and loss account. Investments in ‘HTM’/‘amortised cost’ category are carried at amortised cost.
	
In the case of life insurance business, investments are made in accordance with the Insurance Act, 1938 (amended 
by the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015), the IRDA (Investment) Regulations, 2016, and various other 
circulars/notifications issued by the IRDAI in this context from time to time.

283
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
vi)	
Valuation of investments (other than linked business) is done on the following basis:
	
a.	
All debt securities including government securities and redeemable preference shares are considered as ‘held 
to maturity’ and stated at historical cost, subject to amortisation of premium or accretion of discount over the 
period of maturity/holding on a constant yield basis.
	
b.	
Listed equity shares and equity exchange traded funds (ETF) are stated at fair value being the last quoted closing 
price on the National Stock Exchange (NSE) (or BSE, in case the investments are not listed on NSE). Unlisted 
equity shares are stated at acquisition cost less impairment, if any. Equity shares lent under the Securities 
Lending and Borrowing scheme (SLB) continue to be recognised in the Balance Sheet as the Company retains 
all the associated risks and rewards of these securities. Non-traded and thinly traded equity share are valued at 
last available price on NSE/BSE or the value derived using valuation principle of net worth per share, whichever 
is lower.
	
c.	
Mutual fund units are valued based on the previous day’s net asset value.
	
	
Unrealised gains/losses arising due to changes in the fair value of listed equity shares and mutual fund units are 
taken to ‘Revenue and other reserves’ and ‘Liabilities on policies in force’ in the balance sheet for Shareholders’ 
fund and Policyholders’ fund respectively for life insurance business.
	
	
The Bank’s life insurance subsidiary assess at each balance sheet date whether there is any indication that 
any investment may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the carrying value of such investment is reduced 
to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised in the revenue(s)/profit and loss account. The 
previously impaired loss is also reversed on disposal/realisation of securities and results thereon are recognised.
	
The total proportion of investments for which subsidiaries have applied accounting policies different from the Bank 
as mentioned above, is approximately 21.95% of the total investments at March 31, 2023.
13.	 Provisions/write-offs on loans and other credit facilities
	
i)	
Loans and other credit facilities of the Bank are accounted for in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines as 
given below:
	
	
The Bank classifies its loans and investments, including at overseas branches and overdues arising from 
crystallised derivative contracts, into performing and NPAs in accordance with RBI guidelines. Loans and 
advances held at the overseas branches that are identified as impaired as per host country regulations but 
which are standard as per the extant RBI guidelines, are classified as NPAs to the extent of amount outstanding 
in the respective host country. Further, NPAs are classified into sub-standard, doubtful and loss assets based 
on the criteria stipulated by RBI. Interest on non-performing advances is transferred to an interest suspense 
account and not recognised in profit and loss account until received.
	
	
The Bank considers an account as restructured, where for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s 
financial difficulty, the Bank grants concessions to the borrower, that the Bank would not otherwise consider. 
The moratorium granted to the borrowers based on RBI guidelines is not accounted as restructuring of loan. 
The RBI guidelines on ‘Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress’ provide a prudential framework for 
resolution plan of certain loans. The borrowers where resolution plan was implemented under these guidelines 
are classified as standard restructured.
	
	
In the case of corporate loans and advances, provisions are made for sub-standard and doubtful assets as 
per internal provisioning norms, subject to minimum provisioning requirements of RBI. Loss assets and the 
unsecured portion of doubtful assets are fully provided. For impaired loans and advances held in overseas 
branches, which are performing as per RBI guidelines, provisions are made as per the host country regulations. 
For loans and advances held in overseas branches, which are NPAs both as per RBI guidelines and host 
country guidelines, provisions are made at the higher of the provisions required as per internal provisioning 

284
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
norms and host country regulations. Provisions on homogeneous non-performing retail loans and advances, 
subject to minimum provisioning requirements of RBI, are made on the basis of the ageing of the loan. The 
specific provisions on non-performing retail loans and advances held by the Bank are higher than the minimum 
regulatory requirements.
	
	
In respect of non-retail loans reported as fraud to RBI, the entire amount is provided over a period not exceeding 
four quarters starting from the quarter in which fraud has been detected. In respect of non-retail loans where 
there has been delay in reporting the fraud to the RBI or which are classified as loss accounts, the entire amount 
is provided immediately. In case of fraud in retail accounts, the entire amount is provided immediately. In 
respect of borrowers classified as non-cooperative borrowers or willful defaulters, the Bank makes accelerated 
provisions as per RBI guidelines.
	
	
The Bank holds specific provisions against non-performing loans and advances, and against certain performing 
loans and advances in accordance with RBI directions.
	
	
The Bank makes provision on restructured loans subject to minimum requirements as per RBI guidelines. 
Provision due to diminution in the fair value of restructured/rescheduled loans and advances is made in 
accordance with the applicable RBI guidelines.
	
	
Non-performing and restructured loans are upgraded to standard as per the extant RBI guidelines or host 
country regulations, as applicable.
	
	
In terms of RBI guideline, the NPAs are written-off in accordance with the Bank’s policy. Amounts recovered 
against bad debts written-off are recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
	
The Bank maintains general provision on performing loans and advances in accordance with the RBI 
guidelines, including provisions on loans to borrowers having unhedged foreign currency exposure, provisions 
on loans to specific borrowers in specific stressed sector, provision on exposures to step-down subsidiaries of 
Indian companies and provision on incremental exposure to borrowers identified as per RBI’s large exposure 
framework. For performing loans and advances in overseas branches, the general provision is made at higher 
of aggregate provision required as per host country regulations and RBI requirement.
	
	
In addition to the provisions required to be held according to the asset classification status, provisions are 
held for individual country exposures including indirect country risk (other than for home country exposure). 
The countries are categorised into seven risk categories namely insignificant, low, moderately low, moderate, 
moderately high, high and very high, and provisioning is made on exposures exceeding 180 days on a graded 
scale ranging from 0.25% to 25%. For exposures with contractual maturity of less than 180 days, provision is 
required to be held at 25% of the rates applicable to exposures exceeding 180 days. The indirect exposure is 
reckoned at 50% of the exposure. If the country exposure (net) of the Bank in respect of each country does not 
exceed 1% of the total funded assets, no provision is required on such country exposure.
	
	
The Bank makes additional provisions as per RBI guidelines for the cases where viable resolution plan has 
not been implemented within the timelines prescribed by the RBI from the date of default. These additional 
provisions are written-back on satisfying the conditions for reversal as per RBI guidelines.
	
	
The Bank, on prudent basis, has made contingency provision on certain loan portfolios, including borrowers 
who had taken moratorium at any time during FY2021 under the extant RBI guidelines related to Covid-19 
regulatory package. The Bank also makes additional contingency provision on certain standard assets. The 
contingency provision is included in ‘Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities and Provisions’.
	
	
The Bank has a Board approved policy for making floating provision, which is in addition to the specific and 
general provisions made by the Bank. The floating provision is utilised, with the approval of Board and RBI, 
in case of contingencies which do not arise in the normal course of business and are exceptional and non-
recurring in nature and for making specific provision for impaired loans as per the requirement of extant RBI 
guidelines or any regulatory guidance/instructions. The floating provision is netted-off from advances.

285
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
ii)	
In the case of the Bank’s housing finance subsidiary, loans and other credit facilities are classified as per the 
Master Directions – Non Banking Financial Company – Housing Finance Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 
2021 issued by Reserve Bank of India (‘Master Direction’). Further, NPAs are classified into sub-standard, 
doubtful and loss assets based on criteria stipulated in the Master Direction. Additional provisions are made 
against specific non-performing assets over and above what is stated above, if in the opinion of management, 
increased provisions are necessary. General provision on restructured loans is made as per RBI guidelines.
	
iii)	
In the case of the Bank’s UK subsidiary, loans are stated net of allowance for credit losses. Loans are classified 
as impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result 
of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition on the loan (a loss event) and that loss event 
(or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the loans that can be reliably estimated. An 
allowance for impairment losses is maintained at a level that management considers adequate to absorb 
identified credit related losses as well as losses that have occurred but have not yet been identified.
	
iv)	
The Bank’s Canadian subsidiary measures impairment loss on all financial assets using expected credit loss 
(ECL) model based on a three-stage approach. The ECL for financial assets that are not credit-impaired and 
for which there is no significant increase in credit risk since origination, is computed using 12-month probability 
of default (PD), and represents the lifetime cash shortfalls that will result if a default occurs in next 12 months. 
The ECL for financial assets, that are not credit-impaired but have experienced a significant increase in credit 
risk since origination, is computed using a life time PD, and represents lifetime cash shortfalls that will result if a 
default occurs during the expected life of financial assets. A financial asset is considered credit-impaired when 
one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of that financial asset 
have occurred. The allowance for credit losses for impaired financial assets is computed based on individual 
assessment of expected cash flows from such assets.
	
The total proportion of loans for which subsidiaries have applied accounting policies different from the Bank as 
mentioned above, is approximately 5.95% of the total loans at March 31, 2023.
14.	 Transfer and servicing of assets
	
The Bank transfers commercial and consumer loans through securitisation transactions. The transferred loans are 
de-recognised and gains/losses are accounted, only if the Bank surrenders the rights to benefits specified in the 
underlying securitised loan contract. Recourse and servicing obligations are accounted for net of provisions.
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines for securitisation of standard assets, with effect from February 1, 2006, 
the profit/premium arising from securitisation is amortised over the life of the securities issued or to be issued by 
the special purpose vehicle to which the assets are sold. With effect from May 7, 2012, the RBI guidelines require 
the profit/premium arising from securitisation to be amortised based on the method prescribed in the guidelines. 
As per the RBI guidelines issued on September 24, 2021, gain realised at the time of securitisation of loans is 
accounted through profit and loss account on completion of transaction. The Bank accounts for any loss arising from 
securitisation immediately at the time of sale.
	
The unrealised gains, associated with expected future margin income is recognised in profit and loss account on 
receipt of cash, after absorbing losses, if any.
	
Net income arising from sale of loan assets through direct assignment with recourse obligation is amortised over 
the life of underlying assets sold and net income from sale of loan assets through direct assignment, without any 
recourse obligation, is recognised at the time of sale. Net loss arising on account of direct assignment of loan assets 
is recognised at the time of sale. As per the RBI guidelines issued on September 24, 2021, any loss or realised gain 
from sale of loan assets through direct assignment is accounted through profit and loss account on completion of 
transaction.
	
The acquired loans is carried at acquisition cost. In case premium is paid on a loan acquired, premium is amortised 
over the loan tenure.

286
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
In accordance with RBI guidelines, in case of non-performing loans sold to Asset Reconstruction Companies (ARCs), 
the Bank reverses the excess provision in profit and loss account in the year in which amounts are received. Any 
shortfall of sale value over the net book value on sale of such assets is recognised by the Bank in the year in which 
the loan is sold.
	
The Canadian subsidiary has entered into securitisation arrangements in respect of its originated and purchased 
mortgages. ICICI Bank Canada either retains substantially all the risk and rewards or retains control over these 
mortgages, hence these arrangements do not qualify for de-recognition accounting under their local accounting 
standards. It continues to recognise the mortgages securitised as “Loans and Advances” and the amounts received 
through securitisation are recognised as “Other borrowings”.
15.	 Fixed assets
	
Fixed assets, other than premises of the Bank and its housing finance subsidiary are carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment, if any. In case of the Bank and its housing finance subsidiary, premises are carried at 
revalued amount, being fair value at the date of revaluation less accumulated depreciation. Cost includes freight, 
duties, taxes and incidental expenses related to the acquisition and installation of the asset. Depreciation is charged 
over the estimated useful life of fixed assets on a straight-line basis. The useful life of the groups of fixed assets for 
domestic group companies is based on past experience and expectation of usage, which for some categories of 
fixed assets, is different from the useful life as prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013.
	
Assets purchased/sold during the year are depreciated on a pro-rata basis for the actual number of days the asset 
has been capitalised.
	
In case of the Bank, assets individually costing up to ` 5,000/- are depreciated fully in the year of acquisition. Further, 
profit on sale of premises by the Bank is appropriated to capital reserve, net of transfer to Statutory Reserve and 
taxes, in accordance with RBI guidelines.
	
In case of revalued/impaired assets, depreciation is provided over the remaining useful life of the assets with 
reference to revised asset values. In case of premises, which are carried at revalued amounts, the depreciation on the 
excess of revalued amount over historical cost is transferred from Revaluation Reserve to General Reserve annually.
	
Non-banking assets
	
Non-banking assets (NBAs) acquired in satisfaction of claims are valued at the market value on a distress sale 
basis or value of loan, whichever is lower. Further, the Bank creates provision on these assets as per the extant RBI 
guidelines or specific RBI directions.
16.	 Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
	
The forward exchange contracts that are not intended for trading and are entered into to establish the amount of 
reporting currency required or available at the settlement date of a transaction are effectively valued at closing spot 
rate. The premium or discount arising on inception of such forward exchange contracts is amortised over the life 
of the contract as interest income/expense. All other outstanding forward exchange contracts are revalued based 
on the exchange rates notified by FEDAI for specified maturities and at interpolated rates for contracts of interim 
maturities. The contracts of longer maturities where exchange rates are not notified by FEDAI are revalued based on 
the forward exchange rates implied by the swap curves in respective currencies. The resultant gains or losses are 
recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
The swap contracts entered to hedge on-balance sheet assets and liabilities are structured such that they bear an 
opposite and offsetting impact with the underlying on-balance sheet items. The impact of such derivative instruments 
is correlated with the movement of underlying assets and liabilities and accounted pursuant to the principles of 
hedge accounting. The Group identifies the hedged item (asset or liability) at the inception of the transaction itself. 
Hedge effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception of the hedge and periodically thereafter. Based on 
RBI circular issued on June 26, 2019, the accounting of hedge relationships established after June 26, 2019 is in 

287
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
accordance with the Guidance note on Accounting for Derivative Contracts issued by ICAI. The swaps under hedge 
relationships established prior to that date are accounted for on an accrual basis and are not marked to market 
unless their underlying transaction is marked-to-market. Gains or losses arising from hedge ineffectiveness, if any, 
are recognised in the profit and loss account except in the case of the Bank’s overseas banking subsidiaries.
	
In overseas subsidiaries, in case of fair value hedge, the hedging transactions and the hedged items (for the risks 
being hedged) are measured at fair value with changes recognised in the profit and loss account and in case of cash 
flow hedges, changes in the fair value of effective portion of the cash flow hedge are taken to ‘Revenue and other 
reserves’ and ineffective portion, if any, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
	
The derivative contracts entered into for trading purposes are marked to market and the resulting gain or loss is 
accounted for in the profit and loss account. Pursuant to RBI guidelines, any receivables under derivative contracts 
which remain overdue for more than 90 days and mark-to-market gains on other derivative contracts with the same 
counter-parties are reversed through the profit and loss account.
17.	 Impairment of assets
	
The immovable fixed assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An asset is treated as impaired when its carrying 
amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The impairment is recognised by debiting the profit and loss account and is 
measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the impaired assets exceeds their recoverable value. The 
Bank and its housing finance subsidiary follows revaluation model of accounting for its premises and the recoverable 
amount of the revalued assets is considered to be close to its revalued amount. Accordingly, separate assessment 
for impairment of premises is not required. 
	
For assets other than premises, the Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any indication that 
an asset may be impaired. Impairment loss, if any, is provided in the profit and loss account to the extent the carrying 
amount of assets exceeds their estimated recoverable amount.
18.	 Lease transactions
	
Lease payments including cost escalations for assets taken on operating lease are recognised as an expense in the 
profit and loss account over the lease term on straight line basis. The leases of property, plant and equipment, where 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Bank are classified as finance lease. 
Minimum lease payments under finance lease are apportioned between the finance costs and outstanding liability.
19.	 Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss after tax for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year. 
	
Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if contracts to issue equity shares were 
exercised or converted during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed using the weighted average 
number of equity shares and dilutive potential equity shares issued by the group outstanding during the year, except 
where the results are anti-dilutive.
20.	 Bullion transaction
	
The Bank deals in bullion business on a consignment basis. The bullion is priced to the customers based on the price 
quoted by the supplier. The difference between price recovered from customers and cost of bullion is accounted for 
as commission at the time of sales to the customers. The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending basis 
and the interest expense/income is accounted on accrual basis.
21.	 Share issue expenses
	
Share issue expenses are deducted from Share Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013

288
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
SCHEDULE 18
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE ACCOUNTS
The following additional disclosures have been made taking into account the requirements of Accounting Standards 
(ASs) and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines.
1.	
Earnings per share 
	
Basic and diluted earnings per equity share are computed in accordance with AS 20 - Earnings per share. Basic 
earnings per equity share is computed by dividing net profit/(loss) after tax by the weighted average number of 
equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed using the weighted 
average number of equity shares and weighted average number of dilutive potential equity shares outstanding 
during the year.
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the computation of earnings per share.
` in million, except per share data
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Net profit/(loss) attributable to equity share holders
340,366.4
251,101.0
Nominal value per share (`)
2.00
2.00
Basic earnings per share (`)
48.86
36.21
Effect of potential equity shares (`)
(1.02)
(0.77)
Diluted earnings per share (`)1
47.84
35.44
Reconciliation between weighted shares used in computation of basic and diluted earnings per share
Basic weighted average number of equity shares outstanding
6,966,305,957
6,933,652,636
Add: Effect of potential equity shares
138,684,400
142,291,212
Diluted weighted average number of equity shares outstanding
7,104,990,357
7,075,943,848
	
	
1.	The dilutive impact is due to options granted to employees by the Group.
2.	
Related party transactions
	
The Group has transactions with its related parties comprising associates/other related entities and key management 
personnel and relatives of key management personnel.
	
I.	
Related parties
	
	
Associates/other related entities
Sr. no.
Name of the entity
Nature of relationship
1.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
Associate
2.
Arteria Technologies Private Limited
Associate
3.
India Advantage Fund-III
Associate
4.
India Advantage Fund-IV
Associate
5.
India Infradebt Limited
Associate
6.
ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited
Associate
7.
I-Process Services (India) Private Limited
Associate
8.
NIIT Institute of Finance, Banking and Insurance Training Limited
Associate
9.
Comm Trade Services Limited
Other related entity
10.
ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth
Other related entity
11.
Cheryl Advisory Private Limited
Other related entity

289
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
	
Key management personnel
Sr. no.
Name of the Key management personnel
Relatives of the Key management personnel
1.
Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi
•	
Ms. Mona Bakhshi
•	
Mr. Shivam Bakhshi
•	
Ms. Aishwarya Bakshi
•	
Ms. Esha Bakhshi
•	
Ms. Minal Bakhshi
•	
Mr. Sameer Bakhshi
•	
Mr. Ritwik Thakurta
•	
Mr. Ashwin Pradhan
•	
Ms. Radhika Bakhshi
2.
Mr. Anup Bagchi
•	
Ms. Mitul Bagchi
•	
Mr. Aditya Bagchi
•	
Mr. Shishir Bagchi
•	
Mr. Arun Bagchi
3.
Mr. Sandeep Batra
•	
Mr. Pranav Batra
•	
Ms. Arushi Batra
•	
Mr. Vivek Batra
•	
Ms. Veena Batra
4.
Mr. Rakesh Jha
(w.e.f September 2, 2022)
•	
Mr. Narendra Kumar Jha
•	
Mr. Navin Ahuja
•	
Mr. Sharad Bansal
•	
Ms. Aparna Ahuja
•	
Ms. Apoorva Jha Bansal
•	
Ms. Pushpa Jha
•	
Ms. Sanjali Jha
•	
Ms. Swati Jha
5.
Ms. Vishakha Mulye
(upto May 31, 2022)
•	
Mr. Vivek Mulye
•	
Ms. Vriddhi Mulye
•	
Mr. Vighnesh Mulye
•	
Dr. Gauresh Palekar
•	
Ms. Shalaka Gadekar
•	
Dr. Nivedita Palekar
	
II.	
Transactions with related parties
	
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the significant transactions between the Group and its 
related parties.
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Interest income
438.0
516.9
Associates/others
434.8
510.9
Key management personnel
3.2
6.0
Income from services rendered
1,422.7
1,215.7
Associates/others
1,419.9
1,214.0
Key management personnel
0.9
1.2
Relatives of key management personnel
1.9
0.5

290
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Gain/(loss) on forex and derivative transactions (net)
50.8
36.6
Associates/others
50.8
36.6
Income from shared services
326.5
369.2
Associates/others
326.5
369.2
Dividend income
2,347.1
1,993.3
Associates/others
2,347.1
1,993.3
Insurance claims received
163.0
229.6
Associates/others
163.0
229.6
Interest expense
225.7
199.0
Associates/others
205.2
192.2
Key management personnel
15.3
4.8
Relatives of key management personnel
5.2
2.0
Expenses for services received
15,702.6
12,297.3
Associates/others
15,702.6
12,297.3
Insurance premium paid
3,544.6
3,222.4
Associates/others
3,544.6
3,222.4
Expenses for shared services and other payments
0.8
0.8
Associates/others
0.8
0.8
Insurance claims paid
19.0
42.6
Associates/others
18.5
42.1
Key management personnel
0.5
0.5
CSR related reimbursement of expenses
4,441.1
2,239.2
Associates/others
4,441.1
2,239.2
Donation given
564.5
486.4
Associates/others
564.5
486.4
Purchase of investments
1,634.0
1,766.5
Associates/others
1,634.0
1,766.5
Sale of Investments
31,667.3
8,286.9
Associates/others
31,667.3
8,286.9
Investments in the securities issued by related parties
1,850.0
1,000.0
Associates/others
1,850.0
1,000.0
Issuance of securities to related parties
1,000.0
-
Associates/others
1,000.0
-
Redemption/buyback of Investments
1,615.5
-
Associates/others
1,615.5
-
Purchase of fixed assets
3.4
4.8
Associates/others
3.4
4.8
Insurance premium received
58.7
75.8
Associates/others
55.3
67.1
Key management personnel
2.6
3.5
Relatives of key management personnel
0.8
5.2

291
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Remuneration to wholetime directors2
336.6
267.6
Key management personnel
336.6
267.6
Dividend paid
3.9
2.5
Key management personnel
3.2
2.5
Relatives of key management personnel
0.7
0.0
Value of ESOPs exercised
306.2
394.2
Key management personnel
306.2
394.2
Sale of fixed assets
0.2
-
Key management personnel
0.2
-
1.	0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2.	Excludes the perquisite value on employee stock options exercised and includes performance bonus paid during the period.
	
III.	 Material transactions with related parties
	
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the material transactions between the Group and 
its related parties. A specific related party transaction is disclosed as a material related party transaction 
wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in that category.
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Interest income
1
India Infradebt Limited
421.2
505.4
Income from services rendered
1
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
1,267.5
1,066.5
Gain/(loss) on forex and derivative transactions (net)
1
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
50.8
36.6
Income from shared services
1
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
262.0
314.6
2
ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth
37.2
38.7
Dividend income
1
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
2,240.5
1,886.8
Insurance claims received
1
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
163.0
229.6
Interest expense
1
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
140.5
163.6
2
ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited
25.9
8.3
Expenses for services received
1
I-Process Services (India) Private Limited
10,406.6
8,450.4
2
ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited
5,226.6
3,790.0
Insurance Premium paid
1
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
3,544.6
3,222.4

292
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Expenses for shared services and other payments
1
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
0.8
0.8
Insurance claims paid
1
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
16.2
42.1
2
ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth
2.3
-
CSR related reimbursement of expenses
1
ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth
4,441.1
2,239.2
Donation given
1
ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth
564.5
486.4
Purchase of investments
1
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
1,634.0
1,766.5
Sale of Investments
1
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
24,647.6
6,776.2
2
India Infradebt Limited
7,019.7
1,510.7
Investments in the securities issued by related parties
1
India Infradebt Limited
1,850.0
1,000.0
Issuance of securities to related parties
1
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
1,000.0
-
Redemption/buyback of investments
1
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
1,615.5
-
Purchase of fixed assets
1
Arteria Technologies Private Limited
3.2
1.7
2
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
0.1
3.1
Insurance premium received
1
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
54.1
47.9
2
ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth
0.7
18.6
Remuneration to wholetime directors2
1
Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi3
95.7
73.7
2
Mr. Anup Bagchi
86.5
66.3
3
Mr. Sandeep Batra3
85.3
64.0
4
Mr. Rakesh Jha
45.9
N.A.
5
Ms. Vishakha Mulye
23.2
63.6
Dividend paid
1
Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi
1.8
0.4
2
Mr. Anup Bagchi
0.0
0.1
3
Mr. Sandeep Batra
0.6
0.2
4
Mr. Rakesh Jha
0.7
N.A.
5
Ms. Vishakha Mulye
N.A.
1.8
6
Mr. Shivam Bakhshi
0.4
0.0

293
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Value of ESOPs exercised
1
Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi
27.2
277.1
2
Mr. Anup Bagchi
183.2
56.0
3
Mr. Sandeep Batra
22.0
4.8
4
Ms. Vishakha Mulye
73.8
56.3
Sale of fixed assets
1
Mr. Rakesh Jha
0.1
-
2
Ms. Vishakha Mulye
0.1
-
1.	0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2.	Excludes the perquisite value on employee stock options exercised and includes performance bonus paid during the period.
3.	Includes remuneration received from ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited relating to the period of his service 
with that company.
	
IV. 	 Related party outstanding balances
	
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the outstanding balances payable to/receivable from 
related parties.
` in million
Items
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
Deposits with the Group
2,960.0
3,591.0
Associates/others
2,603.0
3,424.7
Key management personnel
260.7
125.1
Relatives of key management personnel
96.3
41.2
Payables
3,718.3
3,482.7
Associates/others
3,716.9
3,482.6
Key management personnel
0.4
0.0
Relatives of key management personnel
1.0
0.1
Investments of the Group
24,863.5
24,773.8
Associates/others
24,863.5
24,773.8
Investments of related parties in the Group
1,601.3
2,104.6
Associates/others
1,600.0
2,100.0
Key management personnel
1.1
2.1
Relatives of key management personnel
0.2
2.5
Advances by the Group
277.4
267.1
Associates/others
191.3
127.7
Key management personnel
85.7
139.1
Relatives of key management personnel
0.4
0.3
Receivables
1,538.9
1,927.9
Associates/others
1,538.9
1,927.9
Guarantees issued by the Group
63.1
59.0
Associates/others
63.1
59.0
1.	0.0 represents insignificant amount.

294
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
V. 	 Related party maximum balances
	
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the maximum balances payable to/receivable from 
related parties.
` in million
Items
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Deposits with the Group
Key management personnel
420.7
277.4
Relatives of key management personnel
266.6
176.5
Payables1
Key management personnel
0.4
0.1
Relatives of key management personnel
1.0
0.1
Investments of related parties in the Group1
Key management personnel
1.9
3.0
Relatives of key management personnel
0.3
2.5
Advances by the Group
Key management personnel
139.2
269.2
Relatives of key management personnel
2.3
1.9
1.	Maximum balance is determined based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each quarter end during the 
financial year.
3.	
Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)
	
ICICI Bank:
	
In terms of the ESOS, as amended, the maximum number of options granted to any eligible employee in a financial 
year shall not exceed 0.05% of the issued equity shares of the Bank at the time of grant of the options and aggregate 
of all such options granted to the eligible employees shall not exceed 10.0% of the aggregate number of the issued 
equity shares of the Bank on the date(s) of the grant of options in line with SEBI Regulations. Under the stock option 
scheme, eligible employees are entitled to apply for equity shares. In April 2016, exercise period was modified from 
10 years from the date of grant or five years from the date of vesting, whichever is later, to 10 years from the date of 
vesting. In June 2017, exercise period was further modified to not exceed 10 years from the date of vesting of options 
as may be determined by the Board Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee to be applicable for future 
grants. In May 2018, exercise period was further modified to not exceed 5 years from the date of vesting of options 
as may be determined by the Board Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee to be applicable for future 
grants.
	
Options granted after March 2014 vest in a graded manner over a three-year period with 30%, 30% and 40% of the 
grant vesting in each year, commencing from the end of 12 months from the date of grant other than certain options 
granted in April 2014 which vested to the extent of 50% on April 30, 2017 and the balance on April 30, 2018 and 
option granted in September 2015 which vested to the extent of 50% on April 30, 2018 and balance 50% vested 
on April 30, 2019. Options granted in January 2018 vested at the end of four years from the date of grant. Certain 
options granted in May 2018, vested to the extent of 50% on May 2021 and balance 50% on May 2022.
	
Options granted prior to March 2014 except mentioned below, vested in a graded manner over a four-year period, 
with 20%, 20%, 30% and 30% of the grants vesting in each year, commencing from the end of 12 months from the 
date of grant. Options granted in April 2009 vested in a graded manner over a five-year period with 20%, 20%, 
30% and 30% of grant vesting each year, commencing from the end of 24 months from the date of grant. Options 
granted in September 2011 vested in a graded manner over a five-year period with 15%, 20%, 20% and 45% of 
grant vesting each year, commencing from the end of 24 months from the date of the grant.

295
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
The exercise price of the Bank’s options, except mentioned below, is the last closing price on the stock exchange, 
which recorded highest trading volume preceding the date of grant of options. In February 2011, the Bank granted 
16,692,500 options to eligible employees and whole-time Directors of the Bank and certain of its subsidiaries at 
an exercise price of ` 175.82. This exercise price was the average closing price on the stock exchange during the 
six months ended October 28, 2010. Of these options granted, 50% vested on April 30, 2014 and the balance 50% 
vested on April 30, 2015.
	
The weighted average fair value, based on Black-Scholes model, of options granted during the year ended March 31, 
2023 was ` 291.15 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 227.75).
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the key assumptions used to estimate the fair value of 
options granted.
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Risk-free interest rate
5.99% to 7.37%
5.34% to 6.53%
Expected term
3.23 to 5.23 years
3.55 to 5.55 years
Expected volatility
34.79% to 38.98%
35.38% to 39.41%
Expected dividend yield
0.27% to 0.72%
0.18% to 0.30%
	
Risk free interest rates over the expected term of the option are based on the government securities yield in 
effect at the time of the grant. The expected term of an option is estimated based on the vesting term as well as 
expected exercise behavior of the employees who receive the option. Expected exercise behavior is estimated 
based on the historical stock option exercise pattern of the Bank. Expected volatility during the estimated 
expected term of the option is based on historical volatility determined based on observed market prices of the 
Bank's publicly traded equity shares. Expected dividends during the estimated expected term of the option are 
based on recent dividend activity.
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the summary of the status of the Bank’s stock option plan.
` except number of options
Particulars
Stock options outstanding
Year ended March 31, 2023
Year ended March 31, 2022
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(` per share)
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(` per share)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
237,197,999
310.82
246,590,972
276.14
Add: Granted during the year
25,793,500
747.92
25,550,350
570.43
Less: Lapsed during the year, net of re-
issuance
3,921,340
568.36
2,164,335
444.41
Less: Exercised during the year
34,044,356
276.72
32,778,988
243.44
Outstanding at the end of the year
225,025,803
361.60
237,197,999
310.82
Options exercisable
172,938,533
289.69
177,170,739
264.69

296
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
The following table sets forth, the summary of stock options outstanding at March 31, 2023.
Range of exercise 
price (` per share)
Number of 
options
Weighted average 
exercise price 
(` per share)
Weighted average 
remaining contractual life 
(Number of years)
60-199
7,202,993
160.84
1.85
200-399
145,129,078
267.52
4.37
400-599
48,347,432
479.32
4.15
600-799
24,274,900
747.62
6.17
800-899
71,400
862.88
6.58
The following table sets forth, the summary of stock options outstanding at March 31, 2022.
Range of exercise 
price (` per share)
Number of 
options
Weighted average 
exercise price 
(` per share)
Weighted average 
remaining contractual life 
(Number of years)
60-199
11,245,113
160.69
2.52
200-399
171,000,375
267.10
5.30
400-599
54,887,211
477.26
5.11
600-799
46,300
737.63
6.63
800-899
19,000
810.25
6.92
	
The options were exercised regularly throughout the period and weighted average share price as per National Stock 
Exchange price volume data during the year ended March 31, 2023 was ` 832.00 (Year ended March 31, 2022: 
` 703.14).
	
ICICI Life:
	
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company has formulated ESOS for their employees. There is no compensation cost 
for the year ended March 31, 2023 based on the intrinsic value of options.
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a summary of the status of the stock option plan of ICICI 
Prudential Life Insurance Company.
` except number of options
Particulars
Stock options outstanding
Year ended March 31, 2023
Year ended March 31, 2022
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(` per share)
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(` per share)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
20,184,630
404.87
17,175,700
389.25
Add: Granted during the year
5,227,730
541.00
5,061,600
453.05
Less: Forfeited/lapsed during the year
199,690
461.18
735,800
412.86
Less: Exercised during the year
1,270,555
384.94
1,316,870
381.95
Outstanding at the end of the year
23,942,115
435.18
20,184,630
404.87
Options exercisable
13,559,815
395.34
7,991,235
390.40

297
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
The following table sets forth, summary of stock options outstanding of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company at 
March 31, 2023.
Range of exercise 
price (` per share)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price 
(` per share)
Weighted average 
remaining contractual life 
(Number of years)
300-399
8,825,615
379.70
3.20
400-499
9,896,370
428.41
5.27
500-599
5,165,630
541.00
6.10
600-699
54,500
619.43
5.06
The following table sets forth, summary of stock options outstanding of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company 
at March 31, 2022.
Range of exercise 
price (` per share)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price 
(` per share)
Weighted average 
remaining contractual life 
(Number of years)
300-399
10,048,090
379.99
4.20
400-499
10,076,540
428.40
6.30
600-699
60,000
620.05
6.80
	
ICICI Securities:
ICICI Securities Limited has formulated ESOS for their employees. There is no compensation cost for the year 
ended March 31, 2023 based on the intrinsic value of options.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a summary of the status of the stock option plan of ICICI 
Securities Limited.
` except number of options
Particulars
Stock options outstanding
Year ended March 31, 2023
Year ended March 31, 2022
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(` per share)
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(` per share)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
2,939,279
342.43
2,528,350
295.92
Add: Granted during the year
1,657,700
624.68
953,000
426.91
Less: Forfeited/lapsed during the year
263,980
514.77
93,000
389.72
Less: Exercised during the year
186,455
305.89
449,071
250.08
Outstanding at the end of the year
4,146,544
445.94
2,939,279
342.43
Options exercisable
1,588,294
306.03
2,041,139
305.12

298
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
The following table sets forth, summary of stock options outstanding of ICICI Securities Limited at March 31, 2023.
Range of exercise 
price (` per share)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price 
(` per share)
Weighted average 
remaining contractual life 
(Number of years)
200-249
696,230
221.45
3.10
250-299
37,730
256.55
2.98
350-399
1,127,904
361.00
4.13
400-449
749,880
424.60
5.10
500-549
4,700
512.10
6.81
600-649
1,523,800
625.00
6.05
750-799
6,300
774.60
5.30
The following table sets forth, summary of stock options outstanding of ICICI Securities Limited at March 31, 2022.
Range of exercise 
price (` per share)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price 
(` per share)
Weighted average 
remaining contractual life 
(Number of years)
200-249
790,000
221.45
5.06
250-299
37,730
256.55
4.55
300-399
1,212,149
361.00
6.10
400-449
888,900
424.60
7.06
450-499
4,200
468.10
6.58
750-799
6,300
774.60
7.30
4.	
Fixed assets
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in software acquired by the Group, as included 
in fixed assets.
` in million
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
At cost at March 31 of preceding year
33,010.5
35,196.2
Less: Reduction on account of discontinuation of ICICI Lombard General 
Insurance Company Limited from consolidation
-
(6,470.5)
Adjusted cost at March 31 of preceding year
33,010.5
28,725.7
Additions during the year
5,480.1
4,658.3
Deductions during the year
(2,258.2)
(373.5)
Depreciation to date
(26,065.1)
(24,086.0)
Net block
10,167.3
8,924.5

299
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
5.	
Assets on lease
	
5.1	 Assets taken under operating lease
	
	
Operating leases primarily comprise office premises which are renewable at the option of the Group.
	
	
(i) 	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of liability for premises taken on non-
cancellable operating leases.
` in million
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
Not later than one year
924.1
681.4
Later than one year and not later than five years
1,443.2
1,501.9
Later than five years
396.2
567.0
Total
2,763.5
2,750.3
The terms of renewal are those normally prevalent in similar agreements and there are no undue restrictions in the 
agreements.
	
	
(ii) 	 Total of non-cancellable lease payments recognised in the profit and loss account for the year is ` 1,064.3 
million (year ended March 31, 2022 ` 993.4 million).
	
5.2	 Assets taken under finance lease
	
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of assets taken on finance leases.
` in million
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
A. 	 Total minimum lease payments outstanding
	
Not later than one year
271.3
269.2
	
Later than one year and not later than five years
596.1
792.3
	
Later than five years
14.9
76.4
Total
882.3
1,137.9
B. 	 Interest cost payable
	
Not later than one year
70.0
92.5
	
Later than one year and not later than five years
83.3
146.8
	
Later than five years
0.5
3.8
Total
153.8
243.1
C. 	 Present value of minimum lease payments payable (A-B)
	
Not later than one year
201.3
176.7
	
Later than one year and not later than five years
512.8
645.5
	
Later than five years
14.4
72.6
Total
728.5
894.8

300
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
5.3	 Assets given under finance lease
	
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of finance leases.
` in million
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
Future minimum lease receipts
Present value of lease receipts
50.2
416.5
Unmatured finance charges
2.0
13.9
Sub total
52.2
430.4
Less: collective provision
(0.2)
(0.5)
Total
52.0
429.9
Maturity profile of future minimum lease receipts
-	
Not later than one year
19.0
237.8
-	
Later than one year and not later than five years
33.2
192.6
-	
Later than five years
-
-
Total
52.2
430.4
Less: collective provision
(0.2)
(0.5)
Total
52.0
429.9
Maturity profile of present value of lease rentals
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of maturity profile of present value of 
finance lease receipts.
` in million
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
Maturity profile of future present value of finance lease receipts
-	
Not later than one year
17.7 
229.6
-	
Later than one year and not later than five years
32.5 
186.9
-	
Later than five years
- 
-
Total
50.2 
416.5
Less: collective provision
(0.2)
(0.5)
Total
50.0 
416.0
6.	
Provisions and contingencies
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of provisions and contingencies included in the 
profit and loss account.
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Provision for depreciation of investments
13,917.0
5,412.3
Provision towards non-performing and other assets
(3,653.5)
63,775.2
Provision towards income tax
a) 	 Current
114,564.4
74,044.5
b) 	 Deferred
3,370.0
10,529.9
Other provisions and contingencies1,2
59,135.7
20,579.0
Total provisions and contingencies
187,333.6
174,340.9
1.	Includes contingency provision made amounting to ` 56,500.0 million made by the Bank on a prudent basis (March 31, 2022: 
write-back of provision of ` 250.0 million).
2.	Includes general provision made towards standard assets, provision on fixed assets acquired under debt-asset swap and non-
fund based facilities.

301
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
The Group has assessed its obligations arising in the normal course of business, including pending litigations, 
proceedings pending with tax authorities and other contracts including derivative and long-term contracts. In 
accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standard - 29 on ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent 
Assets’, the Group recognises a provision for material foreseeable losses when it has a present obligation as a 
result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, in 
respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. In cases where the available information indicates that the loss 
on the contingency is reasonably possible or the amount of loss cannot be reasonably estimated, a disclosure to 
this effect is made as contingent liabilities in the financial statements. The Group does not expect the outcome of 
these proceedings to have a materially adverse effect on its financial results. For insurance contracts booked in its 
life insurance subsidiary, reliance has been placed on the Appointed Actuary for actuarial valuation of ‘liabilities 
for policies in force’. The Appointed Actuary has confirmed that the assumptions used in valuation of liabilities for 
policies in force are in accordance with the guidelines and norms issued by the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries 
of India in concurrence with the IRDAI.
	
During the year, the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) initiated an inquiry in to goods and service tax 
(GST) credit availed on certain expenses incurred by the ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd. (the Company). 
During the course of the inquiry, the Company has deposited an amount, without acceptance of liability on account 
of denial of credit, with GST authorities. Subsequently, the Company has received an intimation of tax from DGGI. 
However, the Company is yet to receive a show cause notice from DGGI providing specific details/reasons for the 
intimation. Hence, the Company is currently unable to assess the likelihood of the outcome in the matter as well as 
its financial effect.
7.	
Staff retirement benefits
	
Pension
	
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for pension benefits.
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Opening obligations
18,661.0
20,265.6
Service cost
151.7
204.6
Interest cost
1,150.6
1,145.3
Actuarial (gain)/loss
758.2
(546.5)
Liabilities extinguished on settlement
(2,192.6)
(2,289.8)
Benefits paid
(99.8)
(118.2)
Obligations at the end of year
18,429.1
18,661.0
Opening plan assets, at fair value
19,843.3
21,162.2
Expected return on plan assets
1,522.0
1,620.7
Actuarial gain/(loss)
(682.0)
(331.9)
Assets distributed on settlement
(2,436.2)
(2,544.2)
Contributions
42.9
54.7
Benefits paid
(99.8)
(118.2)
Closing plan assets, at fair value
18,190.2
19,843.3
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
18,190.2
19,843.3
Present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year
(18,429.1)
(18,661.0)
Amount not recognised as an asset  
(limit in Para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’)
-
(401.9)
Asset/(liability)
(238.9)
780.4

302
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Cost1
Service cost
151.7
204.6
Interest cost
1,150.6
1,145.3
Expected return on plan assets
(1,522.0)
(1,620.7)
Actuarial (gain)/loss
1,440.2
(214.6)
Curtailments & settlements (gain)/loss
243.6
254.4
Effect of the limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’
(401.9)
97.1
Net cost
1,062.2
(133.9)
Actual return on plan assets
840.0
1,288.8
Expected employer’s contribution next year
1,000.0
2,000.0
Investment details of plan assets
Government of India securities
41.74%
46.69%
Corporate bonds
48.30%
46.45%
Equity securities in listed companies
7.08%
6.46%
Others
2.88%
0.40%
Assumptions
Discount rate
7.30%
6.30%
Salary escalation rate:
	
On Basic pay
1.50%
1.50%
	
On Dearness relief
8.00%
7.00%
Estimated rate of return on plan assets
7.50%
7.50%
1.	Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule 16- Operating expenses.
	
Estimated rate of return on plan assets is based on the expected average long-term rate of return on investments of 
the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
	
Experience adjustment
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
 March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2021
Year ended 
March 31, 2020
Year ended 
March 31, 2019
Plan assets
18,190.2
19,843.3
21,162.2
16,972.1
15,438.8
Defined benefit 
obligations
(18,429.1)
(18,661.0)
(20,265.6)
(19,914.3)
(16,540.3)
Amount not recognised 
as an asset (limit in 
para 59(b) of AS 15 on 
‘employee benefits’)
-
(401.9)
(304.8)
-
-
Surplus/(deficit)
(238.9)
780.4
591.8
(2,942.2)
(1,101.5)
Experience adjustment 
on plan assets
(682.0)
(331.9)
521.9
741.1
(125.9)
Experience adjustment 
on plan liabilities
805.8
809.0
613.4
2,186.1
1,038.6

303
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
Gratuity
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for gratuity benefits of the Group.
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Opening obligations
16,895.1
16,954.5
Add: Adjustment for exchange fluctuation on opening obligation
12.2
6.0
Less: Adjustment1
-
(1,037.6)
Adjusted opening obligations
16,907.3
15,923.1
Service cost
1,643.8
1,581.7
Interest cost
1,166.7
1,058.8
Actuarial (gain)/loss
1,108.1
(114.1)
Past service cost
(72.2)
-
Liability transferred from/to other companies
21.9
(0.1)
Benefits paid
(1,877.8)
(1,554.3)
Obligations at the end of the year
18,896.8
16,895.1
Opening plan assets, at fair value
16,738.3
16,541.6
Less: Adjustment1
-
(1,080.6)
Adjusted opening plan assets at fair value
16,738.3
15,461.0
Expected return on plan assets
1,197.7
1,116.6
Actuarial gain/(loss)
(577.3)
(33.1)
Contributions
1,544.4
1,748.2
Assets transferred from/to other companies
36.5
(0.1)
Benefits paid
(1,877.8)
(1,554.3)
Closing plan assets, at fair value
17,061.6
16,738.3
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
17,061.6
16,738.3
Present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year
(18,896.8)
(16,895.1)
Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on 
‘employee benefits’)
-
-
Asset/(liability)
(1,835.2)
(156.8)
Cost2
Service cost
1,643.8
1,581.7
Interest cost
1,166.7
1,058.8
Expected return on plan assets
(1,197.7)
(1,116.6)
Actuarial (gain)/loss
1,685.4
(81.0)
Past service cost
(72.2)
-
Exchange fluctuation loss/(gain)
12.2
6.0
Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on 
‘employee benefits’)
-
-
Net cost
3,238.2
1,448.9
Actual return on plan assets
620.4
1,083.4
Expected employer’s contribution next year
1,731.0
1,030.0

304
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Investment details of plan assets
Insurer managed funds
9.97%
18.88%
Government of India securities
30.07%
23.76%
Corporate bonds
42.87%
38.90%
Special Deposit schemes
-
-
Equity
15.04%
16.75%
Others
2.05%
1.71%
Assumptions
Discount rate
7.30%-7.50%
5.80%-7.30%
Salary escalation rate
7.00%-10.00%
7.00%-10.00%
Estimated rate of return on plan assets
7.00%-8.00%
7.00%-8.00%
1.	Represents reduction on account of discontinuation of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited from consolidation.
2.	Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule 16- Operating expenses.
	
Estimated rate of return on plan assets is based on the expected average long-term rate of return on investments of 
the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
	
Experience adjustment
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
 March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2021
Year ended 
March 31, 2020
Year ended 
March 31, 2019
Plan assets
17,061.6
16,738.3
16,541.6
13,636.8
12,112.4
Defined benefit 
obligations
(18,896.8)
(16,895.1)
(16,954.5)
(15,743.6)
(13,317.1)
Amount not recognised 
as an asset (limit in 
para 59(b) of AS 15 on 
‘employee benefits’)
-
-
-
-
-
Surplus/(deficit)
(1,835.2)
(156.8)
(412.9)
(2,106.8)
(1,204.7)
Experience adjustment 
on plan assets
(577.3)
(33.1)
892.1
(167.4)
(62.0)
Experience adjustment 
on plan liabilities
869.4
464.7
(548.2)
253.6
243.7
	
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take into consideration inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors.
	
Provident Fund (PF)
	
The Group does not have any liability towards interest rate guarantee on exempt provident fund on the basis of 
actuarial valuation at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: Nil).
	
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for provident fund of the Group.

305
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Opening obligations
49,411.5
45,617.9
Less: Adjustments1
(655.3)
(711.1)
Adjusted opening balance
48,756.2
44,906.8
Service cost
2,747.6
2,202.0
Interest cost
3,367.1
2,947.1
Actuarial (gain)/loss
1,032.8
(15.9)
Employees contribution
4,707.4
4,049.0
Liability transferred from/to other companies
805.2
546.1
Benefits paid
(6,048.6)
(5,223.6)
Obligations at end of the year
55,367.7
49,411.5
Opening plan assets
50,656.3
45,615.2
Less: Adjustments1
(407.5)
(708.4)
Adjusted opening balance
50,248.8
44,906.8
Expected return on plan assets
4,100.3
3,761.0
Actuarial gain/(loss)
(432.8)
415.0
Employer contributions
2,747.6
2,202.0
Employees contributions
4,707.4
4,049.0
Assets transfer from/to other companies
805.4
546.1
Benefits paid
(6,048.6)
(5,223.6)
Closing plan assets
56,128.1
50,656.3
Plan assets at the end of the year
56,128.1
50,656.3
Present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year
(55,367.7)
(49,411.5)
Amount not recognised as an asset (Limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on 
‘employee benefits’)2
(760.4)
(1,244.8)
Asset/(liability)
-
-
Cost3
Service cost
2,747.6
2,202.0
Interest cost
3,367.1
2,947.1
Expected return on plan assets
(4,100.3)
(3,761.0)
Actuarial (gain)/loss
1,465.6
(430.9)
Effect of limit in para 59(b)2
(732.4)
1,244.8
Net cost
2,747.6
2,202.0
Actual return on plan assets
3,667.5
4,176.0
Expected employer's contribution next year
2,965.9
2,357.2
Investment details of plan assets
Government of India securities
55.20%
53.56%
Corporate Bonds
34.83%
35.56%
Special deposit scheme
0.96%
1.07%
Others
9.01%
9.81%
Assumptions
Discount rate
7.35%-7.40%
6.00%-6.85%
Expected rate of return on assets
7.97%-8.76%
7.54%-8.25%

306
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of investments
7.40%-7.60%
6.75%-7.15%
Average historic yield on the investment
8.01%-8.96%
8.25%-8.87%
Guaranteed rate of return
8.15%-8.15%
8.10%-8.10%
1.	a. During the year ended March 31, 2023, ICICI Home Finance Company Limited realised and transferred assets and liabilities 
of Employee Provident Fund Trust to Central Provident Fund.
	
b. During the year ended March 31, 2022, ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited realised and transferred assets 
and liabilities of Employee Provident Fund Trust to Central Provident Fund.
2.	Pursuant to revised Guidance Note 29 on “Valuation of Interest Rate Guarantees on Exempt Provident Funds under AS 15 
(Revised)” issued by ‘Institute of Actuaries of India’ on February 16, 2022, plan assets held by PF Trust have been fair valued. 
The amount represents the fair value gain on plan assets.
3.	Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule 16- Operating expenses.
	
Experience adjustment
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
 March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2021
Year ended 
March 31, 2020
Year ended 
March 31, 2019
Plan assets
56,128.1
50,656.3
45,615.2
38,682.6
33,282.4
Defined benefit 
obligations
(55,367.7)
(49,411.5)
(45,617.9)
(38,703.4)
(33,282.4)
Amount not recognised 
as an asset (limit in 
para 59(b) AS 15 on 
‘employee benefits’)1
(760.4)
(1,244.8)
-
-
-
Surplus/(deficit)
-
-
(2.7)
(20.8)
-
Experience adjustment 
on plan assets
(432.8)
415.1
663.8
(662.0)
13.0
Experience adjustment 
on plan liabilities
753.2
(684.8)
1,703.3
(129.9)
447.4
1. Pursuant to revised Guidance Note 29 on “Valuation of Interest Rate Guarantees on Exempt Provident Funds under AS 15 
(Revised)” issued by ‘Institute of Actuaries of India’ on February 16, 2022, plan assets held by PF Trust have been fair valued. 
The amount represents the fair value gain on plan assets.
	
The Group has contributed ` 4,344.2 million to provident fund including Government of India managed employees 
provident fund for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 4,018.3 million), which includes 
compulsory contribution made towards employee pension scheme under Employees Provident Fund and 
Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952.
	
Superannuation Fund
	
The Group has contributed ` 321.8 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 274.0 
million) to Superannuation Fund for employees who had opted for the scheme.
	
National Pension Scheme (NPS)
	
The Group has contributed ` 361.1 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022: ` 291.8 million) to 
NPS for employees who had opted for the scheme.

307
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
Compensated absence
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, cost for compensated absence.
` in million
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Total actuarial liability
3,629.6
3,616.9
Cost1
884.9
874.9
Assumptions
Discount rate
7.30%-7.55%
5.80%-7.30%
Salary escalation rate
7.00%-10.00%
7.00%-10.00%
1.	Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule- 16 Operating expenses.
8.	
Provision for income tax
	
The provision for income tax (including deferred tax) for the year ended March 31, 2023 amounted to ` 117,934.4 
million (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 84,574.4 million).
	
The Group has a comprehensive system of maintenance of information and documents required by transfer pricing 
legislation under sections 92-92F of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The management is of the opinion that all transactions 
with international related parties and specified transactions with domestic related parties are primarily at arm's 
length so that the above legislation does not have material impact on the financial statements.
9.	
Deferred tax
	
At March 31, 2023, the Group has recorded net deferred tax asset of ` 76,194.4 million (March 31, 2022: ` 79,484.8 
million), which has been included in other assets.
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of deferred tax assets and liabilities into 
major items.
` in million
Particulars
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
Deferred tax assets
Provision for bad and doubtful debts
104,780.1
105,637.7
Provision for operating expenses
4,026.9
-
Others
11,096.4
11,024.8
Total deferred tax assets
119,903.4
116,662.5
Deferred tax liabilities
Special reserve deduction
37,695.4
31,118.6
Foreign currency translation reserve1
615.0
1,245.6
Mark-to-market gains1
490.0
278.6
Depreciation on fixed assets
4,476.7
4,093.8
Interest on refund of taxes1
206.2
168.4
Others
225.7
272.7
Total deferred tax liabilities
43,709.0
37,177.7
Total net deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
76,194.4
79,484.8
1.	These items are considered in accordance with the requirements of Income Computation and Disclosure Standards (ICDS).

308
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
10.	 Information about business and geographical segments
	
A.	 Business Segments
	
	
Pursuant to the guidelines issued by RBI on AS 17 – Segment Reporting, the following business segments of 
the Group have been reported.
	
	
i.	
Retail banking includes exposures of the Bank which satisfy the four criteria of orientation, product, 
granularity and low value of individual exposures for retail exposures laid down in Basel Committee on 
Banking Supervision (BCBS) document “International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital 
Standards: A Revised Framework”. This segment also includes income from credit cards, debit cards, third 
party product distribution and the associated costs.
	
	
ii.	
Wholesale banking includes all advances to trusts, partnership firms, companies and statutory bodies, by 
the Bank which are not included under Retail banking.
	
	
iii.	
Treasury primarily includes the entire investment and derivative portfolio of the Bank.
	
	
iv.	
Other banking includes leasing operations and other items not attributable to any particular business 
segment of the Bank. Further, it includes the Bank’s banking subsidiaries i.e. ICICI Bank UK PLC and ICICI 
Bank Canada.
	
	
v.	
Life insurance represents results of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited.
	
	
vi.	
Others includes ICICI Home Finance Company Limited, ICICI Venture Funds Management Company 
Limited, ICICI International Limited, ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited, ICICI Securities Limited, 
ICICI Securities Holdings Inc., ICICI Securities Inc., ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited, 
ICICI Prudential Trust Limited, ICICI Investment Management Company Limited, ICICI Trusteeship Services 
Limited and ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company Limited.
	
	
vii.	 Unallocated includes items such as tax paid in advance net of provision, deferred tax and provisions to the 
extent reckoned at the entity level. 
	
	
	
Income, expenses, assets and liabilities are either specifically identified with individual segments or are 
allocated to segments on a systematic basis.
	
	
	
All liabilities of the Bank are transfer priced to a central treasury unit, which pools all funds and lends to the 
business units at appropriate rates based on the relevant maturity of assets being funded after adjusting 
for regulatory reserve requirements.
	
	
	
The transfer pricing mechanism of the Bank is periodically reviewed. The segment results are determined 
based on the transfer pricing mechanism prevailing for the respective reporting periods.

309
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, the business segment results for the year ended March 31, 2023.
` in million
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
Retail 
banking
Wholesale 
banking
Treasury
Other 
banking 
business
Life 
insurance
Others
Inter- 
segment 
adjustments
Total
1
Revenue
1,037,753.4
506,148.5
845,369.2
44,640.0
479,301.7
97,259.8
(1,148,684.6)
1,861,788.0
2
Segment results1
175,336.8
157,857.8
140,372.1
10,014.5
8,968.9
42,023.7
(15,509.2)
519,064.6
3
Unallocated expenses
56,500.0
4
Share of profit from 
associates
9,982.9
5
Operating profit  
(2) – (3) + (4)1
472,547.5
6
Income tax expenses 
(net)/(net deferred tax 
credit)
117,934.4
7
Net profit2 (5) – (6)
354,613.1
Other information
8
Segment assets
6,039,593.7 4,328,743.5
5,129,405.0
836,960.5
2,556,899.0
711,348.4
(114,612.3) 19,488,337.8
9
Unallocated assets
96,567.2
10
Total assets (8) + (9)
19,584,905.0
11
Segment liabilities
8,913,545.4 3,472,764.9
3,344,275.63
564,779.63
2,558,472.03
714,679.83
(114,612.3)3 19,453,905.0
12
Unallocated liabilities
131,000.0
13
Total liabilities 
(11) + (12)
19,584,905.0
14
Capital expenditure
11,682.9
5,251.8
610.6
455.2
1,357.0
1,884.8
-
21,242.3
15
Depreciation
9,274.5
3,427.2
335.8
405.2
835.1
884.2
(16.4)
15,145.6
1.	Profit before tax and minority interest.
2.	Includes share of net profit of minority shareholders.
3.	Includes share capital and reserves and surplus.

310
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, the business segment results for the year ended March 31, 2022.
` in million
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
Retail 
banking
Wholesale 
banking
Treasury
Other 
banking 
business
Life 
insurance
Others
Inter- 
segment 
adjustments
Total
1
Revenue
846,392.2
399,714.9
673,210.9
27,784.1
453,402.4
87,332.5
(912,473.8)
1,575,363.2
2
Segment results1
114,003.9
90,529.3
96,744.8
6,271.2
7,905.6
43,499.9
(16,792.0)
342,162.7
3
Unallocated expenses
(250.0)
4
Share of profit from 
associates
7,544.3
5
Operating profit  
(2) – (3) + (4)1
349,957.0
6
Income tax expenses 
(net)/(net deferred tax 
credit)
84,574.4
7
Net profit2 (5) – (6)
265,382.6
Other information
8
Segment assets
4,876,519.3
3,790,918.0
5,218,960.9
682,866.9
2,440,064.2
516,534.8
(105,216.9) 17,420,647.2
9
Unallocated assets
105,726.6
10
Total assets (8) + (9)
17,526,373.8
11
Segment liabilities
7,918,942.5
3,213,907.0
2,933,413.93
541,143.13
2,441,543.23
520,286.43
(105,216.9)3 17,464,019.2
12
Unallocated liabilities
62,354.6
13
Total liabilities  
(11) + (12)
17,526,373.8
14
Capital expenditure
9,901.7
4,453.3
623.1
345.7
732.3
943.8
-
16,999.9
15
Depreciation
8,068.8
3,130.8
399.6
321.9
669.1
726.3
(16.4)
13,300.1
1.	Profit before tax and minority interest.
2.	Includes share of net profit of minority shareholders.
3.	Includes share capital and reserves and surplus.

311
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
B.	 Geographical segments
	
	
The Group reports its operations under the following geographical segments.
	
	
•	
Domestic operations comprise branches and subsidiaries/joint ventures in India.
	
	
•	
Foreign operations comprise branches and subsidiaries/joint ventures outside India and offshore banking 
units in India.
	
	
The Group conducts transactions with its customers on a global basis in accordance with their business 
requirements, which may span across various geographies.
	
	
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the geographical segment results.
` in million
Revenue
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Domestic operations1
1,819,445.3
1,550,493.6
Foreign operations
52,325.6
32,413.9
Total
1,871,770.9
1,582,907.5
1.	Includes share of profit from associates of ` 9,982.9 million (March 31, 2022: ` 7,544.3 million).
` in million
Assets
At 
March 31, 2023
At 
March 31, 2022
Domestic operations
 18,242,212.3 
16,060,154.4
Foreign operations
 1,246,125.5 
1,360,492.8
Total
 19,488,337.8 
17,420,647.2
1.	Segment assets do not include tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net) and deferred tax assets (net).
	
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, capital expenditure and depreciation thereon for the 
geographical segments.
` in million
Capital expenditure  
incurred during the
Depreciation  
provided during the
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Domestic operations
20,914.1
16,765.8
14,867.2
13,012.5
Foreign operations
328.2
234.1
278.4
287.6
Total
21,242.3
16,999.9
15,145.6
13,300.1
11.	 Penalties/fines imposed by banking regulatory bodies
	
There was no penalty imposed by RBI and other overseas banking regulatory bodies during the year ended March 31, 
2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 33.0 million).

312
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
12.	 Additional information to consolidated accounts
	
Additional information to consolidated accounts at March 31, 2023 (Pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013)
` in million
Name of the entity
Net assets2
Share in profit or loss
% of total 
net assets
Amount
% of total 
net profit
Amount
Parent
ICICI Bank Limited
93.6%
2,007,153.8
93.7%
318,965.0
Subsidiaries
Indian
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited
0.7%
15,815.5
0.4%
1,277.8
ICICI Securities Limited
1.3%
28,219.2
3.3%
11,334.7
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited
1.1%
22,998.6
1.1%
3,653.1
ICICI Trusteeship Services Limited
0.0%
8.7
0.0%
0.1
ICICI Investment Management Company Limited
0.0%
187.0
(0.0%)
(58.7)
ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited
0.1%
2,473.3
0.0%
61.9
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
4.7%
100,915.8
2.4%
8,106.6
ICICI Prudential Trust Limited
0.0%
16.9
0.0%
2.2
ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited
1.0%
21,478.8
4.4%
15,077.0
ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company 
Limited
0.0%
577.5
0.0%
28.3
Foreign
ICICI Bank UK PLC
1.2%
26,158.3
0.3%
1,045.9
ICICI Bank Canada
1.2%
25,256.2
0.8%
2,818.9
ICICI International Limited
0.0%
122.0
0.0%
8.9
ICICI Securities Holdings Inc.
0.0%
132.7
0.0%
2.0
ICICI Securities Inc.
0.0%
364.8
0.0%
58.3
Other consolidated entities
Indian
ICICI Strategic Investments Fund
0.0%
119.4
0.0%
3.7
Foreign
NIL
-
-
-
-
Minority Interests
(3.1%)
(66,867.5)
(4.2%)
(14,246.7)
Associates
Indian
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
-
-
2.4%
8,303.1
I-Process Services (India) Private Limited
-
-
0.0%
37.7
NIIT Institute of Finance Banking and Insurance 
Training Limited
-
-
0.0%
3.3
ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited
-
-
0.0%
63.0
India Infradebt Limited
-
-
0.5%
1,560.2
India Advantage Fund III
-
-
0.0%
0.0
India Advantage Fund IV
-
-
(0.0%)
(0.2)
Arteria Technologies Private Limited
-
-
0.0%
15.7
Foreign
NIL
-
-
-
-
Joint Ventures
NIL
-
-
-
-
Inter-company adjustments
(1.8%)
(40,153.1)
(5.1%)
(17,755.4)
TOTAL
100.0%
2,144,977.9
100.0%
340,366.4
1.	0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2.	Total assets minus total liabilities.

313
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
	
Additional information to consolidated accounts at March 31, 2022 (Pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013)
` in million
Name of the entity
Net assets2
Share in profit or loss
% of total 
net assets
Amount
% of total 
net profit
Amount
Parent
ICICI Bank Limited
93.7%
1,705,119.7
92.9%
233,394.9
Subsidiaries
Indian
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited
0.9%
15,897.8
1.3%
3,301.6
ICICI Securities Limited
1.3%
24,087.2
5.6%
13,948.1
ICICI Home Finance Company Limited
0.9%
17,038.1
0.4%
934.4
ICICI Trusteeship Services Limited
0.0%
8.6
0.0%
0.5
ICICI Investment Management Company Limited
0.0%
95.8
0.0%
12.8
ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited
0.1%
2,461.3
0.0%
2.2
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited
5.0%
91,630.6
3.0%
7,541.3
ICICI Prudential Trust Limited
0.0%
17.7
0.0%
3.7
ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited
1.0%
18,599.4
5.7%
14,363.4
ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company 
Limited
0.0%
549.2
0.0%
50.7
Foreign
ICICI Bank UK PLC
1.3%
23,940.8
0.3%
812.2
ICICI Bank Canada
1.3%
23,436.9
0.7%
1,737.3
ICICI International Limited
0.0%
104.1
0.0%
0.8
ICICI Securities Holdings Inc.
0.0%
130.8
0.0%
0.3
ICICI Securities Inc.
0.0%
303.8
0.0%
30.0
Other consolidated entities
Indian
ICICI Strategic Investments Fund
0.0%
112.1
0.2%
535.9
Foreign
NIL
-
-
-
-
Minority interests
(3.3%)
(59,808.9)
(5.7%)
(14,281.6)
Associates
Indian
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
-
-
2.4%
6,106.5
I-Process Services (India) Private Limited
-
-
0.0%
34.3
NIIT Institute of Finance Banking and Insurance 
Training Limited
-
-
0.0%
2.3
ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited
-
-
(0.0%)
(4.6)
India Infradebt Limited
-
-
0.6%
1,396.5
India Advantage Fund III
-
-
(0.0%)
(0.2)
India Advantage Fund IV
-
-
(0.0%)
(2.4)
Arteria Technologies Private Limited
-
-
0.0%
12.0
Foreign
NIL
-
-
-
-
Joint Ventures
NIL
-
-
-
-
Inter-company adjustments
(2.2%)
(43,200.1)
(7.4%)
(18,831.9)
Total net assets/net profit
100.0%
1,820,524.9
100.0%
251,101.0
1.	0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2.	Total assets minus total liabilities.

314
Annual Report 2022-23 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
13.	 Revaluation of fixed assets
	
The Bank and its housing finance subsidiary follows the revaluation model for their premises (land and buildings) 
other than improvements to leasehold property as per AS 10 – ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’. The Bank had initially 
revalued its premises at March 31, 2016 and its housing finance subsidiary revalued its premises at March 31, 2017. 
In accordance with the policy, annual revaluation is carried out through external valuers, using methodologies such 
as direct sales comparison method and income generation method and the incremental amount has been taken to 
revaluation reserve. The revalued amount at March 31, 2023 was ` 55,500.0 million (March 31, 2022: ` 58,090.8 
million) as compared to the historical cost less accumulated depreciation of ` 24,581.6 million (March 31, 2022: 
` 25,805.8 million).
	
The revaluation reserve is not available for distribution of dividend.
14.	 Proposed dividend on equity shares
	
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 22, 2023 has recommended a dividend of ` 8.00 per equity 
share for the year ended March 31, 2023 (year ended March 31, 2022: ` 5.00 per equity share). The declaration and 
payment of dividend is subject to requisite approvals.
15.	 Divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs
	
In terms of the RBI circular no. //DBR.BP.BC.No.32/21.04.018/2018-19 dated April 1, 2019, banks are required to 
disclose the divergences in asset classification and provisioning consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process 
in their notes to accounts to the financial statements, wherever either (a) the additional provisioning requirements 
assessed by RBI exceed 10% of the reported net profits before provisions and contingencies or (b) the additional 
gross NPAs identified by RBI exceed 15% of the published incremental gross NPAs for the reference period, or both. 
Based on the condition mentioned in RBI circular, no disclosure on divergence in asset classification and provisioning 
for NPAs is required with respect to RBI’s supervisory process for the year ended March 31, 2022 and for the year 
ended March 31, 2021.
16.	 Disclosure on lending and borrowing activities under Rule 11(e) of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014
	
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances, makes investment, provides guarantees 
to and accept deposits and borrowings from its customers, other entities and persons. These transactions are part 
of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted ensuring adherence to all regulatory requirements.
	
Other than the transactions described above, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from 
borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank and other subsidiaries 
incorporated in India to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”) with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall lend or invest in party identified 
by or on behalf of the Bank and other subsidiaries incorporated in India (Ultimate Beneficiaries). The Bank and 
other subsidiaries incorporated in India have also not received any fund from any parties (Funding Party) with the 
understanding that the Bank and other subsidiaries incorporated in India shall whether, directly or indirectly lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
17.	 Other disclosures
	
Additional statutory information disclosed in the separate financial statements of the Bank and subsidiaries having 
no material bearing on the true and fair view on the consolidated financial statements and the information pertaining 
to the items which are not material have not been disclosed in the consolidated financial statements.

315
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
18.	 Comparative figures
	
Figures of the previous year have been re-grouped to conform to the current year presentation.
Signatures to Schedules 1 to 18
As per our Report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105047W
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Chairman
DIN-00110996
Uday M. Chitale
Director
DIN-00043268
Sandeep Bakhshi 
Managing Director & CEO
DIN-00109206
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership no.: 118580
Anup Bagchi
Executive Director
DIN-00105962
Rakesh Jha
Executive Director
DIN-00042075
Sandeep Batra
Executive Director
DIN-03620913
For KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Anindya Banerjee
Group Chief Financial Officer
Prachiti Lalingkar 
Company Secretary
Rajendra Khandelwal
Chief Accountant
Gautam Shah
Partner
Membership no.: 117348
Mumbai
April 22, 2023

316
Annual Report 2022-23 
STATEMENT CONTAINING SALIENT FEATURES OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF SUBSIDIARIES,  
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
` in million
Particulars
ICICI 
Securities 
Primary 
Dealership 
Limited1
ICICI 
Securities 
Limited1
ICICI 
Securities 
Holdings 
Inc.1,2
ICICI 
Securities 
Inc.1,2
ICICI Home 
Finance 
Company 
Limited1
ICICI 
Trusteeship 
Services 
Limited
ICICI 
Investment 
Management 
Company 
Limited
ICICI Venture 
Funds 
Management 
Company 
Limited
ICICI 
Prudential 
Life 
Insurance 
Company 
Limited
ICICI 
International 
Limited3
ICICI Bank 
UK PLC3
ICICI Bank 
Canada4,5
ICICI 
Prudential 
Trust 
Limited
ICICI 
Prudential 
Asset 
Management 
Company 
Limited2
ICICI 
Prudential 
Pension Funds 
Management 
Company 
Limited2
The date since when 
subsidiary was 
acquired
September 15, 
1993
March 
9, 1995
June 
12, 2000
June 
13, 2000
November 1, 
1999
September 
1, 1999
March 
9, 2000
March 
25, 1998
October 
1, 2000
February 
27, 1998
August 
19, 2003
October 
13, 2003
August 
26, 2005
August 
26, 2005
April 
22, 2009
Paid-up share capital6
1,563.4
1,614.3
728.2
571.7
12,035.3
0.5
249.9
10.0
14,385.7
74.0
18,085.2
15,232.6
1.0
176.5
600.0
Reserves & Surplus
14,259.0
26,636.6
(595.5)
(206.9)
16,034.3
8.1
(62.9)
2,463.6
86,530.1
48.0
8,073.1
10,136.3
15.9
22,954.1
(22.5)
Total assets
344,630.7
155,364.9
133.5
435.5
189,448.7
9.2
238.0
3,016.7 2,558,472.0
129.1 176,013.1 370,050.9
19.7
28,047.6
651.7
Total liabilities 
(excluding capital and 
reserves)
328,808.3
127,114.0
0.8
70.7
161,379.1
0.5
51.0
542.9 2,457,554.2
7.1 149,854.8 344,682.0
2.8
4,917.0
74.2
Investments (including 
investment in 
subsidiaries)7
247,835.4
9,368.8
94.5
Nil
4,991.6
8.8
156.9
1,418.6 2,482,204.2
#
52,438.9
45,811.7
17.1
22,874.9
551.6
Turnover 
(Gross income from 
operations)
13,742.0
34,153.0
Nil
194.1
19,493.4
1.6
118.0
508.9
399,327.8
42.9
6,899.2
12,259.2
10.2
26,891.8
125.3
Profit/(loss) before 
taxation
1,744.6
14,953.1
2.0
56.1
3,868.2
0.1
(61.4)
79.2
8,968.9
9.1
1,298.5
2,924.2
2.4
20,071.7
34.2
Provision for taxation
466.2
3,837.1
#
(2.2)
850.0
#
(2.7)
17.3
862.2
Nil
229.4
782.7
0.2
4,913.9
5.9
Profit/(loss) after 
taxation
1,278.4
11,116.0
2.0
58.3
3,018.2
0.1
(58.7)
61.9
8,106.7
9.1
1,069.1
2,141.5
2.2
15,157.8
28.3
Dividend paid
1,360.2
7,263.0
Nil
Nil
164.7
Nil
Nil
50.0
790.6
Nil
821.7
915.8
3.0
12,197.6
Nil
% of shareholding
100.00%
74.85%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
51.27%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
50.80%
51.00%
100.00%
# amount less than 0.1 million
Notes:
1.	 Financial information as per respective entity Ind AS financial statements pursuant to migration to Ind AS by these entities.
2.	 ICICI Securities Holdings Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of ICICI Securities Limited. ICICI Securities Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of ICICI Securities Holdings Inc.
	
ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited.
3.	 The financial information of ICICI Bank UK PLC and ICICI International Limited has been translated into Indian Rupees at the closing rate at March 31, 2023 of 1 USD = ` 82.1700.
4. 	 The financial information of ICICI Bank Canada is for the period January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022, being their financial year.
5. 	 The financial information of ICICI Bank Canada has been translated into Indian Rupees at the closing rate at December 31, 2022 of 1 CAD = ` 61.0525.
6. 	 Paid-up share capital does not include share application money.
7. 	 Investments include securities held as stock in trade.
8. 	 Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: None
9. 	 Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year: None
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 129  
OF COMPANIES ACT, 2013

317
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Part "B": Associate companies and joint ventures
` in million
Name of associate companies/joint ventures
ICICI Lombard 
General Insurance 
Company Limited
I-Process Services 
(India) Private 
Limited
NIIT Institute of 
Finance Banking 
and Insurance 
Training Limited
ICICI Merchant 
Services Private 
Limited
India Infradebt 
Limited
Arteria 
Technologies 
Private Limited
Falcon Tyres 
Limited
1
Latest audited balance sheet date
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2016
2
Date on which the Associate or Joint 
Venture was associated or acquired
July 1, 2001
October 4, 2005
August 7, 2006
December 31, 2009
November 27, 
2012
May 29, 2018
December 4, 2014
3
Shares of associate companies/joint 
ventures held by ICICI Group at March 31, 
2023
Number of equity shares
235,843,806
9,880
1,900,000
75,582,000
367,361,007
9,990,000
20,445,177
Amount of investment in associate 
companies/joint ventures2
50,988.7
89.4
37.0
848.6
11,910.6
136.7
Nil
Extent of holding (%)
48.02%
19.00%
18.79%
19.01%
42.33%
19.98%
26.39%
4
Description of significant influence
Note 4
Note 3
Note 3
Note 3
Note 4
Note 3
Note 4
5
Reason of non-consolidation of the 
associate/joint venture
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Note 5
6
Networth attributable to shareholding as 
per latest audited balance sheet
50,929.1
51.6
26.6
1,053.1
11,879.9
51.7
N.A.
7
Profit/(loss) for the year ended March 31, 
2023
i
Considered in consolidation
8,303.1
37.8
3.6
151.1
1,560.2
14.7
N.A.
ii
Not considered in consolidation
8,987.6
161.3
15.5
643.9
2,125.7
59.0
N.A.
Notes:
1	 The above statement has been prepared based on the principles of Accounting Standard (AS) 23 - Accounting for Investments in Associates in Consolidated Financial Statements, issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), and therefore does not include the companies where ICICI Group does not have any significant influence as defined under AS 23, although the group 
holds more than 20.00% of total share capital in those companies.
2	 Represents carrying value.
3	 In terms of AS 23, issued by ICAI, ICICI Group is deemed to have significant influence through its voting power and representation on the Board of directors of the investee company.
4	 In terms of AS 23, issued by ICAI, ICICI Group is deemed to have significant influence due to its holding being more than 20.00% of the voting power in the investee company.
5	 The investment in Falcon Tyres Limited is temporary in nature.
6	 Names of associates or joint ventures which are yet to commence operations: None
7	 Names of associates or joint ventures which have been liquidated or sold during the year: None
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi
Chairman
DIN-00110996
Uday M. Chitale
Director
DIN-00043268
Sandeep Bakhshi 
Managing Director & CEO
DIN-00109206
Anup Bagchi
Executive Director
DIN-00105962
Rakesh Jha
Executive Director
DIN-00042075
Sandeep Batra
Executive Director
DIN-03620913
Mumbai
April 22, 2023
Anindya Banerjee
Group Chief Financial Officer
Prachiti Lalingkar 
Company Secretary
Rajendra Khandelwal
Chief Accountant
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 129  
OF COMPANIES ACT, 2013

318
Annual Report 2022-23 
BASEL PILLAR 3 DISCLOSURES
at March 31, 2023
Pillar 3 disclosures at March 31, 2023 as per Basel III guidelines of RBI have been disclosed separately on the Bank’s 
website under ‘Regulatory Disclosures Section’ on the home page.
The link to this section is http://www.icicibank.com/regulatory-disclosure.page.
The section contains the following disclosures:
•	
Qualitative and quantitative disclosures at March 31, 2023
	
•	
Scope of application
	
•	
Capital adequacy
	
•	
Credit risk
	
•	
Securitisation exposures
	
•	
Market risk
	
•	
Operational risk
	
•	
Interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB)
	
•	
Liquidity risk
	
•	
Counterparty credit risk
	
•	
Risk management framework of non-banking group companies
	
•	
Disclosure requirements for remuneration
	
•	
Equities – Disclosure for banking book positions
	
•	
Leverage ratio
•	
Composition of capital
•	
Composition of capital - reconciliation requirements
•	
Main features of regulatory capital instruments
•	
Full terms and conditions of regulatory capital instruments

319
Integrated Report
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Terms
Definition
Average assets
For the purpose of performance analysis, represents averages of daily balances
Average cost of funds
Cost of interest bearing liabilities
Average equity
Quarterly average of equity share capital and reserves and surplus
Average yield
Yield on interest earning assets
Book value per share
Share capital plus reserves and surplus divided by outstanding number of equity 
shares
Capital (for CRAR)
Capital includes share capital, reserves and surplus (revaluation reserve and 
foreign currency translation reserve are considered at discounted amount), capital 
instruments and general provisions as per the RBI Basel III guidelines
Capital to risk weighted assets 
ratio (CRAR)
Capital (for CRAR) divided by Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs)
Core operating profit
Profit before provisions and contingencies, excluding treasury income
Cost to income
Operating expenses divided by net interest income and non-interest income
Earnings per share
Net profit after tax divided by weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year
High quality liquid assets
Stock of liquid assets which can be readily sold at little or no loss of value or used as 
collateral to obtain funds
Interest spread
Average yield less average cost of funds
Liquidity coverage ratio
Ratio of unencumbered high quality liquid assets to total net cash outflows estimated 
for the next 30 calendar days
Net interest income
Total interest earned less total interest expended
Net interest margin
Total interest earned less total interest expended divided by average interest earning 
assets
Net worth
Total of equity share capital, employees stock options outstanding and reserves and 
surplus
Operating profit
Profit before provisions and contingencies
Provision coverage ratio
Provision for non-performing advances divided by gross non-performing advances
Provisions to core operating profit
Provisions and contingencies (excluding taxation) divided by core operating profit
Return on average assets
Net profit after tax divided by average assets
Return on average equity
Net profit after tax divided by average equity
Risk weighted assets (RWAs)
RWAs are computed by assigning risk weights as per the RBI Basel III guidelines 
to various on-balance sheet exposure, off-balance sheet exposures and undrawn 
exposures

REGISTERED OFFICE
CORPORATE OFFICE
ICICI Bank Tower,
Near Chakli Circle, Old Padra Road,
Vadodara 390 007
Tel: +91-265-6722286
CIN: L65190GJ1994PLC021012
ICICI Bank Towers,
Bandra-Kurla Complex,
Mumbai 400 051
Tel: +91-22-40088111
STATUTORY AUDITORS
M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
602, Floor 6, Raheja Titanium,
Western Express Highway,
Geetanjali Railway Colony,
Ram Nagar, Goregaon East,
Mumbai 400 063
KKC & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
(formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP)
Sunshine Tower, Level 19,
Senapati Bapat Marg,
Elphinstone Road,
Mumbai 400 013
REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENTS
Equity Shares:
KFin Technologies Limited       
Unit : ICICI Bank Limited,
Selenium Building, Tower-B,
Plot No. 31 & 32, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Serlingampally,
Hyderabad 500 032, Rangareddy, Telangana
Bonds/Debentures:
3i Infotech Limited
International Infotech Park,
Tower # 5, 3rd Floor,
Vashi Railway Station Complex,
Vashi, Navi Mumbai 400 703

ABOUT THIS REPORT
This is ICICI Bank’s Annual Report for the year ended 
March 31, 2023. It has been prepared in accordance 
with Indian regulatory reporting requirements as 
well as the principles of the International Integrated 
Reporting 
Framework 
as 
developed 
by 
the 
International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). 
Through this report, the Bank aims to provide its 
stakeholders a comprehensive view of its operations, 
performance, 
its 
financial 
and 
non-financial 
resources and strategy to create long-term value. 
The report provides insights into the Bank’s primary 
activities, its strategic priorities, risks and mitigants, 
governance structure, and the manner in which it has 
leveraged the six capitals, namely Financial, Human, 
Intellectual, Manufactured, Social and Relationship, 
and Natural. 
REPORTING BOUNDARY
The non-financial information in the Integrated 
Report largely covers data on the India operations of 
ICICI Bank Limited and ICICI Foundation for Inclusive 
Growth. 
REPORTING PERIOD
The Annual Report provides material information 
relating to the Bank’s strategy and business model, 
operating 
context, 
performance 
and 
statutory 
disclosures covering the financial year April 1, 2022 to 
March 31, 2023.
OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING
SAFE HARBOUR
Certain statements in this Annual Report relating to 
a future period of time (including inter alia concerning 
our future business plans or growth prospects) are 
forward-looking statements intended to qualify for 
the ‘safe harbour’ under applicable securities laws 
including the US Private Securities Litigation Reform 
Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements 
involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could 
cause actual results to differ materially from those in 
such forward-looking statements. These risks and 
uncertainties include, but are not limited to statutory 
and regulatory changes, international economic and 
business conditions; political or economic instability in 
the jurisdictions where we have operations, increase 
in non-performing loans, unanticipated changes in 
interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices 
or other rates or prices, our growth and expansion 
in business, the adequacy of our allowance for 
credit losses, the actual growth in demand for 
banking products and services, investment income, 
cash flow projections, our exposure to market risks, 
changes in India’s sovereign rating, and the impact 
of the Covid-19 pandemic which could result in 
fewer business opportunities, lower revenues, and 
an increase in the levels of non-performing assets 
and provisions, depending among other factors upon 
the period of time for which the pandemic extends, 
the remedial measures adopted by governments 
and central banks, and the time taken for economic 
activity to resume at normal levels after the pandemic, 
as well as other risks detailed in the reports filed by 
us with the United States Securities and Exchange 
Commission. 
Any 
forward-looking 
statements 
contained herein are based on assumptions that 
we believe to be reasonable as of the date of this 
release. ICICI Bank undertakes no obligation to 
update forward-looking statements to reflect events 
or circumstances after the date thereof. Additional 
risks that could affect our future operating results 
are more fully described in our filings with the United 
States Securities and Exchange Commission. These 
filings are available at www.sec.gov.

RECOGNISED AS
BUSINESS TODAY
BUSINESS TODAY –  
KPMG BEST BANKS AWARDS
*in the BFSI sector in India
'BANK OF 
THE YEAR'
'BEST COMPANY 
TO WORK FOR*'
BY
BY
THE ECONOMIC TIMES
BY
'COMPANY 
 OF THE YEAR'

ICICI Bank Limited, ICICI Bank Towers, Bandra-Kurla Complex,
Mumbai 400 051 | www.icicibank.com
	 facebook.com/icicibank			
  twitter.com/icicibank  
	youtube.com/icicibank	 		
  linkedin.com/company/icici-bank   
 	instagram.com/icicibank

