Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
What’s Inside
Integrated Report HDFC Bank is India's largest private
sector bank (by Balance Sheet
size). Our sound fundamentals,
Overview Our Strategy
extensive distribution network, and
Leading Responsibly 1 Strategy in Action 32
agile operations have enabled us to
About the Report 2 External Environment 42 seamlessly transition into the ‘new
Highlights 4 Risk Management 46 normal’ of a post-pandemic world.
Business Continuity We are consistently innovating
Introduction to HDFC Bank Management, Information our products and processes to
Our Presence 6 & Cyber Security Practices 52 cater to the evolving needs of our
customers.
Our Journey 8
Responsible Business
Our Performance Environment 56
Message from the MD & CEO 10 Customer Centricity 74 Key highlights
Financial Performance 16 Digitisation 78
Business Segments 18 Social - People 80
Financial
Emerging Growth Engine 20 Social - Communities 94
Nation Building 106
How We Create Value
Governance 112 BALANCE SHEET SIZE
Our Value Creation Model 22
Board of Directors 116 `20,68,535 Cr
Stakeholder Engagement 24
Senior Management Team 118
Materiality Assessment 28 18.4%
10 year Financial Highlights 120
Awards 122
NET PROFIT
Assurance Statement 123
`36,961.3 Cr
GRI Index 126
18.8%
GROSS NON-PERFORMING
Financial Statements and Statutory Reports
ASSETS (NPAs)
1.17%
Directors’ Report 132 Consolidated Cash
Independent Auditor’s Report Flow Statement 310
for Standalone Financials 211 Schedules to the
Balance Sheet 220 Consolidated Statements 311
Non-financial
Profit and Loss Account 221 Basel III - Pillar 3 Disclosures 360
Cash Flow Statement 222 Statement Pursuant to
Schedules to the section 129 361 CSR BENEFICIARIES*
Financial Statements 223 Certificate on 9.6 Cr+
Corporate Governance 362
Independent Auditor’s Report
for Consolidated Financials 298 Corporate Governance 365 STATES BENEFITTED*
Consolidated Balance Sheet 308 Business Responsibility and 24+
Sustainability Report 394
Consolidated Profit and
Loss Account 309 Shareholder information 424 TOTAL BANKING OUTLETS*
21,683
Online version of the report
can be accessed here
*As on March 31, 2022
Leading
Responsibly
Leadership is as much about responsibility
as it is about scale and size. It goes much
beyond offering world-class banking
products and services and is also about
creating value for all our stakeholders. This
means we are embedding ESG aspects
into our business strategy. As a domestic
systemically important bank, we feel this
responsibility even more.
We have pledged to become carbon neutral by stakeholder universe where the real and virtual
FY32. Lending decisions are being increasingly worlds converge seamlessly, and more people
put through the Environmental, Social and are brought into the economic mainstream. The
Governance (ESG) lens and greater emphasis is unprecedented challenges of the past two years
being laid on green financing solutions. notwithstanding, we have made steady progress
on our sustainability targets.
At the same time, we are undertaking focused
interventions that are making meaningful We believe in leading by example. Responsibility,
contributions to global sustainable development thus, begins with us. We are deploying technology
goals around reducing poverty, achieving zero as a force multiplier and anchoring all our actions
hunger, providing clean water and sanitation, to the highest possible standards of Corporate
quality education, and building sustainable Governance. Together with our stakeholders, we
communities. are building the bank of the future that can stand
the test of time.
Leveraging our unmatched physical network and
robust digital capabilities, we are expanding our
About the Report
This Integrated Annual Report for 2021- Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN Assurance statement
22 provides insight into the process SDGs). The report has also been externally assured
followed by the Bank as it endeavours to by an independent third party, based on ISAE
deliver on its purpose. It provides a holistic There are no restatements of information 3000 (Revised).
assessment of the Bank’s financial and provided in the integrated report during the
non-financial performance. It also outlines reporting year. However the changes in the Responsibility statement
relevant information on the Bank’s strategy, GHG accounting methodology from FY21 are The content of this report has been reviewed
governance, risks and prospects to offer documented on pages 59-61. by the senior management of the Bank, and
better insights into its activities and progress. reviewed and approved by the Board of
Materiality and scope Directors to ensure accuracy, completeness
Reporting principles and framework This report includes information which is and relevance of the information presented
The financial information presented in this material to all stakeholders of the Bank in line with the principles and requirements
report is in line with the requirements of and provides an overview of its business of the International Integrated Reporting
and related activities. The report discloses Framework.
· The Companies Act, 2013 (including the matters that substantially impact or affect
rules made thereunder) the Bank’s ability to create value and could Governance over integrated
· The Companies (Accounting Standards) influence decisions of providers of financial reporting process
Rules, 2006 c as a s p e it s a s l. m In e n F t Y i 1 n 9 l in w e e w co ith n d G u R c I t e re d q a u m ire a m te e r n ia t l s it y T th h r e o u 2 g 0 h 2 2 th I e n t j e o g in r t a e te ff d o r R t e o p f o a r t c r is o s p s r - e f p u a n r c e t d io nal
· The Securities and Exchange Board of through consultations with internal and team, led by the Bank’s Chief Financial
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure external stakeholders. Subsequently, in FY21, Officer (CFO), representing various
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 w co e n h s a id v e e r r e e m fre e s rg h i e n d g o to u p r i m cs a t o e f r i i n a t li e ty re s s t t u w dy it h to in d ex e p p e a r r t t s m . e T n h t e s i a n s fo w rm el a l t a io s n s u is b c je o c ll t a m ted at f t r e o r m
· The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the ESG domain. The GRI Content Index, Senior Management and Board discussions
other relevant RBI regulations which specifies the GRI Standards and and decisions as well as inputs taken from
disclosures made under them in the Report, internal stakeholders. Several drafts of the
The report has been prepared in accordance has been provided in this report. report are produced with oversight from the
with the <IR> framework prescribed by department heads and the CFO. Members
the International Integrated Reporting Reporting boundary of Bank’s Senior Management team and the
Council (IIRC) and also contains disclosures The non-financial information in this report Board are involved in the various approval
as per the Global Reporting Initiative covers the activities and progress of the Bank processes, which are also supported by
(GRI) Standards: Comprehensive option, on a standalone basis. It covers information the oversight provided by independent
Task Force on Climate-related Financial pertaining to the period from April 1, 2021 to assurance providers.
Disclosures (TCFD), Business Responsibility March 31, 2022.
and Sustainability Report (BRSR) and United
Our purpose Integrated thinking and delivery Our integrated reporting process
on our purpose
Vision Risks Short- , medium- and Board Integrated Assurance Senior
long-term outlook committees Reporting (IR) model Management
framework sign-off
We exist to help
every Indian make Identifying Devising Validating Integrated
better money material our strategic Delivering Report integrity of report
choices, today matters priorities on strategy compilation the report approval
and tomorrow
Values Opportunities Financial Leadership Reporting Board and Senior Board
and non- team and Senior standards Management review approval
financial targets Management
2
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
How to navigate the report
We have used the icons below to aid navigation and cross-referencing across the report.
Our Capitals Our stakeholders
Customers
Financial Human Intellectual
Capital Capital Capital Government/
Regulatory
Our disciplined and Our people and culture are Our Digital and Enterprise
Bodies
researched approach fundamental to our success. Factory along with our
towards raising, lending Their collective knowledge, hybrid cloud strategy
and managing our financial diverse skill sets and deep enables us to serve our
Community
capital forms the backbone experience constitute customers and other
of our strong capital base our human capital. Our stakeholders efficiently. The
and consistent shareholder people enable us to stay knowledge and expertise
returns. Our financial capital agile, adapt to changing incorporated within our
Employees
includes customer deposits, times, innovate and deliver systems, processes and
shareholder equity, retained competitive solutions. procedures and the equity
earnings and external built in the HDFC Bank
PG 80
borrowings, among others. brand, constitute our
Investors
intellectual capital.
PG 16
PG 78
Suppliers
Social & Manufactured Natural
Relationship Capital Capital Capital
We take a holistic approach Our pan-India distribution The use of natural resources
to sustainable value creation network of banking in our operations and the
by nurturing our long- outlets, corporate offices, delivery of our products
standing relationships with ATMs and other customer and services constitute
our stakeholders. We are touch points, facilitates our natural capital. Natural
cognisant of the role we our engagement with resources include energy
play as a Bank in nation- customers, people, and water consumed, waste
building and contribute the society and other generated and the impact
responsibly to the economy. stakeholders and forms the of our business activities
The way we manage our core of our manufactured on the climate and the
stakeholder expectations capital. It also covers our environment.
constitutes our social and robust IT infrastructure and
PG 56
relationship capital. data centres.
PG 94 PG 6
3
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Highlights
Creating value
for our stakeholders
We pursue long-term value creation for all our
stakeholders. We are continuously adapting to a
changing environment and are geared to provide
relevant solutions that address the evolving needs
and expectations of our stakeholders.
Customers are key to our business. 6,342^
Our decisions revolve around meeting
BRANCHES**
the financial needs and aspirations
of our diverse customer base. Our 7.1 Cr+
customers include individuals,
CUSTOMERS**
MSMEs, large and mid-corporates,
financial institutions, Governments, H
13,68,821 Cr
PSUs, farmers, wholesalers,
merchants and traders. TOTAL ADVANCES**
20.8%*
Customers
Our people are our key assets and 1,41,579
enablers of growth. We strive to create
TOTAL EMPLOYEES**
an inclusive, meritocratic culture that
ensures progress, development and
H
well-being of our people. 1,262.23 Lakh
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
EXPENDITURE
144 Lakh+
PERSON HOURS -
TRAINING IN FY22
Employees
*Y-o-Y
**As on March 31, 2022
^Including 4 overseas Branches
4
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
H
We are committed to sustainability of 736.01 Cr
the communities we operate in. Our
SPENT ON CSR IN FY22
CSR initiatives under HDFC Bank
Parivartan aim to contribute towards
the socio-economic development of 9.6 Cr+
the country by benefitting lives and
CSR BENEFICIARIES**
livelihoods.
24
STATES COVERED
THROUGH PARIVARTAN
Community
We pursue sustained growth and
H
stable shareholder returns to create 36,961.3 Cr
investor value. We provide holistic,
NET PROFIT
transparent and regular disclosures
to enable informed decision-making.
We also regularly engage with 16.9%
our investors to provide detailed
RETURN ON CAPITAL (%)
information on our performance.
18.9% AA#
CAPITAL ADEQUACY MSCI ESG RATINGS
RATIO ASSESSMENT
Investors
We continue to lead responsibly by H
6,33,582.37 Cr
partnering and collaborating with the
Central and State Governments, to TOTAL DIRECT (CBDT) AND INDIRECT
TAXES (GST & CBIC) COLLECTED FOR THE
implement their schemes for the less GOVERNMENT
privileged sections of the society. We
are a responsible taxpayer and comply
with applicable regulations.
15,341
TOTAL NO. OF BUSINESS
CORRESPONDENTS (BCs), PRIMARILY
MANNED BY COMMON SERVICE CENTRES
Government/
(CSC)**
Regulatory Bodies
#As of August 2021
5
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Our Presence
Manufactured Capital
Unparalleled reach
HDFC Bank has a distribution network The Bank's network includes Banking Outlets comprising
Branches and Business Correspondents (BCs), ATMs/
spanning the length and breadth of
Cash Deposit and Withdrawal Machines (CDMs). We are
India. Our presence across the country,
leveraging the power of our 6,342 branches to not only serve
not only enables us to serve customers the customers better, but also exponentially increase our
better, but also facilitates active sourcing of loans and deposits from deeper geographies.
participation in the Nation’s inclusive As the financial services industry rapidly adopts and
development agenda. The Bank’s implements digitisation, our innovative mindset is helping
us develop new capabilities. We have introduced products,
overseas branches and representative
increased capabilities and competencies through Digital
offices help us serve NRI customers.
Factory, Enterprise Factory and Enterprise IT, and continue
to enhance the anywhere banking experience for our
customers.
TOTAL BANKING OUTLETS* TOTAL BRANCHES*
21,683 6,342^
TOTAL BUSINESS TOTAL ATMs + CASH DEPOSIT
CORRESPONDENTS (BCs)* AND WITHDRAWAL MACHINES*
15,341 18,130
*As on March 31, 2022
^Including 4 overseas branches
6
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Pan-India presence
Banking Outlets Branches CSC BCs Other BCs ATMs + cash
deposit
and withdrawal
machines
Rural 12,099 1,147 10,748 204 1,307
Semi-urban 5,033 2,036 2,909 88 4,529
Urban 2,248 1,312 933 3 4,824
Metro 2,299 1,843 456 - 7,470
International presence Enabler for CSR initiatives under HDFC Bank
Parivartan
The Bank has global footprints by way of representative
offices and branches in countries like Bahrain, Hong Kong, Our nation-wide presence deepens our knowledge and
UAE and Kenya. We offer NRI clients Offshore Deposits, understanding of regions including semi-urban and
Bonds, Equity, Mutual Funds, Treasury and Structured rural regions. We leverage this to drive our sustainable
products offered by third parties from Bahrain Branch. We development agenda and empower communities across the
also cater to Corporate clients by offering products such as country, including the less-privileged sections of the society.
trade credits, foreign currency term loans including external
commercial borrowings (ECBs) and derivatives for hedging
purposes. As on March 31, 2022, the Balance Sheet size LIVES IMPACTED WATER CONSERVATION
of International Business was US$7.66 Billion. Advances 9.6 STRUCTURES
Cr+
constituted 3.12% of the Bank’s gross advances. 10,500
+
VILLAGES COVERED UNDER OUR
HOLISTIC RURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAMME (HRDP)*
3,335
Manama +
Abu India
Dhabi
Hong Kong
NO. OF HOUSEHOLDS REACHED
9.88
Lakh+
Nairobi
(Kenya)
CONTRIBUTION OF OVERSEAS BRANCHES
TO THE BANK’S TOTAL INCOME IN FY22
0.55%
*As on March 31, 2022
7
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Our Journey Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Major milestones
1994 2000 2010 2015 Launched SmartUp 2020
Zones for start-ups
Housing Development Finance A Bank with many firsts Launched 40% faster ATMs – first Launched its sonic branding i.e. Ranked India’s most valuable
Corporation (HDFC) received an First Bank to launch Mobile Banking of its kind in Asia Musical Logo (MOGO) to be used Launched EasyEMI on brand (for the seventh consecutive
in-principle approval from the RBI in India across multiple touch points Debit Cards year) by BrandZ Report
to set up a private sector bank Launched first SMS–based Mobile 2011 Launched an all-in-one Launch of HDFC Bank Millennia
Incorporated in August 1994 as Banking Growing market leadership DigiPOS machine range of cards
HDFC Bank Limited Launched PayZapp, India’s first
2001 Expanded customer base to 1-click mobile-pay solution 2018 First ever leadership change
become market leaders in Auto (new MD & CEO takes over)
1995
Overseas listing Loans, Personal Loans and Credit Launched 10-second personal loan Next-gen MobileBanking
Banking license received in Listed on New York Stock Exchange Cards disbursement in the retail lending App launched First-of-its-kind product launch:
January 1995 (NYSE) space Driving rural empowerment KGC-Shaurya card for armed forces
2012
First corporate office and Became the first private bank Signed MoU with government to Launch of contactless, consent-
Concurrent QIP issue and
branch opened authorised to collect income tax Launched MobileBanking App financially empower 2 Lakh rural based customer on-boarding via
Follow-on offering
IPO oversubscribed 55 times in Hindi Indian villages through CSCs video KYC facility
2002 `9,723 Cr
Listed on BSE and NSE
Launched premium Credit Cards Deploying mobile ATMs during the
2019
ISO 9001 certification for for doctors lockdown
1997
depository and custodial services 2016 Voted no.1 in India by customers in
Launched a nation-wide sports
Forbes World's Best Banks Survey
Maiden dividend announced 2003-04 initiative – Josh Unlimited, for Launched Missed Call mobile
employees recharge for prepaid mobiles BSE inks pact with the Bank to give
1997-98
First bank in India to offer Credit a boost to the start-up platform
New logo launched Card in 100+ cities 2013 ATMs turned to LDMs (Loan 1 Million+ units of blood collected
Dispensing Machines)
Touched 10 Lakh users The Bank’s Sustainable via HDFC Bank Parivartan’s Blood
1999 Launched SmartUp
Livelihood Initiative (SLI) crosses Donation Drive over a period of
Launched first international Debit 2006 a milestone, impacting 20 Lakh programme for start-ups 12 years, primarily from employees
households
Card in India in association with Two new cards launched Opened 5,000th branch Launched ‘The HealthyLife’
Visa International exclusively for women on programme with Apollo Hospitals
Began its digital journey by International Women’s Day 2014 Marked the start of its 25th year for customers and employees
l N a e u t n B c a h n in k g in o g n . line real-time 2008 S co u r s e t a v i a n l a u b e i l o it f y t e h s e t B ab a l n is k hed as a 2017 2021
First ever mega merger in Indian Launched first overseas Created a new Guinness World Introduced AI Embarked on Project
banking industry – Times Bank commercial branch in Bahrain Record for organising the largest Launched IRA (Interactive Robotic ‘Future Ready’
Assistant) and became the first bank
merged with HDFC Bank Merged with Centurion Bank single-day blood donation drive in India to introduce a humanoid for Pledged to become carbon neutral
of Punjab in one of the largest Became market leader in issuing customer service by 2031-32
mergers in the Indian banking Credit Cards in 2013-14 with 55
Introduced EVA chatbot - India’s 2022
industry Lakh+ Cards
first AI-based chatbot to provide
HDFC Bank and HDFC Ltd.
customer service
announce transformational
merger
8 9
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Message from the MD & CEO
Reimagining the future with
technology and a service first culture
headwinds in the form of rising inflation and the Ukraine
crisis, among several others, India is expected to grow 7.3%
and is likely to be the fastest-growing major economy in the
world in FY23 with the strength to absorb external shocks.
Our Performance
Our Balance Sheet has been resilient during the pandemic
and has grown further. Our asset quality continues to remain
healthy and amongst the best in the industry. Our Balance
Sheet increased by 18.4% to `20,68,535 Cr and Net Profit
increased by 18.8% to `36,961.3 Cr. GNPA decreased
to 1.17% from 1.32%. ROA (average) was at a healthy
2.03% and ROE at a healthy 16.9%. Our commitment to
shareholders remained high with a proposed dividend pay-
out of `15.50 (Fifteen Rupees Fifty Paise only) per equity
share of `1 (Rupee 1 only), which translates to a dividend
pay-out ratio of 23.28% for the financial year ended
March 31, 2022.
I would like to say a heartfelt ‘Thank You’ to all my
colleagues for this performance. Each one of the one lakh
Sashidhar Jagdishan forty-one thousand plus members of the HDFC Bank family
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer, gave their best in truly challenging times, so we could serve
HDFC Bank Limited you as we have for decades. Words cannot adequately
convey my gratitude to them.
In my letter to you all last year, I had highlighted my key
Dear Stakeholders,
focus areas. Improving technology resilience, a clear focus
on three Cs — Culture, Conscience and Customer and
Let me start by wishing all of you a happy and healthy future.
building for the future.
The pandemic has clearly reinforced the message that
Health is Wealth. Let me now focus on these.
If FY21 saw the darkest period of the pandemic, then Technology Resilience
the last financial year was the year of hope. Though the
Last year I had said that technology continues to remain
pandemic did not disappear, the nationwide roll out of the
both a strength as well as an area of improvement. Strength,
vaccine programme meant that lives were more secure, and
as without this, we could not have grown to be a bank of this
coupled with precautions, people could get back to some
scale and increased our market share consistently. However,
degree of normalcy.
our customers faced some technology-related issues in
With the period of uncertainty mostly behind us, I believe accessing the Bank’s products and services during the
a more positive macroeconomic outlook dominates the previous year, which had led to some regulatory action,
executive agenda, across industries. While there are last fiscal.
10
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
I am happy to inform you that thanks to the progress we ii) Creating new age solutions through Digital
have made on our technology investments, processes and Factory
governance, the regulatory actions have been fully lifted. We
A. Rebuilding of our acquisition journeys in partnership
converted the challenge into an opportunity and have made
with a global technology leader in user experience. We
substantial strides in the way we evaluate, manage and
have already built 10 new journeys and will be rapidly
operationalise our technology. To enable the infusion of a
rolling out new journeys every 3 weeks. This includes
modern technology platform one needs to lay a very strong
journeys across account opening, loans and cards,
foundation and we have done that over the last one year,
covering both individual/MSME customers and both
through a series of technology-led initiatives that include
existing and new-to-bank customers.
i) changes at the foundational level ii) creating new digital
solutions iii) modernising the core. B. We have launched ‘Xpress Car Loans’ – an end-to-end
digital car loan journey for existing customers as well as
i) At the foundational level, we have non-customers, that allows them to avail disbursement
in 30 mins, with credit decisions based on speedy
A. Shifted our primary data centres to state-of-the-
data analysis. This is a first in the Indian industry and
art brand-new facilities in Mumbai and Bengaluru,
the Bank has integrated its lending application with
to support higher uptimes and create a robust IT
automobile dealers across the country.
backbone for our operations.
C. In the next few quarters, we will launch more of our
B. A clearly defined capacity monitoring programme to
products and services under Digital 2.0 including
proactively manage capacity upgrades across all key
a new payments platform for our customers,
applications.
payments platform for our merchants and a
C. A technology obsolescence programme management wealth platform — all in partnerships with new age
office to plan and replace obsolescent components. tech companies.
D. Started putting in place next-gen disaster recovery (DR)
iii) Modernising the core
set up for key applications.
The digital partnership strategy will help us to modernise
E. Implemented landing zone architecture to leverage the
existing experiences quickly without changing the legacy
cloud resilience, with elastic scalability, and at the same
core. It is imperative that the Bank has a long-term vision on
time have control over ecosystem on cloud.
revamping its core banking and mobile channel experiences.
F. Implemented a new Application Programming Interface Toward this we have created our ‘Enterprise Factory’
(API) gateway and a new API development framework. wherein the Bank’s tech and digital teams work in a new
age start-up like environment and co-create deep tech IP
G. Kick-started modernisation of our data warehouse
capabilities. This is a departure from the past where our
with a cloud-enabled data lake platform, that would
technology IP was largely partner-owned and enabled. We
enable us to leverage AI/ML models and new age deep
believe that as banks become more digital, they also need
learning capabilities on the rich data set that we have.
11
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Message from the MD & CEO
to have in-house foundational technology capabilities to all our colleagues to be at the forefront of solving customer
compete with neo-techs. Toward this, the Bank has started issues. Second, a strong measurement metric to be in place
two very strategic initiatives: to continuously know that we are progressing in the right
direction.
A. 'Hollow the Core' Strategy — The Bank, in partnership
with a new age start-up (with deep experience in We have invested in tools and technology to ensure that
core banking technology), is co-creating new core some of the issues that customers face do not arise at all.
banking modules. This project will enable the moving For example, our MobileBanking app has been upgraded
out of payments module from existing core banking with wrapper technology that prevents fraudsters from
platform and help in creating a fully resilient active- reading OTPs, thereby preventing frauds and related
active payments architecture that will ensure minimal complaints.
payments downtime, even if core banking is not
A strong bottom-up Net Promoter System (NPS) programme
available. This 15-month project will be followed by
(‘Infinite Smiles’) covers customer interactions across all
hollowing the customer master modules from its
products/services and delivery channels. We actively poll
existing core systems and will ensure a single system of
our customers after their interactions with the Bank (>63
record for customers across various products.
Million customers polled during the financial year), listen
B. Rewrite Mobile and NetBanking Applications — The to their feedback, and engage with them if we have not
Bank has set up a new centre in Bengaluru and the been up to the mark. I am happy to state that we lead the
team here is re-writing the Mobile and NetBanking overall NPS ranking among 20+ competitors in the banking
platforms. The entire project will be completed in a category, based on a competitive benchmarking study
2-year time frame and will allow the Bank to own a of NPS, which was done by an industry-leading
modern cloud enabled Mobile/NetBanking platform. consultancy firm.
Enabling a new age experience for customers, we will
Our performance on complaints resolution has also
roll out new features every 3 to 4 weeks, in line with
improved markedly during the year with significantly reduced
digital fintech companies.
customer complaints in the Credit Cards, Debit Cards,
To summarise, our entire technology and digital strategy Operations and Collections front (complaints reduced by
adopts a 360-degree approach that ensures resilience and 21%). We are not complacent about the progress and are
modernisation of existing legacy systems and enables new being conscious and mindful of much more that needs
age consumer experiences by partnering with modern neo- to improve. We are working on several strategic initiatives
techs. We have made rapid strides in creating the foundation (like the wrapper technology I mentioned earlier) to tackle
and enabling new digital assets over the last one year. complaints pertaining to ‘Disputed Transactions’ (where the
Needless to say, the pace will only pick up from here. Firmly customer succumbs to phishing attacks by fraudsters).
committed to this transformation, the Bank will continue to
As part of our technology transformation agenda, we are
invest in modern technology and talent.
also investing in an omni-channel customer experience
platform. This will enable our customers to reach out to us
Customer Centricity
through their preferred channel for service i.e., social, email,
Customer focus has been a core value for years and texts, voice, etc. It would also provide us a single source of
maintaining the highest possible standards in customer customer truth across channels and would enable our front-
service has been the key to our success. line staff to solve customer queries and act on customer
instructions in a straight through manner. This capability
We are institutionalising a Service First culture at the Bank.
will improve our customer responsiveness and NPS. We
Service First for us means respecting every customer and
are already live with our social media and email interactions
addressing their enquiries or complaints on time/every
on this platform and will add other channels of customer
time, and working on the issues raised for a permanent fix.
interactions during the course of this year.
Service First for us is a commitment right from me and my
colleagues to put a smile on our customers’ faces. Customer delight is a non-negotiable goal towards which we
will continue to work.
We have a two-pronged approach to achieve this. First, a
culture of evangelisation right from the top and sensitising
12
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Culture Building for the Future
For me, creating a good culture is as much a priority as Last year I had spoken about Project Future Ready, to
driving growth. I am committed, along with my senior catalyse, create and capture the next wave of growth. We
management colleagues, to walk the talk on culture. had clearly spelt out the following as growth engines —
Retail Assets, Commercial (MSME) and Rural Banking,
An organisation is made of people, and it is the people that
Corporate Banking, Government and Institutional Banking,
deliver the organisation to all the stakeholders. We have a
Wealth Management, and Payments. to be driven by our
talent pool of 1,41,000+ colleagues who are the Bank to our
delivery channels of Branch Banking, Tele-Sales/Service/
customers. We are ensuring that the supervisory pool of
Relationship and Digital Marketing. These growth engines
12,000 odd colleagues including the senior management, is
can be broadly classified as Business Verticals and Delivery
responsible for nurturing the vastly talented front line, hand
Channels. They will be powered by our robust technology
hold them in their personal and professional growth and
and digital platforms and will account for the bulk of our
create a great working environment.
future investments.
You could well accuse us of being on an overdrive on our
We have seen progress across our growth engines.
culture agenda. We continue to work towards creating an
Our focus on the MSME sector is paying off, with our
organisation where diversity and inclusion becomes a part
Commercial and Rural Banking Group emerging as a strong
of the DNA, where differences are valued and respected,
growth driver (up 30.4%). We leveraged the opportunity
where conversations are friendly and warm and where
available in the Corporate Banking sector (up 17.4%) without
the emotional needs of our colleagues and customers are
any compromise on our ROA. We are expanding our wealth
fulfilled.
management services to more cities and towns (now 700+
To enhance our employee capabilities, we are fostering towns). Our Retail Loans continue to grow in the same
a culture of Nurture, Care and Collaborate (NCC) in the pristine way (up 15.2%). Our Payments business is starting
organisation. Customers experience the organisation to recover well, post the lifting of the embargo and with the
through the employees and employees experience the slew of new launches completed.
organisation through their managers.
Branch Banking is the fulcrum of our customer relationships.
At HDFC Bank, we continuously measure our employee We believe both physical proximity to and emotional connect
performance engagement scores. While our engagement with our customers are equally important. Our addition of
scores are healthy at 83%, we still believe we have a long 734 branches even during the tough pandemic year has
road to travel. Through our NCC intervention, 12,000+ served us well and we are closely tracking the success
people managers are certified on the elements of our metrics of per branch profitability and productivity. Our
culture pillars and the role they play as culture custodians. relationship management has been further strengthened by
Our people managers are also continuously provided the tele sales-service-relationship vertical with enhanced
with various trainings and tools to improve themselves investments in both people and technology capabilities (29%
professionally. We will keep listening to our colleagues’ increase in customers managed with 40% plus increase in
feedback and keep evolving our people management business). Digital Marketing continues to make strides as
practices – it’s a continuing investment that we will a new delivery channel, creating and harnessing the traffic
keep making. (up 15%) on our digital properties and contributing to direct
business generation.
Our core enabling functions of Internal Audit, Credit
and Underwriting, Risk Management and Compliance/
Governance are being strengthened even further to support
our growth.
13
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Message from the MD & CEO
Merger - The Power of One Why now?
Now, let me come to the proposed merger with HDFC Ltd. There have been other favourable factors too. In the last few
We look forward to the phenomenal set of talent, deep years, the regulatory arbitrage between banks and NBFCs
product knowledge and expertise, the processes, and has come down substantially. Today reserve requirements
systems that HDFC Ltd will add to the Bank’s existing ones. have come down to about 22% from 26%. Both institutions
are well capitalised and have surplus liquidity and a strong
On April 4, 2022, the two institutions had announced a
portfolio of investments in Government securities. The
transformational merger that is subject to various regulatory
increase in priority sector lending that we need to do, due
approvals and will take effect in about 15 to 18 months. The
to the merger, is possible now with our own increased focus
questions that have been asked are —
on MSMEs, the affordable housing loans that we can do and
why? and why now?
the well-developed PSL certificate market. All this means
that on the day of the merger there may not be any need
Why the Merger? to raise further funds to meet reserve requirements. The
addition of the home mortgages portfolio on our Balance
Quite simply, this is an opportunity we cannot afford to
Sheet makes it more diversified and robust.
miss. Home loans are an emotional product and bring with
them a host of accelerated benefits for the Bank. Today The enhanced capital position of the Bank post the merger
the environment for buying a home has changed. RERA also means that we can take bigger exposures in leading
has ensured greater transparency in the process. Price corporates and power the country’s infrastructure build out.
corrections in the property market have seen inventories
The key focus area for the Bank to absorb this growth
come down. Also, rising incomes mean that home loan EMIs
opportunity is to secure enhanced liabilities to fund future
have come down as a percentage of a person’s income.
growth. The branch network has been a key deposit
Thanks to the penetration of telecom, internet and television
mobilisation engine during its 27 years of growth, leading
services, the desire to own better homes has increased
in customer acquisition, customer retention and advertising
across the country. All this means that housing is going to
the solidity of the Bank and hence garnering liabilities by
be a huge growth opportunity and one of the key drivers of
becoming the primary banking partner for our customers.
India’s GDP over the next decade.
India continues to be under-penetrated and underserved
Further, only 2% of our customers source their home loans from a banking perspective. The density of branches for
through us, while 5% do it from other institutions. The the population of this country is way below that of OECD
latter is equivalent to the size of our retail book. Home loan countries. This is where our branch banking strategy comes
customers typically keep deposits that are 5 to 7 times that in. Today we have 6,000+ branches across India, and we
of other retail customers. And about 70% of HDFC Ltd.’s plan to nearly double our network in the next three to five
customers do not bank with us. All these give us an idea years by opening 1,500 to 2,000 branches every year.
about the size of the opportunity. The long tenor nature of The branch will be digital from a customer on-boarding
home loans provides resiliency to the balance sheet. The and transaction/servicing perspective. It will provide the
Bank is one of the largest consumer durable financiers in emotional connect and relationship management necessary
the country. We can easily bundle this with a home loan, as for offering financial solutions to our customers. These
with every home loan, there is a propensity of a customer to branches will be small in size and will be phygital relationship
take new consumer durables. It is this kind of bundling that centres. This will enable us to go after the catchment more
will increase margins. With the advantage of a lower cost of aggressively and build the required liability franchise that
funds and the phenomenal distribution muscle that we have we are known for, and we are confident that we would
built, it is imperative that we seize this opportunity. execute well.
14
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Environment, Social and Governance Strategy Customers are the very reason for our existence and are at
the heart of everything we do. To reiterate what I said last
The last two years has reminded all of us that our destinies
year, all individuals must ask themselves — am I doing the
are interconnected. Our ESG strategy is based on this
right thing for the customer? Am I doing the right thing for
interconnectedness, especially in the Environment and
the organisation? Does my conscience permit this? As a
Social spheres. Climate change can disrupt both lives and
Bank we have always taken pride in our integrity. I had also
livelihoods. Also, none of us should forget that the world
said last year that at an organisational level there is a greater
belongs to the coming generations as much as to us.
focus on the role of Credit, Risk, Compliance, Audit and
We have already committed to becoming carbon neutral other enabling functions, and that focus continues.
by FY32. ESG is being made an integral part of our credit
assessment process. While assessment of environment and Compassion
social factors has been a part of credit diligence, particularly
I would end by thanking my colleagues, who have given
in project financing above a certain threshold, we have
their utmost to the Bank in two of the most trying years
recently introduced a comprehensive ESG assessment
in human history, and all our stakeholders who have kept
framework in corporate lending and with a wider target
their faith in us. Yes, business and professional goals are
coverage. The objective at this stage is to create more
essential. However, it is even more essential to not lose the
awareness among our corporate borrowers, assess their
human touch at the workplace and in our personal lives.
position and understand their initiatives on ESG. Over the
Compassion, care and understanding enrich both the giver
next 2 to 3 years, we would be looking to make it one of the
and the receiver. Thank you all once again.
key criteria in credit decisioning.
Our commitment to social good remains unwavering. Conclusion
Through our CSR initiatives under Parivartan we have
HDFC Bank already had a huge opportunity with the
already potentially impacted 9.6 Crore+ lives. That is an
under-penetration of banking services in the country. The
addition of about 1 Crore lives since last year. We are driving
proposed merger adds an entirely different dimension to
inclusivity and diversity within our organisation, with a
the future. We believe that the runway is huge, and we
special focus on further enhancing gender diversity.
can potentially add an HDFC Bank every five years. We
We believe that good corporate governance is a product of are excited about the future and are confident that we will
culture and conscience and for us, profitability and growth continue to have all our stakeholders’ support and trust, as
cannot come at the cost of these. Our focus on compliance we embark on this exciting new journey.
and assurance functions is unwavering and every aspect of
compliance is adhered to with all sincerity, completeness Sashidhar Jagdishan
and within requisite timelines. We ensure that every Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer,
commitment given to our regulators is done on time, in its HDFC Bank Limited
full form and substance.
15
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Financial Performance
Financial Capital
Setting new
growth benchmarks
The hallmark of the Bank's financial The endeavour to reach all customers across India has
contributed to an increase in branches to 6,342 as at the
performance has been consistent growth
year end. This together with our ability to understand and
across all key metrics, which has helped
fulfil customers' financial needs along with management
consolidate its leadership position. Its of customer relationships has led to an overall increase of
Balance Sheet continues to be healthy 16.8% in Deposits and 20.8% in Advances. The continuous
monitoring of costs and building of operational efficiencies
and strong which is evident by a growth of
has resulted in only a marginal increase of 0.60% in the Cost
18.4% in the current year.
to Income Ratio to 36.9%.
The asset mix of the Bank has shifted to high rated but low
yielding segments.
Consequently, the Net Interest Margin has reduced
marginally to 4.0%. It is pertinent to note that the change
TOTAL BALANCE SHEET SIZE
H in asset mix has a positive impact on the net credit margin
20,68,535
Cr 18.4% which has increased to 3.3% in the current year.
As on March 31, 2022 The impact of our effective risk management system along
with robust credit policy and underwriting skills can be seen
PROFIT AFTER TAX in the quality of our assets and low GNPA ratio of 1.17%.
H 36,961.3 Even with a low GNPA, as a responsible banker, specific
Cr
18.8% provision coverage has been increased to 72.7% and the
coverage of total provisions comprised of specific, floating,
FY22
contingent and general provisions, has been increased to
182% as at the year end.
We continue to deliver double-digit growth both in earnings
and return on equity. The Profit After Tax has grown by
18.8% and return on equity has increased to 16.9%.
16
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
BALANCE SHEET SIZE
(C CR)
20,68,535
FY22
17,46,871
FY21
15,30,511
FY20
PROFIT AFTER TAX EARNINGS PER SHARE DEPOSITS
(C CR) (C) (C CR)
36,961 66.8 15,59,217
FY22 FY22 FY22
31,117 56.6 13,35,060
FY21 FY21 FY21
26,257 48.0 11,47,502
FY20 FY20 FY20
ADVANCES RETURN ON EQUITY GROSS NPA RATIO
(C CR) (%)
13,68,821 16.9 1.17
FY22 FY22 FY22
11,32,837 16.6 1.32
FY21 FY21 FY21
9,93,703 16.8 1.26
FY20 FY20 FY20
RETURN ON ASSETS DIVIDEND PER SHARE COST TO INCOME RATIO
(AVERAGE) (C)
2.03 15.5* 36.9
FY22 FY22 FY22
1.97 6.5** 36.3
FY21 FY21 FY21
2.01 Nil*** 38.6
FY20 FY20 FY20
RUPEE EARNED (%) RUPEE SPENT (%)
FY22 FY22
8.8
12.4
62.6 2.0 40.5 10.9
C ommission, Exchange, Tax
2.5
Brokerage Provisions
Other Interest Income 2.6 Dividend & Tax theron
FX & Derivative Income Trans to Reserve
18.5 Income from Investments 10.1 Operating Expense
Others Interest Expense
Interest from Advances
1.9
27.2
*Proposed
**Basis RBI notification dated April 22, 2021
***Basis RBI notifications dated April 17, 2020 and December 4, 2020.
17
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Segments
Delivering world-class
banking experience
Wholesale Banking Retail Banking
The Wholesale business focuses on serving The Retail business focuses on serving the
Large Corporates, MNCs, Public Sector individuals, salaried and professional customers,
Enterprises, Emerging Corporates and Business micro and small-sized businesses, extremely
Banking/SMEs. small businesses like kirana stores, Self Help
Groups (SHGs) and Non-resident Indians (NRIs).
The Bank offers a wide range of financial
Our aim is to create and customise products and
products and services from loans, deposits,
services to serve this segment as per its unique
payments, collections, tax solutions, trade
needs. We offer the following key products and
finance, cash management solutions and
services under this segment.
even Corporate Cards. Through its products
and services, the Bank aims to act as a one-
stop shop for various business needs of the
customers in this segment.
Offerings Offerings
Loans and Deposits Various types of loans
Working Capital facilities, Term Lending, Project Mortgages, Personal, Auto, Home, Gold, Two-
Finance, Supply Chain Financing, Export Finance, wheeler, Small-ticket Working Capital, Offshore
Trade Credit and Wholesale Deposits Loans to NRIs, Agri and Tractor, Healthcare
Finance, Commercial Vehicle & Equipment
Other Banking products and services
Finance, Infrastructure Finance and Loan against
Forex & Derivatives, Custodial Services, Cash
Securities
Management Services, Letters of Credit,
Guarantees and Correspondent Banking Accounts/Deposits
Savings, Current, Corporate Salary Accounts, NRI
Investment Banking services
deposit, Fixed and Recurring Deposits
Capital Finance through Debt/Equity Capital
Markets, Mergers & Acquisitions, IPOs, Private Other products and services
Equity, VC Fund Raise, Loan Syndication and Credit, Debit and Prepaid Cards, Wealth
Customised Solutions Management Solutions, Kisan Gold Card; acts as
a distributor of Mutual funds; Life, General and
Health Insurance
18
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Treasury
Our edge
The Treasury is the custodian of the Bank’s
We are the Preferred Banker of Choice
cash/liquid assets and manages its investments
across segments and this is enabled by:
in securities and other market instruments.
It manages the liquidity and interest rate risks · Delivery of best in class services
on the balance sheet and is also responsible for through customised solutions, products
meeting statutory reserve requirements. and through optimum use of technology
It manages the treasury needs of customers
· Strong product proposition for NRIs
and earns a fee income generated from
through branches in India and overseas
transactions customers undertake with your
Bank, while managing their foreign exchange · Market leader in almost every asset
and interest rate risks. category with best-in-class portfolio
quality
· Pioneer and strong player in the digital
loan marketplace
· Providing customers with a product
Offerings
suite across all asset classes for
'optimal asset allocation' depending on
Services offered to customers
clients’ risk profiles and goals
Foreign exchange and derivatives transactions,
Solutions on hedging strategies, Trade solutions · Dominant presence in Payments
– domestic and cross border, Bullion demands Business
and others
· Being a market leader in Cash
Key functions performed Management Services
Asset liability management, maintaining portfolio
· Open architecture, best-in-class
of Government securities in line with regulatory
portfolio quality and regular portfolio
norms of RBI and others
rebalancing
· Robust Risk Management practices
across all businesses and activities
· Solutions for non-residents, hedging
needs in Indian markets
· Integrated trade and treasury solution
for customers
· Primary dealer for Government
securities
19
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Emerging Growth Engine
Commercial and Rural Banking
The Bank's Commercial and Rural Banking (CRB) group HDFC Bank is the leading player in the commercial
was set up in the last financial year to cater to the needs vehicle financing business with its share increasing
of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) considerably in the year ended March 31, 2022. It will be
emerging corporates, commercial agriculture, small and focusing on increasing market share further by expanding
marginal farmers, healthcare finance, equipment finance into deeper geographies and hiring more feet on street.
and commercial transport companies. While these are
The Bank has also established a robust healthcare
different businesses, the common thread binding them
ecosystem to capture high potential offered by hospitals,
is that they all have a huge footprint in Semi Urban and
nursing homes, pathologies, laboratories, chemists,
Rural (SURU) India. As has the Bank with about half
doctors and patient finance.
its branches in SURU locations. This vertical is also
important as its disbursals help the Bank in meeting a The CRB vertical shall continue contributing to the bank’s
large part of the Priority Sector Lending requirements. growth as well as the nation’s growth through its bouquet
of products.
CRB has been identified as a growth engine and was
the fastest growing vertical for the bank in the year
under review. A wide reach across geographies of the
country – district by district and understanding of local
level business dynamics has helped it in achieving growth
rates that exceed the industry average. The Bank at
present has 6,300+ branches of which over 5,300+ have
loans outstanding to MSME customers. The sourcing
model through branch channels allied to traditional
prudence is one of the key reasons for containing
NPAs. A well trained relationship team does frequent
interaction with MSME customers for their overall
banking requirements including the personal banking of
promoters and family members.
In the rural segment, the Bank is planning to expand
its services to 2 Lakh villages in the next two years. It
funds not only traditional agriculture but also allied
activities. It is totally committed to furthering the
Government’s agenda by supporting its various
schemes be it AIF/FPO/PMFME and lending to
small and marginal farmers.
20
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Product Suite
Working Capital and Agriculture Finance
Term Loan Assets · Crop Loan/Farmer Finance
· Working Capital Loans - KCC
· Term Loans · Dairy/Cattle Finance
· Supply Chain Management
Liabilities
· Project Finance
· Export Finance
· CASA Accounts
· Fixed Deposits
Transportation Finance · Salary Account
Group
Trade Finance
· Commercial Vehicle/Equipment
Finance
· Bank Guarantee/LCs
· Tractor Finance · International Trade
· Infrastructure Finance
FX Advisory
Investment Banking Trade Flows & Derivatives
· IPOs, Private Equity, VC Fund
Raise, Loan Syndication
· Mergers & Acquisitions
21
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Our Resources Stakeholder Value Creation Outcomes
Our Purpose
We exist to help every Indian make better
money choices, today and tomorrow
R E
TAIL W H
O
L E S
A
L E
T R
E A S
U
R Y
B
usiness
segments
dna
tnemnrevoG
egnahC
etamilC
ni
noitavonni
latigiD
dna
ycavirp
ataD
tnemnorivnE
cimonocE
tnemnorivne
yrotalugeR
GSE
dna
secivres
laicnanfi
ytiruces
rebyc
Financial Capital
· Total Deposits: H15,59,217 Cr
· Stockholder's Equity: H2,40,093 Cr
· Borrowings: H1,84,817 Cr
Human Capital Customer
· Employee base: 1,41,579 Focus
· Learning and Development initiatives
· Employee engagement initiatives
· Talent Management Operational
· Culture Ecosystem Excellence
Intellectual Capital Product
· Digital Factory, Enterprise Factory and Leadership
Enterprise IT
· Credit policy and underwriting skills
· Risk management framework
People · Collaboration with fin-techs and start-ups
· Implementation framework on carbon
neutrality
Sustainability
Social & Relationship Capital
· Customers: 7.1 Cr+
· CSR expenditure: H736 Cr
· Aligning stakeholders with ESG People Effective Risk Technology
· Partnership with Government & Culture Management Robustness
Customer Governance Commitment
Natural Capital Service and Beyond to ESG
Experience Compliance
· Grid Electricity consumed: 364,135 MWh
· Fossil Energy Consumed: 285,612 GJ
· Paper consumed: 2,660.13 MT
· Natural resource conservation initiatives
· E waste handled through authorised
recyclers: 212 MT
Manufactured Capital
· Banking outlets - Branches + Business
Correspondents (managed by CSCs and
other BCs), ATMs.
· Corporate office, data warehouse and others
· IGBC certification of building and branch
interiors
seulaV
ruO
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Our Value Creation Model Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Outputs UN SDGs#
Products Financial capital
· Net Revenue: `1,01,519 Cr · Capital Adequacy Ratio:
Total Deposits · Net Profit after tax: 18.9%
`15,59,217 Cr `36,961 Cr · GNPA: 1.17%
16.8% · Return on Asset: 2.03% · Net NPA: 0.32%
· Return on Equity: 16.9%
· Cost-to-income ratio: 36.9% Total Advances
`13,68,821 Cr
Human capital
Branch 20.8%
operations · Net Additions: 21,486 · Employee engagement
Underwriting and · Women in workforce: 21.7% score: 83%
risk management
Lending Share of Digital in (Excludes sales officers and · Profit per employee:
Investment total transactions other non-supervisory staff) ~H28 Lakh
Future-ready management ~93% · Employee Cost: H12,032 Cr
Collections Bank for the Asset-liability Intellectual capital Digital Age management
Net Interest Income · Brand Value: $ 35.60 Billion^ · 1,400 Number of internal
`72,010 Cr · Strengthening of core and APIs published increased by Current and Deposits
Saving Accounts 11% creation of digital stack 50% plus over last 2 years
· Attracted market-leading · Average Customer uptime at
Customer
services Total Income skills in areas such as data 99.94%
`1,57,263 Cr analytics, IT, equities and
advisory solutions
7.7%
Social & relationship capital
Total Direct (CBDT) · BU Net Promoter Score:** 60 · CSR Beneficiaries:
and Indirect taxes · Customer Additions: 9.6 Cr+
Key enablers
(GST & CBIC) 92 Lakh+ · Shareholder base: ~21 lakh
collected for the Govt. · MSCI ESG Ratings · Certified as a Great Place to
`6,33,582.37 Cr Assessment: AA* Work® Organisation.
Natural capital
· Loan proposals screened · Cumulative Underwritten
Strategic pillars Long term objectives and approved through the Wind & Solar (cumulative
SEMS framework: 861 capacity 5,860 MW)
· Re-Imagining the branch channel · Increase customer base · Trees planted so far: underwritten amount:
· Virtual Relationship Management (VRM) · Operational efficiency 17.69 Lakh+ `14,839 Cr
· Water Conservation · Solar lights installed 41,810+
· Government & Institutions (G&I) · Expand footprint
structures developed
· Leadership in payments business · Omnichannel experience
10,500+
· Technology & Digital · Healthy asset quality
· Commercial and Rural · Access low cost funds
Manufactured capital
· Retail Assets
· Total Banking Outlets and · ATM + cash withdrawal/
· Corporate Cluster
branches: 21,683 and deposit machine: 18,130
· Wealth
6,342 respectively · Total Business
· Digital Marketing
· Cities/towns covered: 3,188 Correspondents: 15,341
# F or a complete list of SDGs impacted ^ As per Kantar BrandZ Most Valuable
through our social & relationship capital, Global Brands 2022 Ranking
please refer Page 95 * As of August 2021
Information Cyber security
Credit Risk Market Risk Compliance Risk Operational Risk Climate Risk Liquidity Risk Reputation Risk technology Risk and data Risks ** Bottom Up Net Promoter Score
22 23
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Stakeholder Engagement
Understanding
stakeholder
expectations
Customers
Through our 6,342 branches and 18,130 ATMs/
CDMs, we serve over 7.1 Crore customers.
At HDFC Bank, we engage with our Further, we are enhancing our disability-inclusive
infrastructure and services. All our ATMs are
stakeholders to understand and
equipped with a voice-guided system and a Braille
respond to their expectations and
keypad for the visually challenged. We are also
concerns. This provides valuable increasingly setting them up in locations with ramps
insights that help us shape our to enable access to wheelchair-bound customers.
At present, 850 of our locations, including branches
priorities and strategy. We have a
and ATMs, are equipped with ramps. We assess all
well-defined process to identify and
our premises and install ramps wherever feasible.
prioritise our major stakeholders,
Modes of engagement
based on their involvement with
· Online and postal communication
and value to the organisation.
· Customer satisfaction surveys
· Feedback from customers
· Regular interactions with customers
Frequency
Continuous
Key concerns and expectations
· Ease of transacting across channels
· Innovative technology applications
· Data security
· Advanced analytics
Response and mitigation
· New products enabled by our digitisation
strategy
· Making personalised recommendations with a
Virtual Relationship Manager (VRM)
· IEC activities on data security and privacy
TOTAL CUSTOMERS BRANCHES
7.10 6,342
Cr+
ATMs/CASH DEPOSIT &
WITHDRAWAL MACHINES (CDMs)
18,130
24
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Employees Suppliers
Our 1.4 Lakh+ employees come from a wide range We collaborate closely with our suppliers to
of socioeconomic and educational backgrounds, encourage them to add value beyond the economic
allowing us to provide highly personalised bottom line, in order to integrate environmental
experiences to our consumers. We are committed and social concerns more effectively. Through our
to building a culture of inclusiveness, diversity, ESG policy framework, we strive to ensure that our
growth, progression, and well-being. vendors and suppliers abide by labour laws and
human rights.
Modes of engagement
· Employee on-ground and virtual connect by Modes of engagement
Human Resources · Regular meetings
· Leadership and manager connect · Phone calls and surveys
· Feedback surveys
Frequency
· Employee connect initiatives like talent hunt,
wellness initiatives etc. some of which also Continuous/annual performance review
include their families
Key concerns and expectations
Frequency · Partnership
On-going/ periodic · Governance and ethical practices
Key concerns and expectations Response and mitigation
· Employee engagement · Ensure timely payment for services
· Employee wellness and safety · Whistle Blower Policy to ensure good practices
· Learning and development
Response and mitigation
· Maintain high-level of ongoing employee
connect and periodically obtain feedback
through dipsticks and surveys
· Focus on various aspects of employee wellness
through the HDFC Bank Cares’ initiative
· Strengthen focus on L&D (Learning &
Development) by offering best-in-class learning
resources and leveraging technology for
enabling learner-led anytime, anywhere learning
TOTAL EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES BELOW 30
YEARS OF AGE
1.4
Lakh+
38.8
%
WASTE IMPROVEMENT IN HUMAN RIGHTS
REDUCTION EFFICIENCY & GHG AND LABOUR
REDUCTION PRACTICES
25
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Stakeholder Engagement
Regulatory Bodies Investors/Shareholders
We ensure adherence to compliance standards We continued to generate value for our 21 Lakh+
set by the regulatory bodies. We also place great shareholders. In FY22, our basic earnings per share
emphasis on Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) to stood at `66.8.
ensure beneficiary coverage under government
Modes of engagement
programmes such as MGNREGA, PMAY and
PMKSY, among others. · Quarterly reports and press releases
· Investor meets, earnings calls and Annual
Modes of Engagement General Meetings (AGMs)
· Regular meetings
Frequency
· Policy updates and ministry directives
· Mandatory filings with key regulators Quarterly, annual
Frequency Key concerns and expectations
Continuous · Compliance
· Governance and ethical practices
Key concerns and expectations · Economic performance
· Compliance
Response and mitigation
· Social security schemes
· Relevant national mandates · Policies and demonstration of responsible
business conduct
Response and mitigation
· Compliance and ethics oriented culture
including formulation of relevant policy
frameworks and enforcement thereof
· Awareness generation on the mandates by the
Government of India
TOTAL DIRECT (CBDT) AND INDIRECT TAXES (GST & CBIC) TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
COLLECTED FOR THE GOVERNMENT H
~21 66.8
H Lakh+*
6,33,582.37
Cr
NET PROFIT
H
36,961.3
Cr
*As on March 31, 2022
26
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Community
We continue to fine-tune our community
development strategy and have set goals and
sub-goals within the identified thematic areas.
HDFC Bank Parivartan, our umbrella CSR brand,
seeks to bring about sustainable change in the
lives of the less privileged sections of the society,
by empowering them and bringing them into the
national mainstream. It has so far potentially made
a difference to over 9.6 Crore+ lives.
Modes of engagement
· Regular meetings
· Focus group discussions
· Project monitoring and reviews
Frequency
Continuous/annual performance review
Key concerns and expectations
· Training and inclusive growth
· Financial literacy
Response and mitigation
· Holistic rural development programme
· Sustainable livelihood initiative
· Financial literacy camps
BENEFICIARIES OF INDIVIDUALS IMPACTED
CSR PROJECTS THROUGH FINANCIAL
LITERACY AND INCLUSION
9.6
Cr+ 1.71
Cr+
VILLAGES COVERED UNDER HOLISTIC RURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
3,335
+
^ Potential
27
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Materiality Assessment
Prioritising issues that matter
We conducted a materiality
assessment exercise, in Five-step stakeholder New topics
engagement process included
accordance with GRI standards, in
FY19 to identify the most important
Identify potential topics · Physical risks due to
topics that could significantly climate change
impact our value creation. Inputs Define stakeholder groups · Transition risks due to
climate change
gathered from key stakeholders
Stakeholder engagement · Climate change impacting
were factored into our strategy
and prioritisation company’s cost of debt
planning. Taking a step further in · Employee welfare
FY21, we modified our materiality Revisit of material issues · Customer privacy
by the internal stakeholders · Data security
study to align our ESG strategy
in FY21 · Selling practices and
with business goals, by including
product labeling
emerging topics such as climate Revised materiality map · Transparency and
change risks and opportunities. disclosure
Outcome
The aggregated inputs from all the relevant stakeholders were consolidated and combined to arrive at our materiality map. Emerging
ESG risks were added, including climate change risks.
HDFC Bank’s Materiality Map (Internal Stakeholders)
16
12 9 8
7
10
17
Hygiene Factors Top priorities 13 15
14
11
5 6 2
3
4
1 Hidden Value Creators
Monitoring issues
ot
ecnatropmI
sredlohekats
lanretxe
Potential Impact on
HDFC Bank’s business
woL
Low High
hgiH
16 Compliance
8 Data Security
12 Corporate Governance and Ethics
7 Customer Privacy
9 Customer Satisfaction
10 Selling Practices and Product Labelling
17 Transparency and Disclosure
15 Economic Performance
13 Systemic Risk Management
11 Financial Inclusion
14 Responisible Finance
6 Employee Welfare
5 Community Wellbeing
2 Physical risk of Climate Change
3 Transition risk of Dimate Change
4 Climate Change Impact on Company's
Cost of Debt
1 Emissions and Climate Change
The effective management of material issues is critical to our business sustainability as it directs our strategic planning and
management priorities towards achieving long-term sustainable value for our stakeholders.
28
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Prioritising sustainability topics, mapping with GRI elements and capitals
Priority S.
Sustainability topics Description
Rank No .
1. 16. Compliance GRI aspects: Environmental compliance;
Capitals impacted:
Socio-economic compliance
We operate in a highly regulated industry where compliance is non-negotiable. Our operations comply
with all applicable legal, environmental, and social regulations. We abide by the Companies Act,
2013, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, and the applicable RBI and SEBI regulations, among others.
The Bank's equity shares are traded on the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd., BSE Ltd., and its
American Depository Shares (ADS) are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).
2. 12. Corporate GRI aspects: Ethics and integrity;
Capitals impacted:
governance Governance
& ethics Our Corporate Governance philosophy, articulated in our ESG framework, is anchored to the cardinal
principles of independence, accountability, transparency, fair disclosures, responsibility and credibility.
Our policies and guidelines demonstrate that good governance is ingrained in our culture. The Anti-
Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy as well as the Code of Conduct, help us perform our operations in an
ethical manner.
3. 8. Data security GRI aspects: Customer privacy; Security
Capitals impacted:
practices
We work in a highly automated environment and use cutting-edge technology to support a variety of
operations. We are guided by the Information Security Policy and the Cyber Security Policy. Further, an
independent assurance team within Internal Audit provides assurance on the management of information
technology-related risks. To mitigate information technology-related risks, we have implemented a
governance framework, information security practises, and a business continuity plan.
4. 7. Customer privacy
GRI aspects: Customer privacy Capitals impacted:
Being in the service sector, Information Security and Data Protection are of utmost importance to us.
To ensure customer privacy, we also follow the Banking Codes and Standards Board of India's (BCSBI)
'Code of Bank's Commitment to Customers' and Employee and Customer Awareness Procedures.
5. 9. Customer GRI aspects: Stakeholder engagement;
Capitals impacted:
Marketing and labelling
satisfaction
Our customer-centric approach caters to our customers’ financial goals while providing insightful,
relevant, contextualised, and hyper-personalised experiences. We conduct satisfaction surveys on a
regular basis to gather feedback on our products and services.
6. 10. Selling practice and
GRI aspects: Marketing and labelling Capitals impacted:
product labelling
We strictly adhere to market conduct regulations to provide transparent, accurate, and comprehensive
marketing statements, advertising and product/service labelling to our customers and clients. We have
established frameworks, strategies, policies, and procedures, as well as systems, to ensure and maintain
transparency in communication, allowing them to make informed decisions.
Financial Human Intellectual Social & Manufactured Natural
Capital Capital Capital Relationship Capital Capital
Capital
29
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Materiality Assessment
Priority S.
Sustainability topics Description
Rank No .
7. 17. Transparency GRI aspects: General disclosure -
Capitals impacted:
and disclosure Reporting practice
With the increased demand for ESG disclosures among stakeholders, it is critical to ensure that such
reporting is accurate and reliable. We have a sustainability strategy and reporting programme in place
that clearly articulates our sustainability strategy, risks, and opportunities, as well as performance on
material ESG topics.
We also place high value on report assurance, so our Sustainability Report and Green House Gas (GHG)
emissions are verified by third-party auditors in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised) Standards.
8. 15. Economic
GRI aspects: Economic performance Capitals impacted:
performance
Economic performance is critical to maintain stability and positive momentum. We strive to provide our
stakeholders with increased long-term value. Even during challenging times, we have performed well,
aided by our prudent management and capital allocation strategies.
9. 13. Systematic GRI aspects: General Disclosure -
Capitals impacted:
risk management Governance
Through the effective use of processes, information and technology, we have deployed a multi-layered
risk management strategy that identifies, assesses, monitors and manages risks (credit, market,
liquidity, interest rate, and operational). A Board-approved Stress Testing Policy & System, which is
an integral aspect of our ICAAP, is part of our overall risk management framework (Internal Capital
Adequacy Assessment Process). Stress testing is done by employing a variety of ways to determine
our vulnerability to excessive yet realistically stressful scenarios. Additionally, we use a SEMS (Social &
Environmental Management System) framework to analyse social and environmental credit risks. Risk
exposures are actively identified and reported to the appropriate levels of management, so that risk
mitigation actions can be implemented. The risk management function is independent of business and
reports directly to the Managing Director.
10. 11. Financial GRI aspects: Economic performance; Local
Capitals impacted:
inclusion communities
Financial inclusion is key to India’s inclusive development agenda. The banking sector has a pivotal
role to play in serving the underbanked, especially in rural and semi-urban areas. We see this as an
opportunity to broaden our reach and make our products and services more accessible. While we
continue to focus on the Corporate Cluster and Government Business to increase penetration, we see
Commercial (MSME) and Rural Banking driving the next wave of growth.
11. 14. Responsible GRI aspects: Environmental compliance;
Capitals impacted:
financing Socioeconomic compliance
Evaluation of environmental and social risk is an integral part of our overall credit appraisal and approval
process. Large industrial/infrastructure projects where the extension of long-term financing (greater than
`100 Million and longer than 5 years) are covered under the Bank’s Social & Environment Monitoring
System (SEMS) which necessitates an assessment of Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety risks in
addition to other risks, as part of the overall credit appraisal process.
As a rule, we do not fund projects that have a negative impact on the environment, health, or safety. We
want to make funding available for environmentally viable projects that help mitigate climate change risks.
To reduce our carbon footprint, we continue to invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency projects.
Customers are also encouraged to make ‘green banking’ decisions.
12. 6. Employee
GRI aspects: Employment Capitals impacted:
welfare
W We engage with employees and their families through a variety of initatives through our Employee
Connect program. Over the years and especially during the pandemic, we saw a significant increase in
the employee participation. Many of these initiatives were virtually run during the last two years to ensure
employee safety. We also run an Employee Welfare Trust which is primarily set up to support employees
in case of emergencies where the expenses extend beyond the mediclaim cover that we provide to all
employees and their families. During the pandemic, support from the trust was generously extended to
all employees who needed it.
30
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Priority S.
Sustainability topics Description
Rank No .
13. 5. Community wellbeing
GRI aspects: Local communities Capitals impacted:
We believe in giving back to the community. Through our CSR brand ‘Parivartan’, we work towards
empowering the most disadvantaged sections of the society around our area of operations, to be self-
reliant. The Board-level CSR & ESG Committee oversees the initiatives and tracks progress on a regular
basis. To secure the nation's growth and development, as well as the well-being of its residents, we have
aligned our actions with government missions and programmes.
14. 2. Physical risk for GRI aspects: General Disclosure -
Capitals impacted:
climate change Governance
We have a diversified lending portfolio that covers a wide range of industries including power, heavy
15. 3. Transition risk for industries and real estate. In compliance with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures'
recommendations, we are exploring the process of analysing the Bank's resilience to physical and
climate change
transition risks of climate change and continue our endeavour to acquire granular data and test tools for
climate risk assessment and conducting scenario analysis.
16 4. Climate change GRI aspects: General disclosure -
Capitals impacted:
impact on Governance
Company’s cost We regularly review and monitor climate change impact on the Bank’s cost of debt. At present, we view
of debt the impact as relatively less significant.
17. 1. Emission and
GRI aspects: Emissions Capitals impacted:
climate change
We recognise our role in the transition to a low-carbon economy. At HDFC Bank, we have been
recording our GHG emissions and will continue to track and report our carbon footprint. Recently, we
pledged to become carbon neutral by FY32. We continue to scale up the use of renewable energy and
energy management measures at our operations.
Climate change may have a substantial impact on our activities, and thus, we have initiated steps
towards the implementation of TCFD recommendations.
Financial Human Intellectual Social & Manufactured Natural
Capital Capital Capital Relationship Capital Capital
Capital
Mapping sustainability topics to our value chain
Upstream Downstream
Material topic (suppliers, HDFC Bank (customers,
investors) communities)
Compliance  
Corporate Governance & Ethics   
Data Security   
Customer Privacy  
Customer Satisfaction  
Selling Practice and Product Labelling  
Transparency and Disclosure   
Economic Performance   
Systematic Risk Management 
Financial Inclusion 
Responsible Finance  
Employee Welfare 
Community Well-being 
Physical Risk for Climate Change   
Transition Risk for Climate Change   
Climate Change Impact on Company’s Cost of Debt   
Emission and Climate Change   
31
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Strategy in Action
Our future-ready strategy
India is one of the fastest growing major We continue to enhance our compliance culture and exhibit
economies and as one of the largest highest compliance standards. Our risk management and
compliance framework is embedded in the systems and
private sector banks in India, we are
processes across operations and functions and is overseen
well-positioned to capitalise on this
by a diverse, experienced, and competent Board. As we
opportunity. At HDFC Bank, we continue to take strides forward, the customer remains at the core of
focus on executing our ten-pillar strategy our strategy. Armed with robust technology and capitalising
on digitalisation, we are providing seamless digital customer
across various products and segments
on-boarding and service management journeys. Our
to create, catalyse and capture the next
investment in our people and adherence to our culture ‘The
wave of growth. The focus on our straregic HDFC Bank Way’ enables us in our onward journey.
pillars drives our consistent performance.
Customer lifecycle management
Delivery of products
Customer acquisition Relationship management
and services
Through 10 Pillars of growth
Government Digital Retail Expanding Technology and Reimagining the
and Institutions Marketing Assets Wealth Digital branch channel
Business Management
HDFC Bank Heartland: Leadership in Virtual
edge for Commercial and the Payments Relationship
Corporate Rural Banking Business Management (VRM)
Cluster Group
Key enablers
Customer Service Strengthening Effective Risk Zero Paper, Zero People: Learning
Culture
and Experience Compliance Management Touch Operations and Development
32
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Re-imagining Retail Branch
Banking
Micro market Service First Instutitionalised
Our growing phygital reimagined focused multiformat culture approach to customer
branch channel is pivotal to our distribution science life cycle
strategic intent of being India’s best
customer-centric brand across
industries, within the next three years.
Retail Branch banking is the key
enabler for retail deposits, retail trade
and forex business, unsecured and
Customer life AI analytics- Enabling phygital
secured asset business and third-party
centric insight-led driven customer transformation
distribution business. We continue to
proposition conversations
reimagine our branch channel backed
(Next Best Action)
by micro market focused multiformat
distribution science, phygital
transformation, analytics and Artificial
Intelligence (AI). This is backed by an
institutionalised approach to customer Best Actions', are suggested based us achieve significant benefits, in terms
life cycle management and a ‘Service on a study of customer transactions/ of improved customer experience
First culture’. digital behavior across the Bank's along with cost reduction. WOW
digital assets. Further, relationship customer service journeys have scaled
The levers that bring to life our
managers are equipped with up customer adoption by ~45%
reimagining branch channel
suggestive 'Immediate Next Best (cumulative) and is expected to grow
strategy are:
Actions', based on real time digital further.
transactions/customers interactions.
Holistic customer life cycle
Customer Experience
management Our micro market focused multiformat
Excellence
scientific study of data drives decisions
It starts from our ability to map and
on meeting customer needs through The cornerstone of Customer
source the right set of customers using
retail phygital branch/Digital Banking Experience Excellence is to delight
a differentiated go-to-market approach
Units/‘Smart Banking Lobby’ or customers at every touch point. In
and results in having need-based
Business Correspondents. An this endeavour, our initiatives include
conversations and offering the right
optimum mix of digitisation along with process simplification through
product proposition. It also entails
relevant human interactions, enables digitisation, reimagining the customer
continually nourishing the relationship
us to deliver superior services. journeys and making them user-
through our relationship management
friendly. We are enhancing self-service
architecture and recommending next
Digitisation of sales, service and avenues and thus empowering
best actions and implementing them.
Branch operations customers in completing paperless
Our 'service first culture' is embedded
journeys on their own. Our Net
throughout the customer life cycle We continue to embed and enhance
Promoter Score, a metric of measuring
management journey. customer digital journeys, be it sales,
customer satisfaction and loyalty, has
service or operations. It also entails
shown 22% improvement over FY21.
Analytics led customer enhancing phygital through digital
conversations and distribution delivery in physical branches.
planning tool
Mobile-first approach leveraging
Our approach is based on ‘Need- Aadhaar and ‘Walk Out Working’
based Selling’ and is empowered by (WOW) straight through journeys, are
robust analytical tools and AI. 'Next some of the initiatives that are helping
33
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Strategy in Action
People capability trained Virtual Relationship Managers. Our Virtual Care approach is an
Your Bank has made significant extension of our customer-centric
Our people are the face of the Bank.
investments in technology upgradation programme — ‘Infinite Smiles' and
Our aim is to strengthen our teams
of the customer facing solutions we aim for customer satisfaction in
to better understand the ‘Voice of
around Interactive Voice Response every interaction. We have progressed
Customer’ to enable us to create
Systems, Data Management and further on our conscious journey
newer propositions, simpler processes
digital engagement platforms like of a culture transformation, which
and seamless customer experiences.
Video KYC, to offer a world-class is enshrined along with the critical
We have equipped our teams with AI
virtual engagement framework leadership tenets of ‘Nurture, Care and
and analytics-driven pinpointed regular
for its customers. Our systems Collaborate’. This has also contributed
customer level analysis to enable
are structured, secure, compliant, to better complaints management and
enhanced engagement. Further, we
automated and avoid any data reduced customer wait time.
continue to train our teams through
leakages. Our VRM framework
interactive learning interventions that
provides seamless 24/7 access to
equip them to enhance customer
customers and experiences, in line
delight in all their interactions. The
with global service standards.
learning interventions are customised
Government and
based on analytics. We provide automated interactive voice
Institutions Business
response solution in 12 languages with
20+ services. We offer world-class Growing focus on digitisation of
service interaction, with an analytics- transactions and Government
led need-based product distribution push towards transparency offers
Virtual Relationship approach, aimed at making us the an enormous opportunity in this
Management preferred banker of choice for the segment. We aim to capitalise on
customer. this opportunity by focusing on the
As a future-ready Bank, we have
following key areas:
further strengthened our Virtual
Relationship Management (VRM)
channel to enhance customer
engagement and provide seamless
customer service experience. A
banking experience with digital
ease and personalised need based
conversations, is at the core of our Start-ups
VRM strategy. The Virtual Relationship
Management practice is an integrated
customer-centric approach consisting
Central, State and
of three pillars:
Financial Government local Governments
· Virtual Relationship inclusion and and associated
· Virtual Sales Institutions entities
· Virtual Care Business
The Virtual Relationship Managers
serve the customer life cycle across –
a) Save b) Invest c) Borrow d) Transact
Education,
e) Engage. We believe that we have a Alternate
healthcare, religious
head start with our Virtual Relationship Channels &
institutions, NGOs,
Management practice, leveraging an Partnerships
trusts, and housing
Omnichannel Engagement framework,
societies
seamless digital journeys, data
science-led customer interactions
and a robust talent pool of well-
34
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
The Government of India has unlocked the necessary technological solutions to the last mile. Till date we have on-boarded
a large revenue pool by allowing private provide customers with a high quality user 4 Lakh+ Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLE)
sector banks to participate across all experience. as Business Facilitators and Business
areas of Government business. We are Correspondents to help source business
Our comprehensive digital suite also
a leading bank in managing Government for us. With the help of the VLEs, we have
acts as a catalyst driving growth in the
fund flows, with ~26% of total flows routed been able to create a large distribution
institutional business. We have adopted
through the Bank. The single nodal agency network to capture the opportunities
an ecosystem-based approach to harness
construct introduced in September 2021 in the semi-urban and rural areas. Our
the growing opportunities in educational
by GOI will further augment these flows. octopus model of distribution puts existing
institutions, religious institutions, and
We are leveraging our extensive reach, branches at the core, supported by
housing societies. We enable collections
intuitive technological solutions, our agents empanelled through marquee tie-
of society payments, donations, fees, as
deep network, and sustainable livelihood ups and partnerships. These agents are
well as manage payments to vendors,
initiatives to maximise this opportunity. capacitated by the Bank through digital
employees, etc. We have also forged
We facilitate digitisation of agricultural infrastructure, branding and visibility
partnerships with tech players to adopt
procurements, e-governance for to function as a mini branch. Digitally-
an API-based approach to cater to the
tendering and auction, amongst others, assisted and unassisted journeys are in
needs of this segment.
and offer a differentiated and seamless play, with a combination of fintech and
experience for Government bodies. In Parallelly, we are making continuous APIs that deliver a seamless experience
FY22, the Bank was recognised as one of investments to expand our distribution securely. These alternate channels not
the top 5 Banks in the country processing network in the deep geographies of the only create value for the Bank but also
pay-outs, including direct benefit transfer country. Rapid adoption of technology have a larger societal impact supporting
under the single nodal agency construct coupled with deep penetration of mobile nation-building and the Government’s
by the Ministry of Finance to enable this. and internet provides fertile ground to tap financial inclusion agenda.
The Bank has facilitated and/or developed into opportunities, by digitally connecting
Consumer Offline
Leadership in Payments
· Credit Cards · POS/mPOS
Business
· Debit Cards · QR Code
Payments business is an integrated · UPI · Scan n Pay
e A
business with key wheels of Issuance, · EPI c c · Merchant App
n c
Acquiring and Consumer Finance · Wallets u a e p
fulfiling the needs of every customer · Prepaid s t a Online
segment. We continue to be a leading · NEFT/RTGS I s n c · Payment
e
player in the payments ecosystem with Gateway
a leading presence and market share Commercial · UPI
in issuing, acceptance and consumer · Credit cards · EPI
finance businesses. We also bring · Debits cards · SmartHub
t
o
h
f
r
t
o
h
u
e
g
B
hp
an
u
k
t v
t
a
h
l
r
u
o
e
u g
to
h
o
o
t
u
h
r
e
f
r
r e
b
q
u
u
s
e
in
n
e
c
s
y
s e
o
s
f
· Prepaid/Virtual C o nsumer Financ e Platform
transactions which is a source of core
data for deeper understanding of our
During Purchase · Digital Loans
customers and drives data analytics
for the Bank. · Card EMI Post Purchase
· BNPL · Smart EMI – Credit
Issuance business provides extensive · EMI Cards · Smart EMI – Debit
range of payment solutions to the
· Inventory Finance
customers in every segment. We
have grown significantly across Credit
Cards, Debit Cards, Prepaid cards,
35
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Strategy in Action
PayZapp Wallet, EMI and EPI/Direct we are riding the wave of innovation Consumer Financing consists of
Pay. Customer spends have crossed and have become No.1 among all lending at the point of sale i.e. the
8 Lakh Crore in FY 22 with 63 Million+ banks in BNPL. EMI business, and this business
cards (Credit Cards, Debit Cards feeds off the acceptance and
and prepaid cards) addressing every Acceptance business is all about issuance business. We fund both
market segment. Every third rupee building the core network connecting during purchase and post purchase
spent on cards in India, happens the entire payment ecosystem and transactions through cutting-edge
on HDFC Bank cards. Adapting to receipts business. Our full suite of offerings such as Cards EMI, Buy
the changing customer behaviours, online and offline payment solutions now Pay later (BNPL), digital loans,
we have expanded our customer consists of Payment gateway, UPI, Smart EMI – Credit, Smart EMI –
offerings. We are a leading player in EPI, Smart Hub platform, POS/M Debit and inventory finance, among
credit cards with a strong growth and POS, QR Code and Scan & Pay, others. We are reaching out to New to
market share on both booksize/ENR among others. Within acceptance Credit (NTC) customers and new age
and spends. We have the best suite business, Merchant Acquiring customers, extensively in this space.
business provides the railroad for
of cards curated for the needs of both
banking solutions and payment
young professionals and ultra premium
offerings to the largest customer
customers. Digitally enhancing
segment – MSMEs. As a Bank,
customer experience and services for
this business gets us entry into the Technology and digital
our customers is a key strategy and
large and thriving MSME ecosystem
we launched ‘MyCards’ application that forms the backbone of our As a future-ready bank, we are
to help card customers to self service economy. We have been leading this technology and digital led in most of
digitally. Our future plan is to fortify the business and despite the disruptive our operations. Today, 93% of the
MyCards offering to a comprehensive competition in this space, we have Bank’s transactions are processed
Cards servicing solution for the Credit about 47% market share in cards, digitally. As a part of our technology
Card and Debit Card customers. 1 Million+ POS terminals deployed transformation agenda, we have taken
PayZapp is a key strategy to drive and 14.5 Lakh Crore+ volume great strides under the three legs of
customer engagement across all acquired across cards, NetBanking Digital Factory, Enterprise Factory
payment forms. It will be providing and UPI. We are strengthening our and Enterprise IT. While Enterprise
a strong, unified experience across Partnership pillar by forging alliances Factory and Enterprise IT focus on
contactless payments, QR-based with large fintech players to corner strengthening the core technologies
payments, UPI payments, and BNPL, large opportunity segments with and networks, Digital factory is aimed
and will be digitising all payment form targeted value propositions like EMI, at enhancing customer experience
factors with rich features on a unified pay later and digital storefronts. through differentiated products and
platform. The revamped PayZapp Smart Hub continues to be a pioneer services. This approach is further
2 is around the corner and will be comprehensive payment and banking illustrated through our 5-pillar strategy
providing a unified experience across solution for all merchants, and we will for bringing in key shifts in the banking
contactless payments. Smartbuy be launching the enhanced Smart experience.
continues to play a key role in
providing a strong loyalty framework Hub App Platform soon. We have We aim to make day-to-day banking
and has gained popularity among been continuously transforming the simple for our retail customers through
customers for providing accelerated experience on SmartHub Vyapar easy and unified payment experiences
reward points and reward redemptions App platform to instantly become a and seamless assisted and unassisted
on a single platform. To complete our merchant with the widest range of journeys. Our ecosystem-based
suite of products and payment suite to payment acceptance, easy access offerings for MSMEs cover the entire
the retail consumers, we are scaling to loans and banking solutions with a supply chain with native journeys
BNPL with multiple variants that we are single view of all transactions. Further, in local languages providing a
building to make customer purchases the platform will allow merchants to transformational commercial banking
convenient. Between Credit Card EMI, instantly open current account and experience. With APIfication and deep
Debit Card EMI and paper financing, start accepting payments on the go. ERP embedding, we offer frictionless
36
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
banking services for large corporates, Powering these initiatives is our strong hiring strategies leverage Gen X to Gen
mimicking retail experiences. We are technological backbone. We have Z talent offering diverse skillsets to
leveraging advanced AI and deep fortified our infrastructure security and build in-house deep-tech capabilities.
analytics to simplify investments for resilience through scalable, state-of- Our focus is on fostering a culture of
our wealth customers. We contribute the-art data centers, AI/ML based innovation, agility and growth.
to the Digital Bharat growth story security and monitoring systems and
The Bank has lined up exciting
with a local touch through assisted deep automation in DR resiliency. We
launches in the coming quarters
journeys, multilingual capabilities, and are also strengthening the foundation
with offerings that not only make
deep digital distribution points. The by re-architecting the core technology.
banking simpler but also augment
objective is not just to develop new We are ‘hollowing out the core’ by
the experience through value added
products but to innovate rapidly and at moving away from legacy systems into
services. Our MobileBanking app is
scale, so as to serve the entire gamut a cloud native, agile system, and a
undergoing a massive re-write with a
of our 7.1 Crore strong customer base. neo-technology stack.
refreshed UI/UX focusing on journey
In order to achieve this, we also forge
Our people are the most important simplification for the customer. The
strategic partnerships with new-age
enablers as we transform into a end goal is simple, customer delight
fintech players to offer plug and play
future-ready, digital-first bank. We across all segments on the back of a
solutions.
are refreshing our people practices resilient infrastructure and seamless
adapting to new ways of working. Our digital experiences.
Key tenets of technology and digital
Differentiated Rapid innovation Data and platform Resilient and secure Nurturing
customer experience at scale orchestration core systems tech talents
· Design frictionless · New products and · Embedded AI/ · Zero-trust · Transforming people
journeys for straight journeys designed at ML capabilities architecture, practices to adopt
through processing pace and scale spanning products advanced platforms new ways of working
and processes and analytics
· Digitisation of · Plug & play · Fostering a culture
for best-in-class
branches with integration with new · Deeper analytical of innovation, agility
security posture
paperless journeys age Fintech partners capabilities and growth
and synergised · Next level disaster
· Create Neo · Best-in-class · Gen X to Gen Z:
operational recovery with
customer digital products and leveraging diverse
efficiencies automation and ‘Hot
experiences services powered by skill sets as a key
DR’ setup
innovation, agility-at- · APIfication of data to enabler
scale enable sophisticated · Multi-cloud
customer journeys strategy, data
centre consolidation
augmented with
scalability through
containerisation
37
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Strategy in Action
access to credit, high cost of credit the new-age customer. The Bank
and collateral constraints. intends to grow its agriculture and
allied book by diversifying its portfolio
This group enables acquisition of
Commercial & Rural Banking from staple crops to agri allied and
customer at an early stage. For
high value horticulture crops. It also
Commercial and Rural Banking instance today’s SME and MSME plans to augment as well as facilitate
(CRB) primarily caters to entities in will transition to tomorrow’s mid- the growth of individual ecosystems
manufacturing, exports, employment, corporates and large corporates. The that exist within the group, (such
retail and trade, supply chain network Bank aims to support the journeys as the rural ecosystem, healthcare
and infrastructure. CRB lending of these companies as they mature ecosystem, transportation ecosystem
constitutes a large part of our PSL through the lifecycle. or the supply chain network) with
lending book. CRB serves Micro, Small The rise of the digitally-enabled products and services tailored to
and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), customers presents a unique add value and financial strength.
emerging corporates, commercial opportunity to scale business The market potential in the segment
agriculture, farmer finance, healthcare and increase wallet share through that the CRB group caters to is
finance, equipment finance and augmented end-to-end digital journeys immense and the Bank is well-poised
commercial transport companies. and increasingly personalised offerings to capitalise on this opportunity
We are committed to helping resolve and services. With products and by leveraging its reach, innovation
the challenges faced by this market platforms such as the SME portal, capabilities, digital prowess and
segment, like lack of easy or timely the Bank caters to the needs of ecosystem offerings.
Commercial and Rural Banking Group
Transportation
Emerging Emerging
Group
Corporate Enterprise
Group (ECG) Group (EEG) · CV CE
· IFG
· Tractor
Business Rural Banking
Banking Group (RBG) Healthcare
Group (BBG) Finance (HCF)
· Agri KGC
retail services provider. Our portfolio prudent pricing, introducing indigenous
consists of secured/unsecured lending digital products while maintaining the
products such as auto loans, home quality of our portfolio. Our increased
Retail Assets loans, personal loans, gold loans, etc. end-to-end digital lending journey
to cater to various classes of retail across most of our products, backed
Our Retail assets strategy is to customers. We aim to expand across by robust credit research, analytics
deliver best-in-class algorithm-driven newer geographies and deepen our and strong IT infrastructure, is enabling
Digital lending. We continue to be presence in existing geographies our consistent growth.
a responsible, agile and innovative
through a customer centric approach,
38
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Over the years, we have simplified and are offering seamless loans across corporate ecosystem which includes
digitised processes, thus reducing geographies, expanding our reach providing payroll management and
turnaround time across products, in semi-urban and rural markets for personal banking services to their
by digital integration coupled with deeper penetration employees and key officials.
algorithm-based usage experience.
The Bank provides value-added
Our key indigenous digital products
and industry-specific solutions by
such as Xpress Car loans, 10 Second
leveraging its detailed processes
Personal loans, Digital loan against
and on-ground intelligence about
shares, and Digital loan against Mutual Corporate Cluster
corporates’ processes, distribution
funds, among others, enable not only
Corporate Banking continues networks and geographies.
our existing customers but also new
to consistently contribute to our
to bank customers to avail loans in a As a Digital Bank, we have host
growth. Our holistic suite of products
seamless manner. These initiatives to host connectivity with the large
and services gives us an edge
address the needs of the growing corporates using APIs and we are
over competitors. Our customer
population of digital savvy customers working towards digitising end-to-
base extends from large business
including the millennials. end transaction processing within
houses, MNCs, Companies in the
their ecosystems. We are leveraging
One of the key focus areas is manufacturing and service sectors to
cutting-edge technologies such as
strengthening our position in public sector enterprises, and financial
Artificial Intelligence and Machine
unsecured product by further institutions, among others.
Learning for deep analytics to derive
penetrating in Government segment
While lending is the mainstay of actionable insights for increase in
supported by our increasing
Corporate Bank, our strategy has share of wallet. The quality service
geographical presence and nimble-
been to strengthen relationships by offering that is provided to our
footed lending solutions. We have
providing banking products, solutions corporate customers can be extended
built in processes and controls and
to corporates, to manage their to customers and suppliers of the
invested in our branch network to
receivables, payables, taxes and trade. corporate using ‘ecosystem banking’.
manage the risks, to ensure our Gold
Our product suite covers the entire The idea is to bring the corporates'
Loan portfolio grows significantly. We
entire financial world under one
Employees Working capital term lending
Salary empanelment
Cross-border vendors
Government · Trade
Statutory payments · Cross-border transactions
Corporate
ecosystem
Shareholders
Suppliers/dealers
Dividend distribution
Cash management
Customers
· Digital integrations Channels
· API integrations Supply chain finance
· H2H (Host-to-Host) solutions
39
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Strategy in Action
umbrella. We aim to continue to add (ARR) as a key metric to ensure
value to the corporate ecosystem by transition from transactional approach
focusing on: to portfolio management approach
Wealth and minimise churn. We have an open
· Use of technology, processes, and
architecture for insurance where we
products to cater to the corporate Wealth is one of the key focus areas have multiple partners across life,
journeys for the Bank. We are focused on the health, and general insurance to offer
· Offering financing solutions to the Affluent and Mass Affluent segment the right product to the right customer.
eco system partners – vendors, of customers to drive growth. A Our non-proprietary framework across
suppliers/dealers, channel, and large proportion of wealth in India is investment products which makes
customers – of the corporates distributed even beyond the top 20 recommendations based on robust
through digital platforms cities of the country. The Bank aims to quantitative and qualitative evaluation
increase the Wealth Relationship team model, re-accentuate our customer
· Identifying white spaces and co- and expand its reach in B30 (beyond centricity.
creating financial products by top 30) cities, to tap into this segment
benchmarking with the best-in-class through a hub and spoke model. We are developing a mobile-first
· Innovating Trade Products to cater to The Bank’s Wealth team is currently Wealth Platform that will leverage
specific needs of the Corporates serving customers across 216 cities advanced analytics and AI-driven
and is on track to reach 800+ locations recommendations to provide
· Being the Banker of choice to MNCs by the end of this financial year. We are differentiated wealth solutions across
with the goal of becoming the largest also investing in our people through all customer segments. The digital
bank to multinationals in India intensive training to develop the right platform will focus on agile, unassisted
knowledge capital and service skillsets journeys and mass personalisation
to provide consistent quality of service to cater to customers across the
across these locations. country. The goal is to deliver a
highly personalised experience that
Our dedicated service team for Wealth democratises wealth management
Clients ensures delivery of our 'Service and makes it accessible for all our
First' philosophy. The bank has customers.
adopted Annual Recurring Revenue
Wealth strategy
Technology Customer Knowledge Service first
leverage centricity capital culture
New Wealth App Open Architecture Expansion to Dedicated
with advanced for all Investment B30 locations Service Team
analytics and Products & through hiring and Robust
robust execution Robust Processes and relationship Review Process
platform to safeguard team skill to fulfill all client
customer’s interests building through needs
training
40
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
· Omni-channel: We are using our · Our investment in advanced analytics
Omni-channel forte consisting of engine ‘Spark Beyond’ tests millions
website, Net and MobileBanking, of hypotheses and builds multiple
Digital Marketing notifications, SMS, Email, WhatsApp models in minutes with the aim to
and social media to deliver the understand customer needs, have
Our digital marketing strategy is to business portfolio objectives. We meaningful customer interactions and
create awareness about our brand, are developing segmented and build customer relationships. 'Spark
build brand loyalty for our financial personalised communication based Beyond' impacts all channels of the
solutions and services through a deep on highly advanced AI/ML models. Bank, bringing higher productivity for
understanding of customer behaviour manned channels and increase of
and preferences. Digital marketing · Advanced analytics and data business in unassisted channels.
for us entails providing frictionless science: Investments in Cloud-
customer journeys and addressing related advanced analytics tools · PODs: To support end-to-end
customer requirements with the right enable deep understanding of outcomes like un-assisted business
product, at the right time, in their most customer behaviour, and their generation digitally, we work in multi-
preferred channel of communication preferences to curate personalised disciplinary and cross-functional
and with high levels of personalisation. interventions, at scale and to create teams called PODs. These PODs
One of the key outcomes expected relevant customer engagement. solve business problems through
from this strategy is contribution Through technology and digitisation, a lens of data-backed root-cause
to direct business generation. Our we are executing digital marketing analyses and hypotheses.
website has seen growth in customer plans at scale and in tandem with · Stimulating customer advocacy:
visits in both tier and non-tier cites the traditional marketing channels We identify and address grievances
evidencing increase in our reach and to provide our customers quick across customer digital journeys and
recall. and easy access to all our financial products to earn customer trust and
solutions. We have revamped our
We are executing our strategy through digital journeys for loans, deposits create brand advocates using online
our omni-channel presence, advanced and payment solutions which allow reputation management, ratings,
analytics, data science, working in our customers to purchase products reviews, and testimonials.
cross functional teams and through in a few clicks in a frictionless
customer advocacy. manner.
Internal and Multidisciplinary cross
external channels functional teams (PODs)
Digital
Marketing
execution
Advanced analytics Stimulating
and data science customer advocacy
41
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
External Environment
Key external drivers and
our response
Just as the global economy prepared to The Indian banking sector, supported by regulatory and
leave behind the pangs of the pandemic Government interventions, has remained resilient and
sufficiently capitalised. Measures such as moratorium on
(despite uncertainties associated with
payment of loan instalments and restructuring of loans,
subsequent waves and rising inflationary
among others, alleviated the stress while helping banks
pressures), the Russia-Ukraine conflict to continue lending to productive sectors. The pandemic
escalated. The consequent imposition has accelerated the technology-led transformation in the
financial services space, with new customised products and
of sanctions on Russia kept the global
services being delivered using digital technologies. However,
economy and financial system on
it has also elevated the risks related to data privacy and
tenterhooks. Further, China’s slowdown, cyber security which need to be mitigated on an ongoing
Sri Lanka’s crisis and other geopolitical basis.
issues continue to weigh on the economic
recovery, clouding India’s near-term
growth outlook as well.
42
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Global economic growth 5.3% in 2021 and the UK economy is Our response
estimated to grow at 3.7% in 2022 vs.
set to moderate
7.4% in 2021. While Russia is expected We undertake topical stress testing
The protracted Russia-Ukraine to record a negative output growth, based on prevailing geopolitical/
conflict, Sri Lanka’s sovereign default China is expected to grow at 4.4% vs. macroeconomic/sectoral and other
and structural slowdown in China 8.1% in 2021. trends. One such topical stress
analysis was conducted to estimate
are weighing heavily on the global In India, export growth may see a the impact – direct and indirect –
economic recovery. Inflationary moderation post a good performance of the Russia-Ukraine conflict on
pressures have increased, as supply last year. Inflation is expected to remain our portfolio. We do not see any
chains remain in disarray and trade high due to rising input costs, lingering significant risk, based on the current
sanctions on Russia push up energy supply disruptions and elevated energy information available. We, as part of
prices. While Brent crude oil is prices. The recent rate hikes by the our continuous and robust country
hovering above $120/bbl, natural gas RBI may put upward pressure on risk monitoring, have proactively
price has risen by more than 50% interest cost and weigh on investments taken steps to limit our exposure
since March 2022. In response, many and consumption. Additionally, global to Sri Lanka. Nonetheless, we are
central banks including the US Federal liquidity withdrawal presents a risk for closely monitoring the overall situation
Reserve, have tightened their monetary foreign capital flows. In India, GDP both at the global and India level and
policy. Against such a backdrop, the growth is estimated at 7.3% in FY23 are modifying our course of action
IMF expects global GDP growth to vs. 8.7% in FY22, with risks tilted to accordingly.
moderate to 3.6% in 2022 from 6.1% the downside. Encouragingly, despite
in 2021. Among advanced economies, the slowdown, in FY23, India is likely
the US is expected to grow at 3.7% to perform better than its Emerging
(vs. 5.7% in 2021), while Euro area Market peers. While zero COVID-19
growth is estimated to halve from policy and related lock downs are
likely to drag down China's economy,
3.7 developing European countries (like
%
Poland) are likely to suffer due to the
EXPECTED GLOBAL GROWTH IN 2022 ongoing war.
Government and Our response
regulatory interventions
MSMEs are considered an important to over 0.78 Lakh customers under
During the two waves of COVID-19, economic growth engine and are various ECLGS schemes. This swift
the RBI announced Resolution one of the largest employers in the support enabled our customers to run
Frameworks (RF) 1.0 and 2.0 to country. The Bank’s Assets in the their operations smoothly while fulfilling
provide relief to borrowers and lending MSMEs segment stood at H3,13,919.49 their financial obligations.
institutions. While the restructuring Crore as on March 31, 2022. Its Micro
of large borrower accounts under RF Enterprises Assets alone stood at
1.0 could be invoked by December H1,12,564.77 Crore. We continued
31, 2020 and implemented within 180 to extend support to our customers
days from the date of invocation, they through ECLGS and ECLGS extension
have time till September 30, 2022 to schemes and also provided ad-hoc
achieve the operational parameters. enhancements as needed. Your Bank H 3,13,919.49
Cr
On the other hand, resolutions under emerged as a star performer under
RF 2.0 for individuals, small businesses the ECLGS 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 and ECLGS ASSETS IN THE MSMEs SEGMENT
and MSMEs could be invoked before extension schemes. We disbursed AS ON MARCH 31, 2022
September 30, 2021 and the resolution loans amounting to H17,100.89 Crore
plan had to be implemented within 90
days from the date of invocation.
43
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
External Environment
Climate change
Our response
and ESG
We have a comprehensive ESG Evaluation of environmental and social
Climate change has emerged as an framework to address and mitigate risks is an integral part of our overall
overarching concern, enveloping all climate-related and other ESG risks. credit appraisal and approval process.
aspects of humanity. It consists of a robust governance Large industrial/infrastructure projects
structure that ensures oversight that require long-term financing
Naturally, this concerns the financial over ESG matters at the highest (greater than H100 Million and longer
sector too. With the disruptive impact of level. We have made progress on than 5 years) are covered under our
climate-related events already evident, energy consumption, emissions Social & Environment Monitoring
there is a worldwide movement to embed and tree plantation initiatives System (SEMS). SEMS necessitates an
sustainability practices in business and aim to stay the course in assessment of Environmental, Health,
operations across Environmental, Social the coming years. In FY22, we Social and Safety risks in addition
and Governance (ESG) aspects. The pledged to become carbon neutral to other risks as part of the overall
financial services industry is expected to by FY32 and are putting in place credit appraisal process. Further,
factor ESG and climate-related physical an implementation framework to we continue to invest in renewable
and transition risks in decision-making. achieve carbon neutrality. We are energy and energy efficiency projects
Further, India reiterated its commitment also in the process of adopting to lower our carbon footprint. We also
to climate action at the United Climate a broad range of technological encourage customers to make ‘green
Change Conference (COP26) in solutions and operational measures banking’ choices.
November 2021 at Glasgow. In line with to reduce energy consumption at
this, the RBI published a statement to our operating locations.
support the greening of India’s financial
system. This may significantly impact the
policies and processes of the financial
services industry.
Data privacy and
Our response
cyber security
We have a dedicated Information We have stringent policies and
The exponential growth of digitisation Security Group headed by the Chief processes in place to ensure
and technological transformation Information Security Officer and information and cyber security.
in financial services has escalated an Information Security Committee We undertake routine vulnerability
cyber security risk and data privacy chaired by the Chief Risk Officer for assessments that include patch
concerns. There is a growing exercising governance over these management, penetration testing and
regulatory focus on safe practices and matters. We have devised and network security processes to ensure
stringent polices within organisations implemented data privacy policies a robust system and IT infrastructure.
to ensure that customer interest is with respect to customer data which
We have implemented 24x7
safeguarded. With the advent of open includes usage of the Bank’s digital
defacement monitoring and
banking, ecosystem banking, digital platforms. We are committed towards
vulnerability management of the
payments and lending, the importance protecting privacy of our customer’s
Bank’s internet properties. This
of having a robust IT infrastructure with personal data. Our Data Privacy
minimises the surface area for cyber
resilient systems and stringent policies program provides a common set of
security attacks. Further Security
cannot be over-emphasised. requirements for processing personal
Orchestration, Automation & Response
data within Bank. Through our Privacy
(SOAR) is being used to reduce the
Information Notices, we attempt to explain in a
incident response time by connecting
transparent way how and why we
security solutions with each other and
Security Group collect, store and use personal data;
automating the incident lifecycle.
how it might be shared, and legal
FORMED TO ADDRESS ISSUES RELATED TO DATA grounds for processing personal data.
PRIVACY AND CYBER SECURITY
44
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Digital innovation in Further, the Indian fintech market is Our response
slated to grow significantly due to
financial services
large unpenetrated geographies and We are focusing on building new
The pandemic has brought about a rapid digitisation of the economy. With competencies under Digital Factory,
shift in digital technology adoption, ~6,000 fintech players, the services Enterprise Factory and Enterprise IT.
opening up many opportunities in offered are spread across investment, We are fully geared up to launch the
the financial sector. Digital lending is insurance, payments, lending, next phase of our strategic initiatives to
one such opportunity, where many and banking infrastructure. With provide seamless customer journeys. We
platforms have emerged to offer cutting-edge technology and niche are continuously innovating to provide
hassle-free loans to retail individuals, target markets, these fintechs offer differentiated customer offerings. Through
small traders and other borrowers. customised and user-friendly services digitisation we are offering solutions
Many large multinational corporations that appeal to the growing tech- to enable ease of business across our
whose primary business is technology savvy customer base. The regulatory diverse customer base. We are focusing
(e-commerce, social media, payments environment is providing the necessary on end to end digital journeys with
enablers, etc.), popularly known as impetus with initiatives such as the omni channel touchpoints designed
BigTechs, have started lending either e-RUPI, a person and purpose-specific around the needs of our customers. We
directly or in partnership with regulated digital payment solution launched in launched ‘Xpress Car Loans’ – our new
financial entities. August 2021. In the Union budget of car loan journey for existing customers
2022-23, India has announced plans as well as non-customers, resulting in
for a Central Bank Digital Currency loan initiation to disbursal in less than
(CBDC). Additionally, open banking 30 mins. We are fostering innovation
trends and a spurt in the number of with strategic partnerships with multiple
~6,000
off-the-shelf APIs available for banks cutting edge startups, Fintechs and
and third-party apps to build upon is BigTechs to increase the breadth of such
FINTECH PLAYERS OFFERING SERVICES ACROSS changing the dynamics of financial holistic offerings. Benefits such as an
INVESTMENTS, INSURANCE, PAYMENTS, LENDING
AND BANKING INFRASTRUCTURE services industry. enhanced digital customer experience,
more intuitive user interfaces and neo
tech stacks are pivotal enablers in our
partnership journeys. This has recently
been demonstrated through the roll out
of our Smart Hub Vyapar offering for
merchant ecosystems and our revamped
Customer Experience Hub, an AI/ML
Powered Omni Customer Experience
Transformation program. Our core
technology transformation program is
continually strengthened with new age
technology advancements being built into
our roadmap including our Cloudification,
API, Automation and App modernization
journeys.
45
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Risk Management
Robust and stress-
tested framework
Our robust Risk Management framework and the independence of
our risk management function set us apart as a responsible banker.
It enables the execution of our strategic priorities without taking on
undue financial and non-financial risks. Our risk policies and processes
and their effective implementation through technology and governance
enabled us to endure and even grow in these highly uncertain and
disruptive times. Stress testing is one of the key risk management tools
we use to mitigate and manage the existing as well as emerging risks.
HDFC Bank’s Risk Management Framework
Governance
Board of Directors
Board Committees
Management Committees
Frameworks
Risk Appetite
Risk Policies, Procedures and Systems
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
Internal Audit
Compliance Process and Stress Testing
Assessment Control Reporting
Risk Identification Risk Limits Risk MIS &
Measurement Monitoring Actions
Approval as Mitigation
applicable
46
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Risk Governance a material adverse impact on our Russia-Ukraine conflict
business/financial position/capital
Our Board of Directors is responsible adequacy. We analysed both direct and indirect
for managing comprehensive impact of the conflict on our portfolio.
risks. The Risk Policy & Monitoring Risk exposures are regularly captured The situation remains fluid globally, and
Committee (RPMC), constituted by the and reported to the relevant levels there is uncertainty regarding the final
Board, oversees the implementation of management for initiation of outcome from a geopolitical as well as
of our risk strategy. The RPMC guides appropriate mitigation measures. We a financial market standpoint. Stress
the development of our policies, also continuously evaluate the efficacy testing of our portfolio considering the
procedures and systems and evaluates of existing risk model assumptions and current information did not indicate any
their adequacy and appropriateness to parameters and refine the models to significant risk. We continue to closely
the changing business conditions, as keep up with the changing times. monitor the situation, to pre-empt and
well as our risk appetite. We have an Internal Audit Department manage the risk and its outcomes.
The Chief Risk Officer (CRO) heads the which is responsible for independently Sri Lanka’s sovereign default
independent Risk Management Group evaluating the adequacy and With continuous and robust monitoring
(RMG). The CRO interacts regularly effectiveness of all internal controls, of country risk exposures and stress
with the members of the RPMC. risk management, governance systems testing, we have proactively taken
The RMG is primarily responsible and processes. steps to limit our exposure to Sri
for implementing the risk strategy We have separated the Risk, Audit Lanka. Although the impact of the
approved by the Board, and and Compliance functions from the default is unlikely to be material for the
developing policies, procedures and Business functions to create a strong Bank, we are keeping a close eye on
systems for identifying, measuring, culture of checks and balances and the situation.
monitoring, assessing and managing to eliminate any possible conflict of
risks. interest between revenue generation, Increasing focus on non-
and risk management and control. financial risks
Risk frameworks and their
implementation Key risk management We believe a lot more can be done
in the area of researching, analysing,
initiatives
The nature of our business and monitoring and mitigating non-
business activities, along with the Evolving stress testing scenarios financial risks such as operational,
regulatory environment and external technology and reputation, among
environment at large, exposes us In addition to the existing suite of others. Accordingly, we are elevating
to several types of risks. For us, the standard stress scenarios, we are deliberations of non-financial risks
keys risks are credit risk, market risk, conducting stress testing based on in the RPMC/Board. We are also in
liquidity risk, operational risk, cyber topical themes driven by prevailing the process of enhancing policies,
security and data risk. Our operations trends such as geopolitical/ procedures and risk assessment
expose us to compliance and macroeconomic/sectoral, among framework for such non-financial risks.
reputation risk. We are also exposed others. These stress tests are
to ESG risks. We have put in place an conducted focusing on specific areas Leveraging technology
aggregate risk appetite framework. In of portfolio and the results act as
addition, the appetites for individual early warning alerts/signals for taking In line with our technology
risk types are operationalised through actions, if any. Some of the topical transformation agenda, we are also
risk-specific policies, limits and themes relevant for the present times automating our risk management
triggers. include the evolving geopolitical turmoil processes. We believe it will increase
in Europe due to the Russia-Ukraine efficiencies, enhance accuracy of
We also have a structured conflict, commodity price shocks, and information, and enable maintenance
management framework in the Internal possible shift in key macroeconomic of adequate audit trail for reviews.
Capital Adequacy Assessment
variables in the medium term.
Process (ICAAP) to identify, assess
and manage all risks that may have
47
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Risk Management
Credit Risk
The risk which arises from default by borrowers in their our target defined market, credit approval process, post-
terms of contract with the Bank, especially failure to make disbursement monitoring and remedial management
payments or repayments. procedures.
Mitigation Strategies
An independent Credit Group headed by Chief Credit Maintaining healthy asset quality with optimal risk-reward
officer oversees the underwriting functions and approvals considerations.
across retail and wholesale credit functions. It ensures that
the credit underwriting and portfolio management policies Capitals Impacted
are aligned with the Board approved credit appetite. There
are robust policies and processes for managing credit risk
in both retail and wholesale businesses, mainly through
Market Risk
The risk of potential loss on account of adverse changes caps the risk at trading desk level and also at securities
in market variables which affect the value of financial level, through trading risk limits in line with the Bank’s risk
instruments held by the Bank. appetite.
These instruments are primarily held for trading or for The market risk is also evaluated at portfolio level and
management of statutory reserves. controls are implemented to mitigate the risk.
Examples of such market instruments are debt securities,
Strategies
equities, foreign exchange and derivative instruments.
Optimising profitability of mark-to-market products within the
Mitigation constraints of liquidity and market risk appetite of the Bank.
A well-defined Board approved Market Risk Policy,
Capitals Impacted
Investment Policy, Foreign Exchange Trading Policy and
Derivatives Policy along with robust control activities
Compliance Risk
The risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, as a result of Enhancing the compliance culture within the
failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and organisation through an intricate and comprehensive
standards. internal control framework along with other measures.
Mitigation Strategies
Comprehensive Board-approved Compliance policy in Strengthening our Compliance checks and balances
place which is reviewed on an annual basis. and ensuring businesses work within the contours of
regulation.
The Compliance function tracks and reviews
compliance with regulatory guidelines.
Capitals Impacted
48
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Operational Risk
Operational risk arises from inadequate or failed internal Strategies
processes, people and systems or from external events.
Minimising operational losses through risk mitigation
It includes risk of loss due to legal risk.
mechanisms.
Mitigation
Capitals Impacted
A Board-approved governance structure is in place with
detailed framework and processes for managing operational
risk. Under the framework, the Bank has three lines of
defence namely business line (including support and
operations), An independent Operational Risk Management
Department (ORMD) and Internal Audit to manage, monitor
and mitigate Operational risks.
Climate Risk
At a broader level, risks from climate change are in addition to other risks as part of the overall credit
typically divided into: appraisal process. We also track and externally verify
our carbon emissions to effectively manage and
· Physical risks
reduce our footprint.
Economic losses (physical damage to property and
assets) from extreme weather events (flood, cyclone,
Strategies
etc). due to climate change.
We are exploring frameworks to model and assess
· Transition risks
climate risk. We also continue our endeavour to
– The possible process of adjustment to a low carbon
acquire granular data, further corroborated by BRSR
economy and its possible effects on the value of
data (from FY23 onwards), and test tools for climate
financial assets and liabilities.
risk assessment and conducting scenario analysis. We
are also exploring options to tie-up with data providers.
Mitigation
On the emissions front, we have set ourselves specific
An ESG policy framework has been formulated to
targets towards reduction of our GHG emissions.
address this risk.
Evaluation of environmental and social risk is an Capitals Impacted
integral part of our overall credit appraisal and approval
process. Long-term financing proposals for large
industrial/infrastructure projects (greater than `100
million and tenor above 5 years) are evaluated through
the SEMS framework, which requires an assessment
of Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety risks
Financial Human Intellectual Social & Manufactured Natural
Capital Capital Capital Relationship Capital Capital
Capital
49
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Risk Management
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank may not be able Strategies
to meet its financial obligations as they fall due, without
· To maintain healthy liquidity as evidenced in Liquidity
incurring unacceptable losses.
Coverage Ratio (LCR)/Net Stability Funding Ratio
(NSFR) in line with our Balance sheet size to tide over
Mitigation
any unforeseen stress scenarios.
The Bank's framework for liquidity and interest rate
· Maintaining competitive cost of funds.
risk management is spelled out in our Asset Liability-
Management policy. Further, a robust mechanism to
Capitals Impacted
comprehensively track cash flow mismatches under
normal as well as stressed conditions and critical ratios
including Basel III ratios has also been implemented.
The Bank has an extensive intraday liquidity risk
management framework for monitoring intraday
positions during the day.
Reputation Risk
Any adverse stakeholder and public perception about our Strategies
Bank may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain
customers and may expose us to litigation and regulatory · Delivering superior and seamless customer experience.
actions. · Wide range of products and services.
Mitigation Capitals Impacted
We communicate with our stakeholders regularly through
appropriate engagement mechanisms to address
stakeholder expectations and assuage their concerns, if any.
The Bank has identified reputation risk to be a material risk
in its ICAAP Policy and an assessment framework has been
established to monitor the level of reputation risk.
50
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Information Technology Risk
Risks associated with the use, ownership, operation, Strategies
involvement, influence, and adoption of IT within an
Ensure alignment of Business and IT Strategies to
enterprise, as well as business disruption due to
provide services and superior customer experience.
technological failures.
Making extensive progress on some of the key
Mitigation initiatives that are part of our technology transformation
agenda. The key initiatives are Infrastructure stability,
There are well defined policies, frameworks,
Disaster Recovery Resiliency, Security enhancements
procedures, templates, and risk assessment
and monitoring mechanisms.
methodology for IT risk management.
The framework enables risk assessment of IT Capitals Impacted
solutions, entities providing IT and related services and
new technology and digital implementation.
Cyber Security and Data Risk
Risk of cyber-attacks on the Bank’s systems through Strategies
hacking, phishing, ransomware and other means, resulting
in disruption of our services or theft or leak of sensitive Facilitating bank’s growth via secure Digital 2.0 –
internal data or customer information. implemented through Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud
technology.
Mitigation
Adapting and updating Cyber Defence framework, using AI/
Each cyber security threat including data privacy issue is ML to further augment cyber defence capabilities to counter
assessed basis the framework - Identify, Prevent/Protect, new-age threats.
Detect, Respond and Recover. Further controls such as Increase information security awareness among employees
firewalls, anti-malware, anti-advance persistent threats, and customers through specific programmes and
data loss prevention, Red Teaming, Intrusion prevention/ communications.
detection, digital rights management, 24*7 security
operation centre, and forensics solutions, have been put in Sustaining operational effectiveness and efficiency through
place. secure Work from Home.
The international ‘General Data Protection Regulation Capitals Impacted
(GDPR)’ has also been implemented across relevant
operations. The Bank is compliant with ISO 27001 and PCI
DSS standards.
Financial Human Intellectual Social & Manufactured Natural
Capital Capital Capital Relationship Capital Capital
Capital
51
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Continuity Management,
Information & Cyber Security Practices
Ensuring uninterrupted
operations amid rapid change
The world is rapidly evolving. The pandemic demonstrated the
need for complex operations involving multiple stakeholders to be
managed remotely and digitally. At HDFC Bank, we have a well-
defined Business Continuity Plan (BCP) in place, to ensure the
reliability and continuity of operations.
52
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Our BCP is based on regulatory guidelines, ISO22301:2019 certified, and is subject to regular reviews. We have a
Business Continuity Policy and Procedure with clearly defined roles and responsibility.
Business Continuity – Scope & Governance Framework
Approach towards emergency, disaster & crisis BCP: Governance Scope of BCP
management and management
Our central Business
Continuity Office works
Business continuity towards strengthening Retail Branch Banking
the business
Manage continuity of critical business operations and
continuity preparedness
accelerated resumption of services after a disaster
PhoneBanking
BCP is managed by the
Information Security
Emergency response
Group and governed by
Payments Business &
Deal with site-level emergency at an office or a branch the Business Continuity
DBC Risk Control
involving life safety issues like fire, bomb threats, and so on Steering Committee
This committee is
Retail Portfolio
chaired by the Chief Risk
Management -
Officer (CRO)
IT disaster recovery Credit Cards
Recover critical business applications during hardware/
network/power failure The committee’s other
representatives are Wholesale
selected from the senior Banking Operations
management team
Pandemic response Retail
Facilitate an organised and speedy response to any pandemic Banking Operations
situation that threatens the safety of the Bank’s employees
and/or disrupts the Bank’s critical business functions
Treasury Operations
Crisis management
Tackle bank-wide disasters such as pandemic, terrorist
attacks, ransomware attacks, fire, cyclone, earthquake, city-
level floods, cyber-attacks and data centre outages, among
others
53
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Continuity Management, Information
& Cyber Security Practices
Robust information and cyber security practices for an uninterrupted
march towards rapid digitisation
Governance over Data The committee comprises majorly of · Responding promptly to information
independent directors and includes an security incidents and policy
As a responsible banker cyber security,
external information technology expert. violations/exceptions in accordance
and data privacy are of paramount
with organisational policy
importance to us. To manage these
Information Security Committee
risks, we have constituted an IT · Determining whether the actions
Strategy Committee, Information This Committee is chaired by the CRO taken to resolve an incident were
Security Committee in addition to (Chief Risk Officer) and is responsible effective and whether corrective
the Information Security Group with to assess, accept and sponsor actions are required, and
specific roles and responsibilities. We company-wide security investments. documenting lessons learnt
also have in place a cybersecurity It provides a forum to discuss
framework and an information security information security risks and acts as Key measures undertaken by
programme. We undertake stringent a custodian for the enterprise security us, to mitigate information
processes and measures such as programme. The committee meets security related risks are:
vulnerability management processes on a quarterly basis with participation
that actively scan for security threats, from IT, Business Operations, Audit, Antivirus/Malware Programme
logging and monitoring procedures and the Information Security Group.
We have implemented a programme
to deal with network intrusions and
to prevent, detect and react to
incidents. There were no incidents of Information Security Programme
the introduction of malicious code
data breaches In FY22.
This programme is based on regulatory through sources such as computer
We adhere to the ‘Code of Bank’s requirements (RBI Gopalakrishnan viruses, worms, and Trojans. We use a
Commitment to Customers’ as committee report) and industry combination of commercially available
prescribed by the Banking Codes standards (ISO 27001:2013 and NIST and proprietary tools and monitoring
and Standards Board of India 800-53). Our cybersecurity framework systems to mitigate the risks
(BCSBI) and Employee and Customer consists of components such as associated with malware. The antivirus
Awareness Procedures, to ensure Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, signatures are updated more than
customer privacy and are guided by and Recover which remind us of how once per day to stay current and cover
our Information Security Policy and important it is to balance proactive workstations, servers, email gateways,
Cyber Security Policy, which is at par safeguards while preparing for worst- web gateways.
with global standards in information case scenarios.
security. Network Security
Key objectives of the programme include:
Further we have an independent The Bank uses a combination of
· Documenting, disseminating,
assurance team within Internal firewalls and proxy servers to separate
operating, and reviewing information
Audit which provides assurance and control traffic between networks
security policies, and procedures
on the management of information with different security requirements
technology-related risks. · Monitoring cyber security threats and levels of trust. The Bank has
and reviewing the risk profile across intrusion detection/prevention
IT Strategy Committee all critical assets, infrastructure capabilities in place to detect and react
components and business units/ to known attacks in real time. IDS/IPS
This committee looks into various
departments signatures are updated periodically to
technology related aspects. The
update detections for specific threats,
functions of the Committee are to · Providing transparency into the
intruder profiles, and attack patterns.
formulate IT strategy and related policy information security programme
These tools are configured to generate
documents, ensure that IT strategy and associated controls to senior
alerts when predefined thresholds are
is aligned with business strategy. management including board
exceeded.
54
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Vulnerability management and updates, to document procedures network intrusions and incidents. User
for patching and updating servers, actions, system activity and changes
The Bank administrates a vulnerability
and to deploy patches and updates in to the infrastructure are logged. Logs
management process that actively
a timely manner to protect the Bank’s are stored securely and are protected
scans for security threats. The
infrastructure. against modification, deletion, and
vulnerability management team
inappropriate access. The relative
is responsible for tracking and
Penetration testing risk level of the asset and alerts are
following up on vulnerabilities. Once a
generated in the event of audit log
vulnerability requiring remediation has To test for potential vulnerabilities,
failures. Monitoring tools aggregate the
been identified, it is logged, prioritised penetration tests are conducted for all
log files and suspicious activity events
according to severity, and assigned an critical networks and systems within
are automatically reported to the SOC
owner. The vulnerability management the Bank’s internal environment and
(Security Operations Centre) team.
team tracks such issues and follows for external applications. Penetration
The SOC team performs the following
up frequently until they can verify that tests are triggered based on several
steps:
the issues have been remediated. events, including new releases,
updates, or enhancements. The types · Analysis and Incident Detection –
Patch management of penetration tests that are conducted The SOC team collects information
include Network/Host Penetration from the system generated event as
The Bank has patch management
Testing and Application Penetration well as other information sources to
processes and tools to assess
Testing. identify a potential incident
and deploy operating system and
application specific patches and · Event Tracking and Escalation –
Logging and monitoring
updates. This process includes steps Events are assessed based on the
to evaluate vendor supplied patches to The Bank has a logging and monitoring level of risk and escalated based
determine servers that require patches procedure in place to deal with on guidance from the Incident
Management policy; escalations
include referral to the CIRT for in-
depth analysis and forensics and
management for situation awareness
· Reporting – The CSOC team
periodically reports on events and
incidents to management
55
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Environment
Greening the value chain
Natural Capital
Climate change is one of the
most pertinent issues of our
times. At HDFC Bank, we are
Strengthening GHG
continuously transforming our data collection and
operations to achieve low- management
carbon growth. We have set
a target to achieve carbon
neutrality for our Scope 1 and
Our three-pronged
Scope 2 emissions by FY32
environmental
and are formalising a roadmap response
covering phased emission and
energy reduction targets.
Reducing Responsible
emissions within Financing
our operations
56
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Governance
Our neutrality, absolute emission
Our Board-governed environmental policy serves
and intensity targets
as a framework to understand and manage our
environmental risks, impacts and opportunities.
Our Board of Directors sets courses and evaluates 32 50
% %
our performance on social and environmental
responsibility. We are continuously working to
CARBON NEUTRAL* BY FY25 CARBON NEUTRAL* BY FY28
incorporate environmentally responsible practices
in our own operations, through our vendors, as well
as through responsible financing. No cases of non- 100 23
% %
compliance with environmental laws and regulations
were identified during the year. We track our GHG
CARBON NEUTRAL* BY FY32 REDUCTION IN ENERGY
emissions and transparently report our environmental INTENSITY (GJ/FTE) BY FY25#
performance annually.
Metrics and targets 9 34
% %
We monitor KPIs for all major environmental
REDUCTION IN ABSOLUTE SCOPE REDUCTION IN SCOPE 1 + 2
indicators and initiatives covering energy, GHG 1 AND SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS BY EMISSIONS INTENSITY (tCO/
2
FY25#** (EXCLUDING OFFSETS) FTE) (EXCLUDING OFFSETS)
emissions, water and waste for all our operations and
BY FY25
aim to minimise the environmental impact thereof.
We report on climate-related disclosures through the
Carbon Disclosure Project and our TCFD disclosures,
Develop a
which are included in this report. Towards this end,
the Bank is formalising a roadmap to guide its journey
roadmap
towards carbon neutrality. The roadmap consists of
phased emission and energy reduction targets. More
FOR ENHANCING THE QUALITY OF DATA
details on this can be found in subsequent chapters.
FOR CALCULATION OF EMISSIONS.
Notes:
#Base year for targets for energy and emissions: FY22.
*‘Carbon Neutral’ targets include the use of offsets and reflect
neutrality over projected emissions in the corresponding year.
**Including both demand & supply measures
Our Scope 1 emissions includes emissions from fuel consumption
in own vehicles and DG sets. Scope 2 emissions include emissions
due to purchased electricity.
Energy consumption as discussed in this report includes energy
consumed by the Bank within its operations – including electricity,
and fuel consumed in DG sets at locations where it has operational
control as well as its co-located data centres and company vehicles.
All targets are based on accelerated emission reduction scenario
used in our integrated carbon neutrality roadmap.
57
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Environment
Initiatives to reduce environmental footprint
We are working to align our business operations with socially and environmentally responsible practices.
We are incorporating both technological as well as process solutions in our day to day operations in
order to add value to the quality of environment.
Digital Banking Initiatives GHG Sequestration
Saved about 2.1 Million square feet of Transparent disclosures
paper through our ‘green event’ initiative Our internal of GHG emissions (third-party
initiatives to assured)
Implementation of digital banking
reduce our
initiatives like Phone banking, Mobile 17.69 Lakh+ trees planted so far
climate change
banking, Net Banking, ATM banking,
and ESG risks Target to plant 25 Lakh+ trees
Mobile wallet
by FY25
Energy Reduction Initiatives Renewable Energy Initiatives
Committed to have Our Bangalore data Install solar panels in our upcoming
only LED lights in all centre “NetMagic DC38” office buildings wherever feasible
our buildings is certified green data
centre under the IGBC Use offsite renewable energy and
Installation of inverter ACs green tariff from utility
and use of LED lights Implemented energy
management system
Several changes within our
(EnMs) across 600
infrastructure assets have
branches. EnMs to
been incorporated to improve
be scaled to 1,500
energy efficiency
additional branches
IGBC certification of
buildings and interiors
of branches
GHG emissions and climate change
At HDFC Bank, we have put in place an integrated strategy completeness of our Scope 2 emissions from already
for managing our scope 1 and scope 2 emissions (refer identified source categories, but also included our co-
page 69 and 70). As we had surpassed our previously set located data centres as a source category for our scope 2
targets, we have taken on new targets with FY22 as base emissions. Similarly, we have added a new source category
year. Our emission sources included in our base year GHG for our Scope 3 emissions – emissions on account of
inventory demonstrates an enhancement of our ambitions electricity consumption at our other facilities.
and transparency goals. Not only have we ensured the
58
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Enhancements to our emissions boundary and scope
Enhancing the boundary
Co-located data centres included in the boundary for Scope 2 emissions
of Scope 2 emissions
Ensuring completeness Captive and Offsite ATMs (previously excluded due to non-availability
of Scope 2 emissions of monitored activity data) are now included on the basis of emission
boundary estimation methodologies
Realignment of Scope Emissions on account of diesel consumption in diesel generator sets are now
categories for diesel use accounted for under Scope 1, instead of Scope 2
emissions in gensets
Enhancing the boundary We are now including facilities other than those owned & operated by the
of Scope 3 emissions Bank as a separate category in our scope 3 emissions
As a result of the enhanced boundary and scope, our total Thus, overall, there is a net reduction in GHG emissions in
GHG emissions for FY22 increased 11% y-o-y by 36,100 FY22 considering only the sources that were included in
tCOe, of which 92% (33,136 tCOe) is attributed to the FY21 reporting. As a result, the share of Scope 1 and Scope
2 2
addition of a new source category. Another 3 in our total emissions profile increased to 6% and 12%,
12,728 tCOe was added to the inventory on account of respectively. Scope 2 emissions maintained 82% share in
2
electricity consumption from our co-located data centres. our total emissions.
TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (tCOe) GHG EMISSIONS FY22
2
(351,241 tCOe)
2
351,241 6%
FY22 12%
315,141
FY21
414,250
Scope 1
FY20
Scope 2
Scope 1 Scope 3
Scope 2
Scope 3
82%
59
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Environment
Our Scope 1 emission increased collectively consumed about 50% of
from 5,826 tCOe in FY21 to 20,877 electrical energy. SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS (tCO 2 e)
2
tCOe in FY22, primarily on account
2 For remaining locations, we track the
of inclusion of emissions from 8,534 12,343
cost of electricity consumed through
diesel consumption in generators – FY22
our robust financial management 5,826
which were previously included in
system and use the same to derive FY21
Scope 2. This is because we have 7,649
estimates of electricity consumed
actual/ perceived control on the fuel FY20
using the most conservative tariff
consumed at a significant number of
for commercial slabs at the state Company-owned Vehicles
our branches and office locations.
level. There are some of our smaller Diesel
Fuel consumption in company-owned
locations like ATMs for which we
vehicles account for about 41% of
are in the process of establishing SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS (tCO)
our Scope 1 emissions while diesel 2
systems to collect activity data. For
consumption in diesel generators
such locations, we are estimating
account for the remaining 59%. 287,667
electrical energy consumption based
FY22
Our Scope 2 emissions decreased by on a methodology that takes into 9,570 290,571
12,474 tCOe in FY22 over FY21, of this account the climatic zone in which FY21
2 15,884 374,292
9,570 tCOe was on account of shifting such locations are based, and energy
2 FY20
emissions from diesel generators to consumption benchmarks derived
Scope 1. Emissions on account of from data on actual electrical energy Diesel
purchased electricity decreased by consumption collected by us in similar Electricity
2,904 tCO e, despite the inclusion locations. Although electrical energy
2
of our co-located data centres and consumption at such ATMs is only
ELECTRICITY EMISSIONS
an increase in the number of other about 4% of our total electrical energy
(287,667 tCOe)
locations in Scope 2 inventory. consumption, we are progressively 2
enhancing our systems to capture
We are committed to collaborating with 7%
actual activity data on electrical energy
our data centre service providers to
consumption for all locations.
reduce the GHG footprint of our owned
and co-located data centres. Currently, In FY22, our Scope 3 emissions
data centres contribute 7% of our increased significantly over FY21,
Scope 2 emissions. This year, we primarily on account of inclusion
also enhanced our approach towards of emissions due to electricity
calculation of Scope 2 emissions. consumption at other facilities. 93%
We have stepped up our efforts to These emissions now account for
collect actual electricity consumption 78% of our total Scope 3 emissions.
Data Centres
data for estimating corresponding The remaining 22% of our Scope 3
Other locations (offices,
GHG emissions. In doing so, we emissions are split between emissions branches, ATMs etc.)
are prioritising high-consumption due to hired cabs (13%), air and rail
locations. In FY22, we collected actual travel (2%), paper waste (7%), and
kWh data on electricity consumed e-waste (<1%).
from 46% of our locations – which We have expanded the
reporting boundary for
our Scope 2 emissions.
This year onwards,
we will be including
emissions relating to use
of purchased electricity
at our co-located data
centres in our Scope 2
emissions.
60
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS (tCOe) Emission Scope Emission Source Emissions
2
(tCO e)
2
5,600 951 3,006 33,136 Scope 1 Company-owned Vehicles 8,534
FY22 Diesel consumption in DG sets 12,343
6,020 193 2,960 Scope 2 Purchased electricity 287,667
FY21
Scope 3 Purchased electricity in other facilities 33,136
6,497 6,374 3,548
FY20 Cab Hire 5,600
Cab Hire Air Travel Air Travel 950
Paper Waste E-waste Rail Travel 2
Other facilities Paper Waste 3,006
Graph not to scale
E-waste 4
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS
Notes:
(42,697 tCO 2 e) Scope 1 emissions includes CO 2 , N 2 O and CH 4 emissions from the combustion of diesel purchased
by the Bank for its various facilities, as well as combustion of various fossil fuels in Bank-owned
vehicles. For the former, diesel purchase data is extracted from the Bank’s financial management
78% system and the cost of diesel purchased is converted into liters of diesel using conservative
estimates of diesel prices in various states. For the latter source, activity data in terms of quantity
13% of fuel has been extracted from the financial management system. Emission factors and GWP from
GHG Protocol’s Cross sector tool and IPCC’s AR5 respectively have been used.
Scope 2 emissions include GHG emissions from electricity consumed in the facilities that can be
2% reasonably considered to be under the operational control of the Bank, as well as its co-located data
centres. A hierarchical approach has been followed for estimation of emissions from this category
7% (i.e. (i) monitored data on electrical energy consumption, (ii) estimates of electricity consumed based
on procurement costs and state-level tariff; and (iii) estimated electricity consumption based on
climatic-zone specific, internally derived electricity consumption benchmarks; in that order). In all
O ther facilities cases, Grid emission factor from version 17 of the CEA’s (Central Electrical Authority) CO 2 database
Cab Hire has been used.
Air & Rail Transport
Scope 3 emission estimation: Emission on account of purchased electricity at our other locations
Paper Waste
have been estimated using the same approach as in Scope 2 but includes other facilities not
E-waste
included in Scope 2 emissions. Emissions from hired cabs have been estimated based on expense
report for hired cabs from the Bank’s financial management system – which has been used to derive
the distance travelled. Average of emission factor for various categories of cars from the India GHG
programme has been used. For domestic air and rail travel, information on trip characteristics has
been extracted from the Bank’s financial management system, and the distance travelled is derived
from publicly available sources. The emissions have been calculated in accordance with the India
GHG programme. For international travel through air, the source of data remains the same, but
emission factors for different class of travel and haul categories have been derived from the GHG
protocol.
Emissions from paper and e-waste have been estimated based on emission factors provided by
the latest version of the USEPA’s WARM tool on the extracted data for paper used and e-waste
disposed.
61
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Environment
We have been monitoring our energy Energy efficiency and
performance by benchmarking it GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY
energy management
against the Bank’s income and Scope 1 + Scope 2 (tCO 2 e / ` Cr income)c
full-time employees (FTEs). During over 80% of our GHG emissions are 1.96
FY22, our Scope 1+2 GHG emissions attributed to energy consumption FY22
intensity decreased by 14% and in the form of electricity and diesel 2.09
FY21
6% y-o-y for per FTE and per Crore consumption in DG sets. We are 2.88
income, respectively. aggressively working to reduce our FY20
energy consumption across operations
Key measures to reduce
to complement our initiatives to
GHG emissions across our GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY
decarbonise. This is being achieved by
Scope 1 + Scope 2 (tCOe / FTE)
value chain 2
reducing energy consumption across
Reducing paper waste emissions: our operations by regulating existing 2.18
Our digital strategy forms the equipment, installing energy-efficient FY22
2.55
backbone of our paper waste ones, and implementing automated FY21
reduction initiatives. Our digital energy management solutions, among 3.40
products and services, along with others. Our energy management and FY20
automation of several internal as well energy efficiency strategy includes
as customer-linked processes and various initiatives.
channels, have enabled us to reduce Our digitised processes
paper waste generation. The ‘Green Energy efficient space cooling and products have helped
Event Guidelines’ rolled out by our measures: We have installed 55 customers reduce their
retail marketing team has helped save Air Handling Units (AHUs) at our frequency of visits to the
about 2.14 Million square feet of paper Kanjurmarg location and we are Bank’s branches, ATMs, and
during the reporting year. We have planning to replace all blowers to Offices - thereby reducing
also shifted to electronic payments for EC Fan by FY23, indicating potential associated emissions.
our electricity bill payments – which savings of 25-40%. Thus far, we have
helps avoid paper use for issuing converted one AHU as a trial and
about 50,000 Demand Drafts annually. saved around 4,082 kWh of electrical
Where paper use is unavoidable, we energy while avoiding 4 MT of carbon 26,000
+
are switching to recycled paper. As a emissions. We are installing inverter
result, associated emissions increased ACs in our locations that has helped tCO e/ per year
by less than 2% y-o-y in FY22, despite us save 5 Million+ kWh of electricity 2
an 18.3% increase in our customer during FY22. Additionally, we have also C TH O R 2 O SE U Q G U H E P S L T A R N A T T A IO TI N O N PO A T C E T N IV T I I T A I L E S CREATED
base. saved 54,450 kWh of electricity during
the year, through installation of VRF
Tree plantation: We are also HVAC Unit at our back offices. We use
0.13
implementing an ambitious tree digital systems and data analytics to
plantation programme, under which we understand the energy consumption
have planted over 17 Lakh trees so far. pattern, in addition to ensuring that the tCO 2 e/ per year
This programme has not only positively branches are maintained at optimal REDUCTION IN SCOPE 1+2 EMISSIONS
impacted our GHG emissions, but has temperatures, improving the power PER CR INCOME IN FY22
also helped enhance our social capital factor and automating major energy
and relationship capital. consuming assets.
0.37
Efficient data centres: Our Bangalore
data centre, ‘Netmagic-DC3B’ is a
tCO2e/ per year
certified green data centre under
REDUCTION IN SCOPE 1+2 EMISSIONS PER
the IGBC Green Data Center Rating
FTE IN FY22
System. We have implemented
several other energy-saving measures
including upgradation to efficient
62
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
cooling units, cold-aisle containment, We have LEED Gold certified offices in
replacement of old storages and Mumbai and Bhubaneswar. In addition,
TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMED
servers and with new generation new buildings in Mohali, Kolkata Palava (Million GJ)
hardware, and implementation of and Mumbai (Maharashtra) premises
1.31 0.29
Smart iPDUs. Additionally, we have are being constructed to meet IGBC
FY22
switched to R-407c refrigerant for Gold certification standards. Similarly, 1.19 0.21
INROW cooling, deployed new fire our Wanowrie back-office has FY21
1.64 0.32
suppression system with NOVEC 1230 been designed as per IGBC Green
FY20
gas, and replaced UPS batteries with standards; we have received IGBC
Li-ion batteries. Gold rating for it. All new interior work Electrical Energy
carried out during and after FY22 are Fossil Fuel Energy
being designed as per IGBC Green
IGBC Platinum
standards. So far, interior work at ENERGY INTENSITY
Certification 378 branches is being carried out as (GJ/employee)
per IGBC Green standards and one 11.28
FOR OUR DATA CENTRE IN BANGALORE
branch in Maharashtra has received FY22
Gold rating. 11.65
FY21
Building management and Green Besides, we are leveraging technology 16.77
FY20
Buildings: We have incorporated and innovation as facilitators in our
several changes within our journey towards low-carbon growth.
infrastructure to improve energy We have implemented elevator and ENERGY INTENSITY
efficiency through auto controls and equipment scheduling to reduce our (GJ/ ` Cr income)
environment-friendly equipment. We energy consumption. We have also 10.15
have installed centrally controlled installed occupancy sensors, capacitor FY22
energy management system in banks as well as Building Management 9.58
FY21
600 branches across India till date. Systems at several of our operating 14.21
This system allows us to control locations. The energy management FY20
consumption patterns, resulting in modules with auto controls deployed
a minimum of 10% saving on power across select branches have resulted
consumption. In FY22 alone, we in significant energy savings.
4.8
saved ~48.81 Lakh units. Based on +
encouraging results from this project,
we plan to expand the initiative to an Million kWh
additional 1,500 branches across ENERGY SAVED DURING FY22 ON
the country. ACCOUNT OF EnMS IMPLEMENTATION
Energy GJ
Consumption
Diesel: DG Set 165,586
Diesel: Company Cars 38,599
Petrol: Company Cars 81,417
CNG: Company Cars 9
Grid Electricity 1,310,888
63
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Environment
Renewable energy We are also aggressively working the other hand, we are engaging
towards minimising the use of plastic with some of our largest corporate
With the goal of gradually bottles. Single use plastic bottles borrowers to better understand their
decarbonising our energy have already been phased out from ESG strategies and transition plans for
consumption, we are steadily all our hub offices pan-India, and we managing climate risks.
increasing the share of renewable have replaced multiple use plastic
energy in our overall power water bottles with glass jars across Our credit policy requires that no
consumption. We have installed all meeting and video conferencing funding be provided for establishing
rooftop solar plants at our offices in rooms. Hazardous waste within our new manufacturing units that
Jaipur, Pune, Noida, Bhubaneswar, scope, arising from diesel/fuel oil used produce or consume ozone-depleting
Chandigarh, Mumbai and Mohali. in generator sets, is negligible. substances, and that no financing
be provided to small- and medium-
In Maharashra, we are gradually
Responsible financing sized businesses that manufacture
shifting our branches to run on green
aerosols containing CFCs. Besides,
power procured through DISCOMs at ESG and climate change are as a standard practice, we require all
a premium. So far, 14 of our branches becoming increasingly important from loans, including project loans, to be
are operating on green power, resulting the perspective of borrower credit approved by a Credit Approver/Senior
in annual avoidance of ~905 MT evaluation, as well as regulators and Credit Approver with the necessary
carbon emissions on 1,028 MWh of other stakeholders. We are following approval authority. Due to the elevated
procurement per annum. a two-pronged approach to address risk involved with large project loans,
ESG and climate change risks in the extension of financing for such
238.5
our lending portfolio. On one hand, projects require additional approvals
kWp
we seek to ensure adoption of and from senior management/the Board
OF CUMULATIVE SOLAR POWER adherence to complete ESG and to ensure adequate scrutiny of the
GENERATION CAPACITY COMMISSIONED
AS OF MARCH 31, 2022 Climate Change assessment across proposals.
multiple business divisions when
Evaluation of environmental and social
issuing credit facilities, based on
Managing waste risk is an integral part of our overall
interactions with stakeholders, external
agencies and relevant literature. On credit appraisal and approval process.
We are working progressively towards
sustainable management of waste
generated from our operations. We
deal with three types of non-hazardous
waste – e-waste, dry waste (paper
waste) and wet waste (cafeteria,
sewage), of which e-waste is disposed
through authorised recyclers. A total of
212 tonnes of e-waste was generated
in FY22, because of asset refresh,
damaged and non-functional assets.
For paper waste and wet waste, we
are developing a management plan
in consultation with our partners. We
have already initiated pilots at select
locations and intend to scale it up
over the next few years. We continue
to work towards establishing and
implementing systems and procedures
for tracking wet and dry waste from
our operations.
64
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Long-term financing proposals for for risk evaluation of specific, capital-
large industrial/infrastructure projects intensive industries such as roads
(greater than `100 Million and tenor and highways, thermal power, power
above 5 years) are evaluated through transmission, cement, hydroelectric
In FY22, 861 loan
the SEMS framework, which requires power, and manufacturing, among
an assessment of Environmental, others, to guide the assessment proposals were
Health, Social, and Safety risks in process. In addition, the SEMS
screened through the
addition to other risks as part of framework includes assessment of
the overall credit appraisal process. aspects related to labour availability SEMS framework
This comprehensive assessment and worker welfare, risk assessments,
involves evaluating the borrower's and compliances and approvals.
operations, as well as any potential In FY22, 861 loan proposals were
negative environmental and social screened through the SEMS
consequences. We have already framework.
mapped potential impact categories
Social & Environment Monitoring System (SEMS) framework
Availability and validity
Borrower’s operation
of various statutory
and the potential
approvals/clearances
adverse environmental
for implementation of
and social impacts
the project from various
government bodies
e
n
c Im
a p
pli a
c
m t
s
o
C
R s
is e r
k k
m o
r
w
a
n d
a g e m
ent
Labour a n
Borrower’s/sponsor’s
Labour availability,
track record in
facilities provided to
adequately addressing/
project personnel and
managing the risks
labour, exploitative/
child labour
65
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Environment
For select large project finance transactions, we Where required, we place pre-
disbursement stipulations/terms
appoint a Lenders' Independent Engineer (LIE) for
of sanction to mitigate adverse
conducting an environmental and techno-commercial environmental and social impacts,
collect undertaking of compliance with
evaluation of the project prior to loan disbursement.
applicable regulations and criteria, and
Any loan disbursement is subject to the correction of monitor ongoing compliance on an
annual basis.
deficiencies related to environmental and social risks
Our lending procedures are guided
identified by LIE. During the construction stage as well,
by borrower and market demand, but
the LIE continues to monitor the project and flags any our credit exposure is well-diversified,
with no single industry having a
risks associated with environmental/social issues in
high concentration. As a result, our
the project to the Bank and borrower for necessary credit exposure to ecologically/
socially sensitive industry sectors has
corrective action.
minimal negative consequences. We
also finance entities that deals with
environmental and social issues.
Less than 1% of the total exposure comes from fossil fuels (coal and lignite)
and their extraction/mining
No exposure of chemical or biological weapons manufacturing enterprises;
the Bank provides a substantial amount of funding to the healthcare industry
to meet the funding requirements of hospitals, diagnostic labs, and clinics
Highlights of
the Bank’s
credit exposure
Solar and wind power, hydroelectricity, natural gas (extraction and
distribution), and biogas-based energy generation are a mong the Bank’s
environment-friendly industry sectors for lending
Financing to regional rural banks, NBFC and microfinance that are key financial
intermediaries to agriculture workers, self-help groups, MSMEs, etc. through
direct lending (term loans, working capital loans, etc.) and/or through purchase
of receivables through the securitisation/direct assignment/IBPC route
Upgrading to a new ‘ESG & Climate Change Assessment’ framework
We have identified upgradation of ESG and Climate Change issues. We (CAMs) where the aggregate CAM
the SEMS framework as a priority have also been working on expanding appetite crosses a certain threshold,
activity and have been working the coverage of the assessment rather than at a transactional level, as
on revising the SEMS framework framework. Our newly formulated and is the current practice. This template
with a ‘ESG & Climate Change exhaustive ‘ESG & Climate Change shall be included in all CAMs where
Assessment’ framework to enable a Template’ shall be applicable to all direct customer exposure is above a
more comprehensive assessment of Credit Assessment Memoranda certain threshold.
66
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
The impact Impact of social Qualitative Evaluation of Positive aspects
of specific issues – land assessment of the availability of the Company’s
environmental acquisition, the physical and and sufficiency environment
ESG and
risks – emissions, resettlement and transition risk of of legislative impact, such
climate
radiation hazards, rehabilitation, climate change on clearances/ as biodiversity
change
biomedical/ labour safety, etc. the borrower’s compliances in the conservation
template
industrial waste, activities areas of pollution and community
– key
deforestation, control and engagement
highlights
etc. as well effluent treatment
as mitigating
factors in terms
of systems
and processes
to cope with
negative impacts
To complement our ESG and Climate committee focuses on identifying new Madhya Pradesh. This plant aims
Change risk assessment framework, opportunities in the Environmental and to treat 50% of municipal waste
we are tailoring our own corporate Social space, such as Green Bonds. generated in the city and convert it
loan portfolio towards climate- We aim to provide access to capital for to 100% biogas and manure.
sensitive financing and to companies environmentally sustainable projects
with robust systems and processes. that contribute to climate change
For this purpose, we have begun mitigation. RENEWABLE ENERGY FINANCING
engaging with select customers to
We also finance renewable energy
understand their current ESG strategy,
projects. So far, we have underwritten 5,860
compliance, reporting frameworks
loans of H14,839 Crore for a cumulative FY22 14,839
and ESG ratings; their operations, and
capacity of 5,860 MW (solar capacity
long-term climate transition plans for
of 3,386 MW and wind of 584 MW).
carbon footprint reduction through 2,945
FY21
process improvements in existing We have also financed city-gas 10,869
operations, business transitions, such distribution networks under Minimum
2,268
as de-commissioning of certain lines Work Program with a total underwritten FY20
of business and investment in 'clean' amount of H2,393 Crore for 794 CNG 8,562
technologies; and targets for water stations and over 4.6 Million domestic
consumption reduction, emission connections. In FY22, we also
Cumulative Underwritten amount (` Crore)
reduction, etc. partnered with Indore Clean Energy
Cumulative RE Capacity Financed (MW)
Private Limited for financing Asia’s
The Product Responsibility sub-
largest waste to energy plant at Indore,
committee of our ESG action
67
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Environment
Achieve carbon neutrality by 2032
In June 2021, the Bank pledged to become carbon neutral
by FY32. We are in the process of rolling out an integrated
actionable strategy roadmap comprising three mitigation
pillars and three management pillars. The next decade
will be a ‘Decade of Action’ for the Bank, as we will build
on each of these pillars to make meaningful and system-
driven changes within the organisation to achieve our
carbon neutrality goal.
68
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Our target includes GHG emissions UPS systems, air-conditioners with projects through technological and
generated by our operations arising high ISEER rating using Brushless DC nature-based solutions. We intend
from the combustion of fossil fuels Motors (BLDC) technology, etc. to engage in voluntary markets, and
(Scope 1 emissions) as well as in compliance markets when the
Supply-side energy
emissions from the generation of latter is applicable to our business
purchased electricity consumed by interventions operations. When participating in
the Bank (Scope 2 emissions) at its voluntary carbon markets, we will
operating locations and its owned We seek to progressively decarbonise carry out due diligence to ensure that
and co-located data centres. The our energy consumption and we retire the highest quality offsets,
target covers carbon dioxide (CO ), are increasingly adopting low- which are verified by internationally
2
nitrous oxide (N O), and methane carbon energy sources to support recognised standards such as Verra,
2
(CH) emissions. our operations. Our supply-side Gold Standard, etc., to balance our
4
strategy focuses on gradual shifting residual emissions. We will adopt a
Our integrated strategy for achieving
to green tariffs offered by utilities two-pronged approach to secure the
carbon neutrality is based on a
wherever available and procurement availability of offsets for retirement.
detailed assessment of our key
of renewable energy from offsite While we may make direct investments
operational parameters. The baseline
power plants and exchanges. The in carbon offset generating projects
emissions were established based on
green tariff option, which is currently in collaboration with our partners, we
the latest dataset available, which fed
available only in a few states may also need to purchase carbon
into an integrated tool for forecasting
(Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra credits from various market options on
emissions. The projected emissions
Pradesh) is expected to be made a need basis for retirement against our
based on a likely business growth
available and affordable in more residual emissions. While investing in
scenario were laid over with multiple
states, and therefore in the interest carbon offset generating projects, we
scenarios of emission reduction
of sustainability, we plan to make use will prioritise projects that add socio-
pathways to understand cost and
of the offering on a gradual basis, economic-ecological value to the
potential reductions under each
despite a premium over the existing communities in which we operate, and
scenario. Based on an engaging and
electricity rates. In large locations those projects which are in proximity to
deeply consultative process with our
where regulatory requirements for our operations in India.
departmental teams and ESG action
open access and wheeling are met,
committees, we have set our eyes to The ‘management’ related pillars of
renewable energy will be procured
achieve carbon neutrality based on our carbon neutrality strategy pertain
from offsite power plants, either
the following interventions: to developing firm-level guidelines
directly or through power exchanges.
for operations and procurement
Demand-side energy The initial list of locations where
for supply-side and demand-side
renewable energy procurement is
management interventions, establishing a framework
planned to be taken up is already
for coordinated action between
identified. A firm-level policy guideline
We are in the process of adopting key teams for implementation and
on making maximum use of green
a broad range of technological continuously enhancing the GHG
energy supply interventions in existing
solutions and operational measures data collection processes to improve
and new locations is also being
to reduce energy consumption at our the quality of the inventory. We will
finalised. If and when required, we may
operating locations. We have mapped also monitor the implementation of
also utilise green certificates for carbon
Energy Performance Indicator (EPI) interventions and progress towards
neutrality compliance.
for all our locations and are using our emission reduction targets every
it as an internal benchmark for the Carbon Credits and two years and realign our integrated
energy performance of all types of strategy incorporating the best
Offsets
facilities. We have shortlisted various available technologies and measures.
demand-side interventions for
Carbon offsets will continue to play
phase-wise implementation across
a role in addressing the balance
locations based on an assessment of
of our residual emissions. We will
feasibility and RoI. These measures
evaluate and leverage carbon
include smart IoT-based building
offsets and assess opportunities to
management systems, modular
develop mitigation and abatement
69
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Environment
Our roadmap to 2032
We have identified six strategic pillars to ensure that our journey to carbon neutrality is
meaningful and brings about a systems change within the organisation
1 2 3
Demand-side measures Supply-side measures Carbon credits and offsets
Adopting a broad range of Supporting our operational locations Neutralise our residual Scope 1 and
technological solutions and O&M with energy supplied from low-carbon Scope 2 emissions by investing in
measures to reduce energy sources carbon offset projects or purchasing
consumption at our operating locations carbon credits
· Green tariff from utility
· Installation of Modular UPS System · Co-investing in offset projects
· Offsite RE procurement
· IoT-based building management · Forward ERPA
· Green certificates
systems
· Retail purchase
4 5 6
Guidelines for HDFC Bank’s Steering mechanism Continual improvement
operations
Framework for coordinated action Continuously enhancing our data
Firm-level guidelines for operations between key corporate level and collection processes to iteratively
and procurement for supply-side and facilities level teams for implementation improve the quality of the inventory
demand-side intervention and guide progressive inventory
improvement
Our Carbon Neutrality strategy formulation is based
OUR GOAL
Carbon on a detailed review of operational parameters
informed by the most recent dataset available.
neutral
We have established our baseline emissions data
by FY32
and projected emission for a likely scenario business
growth, superimposed with future abatement
FOR SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS
70
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
TCFD disclosures
HDFC Bank recognises the growing concerns of regulators, investors and clients
about climate risks that businesses, particularly banks and financial institutions,
face. This is our second year of working on the recommendations of the Task
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) – which provides a useful
framework for identifying climate-related risks and opportunities, evaluating
effective responses and communicating crucial information to stakeholders.
Governance
We have a strong Risk Management Group (RMG) at the of emissions, energy, water, and waste. This committee
Bank that oversees putting the Board's risk strategy into will continue to drive the Bank’s path towards achieving
action, as well as designing procedures and systems for carbon neutrality. The Bank has a dedicated ESG vertical
detecting, measuring, monitoring, assessing and managing that works in conjunction with several internal and external
risks. The RMG is led by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), who stakeholders, to drive the ESG agenda.
is responsible for risk management and the entire risk Credit managers assess environmental risks arising from
architecture and framework of the Bank including stress large loans through the SEMS framework.
testing. The Chief Information Security Officer reports on
the Bank's cyber-security concerns as well as updates from
Business Impact Analysis and Disaster Response.
The Group Head for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) ESG & CSR Committee
& ESG updates the CSR & ESG committee of the Board,
of the Board
every quarter on the Bank's sustainability (ESG) initiatives
and progress on ESG actionables and chairs the ESG apex
committee. The ESG apex committee governs and reviews
the progress of the three action committees that drive the ESG Apex Committee
ESG agenda (including climate change) at the Bank.
The Product Responsibility sub-committee, examines
Environmental & Social (E&S) risks in our operations,
Environment Social & Product
including climate risks, while finding new business
Committee Governance Responsibility
opportunities in the E&S arena. The Environment sub-
committee comprises of representatives from the Committee Committee
Administration, Infrastructure and IT teams at the Bank, sets
targets and identifies opportunities for improvement in areas
71
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Environment
Strategy Risk Management
The Bank has been reporting to the
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Current Banks are highly regulated in the country and mandates as part
on its climate change strategy, regulation of current regulations are always integrated into the overall risk
planning and assessment process. Current regulations are also
risks, opportunities, and emissions. factored in the credit assessment process, especially through
From the perspective of climate risk the SEMS framework which is used to screen large loans for
assessment, we will assess the priority environmental and social risks.
of physical and transition risks in the
near to medium term. Some of the Emerging Transition risk can impact the Bank's credit portfolio resulting from
critical parameters to consider would regulation changes in the climate policy, technology, consumer, and market
be GHG emissions, air pollutants and sentiment during the transition to a low-carbon economy. This is
particularly relevant for policy changes that can result in loan defaults
climate transition risk pathways both at
from certain sectors like coal, thermal and infrastructure. We are
the sector and borrower level. exploring techniques for developing climate risk assessment and
scenario analysis to analyse our portfolio at risk due to the transition
There are two main types of climate-
risk of climate change.
related risks:
1) Physical risks (both acute Technology While our digital environment and information security standards
and chronic): Economic losses are the foundation of our business today, as financial services
(physical damage to property and professionals, we do not anticipate technology to have a significant
impact on climate risk. Our low-carbon digital banking products use
assets) from extreme weather
technology to enable business.
events (flood, cyclone, etc)
attributed to climate change; and
Legal For large loans, we verify whether the project complies with all
2) Transition risks: Possible applicable environmental rules, failing to do so could result in the
process of adjustment to a low- loan becoming a non-performing asset if the project goes into
litigation. This, however, is not a claim against the Bank. There are
carbon economy and its effects
no other circumstances in which the Bank can be held liable for a
on the value of financial assets climate-related lawsuit.
and liabilities
We are exploring frameworks to model Market In the context of climate change, markets could play a key role
and assess climate risks. We also in shifting the demand and supply for certain products like green
loans or bonds, or in low-carbon digital products. However, we do
continue to acquire granular data
recognise the relevance of change in consumer preferences, and
further corroborated by BRSR data
hence, the need to evaluate this risk, but do not have the tools
(FY23 onwards) and test tools for at present to quantify/include this as part of our risk assessment
climate risk assessment and conduct process.
scenario analysis through suitable
partnerships – including exploring Reputation Reputation risk from community/customer perception is a primary
options to tie-up with data providers. risk to our business. We thus invest in community and customer
Given that climate risk is an emerging involvement through surveys to educate and enlighten them
on our environmental sustainability programmes. Further, ESG
and long-term risk for the Bank, we
performance measures are increasingly being used by the global
will consider adopting a suitable investor community, especially sovereign wealth funds and pension
methodology/pathway to analyse the funds, to assess long-term profitable growth. We strive to implement
Bank's exposures under different environment-friendly measures throughout our operations. We
further show our commitment to ESG, particularly climate change,
climate scenarios.
by including ESG elements in regulatory reporting such as the
annual report. In addition, in our annual integrated report, we publish
details on our carbon emissions and footprint (third-party assured).
72
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Acute Acute physical hazards can have a negative influence on our
physical credit portfolio by causing bad debts due to damage to property,
infrastructure, and land. This is also relevant for climate disasters
destroying assets (that serve as collaterals). We continue to
measure physical risks from a climate risk assessment perspective
and will assess the priority of these risks in the near-to-medium
term. In addition, our Disaster Response and Business Continuity
teams conduct business impact analyses and have rapid response
procedures in place in the event of natural disasters such as floods.
Chronic Chronic physical risks are far into the future. Given that climate risk
physical is an emerging and long-term risk us, we will consider adopting
a suitable methodology/pathway to analyse our exposures under
different climate scenarios.
Evaluation of environmental & social negative environmental and social finance for setting up of new units for
risk is an integral part of our overall consequences. We have already producing/consuming ozone-depleting
credit appraisal and approval process. mapped potential impact categories substances (CFC -11, CFC – 12, CFC
Large industrial / infrastructure for risk evaluation of specific, capital- – 113, Carbon Tetrachloride, Methyl
projects where the extension of intensive industries such as Roads Chloroform, Halons – 1211, 1301, 2402)
long-term financing (greater than and Highways, Thermal Power, Power and for small & medium scale units
`100 million and longer than 5 Transmission, Cement, Hydroelectric engaged in the manufacture of aerosol
years) are covered under the Bank’s Power, and Manufacturing amongst units using CFC.
Social & Environment Monitoring others to guide the assessment
We recognise the importance of water
System (SEMS) which necessitates process. While the bank's lending
availability affecting our portfolio,
an assessment of Environmental, procedures are guided by borrower
especially in certain sectors like
Health, Social, and Safety risks in and market demands, the bank's credit
agriculture. As part of our credit due
addition to other risks as part of the exposure is well diversified across
diligence, we evaluate loan proposals
overall credit appraisal process. This numerous industries, with no single
against water availability with an
comprehensive assessment involves industry having a high concentration.
assured irrigation facility. In case of
evaluation of various environmental As a result, the Bank's credit exposure
climate-linked events like droughts,
and social aspects of the project and to ecologically / socially sensitive
we extend crop insurance facility to
operations of the borrowing entity - industry sectors has minimal negative
borrowers (who harvest at least two
such as the nature of the borrower's consequences. In addition, as part
cropping cycles).
operations, as well as any potential of our credit policy, we do not extend
Metrics and Targets integrated strategy incorporating implications of our own operations.
the best available technologies and We are working on developing KPIs
We are firming up an integrated practices. and setting goals to monitor, manage,
strategy to achieve carbon neutrality and track the progress. This involves
by 2032, which will set internal We plan to enhance our commitment a thorough examination of our Scope
benchmarks for energy performance to financing climate change solutions 3 emissions and our carbon-related
and targets for phased renewable such as energy transition, renewables, asset exposure. Please refer to the
energy integration. We will monitor energy efficiency, sustainable Environment section of this Report
the implementation of interventions transportation, green buildings, for details on our performance on
and emission reduction achievements climate smart agriculture, among emissions and energy-related KPIs.
every two years and realign our others, besides monitoring the
73
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Customer Centricity
Creating value for our customers
Customer Focus is one of the five core
values of the Bank. Our customer base
consists of individuals, corporates,
MSMEs, farmers and Government
entities amongst others and our focus is
to provide them with a seamless banking
experience. We undertake multiple
initiatives geared towards serving the
diverse needs of the customers and our
efforts are reflected in the strength of
our brand value and recall.
Service Quality Measure, and Improve. It invites and One of the basic building blocks of
reviews performance on customer providing acceptable level of customer
Initiatives and
service as well as grievance redressal service is to have an effective internal
Grievance Redressal at different levels which are Branch Grievance Redressal mechanism /
Level Customer Service Committees framework. In this regard, we have
Driven by the core value of Customer (BLCSCs), Standing Committee outlined a framework for redressal of
Focus, the Bank has always on Customer Service (SCCS) and customer grievances and documented
endeavoured to improve customer Customer Service Committee of the it in the form of a Grievance Redressal
experience and has adopted a Board (CSCB). We have put robust Policy – duly approved by its Board.
holistic approach for the same processes in place to regularly monitor It has also made this policy available
across multiple channels ranging and measure quality of service levels in public domain (on the website
from BranchBanking, PhoneBanking, not only at various touch points but as well as in the branches). The
NetBanking, MobilBanking, EVA Bank has also formulated a Board
also at a product and process level by
chatbot and the Bank’s social care approved Protection Policy, which
Quality Initiatives Group.
handles. The Bank has also improvised limits the liability of customers in case
on the relationship-based banking As part of its continuous efforts to of unauthorized electronic banking
programmes. In addition to the enhance quality of service, the Service transactions.
branch-based relationship managers, Quality team carries out regular
Thanks to these initiatives, the Bank’s
it also has a Virtual Relationship reviews across various products/
customer complaints for FY22
Manager (VRM) programme to processes/channels. The effectiveness
decreased by 21% from 4,67,453* to
cater to various financial needs in a of the quality of service provided
3,68,291.
personalized manner. The Bank has is also reviewed at different levels,
adopted a three-step strategy with including the Customer Service
regards to Customer Service– Define, Committee of the Board.
*Restated complaints number based on re classification of queries into complaints from 3,25,786.
74
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
of our Infinite Smiles program – we
introduced new journeys, new
episodes and new products ensuring a
much wider coverage. Customer focus
has seen an increased focus - regular
cadence with key stakeholders and
rigorous follow-up on actions have
become the cornerstones of
Infinite Smiles.
The programme now encompasses
critical episodes – Digital Journey
Episodes, Credit Card Episodes,
Customer Instructions, Tele
Interactions and Collection Process.
We now cover 120+ episodes and
have contacted around 63 Million
Building a customer- to establish employee behaviour and customers in FY22 for their feedback.
practices which leads to customer-
centric culture using Net Our ‘Infinite Smiles’ program rests
centric actions and continuous
on three meticulously designed
Promoter System (NPS) improvements.
pillars – 'Listen', 'Learn' and 'Act'
- ‘Infinite Smiles’ Last year, we initiated measurement which enables us to embed customer
on key journeys, identified action areas feedback led transformation as a
We, at the Bank, believe that delivering to improve customer experience and discipline into our systems, challenge
an outstanding customer experience implemented several key initiatives. what is considered as the standard,
is a strong differentiator for a great This has led to a steady improvement and offer a customer experience
product and is key to a sustained on our NPS over the year. This year, that places us amongst the best
competitive advantage. The primary we built on our commitment to our service brands.
aim of the Infinite Smiles programme is customers by scaling the coverage
Transforming Score to Systems
Listen Learn Act
Feedback of Review and follow up to Resolve the issue in the
customers better understand near and long term
3.4 60 2.75
Mn Lakh+
FEEDBACK CAPTURED ACROSS KEY BU NPS SCORE* HUDDLES CONDUCTED
CHANNELS, CRITICAL EPISODES AND
KEY PRODUCT JOURNEYS
*Bottom Up NPS score
75
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Customer Centricity
Guided by our aspiration to move constant effort to include everyone
from score to systems, we have been in the organisation has ensured BRAND NPS SCORE (INDEXED)
working to institutionalize the process continuous improvement leading to | BANKING CATEGORY
for addressing customer issues that growth in customer advocacy of the
100
transcend beyond measurement and brand.
HDFC Bank
create a culture of customer-centricity
94
and agility. Bank A
92
We would not only like to anticipate Bank B
and react to changing customer 88
Bank C
expectations but also like to provide
81
a proposition to our customer that Bank D
makes us more attractive than 79
Bank E
competitive alternatives.
75
Bank F
With this in view we subscribed to
58
competitive benchmarking of NPS, in Bank G
form of a subscription based product 58
NPS Prism®. Bank H
HDFC Bank leads the overall brand · Source: NPS Prism® benchmarking report
NPS ranking among 20+ competitors (2021). NPS Prism® is a registered trademark
of Bain & Company, Inc.
in the banking category.
· Name of competition banks intentionally
masked
Our commitment to building a
· Score indexed to HDFC Bank
customer obsessed culture and
· Competition bank does not include pure-play
credit card providers
Some of our customer-centric initiatives
#SalaamDilSey
On Doctors Day - 2021, we presented 2021 virtually by Dr Naresh Trehan
Salaam Dil Sey – a platform for our in presence of prominent media and
customers to thank doctors and their Bank’s Sr. officials. This attempt was
families for their hard work, sacrifice also recorded in Asia Book of Records
and tireless service. As they bravely & India Book of Records for “Largest
continue to fight the pandemic, we Collage of Thank you messages”.
tried to put a smile on their faces. The Bank also gave musical tribute to
the doctor's fraternity by a specially
Customers dedicated a “Salaam
curated anthem on the Salaam Dil
Dil Sey” (a personalized greeting
Sey theme. HDFC Bank reached out
card) to over 1 lac doctors and their
to 23Mn+ people through print, social
families. HDFC Bank put all these
media and email/SMS. Our branch
greeting cards in a collage, displayed
staff personally met and greeted
on ‘Wall of dedication’ at its Sandoz
40,000+ doctors during this campaign.
Bank House and unveiled on 1st July
76
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Mooh Band Rakho
After the tremendous success of our operandi. We conducted over 2,000
Mooh Band Rakho campaign in 2020, workshops over 4 months across
we launched the second edition in the country, advocating simple steps
support of the International Fraud such as not clicking on unknown links,
Awareness Week in November 2021. sharing card details, CVV, Expiry Date,
Aimed at increasing awareness on all OTP NetBanking/ MobileBanking Login
types of financial fraud, the campaign ID & Password over Phone, SMS,
underlined the importance of not email and social media. It focused on
disclosing information, especially the younger segment targeting Senior
banking details, and to safeguard Secondary Schools & Colleges to
oneself from digital frauds. make safe banking an early habit in
their financial journey.
We launched a series of videos using
relatable real-life situations to educate
customers on various types of modus
Festive Treats 3.0
Our Festive Treats 3.0 had more than HDFC Bank partnered
10,000 offers on cards, loans and with over 10,000+
EasyEMI. Just as the country started to
merchants across 100+
unlock, the campaign aimed to spread
locations to offer its
reasons for joy and cheer. Revolving
around the theme of 'Karo Har Dil customers an opportunity
Roshan', the Bank reached out to every to avail fabulous deals
Indian through high impact visibility
specifically created
via TV, branches, ATMs, partnerships
for their personal and
with stores/websites and digital media
campaigns with a hyper local focus. business needs.
MyCards
A pioneering digital self-service Key Features of MyCards: Most importantly, the digital self-
platform was introduced by adding service card control feature on
· Dedicated platform providing 24 X 7
convenience, ease of usage, smarter contactless, online and international
banking services ON THE GO
user design into a mobile-friendly transactions on Credit Card is easily
ON THE GO service platform, called · Manage multiple HDFC Bank accessible on MyCards, with real-
MyCards. This solution stands to payments products in one single time limit setting and transaction
revolutionize the way our customer login interface mode enablement.
experiences digital banking services · Easy to save, no downloads or
Since its roll-out to customers on
by getting more control and one-view installation or upgrades required on
1st Oct 2021, over 2.5 Cr service
of all products under a single-login phone
requests have been processed
interface. MyCards provides a fully · Seamless login with just mobile- digitally on the platform.
cloud-hosted, digitized service stack to based one-time password
all segments of Credit and Debit Card
· Faster, simpler and smarter User
customers.
Interface
77
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Digitisation
Digital Future-ready Bank
Intellectual Capital
HDFC Bank has always been Underpinning our technology (IP) to develop and offer best-in-
transformation agenda is our vision class products and services to our
at the forefront of innovation
to provide the most preferred ‘neo- customers. Agile and Development-
in the Indian financial
banking’ experience to our customers. Security-Operations (DevSecOps)
services industry. Under our We design products that make banking principles and cloudification of our tech
technology transformation simple, easy and highly secure. stack are pivotal accelerators of our
At the core of this agenda is building transformation agenda.
agenda, we are investing to
future-ready competencies. We are
‘Run the Bank’ as well as Initiatives such as DR Resiliency and
strengthening our capabilities under
our Hybrid Cloud Strategy continue
‘Build a Future-ready Bank’. Digital Factory, Enterprise Factory and
to fortify our IT infrastructure and
We are also strengthening Enterprise IT.
architecture backbone.
our digital backbone to create
Building Digital Factory and
differentiated, secure offerings
Enterprise Factory
for the tech-savvy customer
Our Factory approach focuses 99.94
backed by a core technology %
on innovation-at-scale in the co-
that is always ‘ON’. creation of Tech Intellectual Property AVERAGE CUSTOMER UPTIME
45 90,000
Cr
BANK CUSTOMER TRANSACTIONS CONCURRENT USERS
PER MONTH, DOUBLED IN THE CAPACITY FOR USING NET
LAST 12 MONTHS. AND MOBILEBANKING
Key initiatives undertaken
Infrastructure scalability Management Office to track, manage for better control, visibility and
We have invested in a hybrid-cloud and replace/upgrade obsolete preparedness against ransomware,
approach with leading cloud service components in a timely manner. and round-the-clock defacement
partners such as AWS, Azure and monitoring and vulnerability
Disaster recovery resilience
GCP. A common landing zone has management of our internet properties.
been implemented across these We are moving to the next level
partners to create a secure and of Disaster Recovery (DR) with
streamlined environment for all cloud automation and implementation of
deployments. We have moved our ‘Hot DR’/Active – active setup for key
primary data centers to state-of-the- applications.
Looking ahead
art facilities in Mumbai and Bengaluru
Minimised surface area for
to ensure a robust IT infrastructure to We are now fully geared to launch
cyber-attacks
back our digital offerings and ensure our next phase of strategic digital
higher uptimes across customer We have made significant & technology programs. Significant
touchpoints. advancements to further consolidate inroads are being made through
cyber security through initiatives initiatives such as Customer
Capacity upgrades
such as the foundation of a next-gen Experience Hub, a revamped
Capacity management practices Security Operations Center (SOC) Payments and Wallet experience
have been significantly strengthened for predictive security and incident and refreshed offerings for
to ensure close monitoring of peak management, introduction of SOAR MSME and Wealth Management
volumes across key performance (Security Orchestration, Automation & customers.
parameters. We have established a Response) to reduce incident response
Technology Obsolescence Program times, network micro-segmentation
78
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Key initiatives in the pipeline
Digital onboarding of merchants for payment acceptance and servicing of
Vyapaar
banking transactions for the merchant community
Xpress Car Loans A digital API platform for Auto Financing launched in April 2022
Enhanced experience of App. Customers to onboard, autolink HDFC Bank
PayZapp 2.0
cards, wallet & limit management, transaction display via rich statements
SME customer
New technology to support business volume at larger scale, re-vamp the entire
experience
SME customer experience across Commercial and Retail business lines
transformation
A new web portal for SME segments covering digital onboarding, managing
Biz Express multiple accounts, making payments with hierarchy, raising GST compliant invoices
for payment, multiple collection modes, raise service requests online, etc.
A new Wealth Management app with client self-profiling, goal setting, mutual
Wealth App
fund order execution and portfolio re-balancing
79
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Social – People
Embarking on cultural
Human Capital
transformation
At HDFC Bank, our culture and people Further, we brought in a paradigm shift in our approach
are key enablers to continue creating towards learning and development through the
establishment of the Learning Partner model. We moved
value for our stakeholders. We have
ahead on our Diversity and Inclusion agenda with specific
embarked on a conscious Culture
focus on women and persons with disabilities. Our flagship
Transformation journey i.e. “The HDFC initiative, ‘HDFC Bank Cares’ is designed to enable people
Bank Way”. It is a key element of the to take charge of their own wellbeing thereby creating
an emotionally committed workforce. We are leveraging
3Cs: Culture, Conscience and Customers
technology in the entire employee journey from talent
that empower our business. The HDFC
onboarding, virtual learning, wellness initiatives, diversity
Bank Way is defined by the six pillars of and inclusion programmes to employee performance
Culture – Integrity, Execution, Innovation, management.
Humility, Inclusion and Collaboration.
With the DNA of a responsible banker, we
are aligning our businesses objectives
with the 3Cs of culture, conscience and
customers.
80
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Our Culture spans several years to get ingrained
as the organizational ethos and as Integrity
A connected workforce that has a first step towards this, the NCC Doing the right thing..Always
a deep sense of belonging to the initiative this year focused on our
organization is imperative to providing 12000+ managers as ‘Custodians of Execution
a differentiated customer experience. Culture’. The objective of the program Delivering excellence
Our onward journey and continued was to percolate the essence of the
success will come from reinforcing HDFC Bank Way by focusing on nine Innovation
our culture ‘The HDFC Bank Way’. key themes over a five-month journey Inventing the future
It is defined by six pillars - Integrity delivered through versatile and exciting
|Collaboration | Inclusion |Humility | challenges and learning tools. The Humility
Innovation | Execution scale was massive: 99,877 learning Gratitude over entitlement
With a focus to reinforce the HDFC content hours were delivered in 145
Bank Way, a large-scale Culture days and an average of 700 hours Inclusion
Transformation was conceived and of content consumed daily. We are Valuing differences
deployed across the entire Bank proud that 97% participants gave NCC
through the ’Nurture, Care and a thumbs-up for its unique design & Collaboration
Collaborate (‘NCC’) intervention. content. Independent yet interdependent
A Culture Transformation journey
Growth reflected in increasing employee strength
EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY
2021-22 2020-21
Male Female Total Male Female Total
Senior management 124 15 139 106 10 116
Junior & Middle Management 21,467 3,505 24,972 17,565 2,848 20,413
Non Supervisory staff 60,438 19,230 79,668 54,700 16,279 70,979
Frontline Staff and Sales offiers 32,553 4,247 36,800 25,976 2,609 28,585
Total 1,14,582 26,997 1,41,579 98,347 21,746 1,20,093
EMPLOYEE BY REGION
2021-22 2020-21
Male Female Total Male Female Total
East 14,335 2,221 16,556 12,557 1,917 14,474
West 42,093 10,329 52,422 36,244 8,448 44,692
South 26,542 7,249 33,791 22,166 5,567 27,733
North 31,509 7,147 38,656 27,286 5,770 33,056
Abroad 103 51 154 94 44 138
Total 1,14,582 26,997 1,41,579 98,347 21,746 1,20,093
EMPLOYEE BY AGE
2021-22 2020-21
Male Female Total Male Female Total
<30 41,035 13,892 54,927 30,713 10,257 40,970
30-50 72,310 12,880 85,190 66,818 11,348 78,166
>50 1,237 225 1,462 816 141 957
Total 1,14,582 26,997 1,41,579 98,347 21,746 1,20,093
81
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Social – People
EMPLOYEE BY CONTRACT TYPE
2021-22 2020-21
Male Female Total Male Female Total
Permanent 1,14,582 26,997 1,41,579 98,347 21,746 1,20,093
Contract(Individual) 21 5 26 19 4 23
Three key tenets of our Inclusion Philosophy
Diversity and Inclusion (D&I)
Inclusion is one of the key culture Merit Inclusion
pillars of The HDFC Bank Way.
Competence, performance We will strive to be an equal
We promote a work culture where
outcomes and potential will opportunity organisation where
everyone feels included, respected
always be the threshold for all everyone can excel, irrespective
and valued, and has access
talent decisions of our inherent differences.
to equal opportunity. We have
branded our inclusion agenda as
‘Valuing Differences’. We provide
equal and fair remuneration 3 key
opportunities, irrespective of
tenets
gender. No complaints related to
incidents of discrimination reported
during FY22.
Character
Alignment with the HDFC Bank Way and adherence
to our ethos will remain integral to the selection
criteria for career advancement at the Bank
Three-pillar governance structure for driving D&I agenda
HDFC Bank Apex Inclusion Council · Reports to the MD & CEO
6- Member Group Head Panel
· Set the strategy and agenda for inclusion
· Framework for a culture of inclusion
· Remove Barriers to Inclusion
Working committee inclusion · Senior level representatives of Group Heads for the
SPOCs from all verticals Inclusion agenda
· Partner with stakeholders to drive the agenda
· Business specific inclusion enablers
Regional Regional Regional · Monitor on-ground implementation of the Inclusion
council north council south council east strategy
· Employee senistization and feedback
Regional council Regional council
west (mum) west (RoW) · Regional initiatives and events
82
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Our D&I agenda focuses on two critical ‘Family reasons’ was revealed as a ‘Pleasant Parenthood Program:
segments: top driver for women attrition in our Under this programme, we have a suite
attrition studies. We also understood of offerings and initiatives to support
· Gender diversity
that returning mothers were finding it women along their critical milestones
· Persons with Disabilities (PwD) difficult to balance work and personal – pre, during and post maternity leave.
responsibilities. To this effect, we have This programme also enables flexibility
Women at our
undertaken focused interventions and with respect to work timings, location
Workplace designed programmes that address and provides part-time working
these challenges. options. All our full-time employees
We work relentlessly to support the are entitled to avail parental leave. In
Bank Again Program: This
women at our workplace and provide FY 22, 1182 female and 3072 male
programme enables women to re-start
them with an ecosystem that nurture employees availed parental leave of
their careers after a break. We reached
their careers while being mindful of which 99.75% female (1179) and 100%
out to over 3,000 women employees
their unique challenges. Today, 21.7% male (3071) returned to work. 6.6%
who had left from the bank over the
of our workforce consists of women women (78) and 5% men (160) who
past 5 years, out of which over 300
and we have set a target to increase returned to work after leave ended,
former colleagues have re-joined the
this to 25% by 2025. were still employed with us after 12
Bank. We are also closely monitoring
months.
our gender hiring with 28% of those
hired in the year being women. This
excludes front-line sales hiring.
83
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Social – People
The Career Accelerator Programme: Our flagship intervention is aimed at building and augmenting the women talent
pipeline for senior roles. It incorporates unique learning elements like sponsorship, group coaching, virtual learning journey,
leadership connect and employee resource groups.
Inclusion council Leader speak
Inclusion council to Panel discussion and fire-side
monitor and track the chats with internal/external
career trajectory leaders promoting access
and visibility to leadership
Successful careers
Sponsorship
programme
Sponsors to support in:
Six months virtual training on topics:
· Exposure of high visibility
· Power networking
opportunities
· Art of networking
· Advocate in TRCs/Support with IDP
· Executive presence (Gravitas)
· Consequence management
· Leading self and teams
Employee resource Group coaching
groups
· Tools for self-awareness
ERGs promoting peer
· Navigating the double bind
learning and promotion
of internal opportunities · Managing priorities without guilt
through networking
She Inspires: This year we also ran a campaign called ‘She Inspires’ celebrating women leaders at the Bank. A video
series was created to disseminate, powerful messages of encouragement and leadership journeys by colleagues across
the organisation.
WOMEN IN WORKFORCE- RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND WOMEN EMPLOYEES AS A % OF
CATAGORY WISE REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN TOTAL EMPLOYEES
Senior 11% Senior 0.86
Management 9% Management 0.75 21.7% (22,750)
Junior & Middle 14% Junior & Middle 1.03
Management 14% Management 1.02
24% 1.19
Non Non
Supervisory 23% Supervisory 1.09
Staff Staff
Frontline Staff 12% Frontline Staff 0.99
and Sales and Sales
Officers 9% Officers 0.97
2021-22 Female % 2020-21 Female % 2021-22 Ratio 2020-21 Ratio Female Total
Excluding frontline staff and sales officers
percentage of women employees is 19.1%
including frontline staff and sales officers
84
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
A different perspective — 115 persons with disabilities employed ‘Ignite’, a programme aimed at middle
Persons with Disabilities at our with us and have additional hires in the management levels, focuses on
workplace pipeline. Furthermore, a programme collaborative and strategic skills and
for enabling the certification of team encourages courageous leadership.
We are focused on building a
leaders on building and managing
workplace wherein every individual has ‘Trailblaze’ delivers key competencies
inclusive teams is being initiated in
an opportunity to do meaningful work, and management essentials for
FY23.
irrespective of any disabilities. frontline managers to enhance their
effectiveness.
We are taking small but steady steps in Learning and Development
this direction: Building on the foundation laid last
Learning initiatives
year, we are progressing towards
· Sensitising our people to create an
In FY22, we brought in a paradigm creating a Virtual University and
environment of inclusion for Persons
shift in our approach to learning Learning Experience platform (LXP).
with Disabilities (PwD). Initiated by our
and development through the Targeting the next generation of
Board of Directors and Group Heads
establishment of the Learning Partner employees, LXP facilitates self-paced,
in May 2021, sensitisation workshops
model. This model institutionalises learner-led modules on the go in a
that dealt with unconscious biases
performance consulting, which virtual setting.
were organised for 6,900+ managers
consists of identifying a business need,
across the organisation.
its cause(s) and the capability building LEARNING HOURS IN FY22 (PERSON HOURS)
· The inclusion governance teams work strategy (if applicable) that can meet 144
Lakh+
in tandem with HR to codify roles for that need. Performance consultants
integrating PwD seamlessly within the are experts in understanding business
organisation. Teams are consciously and improving human performance,
working to improve the infrastructure and specialise in enhancing LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE
1,262.23
requirements for fair and free access employees' performance through a Lakh
and identifying specific barriers for collaborative approach.
inclusion of PwDs.
The intent is to align business
We are in the process of augmenting priorities with learning goals. Further,
our internal systems for better we strengthened our offerings
interconnection for persons with on Leadership and Professional
disabilities. Currently, we have about Development journeys.
85
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Social – People
AVERAGE HOURS OF LEARNING BY CATEGORY
2021-22 2020-21
Employee by category
Male Female Total Male Female Total
Senior Management 12.17 14.78 12.45 11.07 28.83 12.6
Junior & Middle Management 90.83 101.58 92.34 111.2 110.35 111.08
Non Supervisory Staff 139.83 170.65 147.27 139.12 154.31 142.6
Frontline Staff and Sales Officers 9.88 10.41 9.95 12.19 11.99 12.17
Total 93.59 136.39 101.75 100.47 131.42 106.07
TOTAL HOURS OF LEARNING BY CATEGORY
2021-22 2020-21
Male Female Total Male Female Total
Senior Management 1,509 222 1,730 1,173 288 1,462
Junior & Middle Management 19,49,764 3,56,045 23,05,809 19,53,219 3,14,272 22,67,491
Non Supervisory Staff 84,51,114 32,81,633 1,17,32,747 76,09,840 25,11,958 1,01,21,798
Frontline Staff and Sales Officers 3,21,785 44,218 3,66,003 3,16,595 31,289 3,47,885
Total 1,07,24,172 36,82,117 1,44,06,289 98,80,828 28,57,808 1,27,38,636
HR Tech We have also institutionalised the any specific learning need identified
process of Talent Review Councils, for employees, to assume higher
This year saw the Bank’s HR tech
wherein a panel of leaders take an in- responsibilities when the need arises.
transformation journey took a decisive
depth understanding of the Talent from
turn, with most of the HR services We have a comprehensive, bi-annual
multiple data points – self view from
made available on mobile. The performance management system
employee (mobility, career aspiration
interventions were designed to amplify (PMS) in place. Every employee is
etc.), performance track record, Line
a ‘DIY’ approach through new-age required to make a self-assessment
Manager’s feedback on the talent
interfaces, in line with the digital and or her own performance (bi-
and inputs of potential from the
vision of the Bank. ‘I-Cube’, an HR annual basis) based on the key result
Development Center Report. This as
conversational bot, was introduced areas of his roles and responsibilities.
a process, is covered for CX & 3 levels
to enable self-service and easy The Appraiser and Appraisee have a
down of their leadership hierarchy.
resolution of queries, not just for active joint performance discussion based
employees but also for our former The year also saw the launch of a on the self-evaluation filled by the
employees. Time Management piece 360-degree feedback at apex levels of Appraisee. In FY22, the PMS was
was brought on mobile devices for leadership. The intervention covering brought on mobile with pleasant and
all HDFC banks working in offshore Group Heads, Business Heads and easy design, facilitating qualitative
locations. Many changes related to senior leaders reporting to the Group and quantitative dialogue between
process governance, reporting, user Heads was launched with credible the supervisor and the supervised. It
friendliness were incorporated in external partners and facilitated the seamlessly encompassed elements of
the areas of hiring, employee on- gathering of honest feedback by those competence and Bank values in the
boarding and learning. Other hygiene who experience the leaders at work process.
HR services were also brought on every day. This helped creating better
the device and network environment self-awareness for the leadership Talent: acquisition and attrition
agnostic HCM solution. team.
Including frontline sales staff, we hired
Succession Planning in the Bank 57,200 employees. When compared to
Talent management
is a continuous process that aligns the hiring of FY21, the increase stands
We have a structured, well- with the other talent management at 166%. In order to meet the growing
documented Leadership Competency interventions and endeavours to requirements to outperform the market
Framework. as well as a Functional mitigate critical people risks such as in identification, digital evaluation and
Capability Framework which defines vacancy fulfilment, and transition risk. quick onboarding of the best talent,
key competencies and forms the The process of development involves we aim to implement the Applicant
bedrock for various talent processes in relevant role exposures, specific Tracking System in FY23.
the Bank. mentoring or coaching exposures and
86
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
ATTRITION BY CATEGORY
2021-22 Attrition Rate
Male Female Total Male Female Total
Senior Management 13 - 13 10.5% - 9.4%
Junior & Middle Management 1804 377 2181 8.4% 10.8% 8.7%
Non Supervisory Staff 13080 4751 17831 21.6% 24.7% 22.4%
Total 14,897 5,128 20,025 18.16 22.5% 19.1%
Frontline Staff and Sales Officers 14268 1820 16088 43.8% 42.9% 43.7%
ATTRITION BY REGION
2021-22 Attrition rate
Male Female Total Male Female Total
East 3,649 549 4,198 25.50% 24.70% 25.4%
West 10,639 2,585 13,224 25.30% 25.00% 25.2%
South 7,006 2,009 9,015 26.40% 27.70% 26.7%
North 7,868 1,799 9,667 25.00% 25.20% 25%
Abroad 3 6 9 2.90% 11.8% 5.8%
Total 29,165 6,948 36,113 25.50% 25.70% 25.50%
ATTRITION BY AGE
2021-22 Attrition rate
Male Female Total Male Female Total
<30 15,009 4,453 19,462 36.6% 32.1% 35.4%
30-50 14,066 2,485 16,551 19.5% 19.3% 19.4%
>50 90 10 100 7.3% 4.4% 6.8%
Total 29,165 6,948 36,113 25.50% 25.70% 25.50%
87
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Social – People
NEW HIRES BY CATEGORY
2021-22 New hire rate
Male Female Total Male Female Total
Senior Management 9 2 11 7.30% 13.30% 7.90%
Non Supervisory Staff 3,597 647 4,244 16.80% 18.50% 17.00%
Junior Management 18,971 7,951 26,922 31.40% 41.30% 33.80%
Frontline Staff and Sales 22,446 3,628 26,074 69.00% 85.40% 70.9
Officers
Total 45,023 12,228 57,251 39.30% 45.30% 40.40%
NEW HIRES BY AGE
2021-22 New hire rate
Male Female Total Male Female Total
<30 27,848 8,826 36,674 67.90% 63.50% 66.80%
30-50 17,143 3,390 20,533 23.70% 26.30% 24.10%
>50 32 12 44 2.60% 5.30% 3.00%
Total 45,023 12,228 57,251 39.30% 45.30% 40.40%
NEW HIRES BY REGION
2021-22 New hire rate
Male Female Total Male Female Total
East 5,283 858 6,141 36.90% 38.60% 37.10%
West 16,507 4,538 21,045 39.20% 43.90% 40.10%
South 11,252 3,652 14,904 42.40% 50.40% 44%
North 11,973 3,167 15,140 38.00% 44.30% 39.20%
Abroad 8 13 21 7.80% 35.50% 13.60%
Total 45,023 12,228 57,251 39.30% 45.30% 40.40%
88
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Employee well-being We also conduct regular health check- practices. We strictly prohibit child
ups and mental health awareness labour, forced or compulsory labour in
Our flagship initiative ‘HDFC Bank
sessions to address issues arising from all forms in our operations. In addition,
Cares’ aims to provide resources
a sedentary lifestyle and stress. All through our ESG policy framework, we
and a platform for physical, mental,
our employees are provided medical strive to ensure that our vendors and
emotional and financial wellness for all
cover. For our women employees on suppliers abide by the labour laws and
employees.
the path to embracing motherhood, we human rights – including prohibition
have a comprehensive maternity care of child labour, forced labour and
programme. trafficked labour. In FY22, we received
no complaints on infringement of
Further, as a part of our credit policy,
human rights, cases of child labour,
we evaluate all large industrial/
forced labour, and involuntary labour.
Our wellness initiatives are aimed to infrastructure projects for potential
The facility attendants deployed at our
help keep our employees and their adverse social impact, such as
sites for ensuring security are imparted
families healthy and safe in a year land acquisition, resettlement and
training under the provisions of the
that saw an unprecedented test of rehabilitation, livelihood losses and
PSARA Act, 2005 through security
human resilience. We also introduced compensation for the same, and also
agencies on various aspects of
a comprehensive ‘Compassion for exploitative labour or child labour
Package’ with an aim to reduce
financial burden on surviving family
members in case of the unfortunate
event of the demise of an employee.
The key features include offer of
employment to a family member and
financial support for education of 2
children till graduation, upto `10 Lakh.
Other initiatives include providing
additional leave, reimbursement
of treatment expenses, on-call
counselling support, e-consultation
with doctors and awareness drives
through various channels. Further,
the Bank has an Employee Welfare
Trust which cover expenses beyond
Mediclaim on a case-to-case basis.
89
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Social – People
security, safety, etiquette and personal qualifying criteria, the organisation is Employee connect initiatives
conduct/behaviour. certified as a Great Place to Work for a Over the year, we organised several
period of one year.
There is also an employee association initiatives that provide employees
at the Bank. As of FY22, 0.18% of The survey was conducted for a an opportunity to connect with the
our permanent employees are part second time in November 2021. Over organisation beyond their work-life.
of this association. The Bank has an 94% of the eligible employees (86,506 These initiatives spanned multiple
internal Memorandum of Settlements employees) participated and scored areas including sports, art, music,
that may be interpreted as a collective the Bank on five key parameters, wellness, and photography, ensuring
bargaining agreement, signed namely, camaraderie, fairness, there is something in it for everyone.
between the Management and Union respect, pride, and credibility, amongst We also focused on involving family
office bearers. There are periodic its employees. members which was met with
negotiations with Union Office Bearers The important distinction that this an enthusiastic response. 43,121
and the Memorandum of Settlement score brings is as follows: employees participated across 21
is signed by the Management to initiatives during the year. Following is
the extent of their benefits and a brief on some of the key initiatives
service conditions – including any
significant operational changes. We
provide 21 days’ notice typically to
employees and their representatives
prior to implementation of significant
operational changes that could
substantially affect them.
Overall Bank Only large Indian
Engagement Score Bank to be certified
Measuring employee
improved from 75% amongst the 7 certified
engagement
Engagement Score in mega-employers (>50k
HDFC Bank continues to be FY21 to 83% in FY22 employees) in India
certified as a Great Place to Work®
Organisation. This certification is
Key outcomes
a testimony to the Bank's inherent
of our employee
strength as an institution par
engagement
excellence and the efforts to support
survey
and enable employees through
best-in-class people practices and
processes.
The Bank partners with Great Place
to Work® to conduct their employee
Best In the India's Best
engagement survey over three cycles
Industry — BFSI Companies to
(18 months per cycle). Organisations
Work For, 2022
participating in the survey are
— Top 100
assessed through two lenses — the
Trust Index and the Culture Audit.
Great Place to Work® Institute audits
the company’s human resource
practices and policies. On meeting the
90
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Wellness sessions Syahi Festive webinars
Morning fitness sessions on Zumba, Syahi is the online writing contest of To add some excitement in the festivals
Yoga, Suryanamaskara, Meditation the Bank and this year a separate during the pandemic, we conducted
and Pranayama were introduced to category for Hindi writers. Employees different webinars/DIY workshops for
help keep our people physically and showcased their creative writing skills employees during popular festivals like
mentally fit during challenging times. through enthralling fictional as well Ganesh Chaturthi, Navratri, Diwali and
as anecdotal accounts. The winning Christmas. These workshops were
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
2,001 stories, selected by an external judge, also focused on involving employees’
were curated and published in the children. Activities such as creating an
form of an e-book on the Our World Eco Ganesha, storytelling around the
platform. history of the festival, and interesting
games centred around such stories,
Take-a-break TOTAL PARTICIPATION
were conducted as a part of these
733
We introduced weekly quizzes via workshops.
e-mail on topics including general TOTAL PARTICIPATION
knowledge, famous personalities, 325
logical reasoning, and visual puzzles
Corporate fitness
like spot the difference for employees.
The initiatives garnered a lot of interest challenge
and participation while providing a Million dollar challenge
much-needed break to the employees. We participated in an inter-corporate
fitness challenge contest. The contest In 2020, we introduced this interactive
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
18,841 conducted over 10 weeks included online team building game which
different challenges such as doing the became very popular among
maximum number of push-ups, planks, employees. Last year was the second
etc. The first position in the contest season of this challenge. This game
was bagged by one of our employees. served as a very effective icebreaker
Apart from this, six employees won for new joiners. We also leveraged the
awards across different categories. game to build camaraderie in cross-
TOTAL PARTICIPATION functional teams.
521
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
1,832
91
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Social – People
AnalytIQ Corporate photography Digital Voice Hunt
contest
In Season 2, employees had the option This was the second season of this
to play Chess, Sudoku and Scrabble initiative wherein we collaborated with
This is an inter-corporate photography
online. It was a round robin contest Furtados School of Music to organise a
contest held every year. Out of a total
and had different levels of shortlisting. music competition for our employees,
of 3,349 photographs contributed by
The competitive format spurred a lot of their children and spouses. This
our employees, 332 were shortlisted in
excitement among employees and led year, we also involved their parents,
the top 1,500. We bagged the second
to a high level of engagement. grandparents and in-laws. We received
prize in the wildlife category. A virtual
rave reviews from the family members
TOTAL PARTICIPATION 3-D exhibition of these photographs
3,434 who participated.
was held for all employees.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
453
2,090
Breakfast cycle rides
Breakfast cycle rides were organised Xpressions
for our riding enthusiasts in Mumbai.
This being the first on-ground initiative In season 7 of Xpressions, we saw
post lifting of lockdown, saw limited some very creative artwork prepared
albeit enthusiastic participation. by our employees and their children
with an artistic bent. The artwork was
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
84 displayed as wallpapers on the Bank’s
laptops, thus earning organisation-
wide recognition for the participants.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
1,390
HUNAR
HUNAR is an annual talent hunt
organised for employees and their
families. 17,000+ votes were cast in
appreciation of their performances,
from which we announced popular
choice as well as judges’ choice
awards.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
1,392
92
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Women’s day Summer camp Auction Premier League
celebration
A novel 5-day online summer This was an interactive activity
camp introduced for the kids of our conducted in the IPL auction style
This unique initiative was arranged for
employees included some interesting to promote team building, thinking
the women in the workforce. We held
activities around science experiments, out-of-the-box, presence of mind,
a series of webinars on topics such
fire-free cooking, talent showcases collaboration and strategic thinking.
as ‘Happiness Inside Out’, ‘Mental
as well as behavioural learning. We
Health Awareness’ and ‘How to love TOTAL PARTICIPATION
received heart-warming feedback for 2,661
yourself?’ over a course of 4 days in a
the event.
virtual setting.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
626
1,766
The InQUIZitive Family
Organised as a team activity for
Energise yourself families, this was an online quiz
Zaika
competition held in multiple levels.
Mental well-being is as important There was enthusiastic participation
Zaika is a cooking contest launched
as physical well-being. In order to with request for more of such initiatives
in 2019. The initial rounds were
raise awareness on the subject, in the future.
conducted online in six cities out
we conducted webinars on topics
of which the shortlisted candidates TOTAL PARTICIPATION
like reboot happiness, energy and 608
were invited to Mumbai for a finale.
frequency, art therapy and healing
The winning recipes of Zaika were
with sound. These sessions helped
compiled in an e-book and uploaded
employees stay happy and energised.
on Our World for display.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
981
468
Session on photography
Funtakshari
Looking at the interest in the inter-
Centred around our love for
corporate photography contest, we
Bollywood songs, ‘Funtakshari’ is a
decided to conduct a workshop on
fun competition open to employees
photography in which the employees
as well as their families. The initiative
learnt different techniques of
became very popular and was much
photography, camera care 101 and
appreciated by all.
types of lenses that can be used for
TOTAL PARTICIPATION different types of photographs.
2,382
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
475
93
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Social - Community
Building resilient
Social & Relationship Capital
communities together
We believe businesses can only thrive if We seek to bring about a revolution in the
the communities in which they operate quality of life and livelihood of our communities
through our CSR Brand, Parivartan, which
thrive as well. Our CSR programmes are
means Change. Our programmes are created
designed to have a long-term, meaningful
and shortlisted through a participatory, bottom-
impact on the upliftment of marginalised up, and consultative process, including all
communities, while contributing to global stakeholders. We work with a variety of NGOs
and partners, as well as employee volunteers,
sustainable development goals. The
to assist us in the implementation of various
pandemic-induced economic hardships
sustainable development programmes.
that our communities have witnessed over
the past two years have reaffirmed our
resolve to address deep-seated social
WE ARE ONE OF THE HIGHEST CSR
inequalities. We have aligned our efforts SPENDERS IN INDIA, WITH A TOTAL CSR
EXPENDITURE OF
towards a ‘people-centric’ recovery `736.01 Cr
through multi-dimensional interventions
across livelihood, skill development,
education, health, and natural resources.
94
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
CSR initiatives and UN Sustainable Development Goals
Natural Resource Management Promotion of Education
Under Parivartan, the bank has been This is one of Parivartan’s most
working in 23 states in India to bring significant pillars, which encourages
holistic development in the rural equal education for all students, from
landscape. early childhood through secondary
school.
Construction of solar
streetlights, biomass stoves, S cholarship opportunities like
community biogas plants, and the ECS Scholarship
the distribution of solar home
lighting
Introduction of Smart Classes
across different states to
Building Rainwater Harvesting integrate technology with
Structures, Community Tanks, education
Hand Pump, and Wells
Sports as one of the pillars of
Seed Bank, Grain Bank, and education to promote the health
Village Nursery are being and well-being of childern
established
E stablishment of ~48,490+
kitchen gardens
Healthcare and Hygiene Skill Development and Financial Literacy and
livelihood Enhancement Inclusion
The bank focuses on eliminating
Non-Communicable Disease in some Managing and improving skills is Our Bank offers financial literacy
states and establish accessible an important part of increasing programmes to help communities
sanitary facilities despite difficult employment and establishing long- make informed financial decisions.
terrains. term livelihood options.
The bank conducts financial
P lanting of 17.69 Lakh+ Assist farmers in changing their literacy workshops
trees has helped increase logistics and supply chains
groundwater levels
Digidhan or Dhanchayat is
Aided in the formation of dairy the Bank’s financial literacy
D evelopment of ~23,800 cooperatives, poultry farms, programme on wheels
household toilet units across integrated poultry-goat rearing-
India fishery units
Guinness World Record for Parivartan has trained ~8,470
organising the world's largest SHGs in rural India with the goal
blood donation drive of empowering women
The bank has trained nearly
2.54 Lakh+ people through its
partners, in accordance with the
ideals of fairness and inclusion
The CSR and ESG committee of the Board reviews our CSR projects, monitors CSR policy and performance, and
ensures that the Bank is compliant with the regulatory requirements. There were no fines or non-monetary sanctions in
the social area during FY22 owing to non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
95
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Social - Community
Parivartan – a step towards
sustainable Sustainable
progress
Parivartan is the Bank's umbrella
Rural
brand for all social efforts. It 1 2
Development
aims to drive positive change in
people's lives by empowering
them, to become self-sufficient and
integrated with the society through Financial Promotion of
direct or indirect interventions. Literacy and Education
Inclusion Our focus
Parivartan is also at the forefront
of natural disaster response, areas
successfully restoring infrastructure
5 3
and rehabilitating communities.
Parivartan works under five thematic
Skill Training
areas. Based on the identified focus Healthcare
and Livelihood
areas, we have set seven goals and Hygiene
Enhancement
and 11 sub-goals that guide our
4
community development activities.
LIVES IMPACTED*
9.6
Cr+
1 Rural Development (Natural Resource Management)
Our Holistic Rural Development resources and their optimal utilisation
HOUSEHOLDS
Programme (HRDP) focuses on for the economic development of the
9.88
comprehensive development through community. Under this theme, we Lakh+
activities under NRM, Education, have defined three goals. First, we
Skill Development and Livelihood, are working to irrigate 2 Lakh acres
Financial Literacy and Healthcare. of unirrigated land and cover 1 Lakh VILLAGES
These activities are based on the acres with vegetation, to increase the 3,335
+
belief that rural development is key to area of land under cultivation, as well
India’s growth. The Natural Resource as to increase the cropping intensity of
Management theme rests on the cultivable land.
twin goals of enhancement of natural
*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
96
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Natural Resource Management
Promoting the use Irrigate 2 Lakh acres of
WATER CONSERVATION STRUCTURES
of chemical-free farming unirrigated land DEVELOPED*
10,500
to achieve 3 Lakh acres of farmland · To increase the cropping intensity +
under chemical free farming of cultivable land
· To increase the area of land under
cultivation
SOLAR LIGHTS INSTALLED*
41,810
+
Our
targets
BIOMASS STOVES DEPLOYED*
11,670
+
2.5 Million trees to be 1,000 villages to have clean
planted (CO reduction) and renewable energy
2
solutions
Implementing tree plantation
KITCHEN GARDENS DEVELOPED*
programmes to sequester reducing the carbon and ecological 48,490
carbon and promote footprint of our communities +
sustainability
Second, we aim to reduce the different agricultural techniques for TREES PLANTED*
17.69
carbon and ecological footprint of improving productivity and using locally Lakh+
our communities by promoting clean produced manure and fertilisers, which
and renewable energy solutions. not only aid in chemical-free farming
This includes undertaking projects but also help avoid expenditures on
such as tree plantation for carbon chemical fertilisers.
sequestration and biodiversity
conservation. We are targeting 1,000
villages to have clean and renewable
energy solutions and a minimum of 10
solar lights in each village. In addition,
we are providing solar home lights,
biomass chulha, biogas plant, solar
study lamp, and a solar irrigation unit,
covering 25% of the households in
each village. The biomass stoves have
helped improve indoor air quality,
creating a direct positive impact on
women’s health. Further, we target to
plant 2.5 Million trees by FY25.
Third, we have been promoting the use
of chemical-free farming, to maintain
the soil, environment, and human
health by combining tradition, creativity
and science. We train farmers on
*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
97
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Social - Community
2 Promotion of Education
We identify economically backward
students with an annual family income
To convert 2500 To support meritorious below `2.5 Lakh and a minimum of
traditional schools underprivileged students 55% marks on their latest available
to smart schools with scholarships. marksheet.
The third dimension targets quality
of education in schools. We aim to
achieve 70% of students in all schools
(those under intervention) at class
appropriate learning (CAL) levels. The
Our
CAL levels are assessed as per the
targets
NCERT defined framework in classes
3, 5, and 8 through the National
Achievement Survey in language,
mathematics, EVS, science, and social
To achieve 70% science.
children at class
appropriate
learning levels in all
intervention schools
We are implementing a programme government schools through a three-
to promote education in line with dimensional, target-driven approach.
India’s Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan. Under The first dimension aims to convert
this theme, we provide multi-faceted 2,500 traditional schools into smart
support to schools, to enhance the schools, to establish a favourable
quality of education – which includes learning environment and enable
training the teachers, providing teachers to utilise various efficient
scholarships and career guidance teaching-learning methods. We have Digital classrooms
to students, as well as infrastructure identified six building blocks for the
support to schools, such as building development of smart schools and The Smart Classrooms by Parivartan
toilets and improving classrooms. would be providing targeted support, in the state-run schools are equipped
We have dedicated programmes for based on a detailed need assessment with a pre-loaded projector and
improving teachers' skills and scaling and situational analysis of the an interactive board. The in-built
up no-cost solutions for improving availability of adequate infrastructure e-content is aligned with the
existing systems and processes. such as space and electricity. concerned state curriculum, making
We have also been working towards learning fun and engaging for the
establishing libraries, scientific labs The second dimension aims to support students. For effective implementation
and digital classrooms. meritorious yet underprivileged of the digital classrooms initiative,
students with scholarships, to not
the Bank provides training to the
Under this theme, we have set the goal let the financial crises interrupt the teachers making them the experts and
of enhancing the quality of education in development of bright young minds. custodians of the infrastructure.
98
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Basic Science and Math Library Smart class infrastructure
laboratory
Additional learning hubs fundamental enable modern technology in
For collaborative practical approach to overall personal development education to provide an interactive
learning environment.
Construction and maintenance Drinking water facility Active Corner (for primary
of toilet facility schools only)
Provisioning uncontaminated and safe
For stimulation of cognitive learning
Prevents dropouts and absenteeism drinking water for students
capacities and improve attendance
and enrolment
2.8 19.94 2.09 710
Lakh+ Lakh+ Cr+ +
SCHOOLS BENEFITTED* TEACHERS TRAINED* STUDENTS REACHED* LIBRARIES SET UP*
3 Skills Training and Livelihood Enhancement
Increase in income To have 1 Lakh
community institutions
Increase in income of ~5
Lakh farmers across the to have Local Economic
country Activation with 1 Lakh
community-led enterprises
promoted including VDCs/
FIG/FPO/SHG/JLG/WUG/
YG/AG etc. (~50% women
Our led)
Targets
Skilling of youth
Skill training for employment generation
*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
99
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Social - Community
Under the Skills Training and Livelihood led enterprises to boost local for unemployed youth, school
Enhancement theme, we focus on the economic activities, of which ~50% dropouts and landless farmers. Our
economic development of farmers would be women-led. Under this, training programmes typically have
and youth in rural areas by providing we encourage the economically certifications from the NSDC, the
means of generating income through deprived communities to engage in Sector Skill Council, or other qualified
agricultural or non-agricultural entrepreneurship on an individual or a non-government agencies.
activities. Since its beginning, this cluster basis. We support identification
The second goal relates to the
initiative has assisted around 2.54 of prospective economic activities in
development and sustenance of
Lakh+ people. The overarching the intervention villages and assist
institutions for livelihood enhancement
objective is to empower the the community members in founding
– particularly community institutions
disadvantaged by providing them with and operating an enterprise – which
such as village development
greater possibilities, assisting them include beauty parlours, small shops,
committees, farmers’ groups, self-help
in finding local jobs, increasing their goateries, poultry, tailoring, etc. for
groups, water user groups, sanitation
household income and discouraging individual beneficiaries, and processing
committees, youth groups, and
migration. We also support women units, packaging units, fisheries, and
adolescent groups. We aim to develop
Self Help Groups (SHGs) or Joint handicrafts, etc. for group enterprises,
and support 1 Lakh community
Liability Groups (JLGs) by providing established through FPO, SHG, and
institutions. The Bank’s intervention
occupational skills training, financial JLG.
could range from a few months to
literacy, credit counselling, livelihood
The third sub-goal relates to skill three years. The activities are related
finance, and market linkage. We have
development for employment to agriculture, water, sanitation, health,
started SLI EMI collections through
generation where we provide livelihood, and other rural development
Common Service Centre operators
classroom/online/blended skill work.
(CSC VLE) providing convenience to
development training in trades
customers at the village level.
that could lead to job placement
We have set separate goals for or self-employment opportunity
individual and institutional capacity
development under this theme.
The first goal focuses on increasing
farmers' income across the country.
We have defined three distinct sub-
goals to move forward in a targeted
and systematic way. Through the
first sub-goal, we aim to reach 5
Lakh small and marginal farmers
(with annual income below `60,000)
and support them in maximising
output and reducing input costs. We
are also enabling farmers to adopt
modern and innovative farming tools 8.08
Lakh+
and techniques, by providing them
exposure visits to different fields and
WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS
agricultural institutes, and supporting TRAINED*
them with seeds, fertilisers, and other
farm support materials. Additionally,
we help farmers diversify their income
by supporting them in allied activities 8,470
+
such as livestock rearing, timber,
horticulture, and fishery, among others. SHGs REVIVED/FORMED/
TRAINED*
The second sub-goal relates to the
promotion of 1 Lakh community-
*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
100
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Stories of Parivartan
Increasing production with high-tech farming
Tehsil: Lalsot, Dausa District, Rajasthan
Prem Devi is a small-scale stands, and water tanks
farmer who was dealing were provided as part of the
with a variety of challenges, initiative to her boost her
including poor tomato quality agricultural operations.
owing to inappropriate
Since implementation of the
sapling planting, output
intervention, the water usage
losses due to numerous
has been reduced due to
illnesses, and severe lack
installation of drip systems.
of water.
Prem Devi sold roughly 150
We assisted her with a high-
quintals of tomatoes, making
tech farming system and
a profit of `98,000. This has
capacitated her to maximise
not only improved her quality
profit, while lowering the cost
of life, but has also motivated
of production. Drip systems,
other farmers in the region.
mulching sheet covering,
Beneficiary: Prem Devi
Strengthening agri-horticulture
District: Mandi, Himachal Pradesh
Farmers in the Mandi district Constructed a model apple
have become victims to processing machine to
exploitation by middlemen. promote apple bi-products
In addition, their lack of
Farmers now have better
negotiating power over prices
market access, with 27.63
has aggravated the situation.
tonnes of apples sold
We supported market straight from the producer.
linkages through: FIG farmers have begun
· Formation of 45 Farmer selling their products in bulk
Interest Groups (FIG) and delivering it straight to
· Conducted 25 orientation customers. As a result, their
trainings on value chain negotiating strength and
and value addition in apple revenues have improved.
production
· Encouraged farmers to sell
their harvest in bulk
Beneficiary: 2,000 Farmers
101
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Social - Community
Fighting the pandemic
India
We reached out to from class 1 and above, up
Covid-care hospitals in to those pursuing UG and PG
several states to learn programmes.
about their needs and
We are increasing the oxygen
concerns, with the aim to fix
capacity in 18 hospitals
infrastructural gaps using
around the country to better
the lessons learned during
prepare for the approaching
the second and third wave.
COVID-19 waves. These
Through the Covid Crisis oxygen plants are now being
Support Scholarship set up in Uttar Pradesh,
Programme, we are assisting Jharkhand, Haryana, Punjab,
4,000+ students who are Karnataka, Kerala, Assam,
experiencing personal or West Bengal, New Delhi,
financial hardships, as Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh,
a result of Covid. With Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu,
monetary aid up to `75,000, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and
the Bank created a specific Himanchal Pradesh.
initiative to help students
Upskilling women and rural youth
India
In collaboration with applicants, once they’ve been
the Apparel Made-Ups placed through off-site or on-
and Home Furnishings site verification.
Sector Skill Council, we
With our ‘Head Held High’
have trained over 5000
(HHH) initiative, we have
women across six states in
developed the ‘Make India
apparel-related job areas.
Capable’ programme
This included awareness/
which aim to improve the
counseling sessions, quality
skills and capabilities of
training sessions, provision
1500 rural youths in ten
of learning materials, toolkit
districts across ten states
etc.
(Karnataka, Maharashtra,
We have also set up a team Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Bihar,
to followup and support the Uttarakhand, Telangana,
applicants to get employed Gujarat, Haryana, and Odisha).
Training and Aiding at top companies.
The programme guarantees
placing 5,000 disconnected We aim to place women that ~70% of the trained
candidates in top national youngsters would be placed
women across rural youth
and international companies. in a job within 39 months. The
6 states across 10 states We are setting up a team project commenced in FY21-
to follow and support the 22 and has trained over 280
applicants until March 2022.
102
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
4 Healthcare and Hygiene
Improve sanitation Improve Sanitation
facility facility
100% of households have 1,000 villages to have a waste
sanitation facilities in usable management system in place
conditions
15 ULBs to have MRF and
recycling facilities
Our
Targets
23,800
Improve Sanitation +
facility
HOUSEHOLD TOILETS CONSTRUCTED*
1,000 villages to have
access to clean drinking 1,810
+
water
SANITATION DRIVES CONDUCTED*
We have adopted an integrated Under the first sub-goal, we are buildings) as well as at the family-level
approach related to healthcare and developing waste management (piped water connection). Through
hygiene. We have not only been systems in 1,000 settlements. We are these interventions, three litres of
provisioning healthcare services committed to establishing a long-term water per person per day will be
to our communities in the form of solid waste management system by made available. We are also forming
health clinics, nutrition programmes providing the necessary infrastructure and orienting water user groups to
and immunisation drives, but have and instilling the necessary behavioural ensure sustenance of the services who
also been working on hygiene changes toward responsible would be entrusted with post-project
and sanitation in schools and consumption, source segregation and maintenance and water quality testing.
communities. To complement our litter prevention. This includes setting-
The third sub-goal pertains to
community-led sanitation efforts up materials recovery facilities (MRF)
ensuring that 100% of households
directed toward the proper disposal and recycling facilities in 15 ULBs, in
have acceptable sanitation facilities.
of wastewater, we have been addition to village-level interventions
While the Government of India is
working on the institutionalisation such as residential composting,
believed to have provided sanitation
of waste pickers through social and door-to-door garbage collection and
facilities to every household, we are
financial inclusion for dry waste the related mechanisms for user
supplementing the government’s
management. fee collection, compost sales and
efforts by working towards
recycling.
Under this thematic area, we have set enhancing the usage of such facilities
the goal to improve sanitation facilities We are targeting 1,000 communities by undertaking soft initiatives
– which we are implementing through for providing access to clean drinking like awareness and motivation,
targeted efforts on three distinct sub- water. This would include interventions infrastructure-based interventions, to
goals. The three sub-goals are related to promote clean drinking water support the repair and upgradation of
to waste management, clean drinking availability at both the community- such facilities, if and where required.
water and household sanitation level (through Jal-minar or other water
facilities.
*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
103
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Social - Community
Employee engagement 2021-22
The Parivartan initiative also strives to engage our employees through its Employee Volunteering Programme,
encouraging them to contribute their time and effort. Our employees have displayed strong commitment by
participating in various social programmes.
Financial Literacy Konkan Flood Relief Be a Secret Santa SmartUp
Sessions for school
· The Bank collaborated · The Bank organised · Under its SmartUp
students
with Donatekart and its annual ‘Be a Secret programme, HDFC
· HDFC Bank has Aahardaan Foundation Santa’ campaign Bank supports start-
created a fun-filled and to raise funds and marking Christmas- ups to help them drive
student-friendly financial facilitate delivery of donation drive. social change with
literacy workshop. essential materials to the motivation.
· The campaign allowed
These workshops are Konkan flood affected
the bank to donate · The Bank officials
conducted by the bank areas.
towards several causes cumulatively spent 100+
employees.
· Among the affected including support for hours in shortlisting the
· The Bank collaborated areas, the Bank catered children living on streets, start-ups. The Bank
with Teach for India to to communities in welfare of stray animals, also launched a new
conduct these sessions. Chiplun district reaching senior citizens and sub-segment called
100+ students were out to 500 families. more. SmartUp Unnati, a
engaged through the dedicated programme
virtual workshops. for mentoring women
entrepreneurs by
women leaders at the
Bank. Under the above
programme, four senior
Employee payroll Gifting Plant on the go leaders dedicated 15+
giving programme independence hours in mentoring 8
· With a motto to make
to the elderly on women entrepreneurs.
· 1,400+ employees have our surroundings
Independence Day
subscribed to the Give greener, the bank
India Payroll Giving · On Independence Day, distributed seedbombs
Programme to donate the Bank organised among its staff in
towards several different an email-fundraiser Mumbai.
causes. campaign through
· The seedbombs (mud
its NGO partner-
· HDFC Bank matches the balls consisting of
Donatekart. The bank
employee’s contribution, seeds) were specially
employees through the
and the sum amount made by tribal women.
campaign could donate
is annually donated 800+ seedbombs were
towards procurement of
to a charity of the distributed among the
essential materials for
employees’ choice. staff.
the elderly staying at Old
age homes.
104
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
5 Financial Literacy and Inclusion
The first step towards true financial the fundamentals of saving, investing
inclusion is financial literacy. Financial and organised finance, enabling them 23
Lakh+
literacy camps are periodically to make informed decisions. Digidhan,
conducted at our branches. In our flagship plan under this pillar, is a FINANCIAL LITERACY CAMPS ORGANISED*
addition, we have set up financial mobile financial literacy programme
literacy centres across India. We that travels the length and breadth of
are also working with our non-profit the country's hinterland, presenting
1.71
partners to enhance financial literacy. the advantages of digital banking in an Cr+
The camps are designed to provide audio-visual format.
INDIVIDUALS BENEFITTED*
communities with information about
*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
105
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Nation Building
Contributing to
India’s development
HDFC Bank continued its journey
to contribute to nation–building
by digitising payments, collecting
direct, indirect, and local taxes,
and facilitating digital commerce by
integrating with various Government
owned platforms like e–National
Agricultural Marketplace, and
Government e–marketplace and
offering banking solutions to
unbanked and underserved sections
of the society. The focus is to ensure
the unbanked sections of the society
are provided relevant financing
and other banking services. As a
responsible banker, we aim to deliver
relevant banking solutions through
partnerships with Government and
other entities. The goal is to enable
easier availability of funds and
facilitate ease of doing business
for beneficiaries such as farmers,
students, teachers, and healthcare
workers, amongst others.
As a socially responsible citizen, HDFC Bank
endeavours to contribute to nation-building
by remaining focused on key areas. These
include digitising workflows and helping
build alternate channels for the Government,
supporting the start-up ecosystem to help
fuel the economy further and supporting the
Government’s financial inclusion agenda.
106
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Helping the Government Powering trade and digital the nation’s foreign ties. To address
digitise fund distribution commerce the pain-points of this segment, the
efficiently Bank offers best-in-class solutions
The Bank's integration with various
including seamless international Trade
The bank plays a major role in platforms demonstrates continued
and Forex facilities, digital solutions for
distribution of the Government’s funds contribution to the Government’s ‘Ease
Visa collections and special current
for most major schemes like central of doing business’ and ‘Digital India’
accounts to suit the needs of the
sponsored schemes, central sector initiatives. The Bank has integrated with
expatriate community.
schemes and funds from the 15th the following platforms:
Finance Commission.
· ‘ICEGATE’ (Indian Customs and Promoting entrepreneurship
The Bank is one of the top 5 banks Central Excise Electronic Commerce/ through SmartUp programme
processing Government pay-outs Electronic Data Interchange Gateway)
At HDFC Bank, we work with various
including Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT)
· National Agriculture Markets (eNAM) State Governments and incubators/
and has also been recognised by the
accelerators including the Indian
Ministries of Finance, Panchayati Raj and · FOIS system (Freight Operations
Institutes of Technology (IITs) and the
Electronics and Information Technology Information System) of Indian
Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs)
for its efforts in this area. Railways
to promote entrepreneurship under
Assisted Single The Bank’s long association with GeM our SmartUp programme and Startup
Nodal Agencies in portal, which facilitates procurement fund. We work with 45+ incubators
for Government departments, was certified by the Department of Science
streamlining fund-flows
extended as it was empanelled to and Technology.
across the states.
collect GeM Caution Money for
Networking and mentoring sessions
registered suppliers.
are also held for our startup customers
26
% The Bank has enabled about hundred with HNIs and senior executives of
thousand suppliers to be eligible the Bank. We have signed MoUs
OUR SHARE OF FUND-FLOWS
to transact on the Government with 7 State Governments and the
FROM THE CENTRE TO THE STATES
e-Marketplace by offering them the Ministry of Electronics and Information
facility to deposit caution money that Technology (MEITY) to facilitate the
suppliers must deposit with GeM, prior execution of their startup policies.
to becoming active on the platform.
85
Improving our foreign ties
SOCIAL IMPACT START-UPS IN THE
HDFC Bank has created dedicated
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & GENDER DIVERSITY
products for Embassies, Consulates SECTORS WERE PROVIDED WITH FINANCIAL AND
ADVISORY SUPPORT IN FY22.
and diplomats, helping strengthen
107
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Nation Building
Developing our children, Disbursements to 1 participation rates by faculty members
our future Lakh+ schools benefitting to conduct examinations seamlessly.
Online submission of claims has also
The Bank recognises the importance 1 Cr+ students under
helped the boards and faculties of
of today’s youth in shaping the future Mid-day Meal Scheme
these institutions overcome logistical
of the nation. Accordingly, it works at
challenges posed by the pandemic
many levels to support the country’s
Further, the Bank has enhanced its in submitting and processing such
education system.
education loan offering to students to claims.
HDFC Bank has been a key player in enable larger numbers to avail quality
The Bank also recognises the critical
extending the reach of Government education programmes. This has been
role played by educators and has been
schemes that help school children. achieved by removing the cap on
committed to improving their lives.
It has enabled state education loan values and widening the range of
A new initiative under the banner of
departments to disburse funds to courses for which they can be used.
#SalaamDilSey was launched this year
Government schools for fulfiling the
Additionally, the Bank has worked for Teacher’s Day. Industry leaders
nutritional needs under the Mid-Day
with Education Boards to digitise from across the HDFC Group and
Meal Scheme. The Bank has also
the payment of remuneration to others spoke at a special webinar
helped disburse funds to the last mile
faculty who offer their services during aimed at helping teachers simplify
under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyaan
examinations. This has expedited their family finances. Attended by
Scheme, a Centrally Sponsored
the pace of these payments, brought 1,300+ teachers, the webinar was
Scheme focused on making quality
transparency to the process, well-received and will now become an
education available to students.
and ultimately resulted in higher annual affair given its success.
108
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Boosting and protecting industry by offering an integrated Making India healthy
farmer incomes solution for the entire ecosystem, thus
The Bank extended its focus on
driving transparency in the process and
The Bank has been consistently healthcare during the pandemic. It
improving planning since it provides
assisting the Government focused enabled the smooth transfer of funds
visibility into both the demand and
sectors such as agriculture and allied from state apex bodies to primary and
supply ends of the business.
industries. secondary healthcare centres and
village level hospitals. Our services
In the current year, your Bank became
In line with the Central Government’s also included digitisation of processes,
the first private sector Bank to be
focus on developing Farmer Producer expenditure reporting, providing digital
empanelled with the Agriculture
Organisations (FPO), the Bank has platforms for centralised monitoring of
Insurance Company of India (AIC), for
powered the platform created by a fund utilisation, etc. The Bank has also
marketing their insurance products.
state agriculture department with enabled state health departments to
Through this partnership, the Bank aims
integrated digital payment channels. distribute funds in a timely manner to
to provide financial security and income
This has enhanced farmers’ access ASHA Workers as compensation for
stability to farmers, in the event of natural
to a common platform for trading and extending healthcare services to end
calamities that affect their crop yield.
buying agri-produce and supplies. beneficiaries.
The platform has also helped revenue
`70,000
optimisation on crop yields by farmers. Cr+ The pandemic provided new avenues
The Bank has also helped digitise for customising banking solutions
VALUE OF AGRI PROCUREMENT
the financial operations for the dairy across various segments. With
the continued focus on enhancing
affordability, we have enabled several
large partner hospitals/clinics/IVF
centres to provide loans and the ability
to conveniently convert healthcare
treatment costs to EMIs.
These cost-effective solutions will help
customers avail quality healthcare
with ease and flexibility. Our SmartBuy
109
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Nation Building
platform provides a large range of Digitisation and modernisation Taking banking to the
offers that help customers reduce their of citizen services unbanked
expenses on healthcare and wellness.
The Bank continued its participation The Bank continued to leverage
in the digitisation and modernisation Common Service Centres (CSCs)
The Bank has alliances with 150+
of Government to Citizen (G2C) to reach the last mile. The Bank
providers including players in
services. This has not only helped expanded its product range in the
diagnostic, pharmaceutical and
optimise resources in Government last year to include all liability, assets
hospital care. Attractive membership
organisations but also helped and payments products. We also
benefit programmes are provided to
deliver services remotely. It includes initiated the delivery of Government
customers as a value-added service
services like payment of taxes, online sponsored social security schemes
across segments.
collections of charges and fees by and enabled Business Correspondents
transport authorities as well as online to assist in collection of delinquent
Two special programmes, providing
tracking of case status with legal EMIs. Managed by Village Level
customised banking and financial
authorities like Motor Accident Claim Entrepreneurs (VLEs), the CSCs
services benefits have also been
Tribunals (MACT). This has also helped are instrumental in increasing our
created especially for doctors.
the authorities deliver un-interrupted penetration in deeper geographies.
services during the pandemic. The distribution network built through
110
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
CSC now includes 4 Lakh+ centres
across India for banking services. Of
this, more than 68% are in semi-urban
and rural areas. We also have 15,000+
centres enabled across India for
conducting banking transactions.
Social Security Schemes:
17,500+ enrolled
for SSL schemes
across APY, JBY & SBY
EMIs collected: 62,000+
transactions across Retail
and SLI/JLG loans
The approach in deeper geographies
is based on the ecosystem around
the distribution network, our
digital capabilities and rule-based
underwriting to provide seamless
service. In the process of training our
VLEs, which includes women, we
equip them with digital skills and make
them self-reliant by enabling them to
function as a small branch. To scale to women VLEs, to manufacture Driving digitisation in Rural
further into deeper geographies by economic and hygienic pads. These Banking
replicating our success with CSC, we are provided to 12,500 school-going
have also signed MOUs with additional girls who have been adopted for a year We have integrated 30+ APIs which
partners. We are driven by the by the Bank, thereby creating an eco- power the digital delivery of 25+
aspiration to provide banking products system of menstrual hygiene access. best-in-class financial products and
and services to the vast unbanked and services to the last mile customer.
underserved sections of the society. 10 Lakh citizens in the We have also funded the digital
infrastructure set-up for 4,000 villages
hinterlands were able to
Women empowerment is furthered supporting the Digi Gaon initiative of
register for their COVID-19
by training 1.3 Lakh+ women from the Government.
19,600+ SHGs, making them vaccinations at CSCs
financially self-reliant and positively with the Bank’s support.
Best Practice
impacting the lives of more than 6
Registration costs for
Lakh fellow countrymen in semi urban in Digital
all 10 Lakh citizens was
and rural areas. Under the Stree
Transformation
Swabhiman initiative, sanitary napkin funded by the Bank.
making units have been provided 2021
AT THE COVETED CII-DX 2021 FORUM
111
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Governance
The DNA of a
responsible banker
Our governance framework forms We are led by a diverse, experienced and
competent Board. The Board, along with its
the bedrock of our value creation
committees, institutes policies and frameworks
process. At HDFC Bank, stringent
on ethical conduct, anti-corruption, anti-money
regulatory compliance is a given. laundering, compliance, IT, information security,
Beyond compliance, our practices ESG, and customer satisfaction, among
others, and monitors their implementation. We
aim to embody the principles of
strive to adhere to best practices in corporate
ethical conduct, independence,
governance, such as alignment of executive
responsibility, accountability, and pay to company performance, disclosure of
transparency in true spirit. This is Board evaluation outcomes, and wide scope of
whistle-blower policy, to name a few.
reflected in our strategic thinking,
decision-making, monitoring
processes and underlines all our
activities and operations.
112
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Board expertise and Beyond compliance
competence ‘Leadership’ category
At HDFC Bank, compliance with
organisation in Corporate
Our Board is diverse and inclusive, regulatory requirements is just the
comprising of members with rich starting point for good governance Governance by IIAS
experience to fulfil its governance practices. We have consistently
The Indian Corporate
role and related responsibilities, ensured that the composition of the
Governance Scorecard is
objectively and effectively. Our Board and its Committees, in terms
developed by Institutional
Board includes members with of independence, diversity in skills,
Investor Advisory Services
varied skill sets and competencies expertise and gender, meets and
India Limited (IIAS) with
across banking and allied sectors at times, exceeds the requirements
support from International
such as finance, agriculture, rural prescribed by regulations.
Finance Corporation (IFC)
economy, risk management, small
and BSE Limited. The
scale industries and technology.
scorecard is built around
The Board also seeks opinions from
BOARD DIVERSITY BY AGE the G20/OECD Principles
external experts whenever required.
AND GENDER
of Corporate Governance,
Further information on the skills,
expertise and competence of our As on March 31, 2022 which are the globally
2 accepted benchmark for
Board is included in our Corporate
<=50 years corporate governance.
Governance Report on Page 385. 6 3
In the 2021 scorecard
> 50 years
(published in February
2022), HDFC Bank was one
As on March 31, 2021
of the 20 companies which
2
<=50 years ranked in the ‘LEADERSHIP’
6 2 category. For more details,
> 50 years
please refer to https://
www.iiasadvisory.com/
Male Female
governance-scorecard.
Independence in Committee composition
We ensure a high level of independence in the composition of
our Board Committees. The below Committees are chaired by an
independent director.
(Percentage of Independent Directors)
60%
67%
71%
100%
100%
CSR & ESG Committee
Stakeholders' Relationship Committee
Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
113
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Governance
· Environmental Social & Governance
(ESG) Policy Framework
Transparency and accountability
are embedded in our culture. Our
Code of Ethics/Conduct directs the
Board and senior management to
uphold our values and carry out
business worldwide with integrity
and highest ethical standards. As
per our Conduct Philosophy, we
do not employ child, forced or
compulsory labour in our operations.
Our Whistle-blower Policy provides
a comprehensive framework for
capturing and addressing stakeholder
complaints/grievances. In FY22, we
had 147 whistle-blower complaints
Board initiatives and and universal dissemination of filed by various stakeholders including
involvement information. Further, the Board has shareholders, employees, customers
also approved the following policies and value chain partners. The nature
The Board provides leadership and which are available on our website: of complaints varied; while some were
strategic guidance in shaping our https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/ linked to corruption and improper
procedures and processes for value about-us/corporate-governance/ business practices, others pertained to
creation. The key focus areas in FY22 codes-and-policies for easy reference: behavioural issues. We did not make
included adherence to regulatory any political contributions.
compliance, creating a strong · Policy on Appointment and Fit and
technological backbone to mitigate IT Proper criteria for Directors Our publicly available Conduct
and operational risks, infrastructure Philosophy codifies mechanisms to
scalability, talent management and · Whistle Blower Policy deal with issues related to mental or
ESG commitments. · Compensation Policy physical coercion or verbal abuse,
sexual harassment, sexual abuse,
Culture of transparency and Policies and frameworks for slavery, of employees. During
accountability ethical conduct FY22, there were no complaints of
infringement of human rights.
We strive to inculcate global best To ensure a pervasive culture of
practices in governance, timely ethical behaviour, we have created an We have a ‘Zero Tolerance’ policy on
disclosures and fair presentation environment and instituted policies sexual harassment and an internal
of information. Transparency and and frameworks that encourage complaints committee is in place to
accountability are among the key appropriate business conduct. These address such complaints. During
expectations of stakeholders. We have policies are communicated regularly to the year, we received 51 complaints
put in place policies and processes the management, employees and other pertaining to sexual harassment,
that allow for a sufficient and visible stakeholders. of which 48 were resolved during
flow of information with adequate the year. For more information, please
safeguards in place. We have also Our corporate governance policies refer to our Corporate Governance
formulated a Code of Practices and include: Report on Page 385.
Procedures for Fair Disclosures in · Code of Ethics/Conduct
accordance with the SEBI (Prohibition PERSON-HOURS SPENT
· Policies to prevent insider trading, ON HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.
govern related-party transactions 2
This Code lays down principles of Lakh+ Hrs
prompt disclosure along with uniform · Policies around Prevention of Sexual
Harassment (POSH)
114
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Anti-corruption, During the year, we undertook several Number (CRN), and the customer is
Anti-bribery, and Anti-money initiatives to strengthen our IT systems, kept informed in case of any delay
Laundering (AML) augment capabilities and increase envisaged by the Bank, in resolution
resiliency. To read more about our of the grievance beyond the stated
We have focused programmes
initiatives, refer Pg. 78 (Digitisation). timelines.
consisting of Foreign Corrupt Practices
During FY22, we received no
Act and Bribery Act, Code of Ethics Apart from direct grievances from
complaints regarding identified leaks,
and Commitment, Trade-based customers, grievances received
thefts, or losses of customer data
Money Laundering, and KYC and through various regulatory bodies
with respect to data security. During
AML norms to enable effective training including Reserve Bank of India and
the same period, we received 298
on anti-corruption, anti-bribery and Banking Ombudsman are handled
complaints from customers concerning
anti-money laundering. Our operations by designated Nodal Officers. The
breaches of customer privacy, 1
are assessed for corruption and any Bank has also appointed an Internal
complaint from an outside party
complaints by any stakeholder can Ombudsman as per the guidelines
and 19 from regulatory bodies. The
be raised through our whistle-blower prescribed by the Reserve Bank of
major areas of customer complaints
mechanism. India. Denial/partial denial cases are
in FY22 were related to unauthorised
referred to the Internal Ombudsman for
transactions done through UPI,
EMPLOYEES TRAINED ON guidance. The decision of the Internal
unauthorised usage through Credit
ANTI-CORRUPTION, AML AND Ombudsman is binding on the Bank.
KYC TRAININGS Card, unauthorised transactions done
68,087 through NetBanking, unauthorised
ESG governance
usage through Debit Card online and
failed transactions at the Bank's ATMs. ESG matters are a vital component in
CONFIRMED INCIDENTS* WHEREIN the Bank’s governance framework. The
We have a transparent Grievance
EMPLOYEES WERE DISMISSED OR CSR and ESG Committee of the Board
Redressal Mechanism that ensures
DISCIPLINED FOR CORRUPTION IN FY22 oversees the Bank’s sustainability
quick and effective resolution of
7 and climate change initiatives. The
complaints. Customers can reach
Board level committee is guided by
out to us through multiple channels
the ESG apex committee. The ESG
including retail branches, phone
apex committee that comprises of
Customer satisfaction banking application, website and
key representatives from the senior
net banking application and retail
The Customer Service Committee asset customer service centres. Any management, oversees sustainability
of the Board (CSCB) works towards grievance received, either verbally, reporting initiatives, climate change
continuously improving the quality of by email or in writing, if not resolved disclosures, internal projects to ensure
services rendered to the customer. and responded to on the same day, reduction of our overall emissions and
It also ensures the implementation is logged into CRMnext – a state- tracks its progress on ESG, to achieve
of directives received from the RBI in of-the-art web-based system or industry leadership. This Committee is
this regard. Accordingly, the CSCB Vision Plus (for Credit Card related further supported by ESG action sub-
formulates the Bank’s comprehensive issues). The CRMnext system has the committees which includes Product
deposit policy, incorporating the issues capability to record and categorise Responsibility Sub-committee, which
arising out of the product approval grievances into different types and looks at ESG risks (including climate
process, annual survey of depositor maintain turnaround times (TAT) for risks) in the existing portfolio and ESG-
satisfaction, and the triennial audit specific category/sub-category. It also linked opportunities; the Environment
of such services, among others. We has an auto escalation mechanism Sub-committee which oversees
ensure strict adherence to market for cases not resolved within the the environmental impact from our
conduct regulations and have defined defined TAT. This not only ensures operations and Social and Governance
frameworks in place to maintain proper recording and resolution of Sub-committee which works on
transparency in communications to our cases, but also provides for effective workplace policies and governance
customers and clients. During FY22, escalation channels in case of delays initiatives.
we did not record any new cases of in resolution. Acknowledgement is
non-compliance concerning product provided for every grievance logged,
and service information and labelling, in the form of a Complaint Reference
or marketing communications.
115
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Board of Directors Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Leveraging expertise
Umesh Chandra Renu Karnad
Atanu Chakraborty Malay Patel Sunita Maheshwari Lily Vadera
Sarangi
Non-Executive Director
Part Time Chairman and Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director
Independent Director Independent Director
MD Ranganath Sanjiv Sachar Sashidhar Jagdishan
Sandeep Parekh Kaizad Bharucha
Independent Director Independent Director Managing Director and Chief
Independent Director Executive Director
Executive Officer
Length of service of Directors (Years) Age group of Directors (Years) AVERAGE EXPERIENCE OF BOARD THE BOARD ARE INDEPENDENT WOMEN DIRECTORS ON THE BOARD
MEMBERS DIRECTORS 3
31 Years ~72%
<3 41 to 50
3-6 51 to 60
6-8 61 to 70
116 117
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Senior Management Team Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Driving a future-ready organisation
Sashidhar Jagdishan Kaizad Bharucha Anjani Rathor Arup Rakshit Nirav Shah Parag Rao Rahul Shukla Rakesh Singh
Managing Director and Chief Executive Director Chief Digital Officer Group Head - Treasury- Sales, Group Head - Corporate Group Head - Payments Group Head - Commercial Group Head - Investment
Executive Officer Analytics and Overseas Banking and PSUs Business, Digital & IT Banking and Rural Business Banking, Private Banking,
Marketing and Products
Arvind Kapil Arvind Vohra Ashima Bhat Ashish Parthasarthy Ramesh Raveesh Bhatia Sampath Kumar Sanmoy Chakrabarti
Lakshminarayanan
Group Head - Group Head - Group Head - Business Group Head - Treasury, GIB, Group Head - Emerging Group Head - NRI Domestic Chief Risk Officer
Retail Assets and SLI Retail Branch Banking Finance & Strategy, NRI, Overseas and Tele- Chief Information Officer Corporates Group & Overseas Business, Third
Administration, Infrastructure, Service Channels Party Products and Tele-
ESG & CSR Sales & Service Relationships
Benjamin Frank Bhavesh Zaveri Chakrapani Jimmy Tata Smita Bhagat Srinivasan Vinay Razdan
Venkatachari Vaidyanathan
Group Head - Group Head - Operations, Chief Credit Officer Group Head - Government Chief Human
Wholesale Credit ATM and Cash Management Group Head - Internal Audit and Institutional Business, Chief Financial Officer Resources Officer
Product and Quality Initiatives Group Partnerships, Ecosystems,
Inclusive Banking and
Start-ups
118 119
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
10 Year Financial Highlights Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Continuing our growth journey
` Crore
2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22
Interest income 35,064.87 41,135.53 48,469.91 60,221.45 69,305.96 80,241.35 98,972.05 1,14,812.65 1,20,858.23 1,27,753.12
Interest expense 19,253.75 22,652.90 26,074.23 32,629.93 36,166.74 40,146.49 50,728.83 58,626.40 55,978.66 55,743.53
Net interest income 15,811.12 18,482.63 22,395.68 27,591.52 33,139.22 40,094.86 48,243.22 56,186.25 64,879.57 72,009.59
Other income 6,852.62 7,919.64 8,996.34 10,751.72 12,296.49 15,220.31 17,625.87 23,260.82 25,204.89 29,509.90
Net revenues 22,663.74 26,402.28 31,392.02 38,343.24 45,435.71 55,315.17 65,869.09 79,447.07 90,084.46 1,01,519.49
Operating costs 11,236.11 12,042.20 13,987.55 16,979.69 19,703.32 22,690.36 26,119.37 30,697.53 32,722.63 37,442.19
Operating result 11,427.63 14,360.08 17,404.47 21,363.55 25,732.39 32,624.81 39,749.72 48,749.54 57,361.83 64,077.30
Provisions and contingencies : 1,677.01 1,588.03 2,075.75 2,725.61 3,593.30 5,927.49 7,550.08 12,142.39 15,702.85 15,061.83
Loan loss provisions 1,234.21 1,632.58 1,723.58 2,133.63 3,145.30 4,910.43 6,394.11 9,083.32 11,450.19 10,119.38
Others 442.80 (44.56) 352.17 591.98 448.00 1,017.06 1,155.97 3,059.07 4,252.66 4,942.45
Profit before tax 9,750.62 12,772.05 15,328.72 18,637.94 22,139.09 26,697.32 32,199.64 36,607.15 41,658.98 49,015.47
Provision for taxation 3,024.34 4,293.67 5,112.80 6,341.71 7,589.43 9,210.57 11,121.50 10,349.84 10,542.46 12,054.12
Profit after tax 6,726.28 8,478.38 10,215.92 12,296.23 14,549.66 17,486.75 21,078.14 26,257.31 31,116.52 36,961.35
Funds :
Deposits 2,96,246.98 3,67,337.48 4,50,795.65 5,46,424.19 6,43,639.66 7,88,770.64 9,23,140.93 11,47,502.29 13,35,060.22 15,59,217.44
Subordinated debt 16,586.75 16,643.05 16,254.90 15,090.45 13,182.00 21,107.00 18,232.00 18,232.00 17,127.00 21,795.25
Stockholders’ equity 36,214.15 43,478.63 62,009.42 72,677.77 89,462.38 1,06,295.03 1,49,206.32 1,70,986.03 2,03,720.83 2,40,092.94
Working funds 4,21,327.31 4,91,599.50 5,95,695.13 7,40,796.07 8,63,840.19 10,63,934.32 12,44,540.69 15,30,511.26 17,46,870.52 20,68,535.05
Loans 2,39,720.64 3,03,000.27 3,65,495.04 4,64,593.96 5,54,568.20 6,58,333.09 8,19,401.22 9,93,702.88 11,32,836.63 13,68,820.93
Investments 1,11,303.21 1,00,111.88 1,56,833.82 1,95,836.29 2,14,463.34 2,42,200.24 2,93,116.07 3,91,826.66 4,43,728.29 4,55,535.69
Key Ratios :
Earnings per share (`)1 14.24 17.74 21.08 24.42 28.59 33.88 39.33 48.01 56.58 66.80
Return on equity 20.07% 20.88% 20.36% 17.97% 18.04% 18.22% 16.30% 16.76% 16.60% 16.90%
Tier 1 capital ratio 11.08% 11.77% 13.66% 13.22% 12.79% 13.25% 15.78% 17.23% 17.56% 17.87%
Total capital ratio 16.80% 16.07% 16.79% 15.53% 14.55% 14.82% 17.11% 18.52% 18.79% 18.90%
Dividend per share (`)1 2.75 3.43 4.00 4.75 5.50 6.50 7.50 Nil 3 6.504 15.505
Dividend payout ratio 22.77% 22.68% 23.62% 23.51% 23.32% 23.26% 23.36% NA 3 11.54%4 23.28%5
Book value per share as at March 31 (`)1 76.10 90.62 123.70 143.74 174.56 204.80 273.94 311.83 369.54 432.95
Market price per share as at March 31 (`)2 312.68 374.40 511.35 535.58 721.28 964.50 1,159.45 861.90 1,493.65 1,470.35
Price to earnings ratio 21.95 21.11 24.26 21.93 25.23 28.47 29.48 17.95 26.40 22.01
` 1 Cr = ` 10 Million
1 Figures for the years prior to 2019-2020 have been adjusted to reflect the effect of split of equity shares from nominal value of
` 2 each into two equity shares of nominal value of ` 1 each
2 Source : NSE (prices for years prior to 2019-2020 have been divided by two to reflect the sub-division of shares)
3 Basis RBI notifications dated April 17, 2020 and December 4, 2020
4 Basis RBI notification dated April 22, 2021
5 Proposed
120 121
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Awards
Recognised across platforms
National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM), Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2021
Ministry of Rural Development, Govt of India
Best Bank in India
Best Performing Bank in SHG Linkage
Business Today India's Best Banks
Euromoney Private Banking and
Best Large Bank
Wealth Management Survey 2022
Ranks No. 1 in the Mass/Super Affluent
clients category (US$100K to US$5m)
ABF Corporate & Investment
Banking Awards 2021
Corporate & Investment Bank
PWM Global Private Banking Awards 2021
of the Year - India
Best Private Bank in India
Asiamoney Asia's Outstanding Companies Poll 2021
FinanceAsia Country Awards for
Most Outstanding Company in India
Achievement 2021
Best Bank in India
Business Today India’s Best Companies to work for
Ranked Best Company to work
Asiamoney Asia Private Banking Awards 2021
for in the BFSI sector
Best for wealth transfer/succession
planning in India 2021
Great Place To Work Institute
Certified as a 'Great Place
CII Digital Transformation Award 2021
To Work' for 2021-22
‘Most Innovative Best Practice’
for financial inclusion — HDFC Bank
and Government of India’s Common
Service Centres (CSC) partnership
122
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Assurance Statement
123
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Assurance Statement
124
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
125
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
GRI Index
Page Number(s) and/or
GRI Standard Disclosure Description
URL(s)/Section
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Organizational 102-1 Name of the organization. 8, 319
profile
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6-21
102-3 Location of headquarters https://www.hdfc.com/
corporate-office
102-4 Location of operations 6-7, 393
102-5 Ownership and legal form 6, 387
102-6 Markets served 6-7
102-7 Scale of the organization 6-7
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 80-93
102-9 Supply chain 13-21
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 16-21
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 56-67
102-12 External initiatives 94-105
102-13 Membership of associations 420
Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 10-15
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 10-15, 42-51
Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 112-115
integrity
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 112-115
Governance 102-18 Governance structure 112-115
102-19 Delegating authority 112-115
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 373-379
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 24-31
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 112-115
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 112-115
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 112-115
102-25 Conflicts of interest 349
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 365
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 385
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 156
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 28-31
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 146-148
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 28-31
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 2, 112-115, 378
102-33 Communicating critical concerns 157, 373-379
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 157
102-35 Remuneration policies 156-157, 273-278
102-36 Process for determining remuneration 156-157, 273-278
126
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Page Number(s) and/or
GRI Standard Disclosure Description
URL(s)/Section
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 156-157, 273-278
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 205-206
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 205-206
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 24-27
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 24-27
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 24-27
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 24-27
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2, 319
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries
102-47 List of material topics 28-31
102-48 Restatements of information 2
102-49 Changes in reporting 2
102-50 Reporting period 2
102-51 Date of most recent report 2
102-52 Reporting cycle 2
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report At the end of this table.
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2
102-55 GRI content index This table
102-56 External assurance 2
GRI 200: ECONOMIC
Economic 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 16-23, 132-137
Performance
103-2 The management approach and its components 16-23, 132-137
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 16-23, 132-137
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 16-23, 120-121, 132-137
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 71-73
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 327-330
201-4 Financial assistance received from government 112-115
Market 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80-93
Presence
103-2 The management approach and its components 80-93
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-93
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 80-93
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 80-93
Indirect 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 94-105
Economic
103-2 The management approach and its components 94-105
Impacts
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 94-105
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 94-105
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 94-105
127
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
GRI Index
Page Number(s) and/or
GRI Standard Disclosure Description
URL(s)/Section
Procurement 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80-93
Practices
103-2 The management approach and its components 80-93
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-93
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers
Anti- 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 112-115
corruption
103-2 The management approach and its components 112-115
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 112-115
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 112-115
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 112-115
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 112-115
Anti- 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 112-115
competitive
103-2 The management approach and its components 112-115
Behavior
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 112-115
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 420
GGRRII 330000:: EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTT
Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 62-64
103-2 The management approach and its components 62-64
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 62-64
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 62-64
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 62-64
302-3 Energy intensity 62-64
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 62-64
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 62-64
Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 58-62
103-2 The management approach and its components 58-62
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 58-62
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 58-62
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 58-62
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 58-62
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 58-62
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 58-62
Effluents 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 62-64
and waste
103-2 The management approach and its components 62-64
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 62-64
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 62-64
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 62-64
306-3 Waste generated 62-64
306-5 Waste directed to disposal 62-64
128
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Page Number(s) and/or
GRI Standard Disclosure Description
URL(s)/Section
Environmental 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 57
Compliance
103-2 The management approach and its components 57
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 57
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 57
Supplier 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 57
Environmental
103-2 The management approach and its components 57
Assessment
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 57
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 57
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 57
GGRRII 440000:: SSOOCCIIAALL
Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80-93
103-2 The management approach and its components 80-93
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-93
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 80-93
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- 80-93
time employees
401-3 Parental leave 80-93
Labor/ 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80-93
Management
103-2 The management approach and its components 80-93
Relations
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-93
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 80-93
Occupational 403-3 Occupational health services 80-93
Health and
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and 80-93
Safety
safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health 80-93
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked 80-93
by business relationships
403-10 Work-related ill health 80-93
Training and 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80-93
Education
103-2 The management approach and its components 80-93
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-93
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 80-93
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 80-93
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 80-93
reviews
129
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
GRI Index
Page Number(s) and/or
GRI Standard Disclosure Description
URL(s)/Section
Diversity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80-93
and Equal
103-2 The management approach and its components 80-93
Opportunity
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-93
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 112-115
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 80-93
Non- 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80-93
discrimination
103-2 The management approach and its components 80-93
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-93
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 80-93
Freedom of 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80-93
Association
103-2 The management approach and its components 80-93
and Collective
Bargaining 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-93
Child Labor 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80-93
103-2 The management approach and its components 80-93
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-93
Forced or 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80-93
Compulsory
103-2 The management approach and its components 80-93
Labor
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-93
Security 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80-93
Practices
103-2 The management approach and its components 80-93
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-93
410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures 80-93
Human Rights 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80-93
Assessment
103-2 The management approach and its components 80-93
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-93
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 80-93
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 80-93
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses 80-93
or that underwent human rights screening
Local 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 30-31, 94-105
Communities
103-2 The management approach and its components 94-105
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 94-105
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 94-105
development programs
Supplier 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80-93
Social
103-2 The management approach and its components 80-93
Assessment
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-93
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 80-93
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 80-93
130
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Page Number(s) and/or
GRI Standard Disclosure Description
URL(s)/Section
Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions 112-115
Customer 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 70-75
Health and
103-2 The management approach and its components 70-75
Safety
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 70-75
Marketing and 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 112-115
Labeling
103-2 The management approach and its components 112-115
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 112-115
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 112-115
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and 112-115
labeling
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 112-115
Customer 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 112-115
Privacy
103-2 The management approach and its components 112-115
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 112-115
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 112-115
customer data
Socio- 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 94-105
economic
103-2 The management approach and its components 94-105
Compliance
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 94-105
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 94-105
SECTOR STANDARD
Emissions G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 1) 60-63
G4-EN17 Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 3) 60-63
Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts 64-67
that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening
Local FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 6, 138
Communities
FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 24, 105, 138, 140-143
Product FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/ 136-143
Portfolio SME/large) and by sector
FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit 140-143
for each business line broken down by purpose
FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific 65-67
environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose
For any queries pertaining to this report, contact Nusrat.Pathan@hdfcbank.com or write in at Ms. Nusrat Pathan, HDFC Bank
House, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai - 400 013. Tel: 022 3976 0000
131
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Dear Stakeholders,
Your Directors take great pleasure in presenting the 28th To sum up, despite the current headwinds, India is expected
Annual Report on the business and financial operations of your to be the fastest growing economy in the world in FY 2022-
Bank, together with the audited accounts for the year ended 23, clocking a 7.3 per cent growth rate, and is well poised to
March 31, 2022. withstand any external volatility and shocks.
Like last year, let me start by wishing all of you health and (For more details, please refer to the Macroeconomic and
happiness on behalf of the HDFC Bank family. The entire Industry section on page no. 135)
world has learnt the importance of this all over again during
the pandemic. In spite of the challenges, your Bank continued on its growth
path by conducting its business responsibly and reinforcing its
The good news is that the pandemic more or less appears to be commitment to the environment and community at large.
behind us, thanks to the pick-up in the vaccination program rolled
out by the Union Government and the virus mutants being less
Financial Parameters
and less dangerous. As the shadow over the health of individuals
lifts, the health of the economy has been improving too. Your Bank recorded an improvement in a majority of its key
financial parameters, largely due to its prudent credit evaluation
India’s GDP grew by 8.7 per cent in FY 2021-22 compared to of targeted customers and diversified loan book across
a contraction of 6.6 per cent in FY 2020-21 as per the Central customer segments, products, and sectors. Managing risk-
Statistical Organisation (CSO), surpassing pre-pandemic return decisions with discipline was an important element in
levels of output. The biggest drivers of growth were pick up the Bank’s performance. Net Profit at ` 36,961.3 crore went up
in investment and exports. Capital expenditure was led by the by 18.8 per cent. Net Interest Income at ` 72,009.6 crore rose
Union Government, with the private sector playing a supporting 11.0 per cent. Net Interest Margin stood at 4.0 per cent. Gross
role. The Government and the RBI also announced a host of Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) at 1.17 per cent was among the
measures to contain the impact of the second wave on domestic lowest in the industry.
economic activity. This was followed by stepping up allocation
on capital expenditure in the Union Budget for FY 2022-23 by GNPA
24.5 per cent to ` 7.5 lakh crore. 1.17 per cent
Among the lowest in the industry
The economy now faces headwinds from rising inflationary
pressures brought about by supply chain disruptions and
Parivartan
geopolitical tensions, particularly the Ukraine crisis. This can
affect private consumption, lead to reduced profit margins due Your Bank continued to transform lives through its umbrella CSR
to rising input costs and slowdown the recovery in the private brand, Parivartan, which denotes change.
sector capital expenditure cycle.
The Bank believes that businesses can only prosper if the
In an effort to contain inflation, the RBI on May 4, 2022 in an off communities in which they operate prosper as well. This belief
cycle announcement, hiked the policy rate by 40 basis points has inspired its social initiatives, which have potentially made a
to 4.4 per cent and increased the Cash Reserve Ratio by 50 difference to the lives of over 9.6 crore people, predominantly
basis points to 4.5 per cent. It further hiked the Repo Rate by in rural India. Driving this change is the Sustainable Livelihood
another 50 points to 4.90 per cent in the June 8, 2022 Monetary Initiative (SLI) team, which works on improving livelihood
Policy announcement.
132
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
opportunities. The ‘Teaching-The-Teacher’ initiative has While we structured and delivered a compassion package to
impacted over 2 crore students since inception. The Holistic Rural the families of the deceased, no word or action can adequately
Development Programme has touched 9.88 lakh households convey our sorrow.
across more than 3,335 villages. Having an umbrella brand
Your Directors would also like to place on record that we did
enables the Bank to lend a sharper focus to these efforts.
not reduce salaries during this trying period. Your Bank paid
Your Directors are also happy to report that your Bank met the
bonuses and increments on time in the year under review and
mandatory CSR expenditure through a spend of 736.01 crore.
followed the normal promotion cycle. It is doing the same this
year as well.
CSR SPeNd
`736.01 crore
Mission and Strategic Focus
in FY 2021-22 Your Bank’s mission is to be a ‘World-Class Indian Bank’. Its
business philosophy is based on five core values: Customer
For further details on Parivartan please refer to page no. 94.
Focus, Operational Excellence, Product Leadership, People
and Sustainability. Sustainability should be viewed in unison with
Summary
Environmental, Social and Governance performance. As a part
The economy recovered in FY 2021-22 and India is of this, your Bank, through its umbrella CSR brand Parivartan,
expected to be the fastest growing economy in the world in seeks to bring about change in the lives of communities mainly
FY 2022-23. There are of course inflationary pressures, but the in rural India.
country has the ability to absorb these and the uncertainties
During the year under review, the Bank did not lose its human
brought about by geopolitical issues. In the long run, the market
touch but continued building sound customer franchises across
presents tremendous opportunities given the sheer level of
distinct businesses to achieve healthy growth in profitability
under penetration of banking services in the country. Your Bank
consistent with your Bank’s risk appetite.
is well positioned to capitalise on these opportunities given the
strength of its franchise. It has geared up for the years ahead In line with the above objective, the Bank aims to take digitalisation
through its Future Ready Strategy. This can be envisaged as 10 to the next level to:
strategic pillars backed by key enablers to catalyse, create and
• Deliver superior experience and greater convenience
capture the next wave of growth. (To know more about this
to customers
please refer to page no. 32)
• Increase market share in India’s growing banking and
Your Bank is also poised to make a greater contribution to
financial services industry
bridge the urban-rural divide through both its business and
social activities and help build a country where more can • Expand geographical reach
prosper together.
• Cross-sell the broad financial product portfolio
This will, of course, not be possible without the contribution of
• Sustain strong asset quality through disciplined credit
the ever-growing family of over two lakh employees (including
risk management
those of the subsidiaries) across the country, who remain at the
forefront of taking your Bank forward every day. In the previous • Maintain low cost of funds
two financial years, which were characterised by the pandemic,
Your Bank remains committed to the highest levels of ethical
our colleagues went beyond the call of duty to keep the bank
standards, professional integrity, corporate governance, and
functioning. Many of them soldiered on despite the loss of loved
regulatory compliance, which is articulated in its Code of
ones. We also lost some colleagues during the pandemic.
Conduct. Every employee affirms to abide by the Code annually.
133
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Summary of Financial Performance
(` crore)
For the year ended/As on
Particulars
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Deposits and Borrowings 1,744,034.6 1,470,547.5
Advances 1,368,820.9 1,132,836.6
Total Income 157,263.0 146,063.1
Profit Before Depreciation and Tax 50,615.3 42,961.4
Profit After Tax 36,961.4 31,116.5
Profit Brought Forward 73,652.8 57,492.4
Total Profit Available for Appropriation 110,614.1 88,608.9
Appropriations
Transfer to Statutory Reserve 9,240.3 7,779.1
Transfer to General Reserve 3,696.1 3,111.6
Transfer to Capital Reserve 666.5 2,291.7
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve 233.1 61.7
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve - 1,712.0
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year 3,592.4 -
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet 93,185.7 73,652.8
dividend
The Board of Directors of the Bank, at its meeting held on April 23, 2022, has recommended a dividend of ` 15.50 (Fifteen Rupees
Fifty Paise only) per equity share of ` 1/- (Rupee 1 only) each, for the financial year ended March 31, 2022. This translates to a
Dividend Payout Ratio of 23.28 % of the profits for the financial year ended March 31, 2022.
In general, your Bank’s dividend policy, among other things, balances the objectives of rewarding shareholders and retaining capital
to fund future growth. It has a consistent track record of dividend distribution, with the Dividend Payout Ratio ranging between 20
per cent and 25 per cent, which the Board endeavours to maintain.
The dividend policy of your Bank is available on your Bank’s website:
https://v1.hdfcbank.com/htdocs/common/pdf/corporate/Dividend-Distribution-Policy.pdf
Ratings
Instrument Rating Rating Agency Comments
Fixed Deposit Programme CARE AAA (FD) CARE Ratings Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
IND tAAA India Ratings Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
Certificate of Deposits CARE A1+ CARE Ratings Instruments with this rating are considered to have very strong degree
Programme of safety regarding timely payment of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
IND A1+ India Ratings Instruments with this rating are considered to have very strong degree
of safety regarding timely payment of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
Long Term Unsecured, CARE AAA CARE Ratings Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree
Subordinated of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
(Lower Tier 2) Bonds instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
IND AAA India Ratings Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
134
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Instrument Rating Rating Agency Comments
Infrastructure Bonds CARE AAA CARE Ratings Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
CRISIL AAA CRISIL Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
Additional Tier I Bonds (Under CARE AA+ CARE Ratings Instruments with this rating are considered to have high degree
Basel III) of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry very low credit risk.
CRISIL AA+ CRISIL Instruments with this rating are considered to have high degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry very low credit risk.
IND AA+ India Ratings Instruments with this rating are considered to have high degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry very low credit risk.
Tier II Bonds CARE AAA CARE Ratings Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree
(Under Basel III) of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
CRISIL AAA CRISIL Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
by reopening of the economy and a pick-up in the vaccination
Issuance of equity Shares and employee Stock
rate. Private consumption recovery picked up pace (registered
Option Scheme (eSOP)
a growth of 7.9 per cent in FY 2021-22) and rose above pre-
As on March 31, 2022, the issued, subscribed and paid up pandemic levels. The biggest support came from a pick-up
capital of your Bank stood at ` 5,545,540,976/- comprising in investment (supported by Government capital expenditure
5,545,540,976 equity shares of ` 1/- each. Further, 32,764,494 and some revival in private capital expenditure) and strong
equity shares of face value of ` 1/- each were issued by your Bank export growth.
pursuant to the exercise of Employee Stock Options (ESOPs).
(For information pertaining to ESOPs, please refer Annexure 1 In addition, both the Central Government and the RBI announced
of the Directors’ Report). a host of measures to contain the impact of the second wave
on domestic economic activity. The Government focused on
Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) providing relief and credit flow to small business, health, tourism
sectors and other service sectors that were affected by the
As on March 31, 2022, your Bank’s total CAR, calculated as
pandemic. On the monetary policy side, the RBI kept its stance
per Basel III Regulations, stood at 18.9 per cent, well above the
accommodative and policy rates unchanged at 4.0 per cent
regulatory minimum requirement of 11.70 per cent, including a
in FY 2021-22 and announced measures to provide liquidity
Capital Conservation Buffer of 2.50 per cent and an additional
support. Some of the measures included extension of Targeted
requirement of 0.20 per cent on account of the Bank being
Long Term Repo Operations (TLTRO), providing on-tap liquidity
identified as a Domestic Sytemically Important Bank. Tier I
window for contact intensive sectors, and extension of priority
Capital was at 17.9 per cent as of March 31, 2022.
sector lending.
TOTAl CAR
Economic activity is poised to gain further momentum in FY 2022-
18.9 per cent
23 supported by a recovery in consumption, continued rise in
well above regulatory minimum requirement of 11.70 per exports and a push through Government capital expenditure. In
cent the Union Budget for FY 2022-23, the Government increased
its allocation on capital expenditure by 24.5 per cent (from
Management discussion and Analysis
FY 2021- 22 Revised Estimates) to ` 7.5 lakh crore. In addition,
it announced measures in the Union Budget for FY 2022-23
Macroeconomic and Industry developments
such as extension of credit guarantee scheme by a year and
The Indian economy expanded in FY 2021-22, surpassing an increase in guaranteed amount earmarked for the hospitality
pre-pandemic levels of output. As per the Central Statistical sector. This was to address the sectors worst affected by
Organisation, GDP grew by 8.7 per cent compared with a the pandemic.
contraction of 6.6 per cent in FY 2020-21. Growth was supported
135
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
However, recent geopolitical tensions do present some Overall, the Indian economy recovered from the impact of the
headwinds for the growth outlook. Higher crude oil prices and pandemic in FY 2021-22 and is estimated to be the fastest
resulting higher fuel and transportation costs are likely to weigh growing economy in the world in FY 2022-23. Though there are
on private consumption. In addition, higher input costs are likely new headwinds that could cloud the economic outlook, India is
to put stress on profit margins and could slow down the recovery better positioned (as gauged by external indicators) to withstand
in the private capex cycle. Moreover, lower global growth (due extreme volatile episodes/shocks.
to a slowdown in China and geopolitical tensions) could have a
bearing on India’s export demand. The International Monetary Financial Performance
Fund expects the world economy to grow at a slower pace of 3.6
The financial performance of your Bank during the year ended
per cent in 2022 from 6.1 per cent in 2021. On balance, India’s
March 31, 2022, remained healthy with Total Net Revenue
GDP growth is expected to rise by 7.3 per cent in FY 2022-23,
(Net Interest Income plus Other Income) rising 12.7 per cent
making it the fastest growing economy in the world. External
to ` 101,519.5 crore from ` 90,084.5 crore in the previous year.
stability related indicators (short-term debt, Forex reserves, FDI
Revenue growth was driven by an increase in both Net Interest
flows) show that India is better positioned than the 2013 taper
Income and Other Income. Net Interest Income grew by 11.0
tantrum episode to withstand shocks.
per cent to ` 72,009.6 crore coupled with a Net Interest Margin
Besides growth, geopolitical tensions and lingering supply side (NIM) of 4.0 per cent.
disruptions are likely to weigh on domestic retail inflation as well.
TOTAl NeT ReveNue
CPI headline inflation rose to an 8-year high of 7.8 per cent in
12.7 per cent growth
April-22 (vs. 6.95 per cent in March-22) led by a broad-based
increase in food prices, which rose to a 17-month high, fuel and
core inflation (CPI excluding food and fuel). Core inflation rose
to around 8-year high of 7.0 per cent in Apr-22. Going forward,
CPI inflation is expected to average at 7.3 per cent in H1 FY23 Other Income grew by 17.1 per cent to ` 29,509.9 crore. The
and ease to 6.2 per cent in H2 FY23 assuming crude oil prices largest component was Fees and Commissions at ` 19,536.6
average at USD 105 pbl in FY23. For the full FY23, CPI infation crore. Gain on Revaluation and Sale of Investments was
is expected to average at 6.7 per cent, assuming a normal ` 2,282.6 crore. Foreign Exchange and Derivatives Revenue
monsoon, some moderation in global commodity prices in H2, was ` 3,907.9 crore, and recoveries from written-off accounts
and elevated services inflation. Support from recently announced were ` 2,765.1 crore.
excise duty cuts on petrol and diesel is likely to be offset by some
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic had led to a nation-
pass through of high crude oil prices to pump prices by Oil
wide lockdown in April-May 2020. This was followed by localised
Marketing Companies to cover up their under recoveries.
lockdowns in areas with a significant number of COVID-19
To rein in elevated inflation amid Russia-Ukraine crisis, the RBI
cases. Following the easing of lockdown measures, there was
raised rate by 40 bps in an off-cycle meeting on 4th May 2022
an improvement in economic activity in the second half of fiscal
and delivered another rate hike of 50 bps in its June 2022 policy,
2021. Since then, India experienced two waves of the COVID-19
taking the repo rate to 4.9%. The central bank justified its rate
pandemic following the discovery of mutant coronavirus variants,
action as a step to control the second-round impact of inflationary
leading to the reimposition of regional lockdowns which were
pressures and an effort to anchor inflation expectations. The RBI
subsequently lifted. The impact of COVID-19, including changes
raised its inflation forecast by 100 bps to 6.7% for FY23. On the
in customer behaviour and pandemic fears, as well as restrictions
liquidity front, the central bank reiterated that it would provide
on business and individual activities, led to significant volatility in
enough liquidity in the system --- balancing any change due to
global and Indian financial markets and a significant decrease in
its FX operations, Government spending or seasonality - in a
global and local economic activities. The disruptions following
manner that the normalization is non-disruptive for growth. The
the outbreak impacted loan originations, the sale of third-party
average liquidity in the system as of May 2022 stood at INR 5.2
products, the use of credit and debit cards by customers and the
lakh crore. The MPC voted to remain focused on withdrawal
efficiency in collection efforts resulting in increase in customer
of accommodation in a calibrated fashion to ensure inflation
defaults and consequent increase in provisions there against.
remains within the RBI’s upper band while supporting growth.
India is emerging from the COVID-19 pandemic. The extent
The RBI dropped the phrase “remain accommodative” from
to which any new wave of COVID-19 will impact the Bank's
its stance. RBI’s concern about the broad-based nature of the
results will depend on ongoing as well as future developments,
increase in inflation and the risk of the second-round impact on
including, among other things, any new information concerning
inflation expectations makes a case for an aggressive path by the
the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, and any action to contain
central bank going forward. The policy rate is likely to be raised
its spread or mitigate its impact whether Government-mandated
well beyond the pre-pandemic level, close to 5.75-6% by fiscal
or elected by us.
year-end. (HDFC Bank expectations).
136
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Operating (Non-Interest) Expenses rose to ` 37,442.2 crore NeT PROFIT
from ` 32,722.6 crore. During the year, your Bank set up 734 18.8 per cent increase
new branches and 2,043 ATMs / Cash Deposit and Withdrawal
Machines (CDMs). This, along with higher spend on IT, resulted in in FY 2021-22
higher infrastructure and staffing expenses. Staff expenses also
went up due to employee additions and annual wage revisions.
Further, Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Business Review
(DICGC) premium cost increased due to deposit growth and rate
Your Bank’s operations are split into Domestic and International.
increase. Despite higher staff and infrastructure expenses, the
Cost to Income Ratio was 36.9 per cent as compared to 36.3
A) domestic Business comprises the following:
per cent during the previous year.
Retail Banking
New BRANCheS
734 The Retail Business operated under challenging circumstances
in the year under review but these were less pronounced
in FY 2021-22
compared with the previous year. This business is directly
linked to consumption, which slowed down in general during
Total Provisions and Contingencies were ` 15,061.8 crore as the lockdown. The lockdown was less severe in the year under
compared to ` 15,702.8 crore in the preceding year. Your Bank’s review and as the unlock gathered momentum, the business
provisioning policies remain more stringent than regulatory too gained momentum with Domestic Retail Advances rising
requirements. Total provisions for the fourth quarter of the by 13.7 per cent.
financial year included credit reserves in the form of contingent
Domestic Retail Deposits grew by 18.5 per cent to ` 1,262,093
provisions of approximately ` 1,000.0 crore.
crore from ` 1,064,684 crore in the preceding year, while
The Coverage Ratio based on specific provisions alone excluding Retail Advances rose 13.7 per cent to ` 599,608 crore from
write-offs was 72.7 per cent and including general, floating and ` 527,586 crore.
contingent provisions was 182.3 per cent. Your Bank made
Personal Loans continue to exhibit strong growth with overall
General Provisions of ` 1,257.9 crore during the year. Gross
portfolio reaching ` 1,40,000 crore at the end of the year.
Non-Performing Assets (GNPAs) were at 1.17 per cent of Gross
A greater focus on the Government segment as well as top
Advances, as against 1.32 per cent in the previous year. Net
corporates resulted in improved portfolio quality.
NPA ratio stood at 0.32 per cent as against 0.40 per cent in the
previous year. This year, your Bank maintained leadership position in Auto
Loan segment, which underwent supply chain constraints, by
Profit Before Tax grew by 17.1 per cent to ` 49,015.4 crore. After
outpacing industry growth, thus increasing marketshare and
providing for Income Tax of ` 12,054.1 crore, Net Profit increased
crossing ` 100,000 crore.
by 18.8 per cent to ` 36,961.3 crore from ` 31,116.5 crore. Return
on Average Net Worth was 16.90 per cent while Basic Earnings There is continued focus on digitalising processes and customer
Per Share was ` 66.80 up from ` 56.58. touchpoints to better your Bank’s reach. After the great success
of Personal Loan in 10 Seconds, Digital Loan Against Shares
As on March 31, 2022, your Bank’s Total Balance Sheet stood at
and Digital Loan against Mutual Funds, the Bank has recently
` 2,068,535 crore, an increase of 18.4 per cent over ` 1,746,871
launched an end-to-end digital car loan process (Application
crore on March 31, 2021. Total Deposits rose by 16.8 per cent
to Disbursement). This is an industry first car loan process with
to ` 1,559,217 crore from ` 1,335,060 crore. Savings Account
a completely digital, contactless and paperless experience,
Deposits grew by 26.8 per cent to ` 511,739 crore while Current
wherein New to the Bank customers can avail disbursement
Account Deposits rose by 12.8 per cent to ` 239,311 crore. Time
within 30 Minutes (which includes Video KYC Process) and
Deposits stood at ` 808,168 crore, representing an increase of
existing pre-approved customers can get loan disbursement in
12.3 per cent. CASA Deposits accounted for 48.2 per cent of Total
10 seconds.
Deposits. Advances stood at ` 1,368,821 crore, representing an
increase of 20.8 per cent. Domestic Loan Portfolio of ` 1,337,504 The Payments Business, where your Bank has a strong
crore grew by 20.3 per cent over March 31, 2021. presence not only acts as a catalyst for cashless transactions
but also spurs consumption. With 4.30 crore debit cards, 1.65
crore credit cards and about 28.94 lakh acceptance points, it
is among the largest facilitators of cashless payments in the
country. Your Bank’s payments business has launched digital
137
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
offerings such as Bharat QR Code, UPI, and SMS pay solutions. per cent of fully disbursed loans either through the issuance of
It has also pioneered products such as the SmartHub app for mortgage-backed Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) or a direct
small merchants and DigiPos, which enables traditional PoS assignment of loans. The balance is retained by HDFC Limited.
machines to accept digital payments. Your Bank originated, on an average ` 3,550 crore of home loans
every month in the year under review and purchased ` 28,205
RBI, through its order dated December 2, 2020, advised
crore as direct assignment of loans.
your Bank to immediately (i) stop sourcing of new credit card
customers and (ii) stop all launches of digital business generating Third Party Products
activities planned under program Digital 2.0.
Your Bank distributes Life, General and Health Insurance, and
RBI lifted the restrictions on new credit card acquisitions in Mutual Funds (third party products). Income from this business
August 2021 followed by the removal of the embargo on the grew by 24 per cent to ` 4,422 crore from ` 3,573 crore and
Digital 2.0 program in March 2022. accounted for 23 per cent of Total Fee Income in the year ended
March 31, 2022, compared with 22 per cent in the preceding year.
The Bank has since been working on the following four pillars:
making credit cards more powerful and customer focused, Life Insurance
entering into strategic alliances and forging partnerships,
The open architecture adopted by your Bank for insurance
enhancing focus on customers’ experience and complaints and
distribution with eight insurers was made more robust through
digitalising the user journeys
enhancements in digital journeys and product innovation with all
CRedIT CARdS IN FORCe the partners. End- to-end solicitation journey for all the products
1.65 offered is now seamlessly integrated between the Bank and
insurance partners. More than 50 products are available for
crore
solicitation on HDFC Bank NetBanking platform - which now
contributes almost 50 per cent of the total policies. Premium
The Virtual Relationship Management practice is an integrated mobilisation in Life Insurance for the year ended March 31, 2022
customer centric approach covering three pillars - Virtual was ` 6,819 crore.
Relationships, Virtual Sales and Virtual Care. A banking
Non-Life Insurance
experience with digital ease and personalised conversations is
at the core of our VRM strategy. As digital or contactless banking In the Non-Life insurance space, your Bank along with its
became a necessity during the pandemic, this programme gained insurance partners, introduced new and innovative products
further traction in the year under review. Under VRM, relationship and increased customer offerings with an objective of providing
managers reach out to customers through remote and digital wider health insurance coverage during the pandemic. All the
platforms resulting in deeper and cost effective engagement. products offered are enabled through NetBanking and tele-
As digital literacy and exposure increases exponentially, VRMs sales platforms. Employees across channels have been trained
are gaining wider acceptance through deeper engagement and on the new products and processes. Manpower has been
relationships backed by a strong product offering. strengthened across Non-Life insurers to increase our business
in the health insurance space keeping the customer requirement
Meanwhile, your Bank also added 734 branches during the
in mind. Premium mobilisation in General and Health Insurance
year, taking the total to 6,342. As of March 31, 2022, the Bank’s
stood at ` 2,270 crore as of March 31, 2022.
distribution network was at 6,342 branches and 18,130 ATMs /
Cash Deposit & Withdrawal Machines (CDMs) across 3,188 cities Mutual Funds
/ towns as against 5,608 branches and 16,087 ATMs / CDMs
Your Bank adopts an open architecture in Mutual Funds
across 2,902 cities / towns as of March 31, 2021. Fifty per cent of
distribution as well and distributes funds of 35 Asset Management
our branches are in semi-urban and rural areas. In addition, the
Companies (AMCs) with continued focus on digital journeys
Bank has 15,341 business correspondents, which are primarily
which enables customers to register for an online Investment
manned by Common Service Centres (CSCs). The total number
Services Account (ISA); 85 per cent of ISAs are now opened
of customers your Bank catered to as on March 31, 2022 was
through digital mediums. AUM of the Bank grew by 22.7 per cent
over 7.10 crore, up from over 6.18 crore in the previous year.
to ` 92,479 crore for the year ended March 31, 2022.
As you are aware, your Bank operates in the Home Loan Business
wealth
in conjunction with HDFC Limited. As per this arrangement, your
Bank sells HDFC home loans while HDFC Limited approves and The Private Banking Group was rebranded as HDFC Bank
disburses them. Your Bank receives sourcing fee for these loans Wealth with a focussed strategy to reach out to Super Affluent
and as per the arrangement, has the option to purchase up to 70 and Mass Affluent Customers in B30 cities in addition to the
138
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
current setup in metros. In the year under review, the business Corporate Banking, which focuses on large, well-rated
has expanded to 67 new locations and is now catering to 216 companies, continued to be the biggest contributor to Wholesale
cities with 46 per cent increase in total families managed and total Banking in terms of asset size. It was able to do so as it was
Assets under management of Rs. 4.11 lakh crores. Your bank armed with sufficient cash due to its strong capital base and
is on track to reach 800+ locations by the end of this financial balance sheet.
year through a hub and spoke model. Your bank is currently
In Corporate banking, your Bank refocused on its engagement
ranked 2nd amongst distributors in terms of distributor managed
with MNCs. This business also continued to capitalise on the
Mutual Fund Assets under management with market share of 4
trend of large companies preferring to deal with fewer banks.
per cent. The business has been ranked No. 1 in Mass Affluent
Your Bank deepened its existing relationships as well as
(US$100K to US$5m) Category by Euromoney Private Banking
gained market share by leveraging its wide product offering.
& Wealth Management Survey 2022 in addition to receiving
This business supported customer requirements under
prestigious awards like Best Private Bank in India by Global
the Production Linked Incentive Scheme. The Emerging
Private Banking Awards 2021 and Best Bank for Succession
Corporates Group, which focuses on the mid- market segment,
Planning by Asiamoney Asia Private Banking Awards 2021.
too witnessed significant growth. Your Bank leveraged its
Our dedicated service team for Wealth Clients ensures that vast geographical reach, technology backbone, automated
we deliver on our Service First philosophy. Further, to ensure processes, suite of financial products and quick turnaround
transition from transactional approach of wealth management to times to offer a differentiated service, which has resulted in new
client centric portfolio management approach, your bank tracks customer acquisitions as well as a higher share of the wallet from
the Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) of its Wealth business existing customers. The business continues to have a diversified
as a key metric of client retention. Your bank has an open portfolio in terms of both industry and geography.
architecture framework across investment products to ensure
In the year under review, the Bank continued its focus on the
that the recommended investment options are based on robust
MSME sector. There has already been increased formalistion/
quantitative and qualitative evaluation model re-accentuating
digitalisation of the MSME sector due to the adoption of the
our customer centricity. Your bank is developing a mobile first
Goods and Service Tax (GST). The COVID-19 pandemic led to
Wealth application that will leverage on advanced analytics and
the sector experiencing substantial stress, prompting the Union
intuitive client experience/ journeys to provide differentiated
Government to identify it for special support through various
wealth solutions across customer segments. The digital platform
schemes like Moratorium, ECLGS, ECLGS Extension and COVID
will focus on agile digital journeys and personalisation to cater
support loans. Your Bank supported its customers during this
to customers across the country. The goal is to deliver a highly
period by participating in the Government schemes.
personalised experience that democratises wealth management
and makes it accessible for all our customers. The Investment Banking business further cemented its
prominent position in the Debt Capital Markets, Equity Capital
wholesale Banking
Markets and INR Loan Syndication. Your Bank maintained its
The Wholesale Banking business was a key growth engine for position amongst the top 3 in the Bloomberg rankings of Rupee
your Bank in the year under review. This business focuses on Bond Book Runners for FY 2021-22, with a market share of
institutional customers such as the Government, PSUs, large and 14.42 per cent. Your Bank is actively assisting clients in equity
emerging corporates, and SMEs. Your Bank’s strong offerings fund raising and was ranked 5th in the PRIME Database League
include working capital and term loans, as well as trade credit, Tables for IPOs and Rights Issues for FY 2021-22 for private
cash management, supply chain financing, foreign exchange, sector issues against 9th for FY 2020-21. Your Bank is ranked
and investment banking services. 2nd in the Bloomberg rankings of Syndicated INR term loans
for FY 2021-22, with a market share of 11.32 per cent against
The Wholesale Banking business recorded healthy growth,
ranking of 3rd for FY 2020-21.
ending FY 2021-22 with a domestic loan book size of ` 737,896
crore, recording a growth of 26.4 per cent over the year earlier. In the Government business, your Bank sustained its focus on tax
This constituted about 55 per cent of your Bank’s domestic collections, collecting direct tax (CBDT) of Rs 4,08,869.61 crore
loans as per Basel II classification. Your Bank was able to and Indirect tax (CBIC+ GST) of over Rs 2,24,712.76 crore during
expand its share of the customer wallet, primarily using sharper FY 2021-22. It continues to enjoy a pre-eminent position among
customisation, cross-selling and expanding into greater the country’s major stock and commodity exchanges in both
geographies. And continuing to lend during the pandemic while Cash Management Services and Cash Settlement Services.
being prudent.
Your Bank has been a pioneer in providing Digital Banking
Services to its wholesale banking customers. It was an early
139
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
adopter of digital technology through the Corporate Net Banking Your Bank maintains a portfolio of Government Securities in
Platform, ENet. It has now launched an upgraded Corporate line with the regulatory norms governing the Statutory Liquidity
Internet Banking Platform CBX which offers a better UI/UX and Ratio (SLR). A significant portion of these SLR securities are in
richer dashboard. New customers will be onboarded on this and ‘Held-to- Maturity’ (HTM) category, while some are ‘Available for
existing customers will be migrated to this platform. Sale’ (AFS). Your Bank is also a primary dealer for Government
Securities. As a part of this business, your Bank holds fixed
The bank has introduced a unique Supply Chain digital platform
income securities as ‘Held for Trading’ (HFT).
that allows its corporate clients and their supply chain network
consisting of dealers, vendors, and corporate customers to In the year under review, your Bank continued to be a significant
connect seamlessly with the bank’s system. The platform is participant in the domestic exchange and interest rate markets. It
designed to provide a convenient, easy to use and efficient also capitalised on falling bond yields to book profits and is now
interface across all supply chain products for all members of looking at tapping opportunities arising out of the liberalisation
the supply chain thus enhancing customer experience. in the foreign exchange and interest rate markets.
Your Bank offers the entire gamut of financial services, such as
B) International Business
payments, collection, tax solutions, Government business, trade
finance services, cash management solutions and corporate During the year, your Bank stayed on course to cater to NRI
cards through its flagship platform, besides seamlessly clients and deepen its product and service proposition. Your
connecting its customers through API, S2S (Server to Server) Bank has global footprints by way of representative offices and
and Host-to-Host services. branches in countries like Bahrain, Hong Kong, the UAE and
Kenya. It also has a presence in International Financial Service
Treasury
Centre (IFSC) at GIFT City in Gandhinagar, Gujarat.
The Treasury is the custodian of your Bank’s cash/liquid assets
The Bank’s product strategy in International Markets is customer
and handles its investments in securities, foreign exchange
centric and it has products to cater to client needs across asset
and cash instruments. It manages the liquidity and interest rate
classes. Your Bank now has plans to extend the product offering
risks on the balance sheet and is also responsible for meeting
from GIFT City Branch under Liberalized Remittance Scheme to
reserve requirements. The vertical also helps manage the
Resident and Non Resident clients.
treasury needs of customers and earns a fee income generated
from transactions customers undertake with your Bank while As on March 31, 2022, the Balance Sheet size of International
managing their foreign exchange and interest rate risks. Business was US$ 7.66 billion. Advances constituted 3.12% of
the Bank’s gross advances. The Total Income contributed by
Revenue accrues from spreads on customer transactions based
Overseas Branches constituted 0.55% of Bank’s Total Income
on trade and remittance flows and demonstrated hedging needs.
for the year.
Your Bank recorded revenue of ` 3,907.9 crore from foreign
exchange and derivative transactions in the year under review. INTeRNATIONAl BuSINeSS
While plain vanilla forex products were in demand across all US $ 7.6 + billion
customer segments, demand for derivatives products increased
Balance Sheet
with the RBI liberalizing regulations and allowing Indian banks to
participate in Non-Deliverable Offshore markets.
As part of its prudent risk management, your Bank enters into C) Partnering with the Government
foreign exchange and derivatives deals with counterparties after
Government and Institutions Business
it has set up appropriate credit limits based on its evaluation of
the ability of the counterparty to meet its obligations. Where The past year has been momentous for the Government and
your Bank enters into foreign currency derivatives contracts Institutions Business vertical in your Bank. Some key Highlights
not involving the Indian Rupee with its customers, it typically for your Bank include:
lays them off in the inter-bank market on a matched basis. For
1. Declared the single largest collector of direct taxes by the
such foreign currency derivatives, your Bank primarily carries
Controller General of Accounts, Government of India in
the counterparty credit risk (where the customer has crystallised
FY 2020-21
payables or mark-to-market losses) and may carry only residual
market risk, if any. Your Bank also deals in derivatives on its own 2. Received mandates and began collecting customs duty
account, including for the purpose of its own Balance Sheet
3. Received mandates from the Railways Board for e-freight
risk management.
collections, and pension business
140
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
4. Integrated with Government of India’s e-National Apart from advising farmers on their financial needs, your Bank
Agricultural Marketplace is increasingly focusing on facilitating various Government/
Regulatory schemes and non-crop segment covering agri allied
5. Enabled more than 90,000 MSMEs to be eligible to transact
and small agri business enterprises including rural MSMEs.
on the Government e-marketplace
Your Bank has designed a range of crop and geography-
6. Processed more than 130 million transactions using
specific products in line with the harvest cycles and the local
Government of India’s Public Financial Management
needs of farmers across diverse Agro-climatic zones. It has
System to transfer funds to beneficiaries
transformed rural banking services from being product centric
7. Processed about 26% of the funds flowing from the Central to customer centric.
Government to the states for development programs under
Products such as post-harvest cash credit and warehouse
the aegis of the Centrally sponsored schemes, Central
receipt financing enable faster cash flows to farmers. Credit
sector schemes, and 15th Finance Commission
is also offered for allied agricultural activities such as dairy,
8. Received collection mandates from the following two state pisciculture, and sericulture.
Governments – Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh
Participation in Government Schemes
d) Semi-urban and Rural As a part of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, to give a fillip to the
Indian economy and to make every Indian citizen self-reliant, the
The Semi-urban and Rural markets have always been a focus of
Government of India has announced several schemes/enablers
your Bank’s strategy. In the last few years, your Bank has made
across several sectors, more particularly in the agriculture sector.
a renewed push into the Semi-urban and rural markets as rising
income levels and aspirations of rural customers are leading to Your Bank is implementing almost all such initiatives/schemes
demand for better quality financial products and services. The targeting multiple stakeholders of the agri ecosystem.
rural groups in every department of your Bank work together to
Agricultural Infrastructure Fund (AIF) Scheme: Through
tap these opportunities.
this scheme the Bank is offering medium to long-term debt
Apart from meeting its statutory obligations under PSL (Agri & facility for investment in viable projects pertaining to post harvest
Allied activities, Small and Marginal Farmers and weaker sections management, infrastructure development such as construction
etc), your Bank has been offering a wide range of products on of warehouses/silos.
the asset side, such as auto, two-wheeler, personal, gold, Light
Your Bank has actively participated in agri infrastructure
Commercial Vehicle (LCV), small shopkeeper loans in these
campaigns conducted by PMU, AIF (Ministry of Agriculture) and
markets. Now it plans to increase its coverage of villages and
stood #1 amongst private sector Banks. As on March 31, your
deepen relationships in existing ones. The semi-urban and rural
Bank has sanctioned ` 427 crore covering 298 projects.
push has been backed by the Bank’s digital strategy.
Farmer Produce Organisations (FPOs): Leveraging the
Your Bank’s operations in Semi-urban and Rural locations are
Government scheme for formation and promotion of 10k new
explained below:
FPOs (Credit guarantee is available from SFAC/NABARD), your
Agriculture and Allied Activities Bank is funding eligible FPOs for working capital and term loan
requirements. Through this initiative, your Bank will be able to
Your Bank’s assets in Agriculture & Allied activities stood at
reach a larger number of small and marginal farmers.
`134,487.50 crore as on March 31, 2022.
Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Food and Micro
In general, the key to your Bank’s success in the existing market
Enterprises (PMFME): Your Bank is actively implementing the
is its ability to tap the opportunities through:
scheme and passing the benefits to all eligible borrowers in the
- Wide product range food processing sector.
- Faster turnaround time Other Agri schemes include Agri Marketing Infrastructure Fund,
Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Fund, Pradhan Mantri Kisan
- Digital solutions
Urja Suraksha evam Utthaan Mahabhiyan (PMKUSUM), Mission
The Bank’s product range includes pre-and post-harvest for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) as well as
crop loans, farm development/investment loans, two- wheeler state specific Government schemes.
loans, auto loans, tractor loans, small agri business loans, loan
Your Bank’s focus in the rural markets has not just been on
against gold, among others. This has helped the Bank establish
increasing credit offtake, but also on cementing relationships
a strong footprint in the rural hinterland with its asset products.
141
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
with customers by empowering them. As part of these efforts, total number of branches where it can be availed of to 1,362.
farmer centres or Kisan Dhan Vikas Kendras have been rolled The bank has ended the year with a porfolio of ` 8,367 crore.
out in Punjab, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.
The bank is implementing its blueprint for gold loans being made
At these centres, farmers access information on soil health,
available in every branch of the country. The Bank is also
mandi prices, and various Government initiatives and also receive
planning strategically to partner with channels who have the
expert advice. Moreover, these services are also available on
solutions available to increase the reach.
the Bank’s website in vernacular languages. Kisan Dhan Vikas
e-Kendra is one of its kind in the Banking Industry to reach out Social initiatives in Farm Sector
to farmers as a one-stop solution for all their requirements viz.
Farm yield and income are subject to the vagaries of the
loan eligibility, online application facility, training though kiosks,
weather. In addition, factors like soil health, input quality (seeds
call an expert facility, soil testing and much more. Your Bank
and fertilizers), water availability, and Government policy have
also provides advisory on weather, cropping and harvesting
significant impact, along with price realisations and storage
through SMS.
facilities. Your Bank has launched a variety of initiatives to ease
In line with this, the Bank also launched the e-KISAN Dhan the stress on farm income and rural households.
app, a unique digital app for the rural/farming community.
Over the last few years, several parts of the country have
This is an exclusive mobile app for all rural banking and agriculture
been severely impacted by natural calamities such as drought,
information needs from HDFC Bank.
unseasonal rains, hailstorms, floods and the pandemic. Within
This app aggregates crucial information required by the farmers. regulatory guidelines, your Bank has been providing relief to the
There have been about 100,000 downloads of the app. impacted farmers. It also has put in place systems designed to
enable direct benefit transfers in a time-bound manner.
Multiple needs of the farmers can be serviced such as purchase
of agri inputs, agro products, information on best practices, Lending to the agriculture sector, including to small and marginal
weather alerts, mandi rates, expert advice, agri news, information farmers, is a regulatory mandate as part of priority sector lending
on Government schemes like debt waiver, interest subvention, requirements. The Bank has leveraged its extensive knowledge
crop insurance and livestock centre amongst others. of rural customers to create as well as deliver products and
services at affordable price points and with quick turnaround
digital Interventions
time. This has enabled the Bank to establish a strong footprint
Digitising Milk Procurement: This initiative brings in the rural geographies, which it has now leveraged to increase
transparency in the milk procurement and payment process, its penetration of liability products. Further, your Bank is building
which benefits both farmers and dairy societies. Multi-function a segment-specific approach like funding to horticulture clusters,
Terminals (MFTs), popularly known as Milk-to- Money ATMs, are supply chain finance, agri business, MSMEs and dairy farmers.
deployed in dairy societies. The MFTs link the milk procurement It also continues to engage closely with farmers to mitigate risks
system of the dairy society to the farmer’s account to enable and protect portfolio quality.
faster payments. MFTs have cash dispensers that function as
Micro, Small and Medium enterprises (MSMe)
standard ATMs. Payments are credited without the hassles of
cash distribution. Further, this process creates a credit history The MSME sector serves as an important engine for economic
which can then be used for accessing bank credit. Apart from growth and is one of the largest employers in the economy. Your
dairy and cattle loans, customers gain access to all the Bank’s Bank’s assets in the MSME segment stood at ` 313,919.49 crore
products including digital offerings such as 10 Second Personal as on March 31, 2022. Its Micro Enterprises assets alone stood
Loans, Kisan Credit Card, Bill Pay, and Missed Call Mobile at ` 112,564.77 crore as on March 31, 2022.
Recharge. So far, your Bank has digitised payments at over
The MSME sector was one of the sectors identified for special
1,700 milk cooperatives across 21 states, benefiting more than
support by the Government and the RBI during the pandemic
5.2 lakh dairy farmers. The Dairy business witnessed 73% per
through various schemes like Interest Moratorium, ECLGS.
cent year-on-year growth in disbursements and 61% in the book.
ECLGS extension, COVID support loans etc.
Substituting Moneylenders:
Your Bank has ensured support for its customers through
The bank is making inroads into a market dominated by ECLGS and ECLGS extension schemes during the year and has
the unorganised sector, moneylenders and pawn brokers. also supported the customers through ad hoc enhancements
The bank is keen on making the gold loan facility available across as needed by them. Your Bank emerged as a star performer
the length and breadth of the country. In FY 2021-22 your bank under the ECLGS 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 and ECLGS extension schemes.
made gold loans available in 351 more branches taking the It disbursed loans amounting to ` 17,100.89 crore to over 0.78
142
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
lakh customers in all ELGS schemes. This swift support enabled Sustainable livelihood initiative
existing customers to meet their operational liabilities and helped
This is primarily a social initiative with elements of business. It
in the smooth functioning of their businesses.
entails skill training, livelihood financing, and creating market
The silver lining has been that the pace of digitalisation among linkages. (Please refer to page no. 95 for details)
MSMEs has gained further momentum. This will not only help
the pace of disbursement but also increase transparency in the e) environmental Sustainability
sector. The process started with the Government’s digitalisation
Sustainability is one of the core values of the Bank. Please refer
push and the adoption of GST, which resulted in easy availability
to page no. 56 where it is covered in detail.
of data for banks regarding cash flows of these companies. It
has been further expanded to enable customers to apply online
F) Business enablers
by submitting requisite documents online and post sanction
disbursement execution in digital way. 1) People Transformation
The SME portal continues to offer ad hoc approvals, pre- People is one of the core values of the Bank. For details please
approved TODs on an STP basis to existing customers. They refer to page no. 80.
can request top-up of loans and submit the required documents
2) Information Technology
online. The SME portal also helps customers access your
Bank’s services related to sanctioned credit facilities 24/7 Summary
from anywhere.
The Bank has accelerated the Technology and Digital
On the trade side, your Bank’s focus has been on customer Transformation with a continued focus on creating a seamless
engagement for increasing the penetration of Trade on Net digital experience for customers. RBI, through its order dated
applications. This is a complete enterprise trade solution for December 2, 2020, advised your Bank to immediately (i) stop
customers engaged in domestic as well as foreign trade, enabling sourcing of new credit card customers and (ii) stop all launches
them to initiate online requests and track them seamlessly, of digital business generating activities planned under program
resulting in reduced time and costs. Digital 2.0. RBI lifted the restrictions on new credit card
acquisitions in August 2021 followed by the removal of the
Taking Banking to the unbanked
embargo on the Digital 2.0 program in March 2022. The Bank
Your Bank is fully committed to taking banking to the remotest is fully geared to launch the next wave of strategic technology
parts of the country through a combination of an extensive & digital programs which will pave the way for new customer
physical network and a robust digital suite of products and journeys and best-in-class products and services through
services. Today, about half of your Bank’s outlets are located innovation and transformation.
in rural and semi-urban areas. Your Bank also offers last mile
Your Bank has taken significant strides to ensure further
access through mobile applications such as BHIM, UPI, USSD,
fortification of its IT infrastructure and architecture as a robust,
Scan and Pay, and RuPay enabled Micro-ATMs.
scalable and secure ecosystem. Strategic technology initiatives
To bring more under-banked sections of the population into such as hybrid cloud approach, DR Resiliency, capacity
formal financial channels, your Bank has opened over 26.02 lakh enhancements, data centre migration to state-of-the-art facilities,
accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) comprehensive obsolescence management and monitoring,
and enrolled 38.58 lakh customers in social security schemes next-gen security operations centre and more are pivotal to the
since inception. We now rank among the leading private sector Bank to move from strength to strength and usher in the next
banks in this regard. In the year under review, loans to the tune age of digital banking.
of ` 7,028 crore to 12.76 lakh beneficiaries were extended under
(A) Technology Absorption
the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) and nearly ` 216
crore to 1,014 beneficiaries under the ‘Stand up India’ scheme The Bank is accelerating the technology and digital transformation
to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and women borrowers. agenda. It continues to stay invested in creating a seamless
Your Bank also has actively supported PM Street Vendor’s digital and customer experience across digital touchpoints. Your
AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PMSVANIDHI) a special scheme under micro- Bank’s focused factory approach is enabling the building of its
credit facility for street vendors with a collateral free affordable own capabilities to co-create Tech IP. Additionally, the imbibing of
term loan of ` 10,000 for 1 year. Your Bank has disbursed agile and DevSecOps principles and practices and cloudification
` 10,000 each to 16,286 street vendors to support them during of the Bank’s tech stack are pivotal enablers in the next leg of its
the pandemic and has also educated the street vendors in using technology and digital transformation journey.
the digital mode for making financial transactions.
143
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Initiatives such as DR Resiliency and the Bank’s Hybrid The capacity management program has made significant
Cloud Strategy continue to fortify its IT infrastructure and inroads to ensure capacity planning and management are
architecture backbone. commensurate with the rapid business growth witnessed by
the Bank. Strengthening of capacity management practices
Focus on its digital programs will pave the way for the Bank to
has culminated into a threshold of 70 per cent across key
create next level neo-banking experiences for its customers.
parameters such as user concurrency, utilisation of database,
From shaping new customer journeys to introducing best-in-
server, storage, network and security devices. This has resulted
class products and services, transformation and innovation shall
in planned capacity upgrades of critical applications such as:
be at the forefront.
• 90,000 concurrent users capacity for using NetBanking
Key initiatives in this space are:
and MobileBanking.
• Vyapar: Digital onboarding of merchants for payment
• The foundations of the banking platform being upgraded
acceptance and servicing of banking transactions for the
along with modernisation of 300+ services. This enhances
merchant community
the Bank’s scalability and capacity to cater to triple the
• API based digital journeys for the auto industry: load of UPI transactions. Successfully managing over
Launched a digital API platform for auto financing 45 crore bank customer transactions per month which
had doubled in the last 12 months. Your Bank has already
• PayZapp 2.0: Enhanced experience of app customers
been ranked among the top players as published in NPCI’s
to onboard, auto-link HDFC Bank cards, wallet and limit
UPI performance metrics dashboard. Overall, the Bank’s
management, transaction display via rich statement
average customer uptime was 99.94 per cent.
• Wealth management system: A new wealth management
The senior management and the Board continue to keep strong
app with client self-profiling, goal setting, mutual fund order
focus on capacity, performance, scalability and availability of the
execution and portfolio re-balancing
Bank’s critical applications.
• SME customer experience transformation: New
3. DR and Resiliency
technology to support business volume at larger scale,
revamp the entire SME customer experience across The Bank has notably intensified the rigour in its DR drills
commercial and retail business lines for critical applications and will continue to further work on
strengthening its DR processes and capabilities as outlined and
• Biz Express: A new web portal for SME segments
communicated in its periodic submissions. The pivotal enablers
covering digital on-boarding, managing their multiple
in this journey are:
accounts, making payments with hierarchy, raising GST
compliant invoices for payment, multiple collection modes, • A rigorous focus on reducing RTO for key applications
raise service requests online etc. to 40-60 minutes, which has been completed for 56
key applications
Your Bank has taken multiple steps to ensure that its robust,
scalable and secure technology set-up is strengthened even • Deep automation to improve configuration drift management
further. The Bank continues to rigorously monitor the progress between primary and DR sites
against commitments to the regulator.
• Enrichment of existing automation tools for DR to cover all
To this effect, significant strides were taken in the following DR scenarios and reduce the RTO time further
technology areas:
• Refactoring key applications into an ‘Hot DR’ / ‘Active-
1. Implementation of a landing zone for Hyperscalers Active’ design
Your Bank has invested in a hybrid-cloud approach with the 4. Migration of the Primary Data Centre
leading cloud service partners i.e, AWS, Azure and GCP. A
Your Bank embarked on a journey to fully migrate and consolidate
common landing zone has been implemented across these
its primary data centre to state-of-the-art facilities in Mumbai
partners to create a secure and streamlined environment for all
and Bengaluru partnering with Sify and NTT. A systematic plan
cloud deployments in the future. The landing zone also enables
helped achieve 100 per cent migration of production applications
the Bank’s agenda of imbibing agility and DevSecOps in the
in November 2021 followed by 100 per cent migration of UAT
technology and digital transformation journey.
applications in March 2022. Further, a phase-wise plan is in
2. Capacity Upgrades place to migrate the Bank’s Chandivali, Mumbai data centre to
the NTT facility over the next 6 months.
144
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
The new facilities help ensure the Board’s continued focus on Service Quality Initiatives and Grievance Redressal
ensuring a robust IT infrastructure for the Bank’s applications
Customer Focus is one of the five core values of your Bank.
and operations with higher customer uptimes across
Driven by this core value, your Bank has always endeavoured
digital touchpoints.
to improve customer experience and has adopted a holistic
5. Technology Obsolescence Management approach for the same across multiple channels. This is critical
in a highly competitive business environment, especially since
A technology obsolescence program management office was
it has various lines of businesses. Ensuring product quality and
established in June 2021 for comprehensive obsolescence
service delivery becomes vital for business growth. Your Bank
tracking and management. Processes and procedures have
desires to achieve this by seeking customer feedback as well
been introduced to identify and remediate obsolete components
as benchmarking with best-in-class business entities. Your bank
6 months before the end of support. The scope covers more
has adopted a three-step strategy with regards to Customer
than 19,000 components across the Bank’s IT environment as
Service - Define, Measure, and Improve.
of today. A detailed plan is in place to remediate components
pertaining to high-risk applications by June 2022. The Bank Your Bank has adopted a multi-pronged approach to provide
continues to maintain rigorous monitoring on obsolescence an omnichannel experience to its customers. On one side, your
through periodic reviews and reporting along with the Bank has traditional touch points like Branch, Email Management
senior management. team and Phone banking, and on the other side, it has state- of-
the-art platforms like NetBankinbg, MobileBanking, the chatbot
6. Cyber Security
Eva and the bank’s exclusive social care handles which offer a
Cyber security is at the heart of the technology transformation wide range of channel choice to its customers. Your Bank has
journey with substantial advancements being made to further also improvised on the relationship-based banking programmes.
fortify the Bank’s infrastructure and applications. A few initiatives In addition to the branch-based relationship managers, it also
in this regard are: has a Virtual Relationship Manager (VRM) programme to cater
to various financial needs in a personalized manner. Your Bank
• Foundation of a next-gen Security Operations Centre
invites and reviews the performance on customer service as well
(SOC) with advanced technologies for predictive security
as grievance redressal at different levels which are Branch Level
and incident management - To this effect, the Bank
Customer Service Committees (BLCSCs), Standing Committee
has provisioned the Securonix platform on AWS and
on Customer Service (SCCS) and Customer Service Committee
configured more than 10,000 logging sources and devices
of the Board (CSCB). Your Bank has put robust processes in
for monitoring
place to regularly monitor and measure quality of service levels
• Introduction of Security Orchestration, Automation & not only at various touch points but also at a product and
Response (SOAR) to reduce the incident response time process level by Quality Initiatives Group.
by connecting security solutions with each other and
As part of its continuous efforts to enhance quality of service, the
automating the incident life cycle
Service Quality team carries out regular reviews across various
• Micro-segmentation is being enabled in the data centre products/processes/channels. The effectiveness of the quality
network to allow higher visibility across network flows as of service provided is also reviewed at different levels, including
well as stronger preparedness and management against the Customer Service Committee of the Board.
ransomware related events/incidents
One of the basic building blocks of providing acceptable level
• 24x7 defacement monitoring and vulnerability management of customer service is to have an effective internal Grievance
of the Bank’s internet properties minimise the surface area Redressal mechanism / framework. In this regard, the bank has
for cyber security attacks. outlined a framework for redressal of customer grievances and
documented it in the form of a Grievance Redressal Policy – duly
Technology related challenges over the past few years have
approved by its Board. Bank has also made this policy available
only made the Bank’s resolve stronger to consolidate and fortify
in public domain (on the website as well as in the branches).
its technology environment. Focused technology and digital
investments and programs in technology are pivotal to the Bank Your Bank has provided multiple channels to its customers
to usher in the new age of digital banking and experiences for to share feedback on its services as well as register their
its customers. grievances. Your Bank is at the forefront of developing innovative
financial solutions and digital platforms. This, coupled with
concerted efforts at creating awareness among customers,
has led to an increase in the use of its digital channels as well
145
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
as customer loyalty. Keeping customer interest in focus, your • Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book
Bank has formulated a Board approved Protection Policy, which
• Liquidity Risk
limits the liability of customers in case of unauthorized electronic
banking transactions • Intraday Liquidity Risk
Your Bank is on a journey to measure customer loyalty through • Intra Day Credit Risk
a high velocity, closed loop customer feedback system. This
• Credit Concentration Risk
customer experience transformation programme will help
employees empathize better with customers and improve • Counterparty Credit Risk
turnaround times. Branded as ‘Infinite Smiles’, the programme
• Model Risk
would help establish behaviours and practices that result in
customer-centric actions through continuous improvements in • Outsourcing Risk
product, services, process, and policies.
• People Risk
Thanks to these initiatives, your Bank’s customer complaints for
• Business Risk
FY 21-22 decreased by 21 percent from 4,67,453* to 3,68,291.
• Strategic Risk
*Restated complaints number based on reclassification of
queries into complaints from 3,25,786. • Compliance Risk
• Reputation Risk
Risk Management and Portfolio Quality
• Technology Risk
1) Risk Management and Portfolio Quality
• Group Risk
Traditionally, the key risks that your Bank is exposed to in the
Credit Risk
course of its business have been the Pillar 1 risks - Credit Risk,
Market Risk and Operational Risk. Given the evolving banking Credit Risk is defined as the possibility of losses associated with
environment, Liquidity Risk, Information Technology Risk and diminution in the credit quality of borrowers or counterparties.
Information Security Risk have also become vital. These risks Losses stem from outright default or reduction in portfolio
not only have a bearing on your Bank’s financial strength and value. Your Bank has a distinct credit risk architecture,
operations but also on its reputation. Keeping this in mind, policies, procedures and systems for managing credit risk in
the Bank has put in place Board-approved risk strategy and both its retail and wholesale businesses. Wholesale lending is
policies, whose implementation is supervised by the Risk Policy managed on an individual as well as portfolio basis. In contrast,
and Monitoring Committee (RPMC). The Committee ensures retail lending, given the granularity of individual exposures, is
that frameworks are established for assessing and managing managed largely on a portfolio basis across various products
various risks faced by your Bank, systems are developed to and customer segments. For both categories, there are robust
relate risk to the Bank’s capital level and methods are in place for front-end and back-end systems in place to ensure credit quality
monitoring compliance with internal risk management policies and to minimise loss from default. The factors considered while
and processes. The Committee guides the development sanctioning retail loans include income, demographics, credit
of policies, procedures and systems for managing risks. It history, loan tenor and banking behaviour. In addition, there are
ensures that these are adequate and appropriate to changing multiple credit risk models developed and used to appraise and
business conditions, the structure and needs of your Bank and score different segments of customers on the basis of portfolio
its risk appetite. behaviour. In wholesale loans, credit risk is managed by capping
exposures on the basis of borrower group, industry, credit rating
The hallmark of your Bank’s risk management function is that it
grades and country, among others. This is backed by portfolio
is independent of the business sourcing unit with convergence
diversification, stringent credit approval processes and periodic
only at the CEO level.
post-disbursement monitoring and remedial measures. Your
The gamut of key risks faced by the Bank which are dimensioned Bank has been able to ensure strong asset quality through
and managed include: volatile times in the lending environment by stringently adhering
to prudent norms and institutionalised processes. Your Bank
• Credit Risk, including Residual Risks
also has a robust framework for assessing Counterparty Banks,
• Market Risk which are reviewed periodically to ensure interbank exposures
are within approved appetite.
• Operational Risk
146
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
As on March 31, 2022, your Bank’s ratio of Gross Non Performing Liquidity Risk
Assets (GNPAs) to Gross Advances was 1.17 per cent. Net Non-
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank may not be able to
performing Assets (Gross Non-Performing Assets Less Specific
meet its financial obligations as they fall due without incurring
Loan Loss provisions) was 0.32 per cent of Net Advances.
unacceptable losses. Your Bank’s framework for liquidity and
Your Bank has a conservative and prudent policy for specific interest rate risk management is spelt out through a well-defined
provisions on NPAs. Its provision for NPAs is higher than the Board approved Asset Liability Management Policy. As part of
minimum regulatory requirements and adheres to the regulatory this process, your Bank has established various Board-approved
norms for Standard Assets. limits, both for liquidity risk and interest rate risk in banking book.
Implementation of the policy, monitoring of limits is reviewed by
Digital and Credit Risk
the Asset Liability Committee (ALCO). While the maturity gap,
Driven by rapid advancements in technology, digitalisation is Basel III ratios and stock ratio limits help manage liquidity risk,
increasingly becoming a key differentiator for customer retention Net Interest Income and market value impacts help mitigate
and service delivery in the banking sector. Digital lending enables interest rate risk. This is reinforced by a comprehensive Board-
customers to secure loans at the click of a button in a matter of approved stress testing programme covering both liquidity and
minutes, if not seconds. However, there are also attendant risks interest rate risk.
associated with it and your Bank has put in place appropriate
Your Bank conducts various studies to assess the behavioural
checks and balances to manage these risks. Such loans are
pattern of non-contractual assets and liabilities and embedded
sanctioned primarily to your Bank’s existing customers. Often,
options available to customers, which are used while managing
they are customers across multiple products, thus enabling the
maturity gaps and repricing risk. Further, your Bank also has the
Bank ready access to their credit history and risk profile. This
necessary framework in place to manage intraday liquidity risk.
facilitates evaluation on their loan eligibility. Besides, most of the
credit checks and scores used by your Bank in process- based The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), a global standard, is also
underwriting are replicated for digital loans. The Bank has an used to measure your Bank’s liquidity position. LCR seeks to
independent model validation unit that minutely assesses the ensure that the Bank has an adequate stock of unencumbered
models used to generate the credit scores for such loans. These High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) that can be converted into
models are monitored, reviewed periodically, back tested and cash easily and immediately to meet its liquidity needs under
corrective action is taken whenever needed. a 30-day calendar liquidity stress scenario. Based on Basel III
norms, your Bank’s average LCR stood at 121.16 per cent on
Market Risk
a consolidated basis for FY 2021-22 as against the regulatory
Market Risk arises largely from your Bank’s statutory reserve threshold at 100 per cent.
management and trading activity in interest rates, equity and
Average liquidity Coverage Ratio
currency market. These risks are managed through a well-
121.16 per cent
defined Board approved Market Risk Policy, Investment Policy,
Foreign Exchange Trading Policy and Derivatives Policy that
on a consolidated basis for FY 2021-22
caps risk in different trading desks or various securities through
trading risk limits/triggers. The risk measures include position
The Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR), a key liquidity risk measure
limits, tenor restrictions, sensitivity limits, namely, PV01, Modified
under BCBS liquidity standards, is also used to measure your
Duration of Hold to Maturity Portfolio and Option Greeks, Value-
Bank’s liquidity position. The NSFR seeks to ensure that
at-Risk (VaR) Limit, Stop Loss Trigger Level (SLTL), Scenario
your Bank maintains a stable funding profile in relation to the
based P&L Triggers, Potential Loss Trigger Level (PLTL), and
composition of its assets and off-balance sheet activities. The
are monitored on an end-of-day basis. In addition, forex open
RBI guidelines stipulated a minimum NSFR requirement of 100
positions, currency option delta and interest rate sensitivity
per cent at a consolidated level with effect from October 1, 2021.
limits are computed and monitored on an intraday basis. This
Your Bank has maintained the NSFR well above 100 per cent
is supplemented by a Board-approved stress testing policy
since its implementation. Based on guidelines issued by RBI,
and framework that simulates various market risk scenarios
your Bank’s NSFR stood at 124.00 per cent on a consolidated
to measure losses and initiate remedial measures. The Market
basis at March 31, 2022.
Risk capital charge of your Bank is computed on a daily basis
using the Standardised Measurement Method applying the Operational Risk
regulatory factors.
This is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal
processes, people and systems or from external events. It also
includes risk of loss due to legal risk.
147
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Given below is a detailed explanation under four different prone products/ functions to minimise operational risk. Controls
heads: Framework and Process, Internal Control, Information are tested as part of the SOX control testing framework.
Technology and Security Practices and Fraud Monitoring
c. Information Technology and Information
and Control.
Security Practices
a. Framework and Process
Your Bank operates in a highly automated environment and
To manage Operational Risks, your Bank has in place a makes use of the latest technologies available on cloud or on
comprehensive Operational Risk Management Framework, Premises Data centres to support various business segments.
whose implementation is supervised by the Operational Risk This results in various risks such as those associated with the
Management Committee (ORMC) and reviewed by the RPMC use, ownership, operation, involvement, influence, and adoption
of the Board. An independent Operational Risk Management of IT within an enterprise, as well as business disruption due
Department (ORMD) implements the framework. Under the to technological failures. Additionally, it can lead to risks
framework, the Bank has three lines of defence. The first line of related to information assets, data security, integrity, reliability
defence is the business line (including support and operations). and availability, among others. Your Bank has put in place a
governance framework, information security practices and
The first line is primarily responsible for developing risk mitigation
business continuity plan to mitigate Information Technology &
strategies in managing operational risk for their respective units.
Information Security-related risks.
The second line of defence is the ORMD, which is responsible
The three lines of defence approach is adopted for enterprise-
for implementing the operational risk management framework
wide Technology Risk management. The first line of defence
across the Bank. It designs and develops tools required for
holds primary responsibility of managing the risk and ensuring
implementing the framework including policies and processes,
proper controls are in place.
guidelines towards implementation and maintenance of the
framework. In order to achieve the aforesaid objective pertaining The second line of defence defines policies, frameworks and
to operational risk management framework, the ORMC guides controls. Information Technology Risk and Information Security
and oversees the functioning, implementation and maintenance Group addresses technology and information security related
of operational risk management activities of Bank, with special risks. A well-documented Board-approved information security
focus on: policy and cyber security policy are in place. Your Bank has a
robust Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plan that is
• Identification and assessment of risks across the Bank
periodically tested to ensure that it can meet any operational
through the Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) and
contingencies. Further, there is a well-documented crisis
Scenario analysis
management plan in place to address the strategic issues of
• Measurement of Operational Risk based on the actual a crisis impacting the Bank and to direct and communicate
loss data the corporate response to the crisis including cyber crisis. In
addition, employees mandatorily and periodically undergo
• Monitoring of risk through Key Risk Indicators (KRI)
information security training and sensitisation exercises.
• Management and reporting through KRI, RCSA and loss
For details on robust cyber security measures please refer page
data of the Bank
no. 51.
Internal Audit is the third line of defence. The team reviews the
An independent assurance team within Internal Audit acts as a
effectiveness of governance, risk management and internal
third line of defence that provides assurance on the management
controls within your Bank.
of IT-related risks.
b. Internal Control
d. Fraud Monitoring and Control
Your Bank has implemented sound internal control practices
Your Bank has put in place a Whistle Blower and Vigilance Policy
across all processes, units and functions. It has well laid down
and a central vigilance team that oversees the implementation
policies and processes for the management of its day-to-
of fraud prevention measures. Frauds are investigated to
day activities. Your Bank follows established, well-designed
identify the root cause and relevant corrective steps are taken
controls, which include traditional four eye principles, effective
to prevent recurrence.
segregation of business and support functions, segregation of
duties, call back processes, reconciliation, exception reporting Fraud Monitoring committees at the senior management and
and periodic MIS. Specialised risk control units function in risk- Board level also deliberate on material fraud events and advise
148
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
preventive actions. Periodic reports are submitted to the Board Liquidity Risk, Interest Rate Risk on Banking Book, Technology
and senior management committees. Risk, Reputation Risk, Compliance Risk, Business Risk and
others). The Group Risk Management Committee (GRMC) was
Compliance Risk
instituted in your Bank under the ICAAP framework to establish a
Compliance Risk is defined as the risk of impairment of your formal and dedicated structure to periodically assess the nature/
Bank’s integrity, leading to damage to its reputation, legal or quantum of material risks of the subsidiaries and adequacy of
regulatory sanctions, or financial loss, as a result of a failure (or its risk management processes. Stress testing for the group
perceived failure) to comply with applicable laws, regulations as a whole is carried out by integrating the stress tests of
and standards. Your Bank has a Compliance Policy to ensure the subsidiaries. Similarly, capital adequacy projections are
the highest standards of compliance. A dedicated team of formulated for the group after incorporating the business/capital
subject matter experts in the Compliance Department works plans of the subsidiaries.
with business, support and operations teams to ensure active
Business Continuity Planning (BCP)
Compliance Risk management and monitoring. The team also
provides advisory services on regulatory matters. The focus is on Your Bank has an ISO22301:2019 certified Business Continuity
identifying and reducing risk by rigorously testing products and Program in place to minimise service disruptions and potential
also putting in place robust internal policies. Products that adhere impact on its employees, customers and business during any
to regulatory norms are tested after rollout and shortcomings, unforeseen adverse events or circumstances. This program
if any, are fully addressed till the product stabilises on its own. is designed in accordance with the guidelines issued by
Internal policies are reviewed and updated periodically as per regulatory bodies and is subject to regular internal, external and
agreed frequency or based on market actions or regulatory regulatory reviews. The central Business Continuity Office works
guidelines/actions. The compliance team also seeks regular towards strengthening the bank’s continuity preparedness.
feedback on regulatory compliance from product, business and The implementation is overseen by the Business Continuity
operation teams through self-certifications and monitoring. Steering Committee which is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer.
The Business Continuity Procedure has well defined roles and
ICAAP
responsibilities for Crisis Management, Business Recovery,
Your Bank has a structured management framework in the Emergency Response and IT Disaster Recovery Teams. Please
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) to refer to page no. 52 for more details.
identify, assess and manage all risks that may have a material
Some of the key aspects of thisprogram include thefollowing:
adverse impact on its business/financial position/capital
adequacy. The ICAAP framework is guided by the Board • Presence of a Steering Committee for centralised monitoring
approved ICAAP Policy. of your Bank's Business Continuity program implementation
Stress Testing Framework • Presence of Crisis Management teams for effective
management of recovery operations during disruptive events
Your Bank has implemented a Board approved Stress Testing
Policy and Framework which forms an integral part of the Bank’s • Presence of a dedicated DR site for recovery of critical core
ICAAP. Stress testing involves the use of various techniques to and customer facing applications
assess your Bank’s potential vulnerability to extreme but plausible
• Decentralised recovery plans at functional and regional
stressed business conditions. The changes in the levels of Pillar
levels for structured and speedy recovery of operations
I risks and select Pillar II risks, along with the changes in the
on and off Balance Sheet positions of your Bank are assessed • Periodic drills are exercises for testing the effectiveness of
under assumed ‘stress’ scenarios and sensitivity factors. The these recovery plans.
suite of stress scenarios include topical themes as well as
These robust practices have enabled your bank to continue
prevailing geopolitical / macroeconomic / sectoral and other
delivering banking services seamlessly to customers throughout
trends. The stress testing outcome may be analysed through
the COVID-19 pandemic phases coupled with other major
capital impact and/or identification of vulnerable borrowers
disruptive events. Your Bank has successfully emerged from
depending on the scenario.
all these difficult situations with a hybrid approach comprising
Group Risk of well-adopted continuity and recovery strategies like remote
working (work from home), split operations, work transfer and/
Your Bank has two subsidiaries, HDB Financial Services Limited
or staff transfer to available sites, in accordance with prevailing
and HDFC Securities Limited. The Board of each subsidiary is
protocols and norms.
responsible for managing their respective material risks (Credit
Risk, Concentration Risk, Market Risk, Operational Risk,
149
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
7) Internal Controls, Audit and Compliance (j) Audit logs directly extracted from systems
Your Bank has put in place extensive internal controls and (k) Empowerment grid
processes to mitigate Operational Risks, including centralised
Your Bank also has detective controls in place:
operations and ‘segregation of duty’ between the front office
and back office. The front-office units usually act as customer (a) Periodic review of user IDs
touch-points and sales and service outlets while the back-office
(b) Post-transaction monitoring at the back-end by way of call
carries out the entire processing, accounting and settlement
back process (through daily log reports) by an independent
of transactions in the Bank’s core banking system. The policy
person, i.e., to ascertain that entries in the core banking
framework, definition and monitoring of limits is carried out by
system/messages in payment interface systems are based
various mid-office and risk management functions. The credit
on valid/authorised transactions and customer requests
sanctioning and debt management units are also segregated
and do not have any sales and operations responsibilities. (i) Daily tally of cash and near-cash items at end of day
Your Bank has set up various executive-level committees, with (ii) Reconciliation of Nostro accounts (by an independent
participation from various business and control functions, that team) to ascertain and match-off the Nostro credits
are designed to review and oversee matters pertaining to capital, and debits (External or Internal) regularly to avoid /
assets and liabilities, business practices and customer service, identify any unreconciled/unmatched entries passing
Operational Risk, information security, business continuity through the system
planning and internal risk-based supervision among others. The
(c) Reconciliation of all Suspense Accounts and establishment
second line of defense functions set standards and lay down
of responsibility in case of outstanding
policies and procedures by which the business functions manage
risks, including compliance with applicable laws, compliance (d) Independent and surprise checks periodically by supervisors
with regulatory guidelines, adherence to operational controls and
Your Bank has an Internal Audit Department which is responsible
relevant standards of conduct. At the ground level, your Bank has
for independently evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of
a mix of preventive and detective controls implemented through
all internal controls, risk management, governance systems and
systems and processes, ensuring a robust framework in your
processes and is manned by appropriately qualified personnel.
Bank to enable correct and complete accounting, identification
of outliers (if any) by the Management on a timely basis for This department adopts a risk-based audit approach and carries
corrective action and mitigating Operational Risks. out audits across various businesses i.e. Retail, Wholesale and
Treasury (for India and Overseas books), audit of Operations units,
Your Bank has put in place various preventive controls:
Management and Thematic audits, Information Security audit,
(a) Limited and need-based access to systems by users Revenue audit and Concurrent audit in order to independently
evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls on
(b) Dual custody over cash and near-cash items
an ongoing basis and pro-actively recommending enhancements
(c) Segregation of duty in processing of transactions vis-à-vis thereof. The Internal Audit Department, during the course of audit,
creation of user IDs also ascertains the extent of adherence to regulatory guidelines,
legal requirements and operational processes and provides
(d) Segregation of duty in processing of transactions vis-à-vis
timely feedback to the Management for corrective actions. A
monitoring and review of transactions/reconciliation
strong oversight on the operations is also kept through off-site
(e) Four eye principle (maker-checker control) for processing monitoring by use of data analytics to study trends/patterns to
of transactions detect outliers (if any) and alert the Management.
(f) Stringent password policy The Internal Audit Department also independently reviews
your Bank’s implementation of Internal Rating Based (IRB)-
(g) Booking of transactions in core banking system mandates
approach for calculation of capital charge for Credit Risk, the
the earmarking of line/limit (fund as well as non-fund based)
appropriateness of your Bank’s ICAAP, as well as evaluates the
assigned to the customer
quality and comprehensiveness of your Bank’s disaster recovery
(h) STP processes between core banking system and payment and business continuity plans and also carries out management
interface systems for transmission of messages self-assessment of adequacy of the Bank’s internal financial
controls and operating effectiveness of such controls in terms of
(i) Additional authorisation leg in payment interface systems
Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) Act and Companies Act, 2013. The Internal
in applicable cases
Audit Department plays an important role in strengthening of the
150
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Control functions by periodically reviewing their practices and G) Performance of Subsidiary Companies
processes as well as recommending enhancements thereof.
Your Bank has two subsidiaries, HDB Financial Services Limited
Additionally, oversight is also kept on the functioning of the
(HDBFSL) and HDFC Securities Limited (HSL). HDBFSL is a
subsidiaries, related party transactions and extent of adherence
leading NBFC that caters primarily to segments not covered
to the licensing conditions of the RBI.
by the Bank while HSL is among India’s leading retail broking
Any new product/process introduced in your Bank is reviewed by firms. The financial results of the subsidiaries are prepared in
Compliance function in order to ensure adherence to regulatory accordance with notified Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind-AS’).
guidelines and also by Internal Audit from the perspective of
The detailed financial performance of the companies is
existence of internal controls. The Audit function also proactively
given below.
recommends improvements in operational processes and
service quality, wherever deemed fit. Transacting customers of hSl
12.73 lakh
To ensure independence, the Internal Audit Function has a
reporting line to the Audit Committee of the Board and a dotted line
reporting to the Managing Director for administrative purposes.
The Compliance function independently tracks, reviews and HDFC Securities Limited (HSL)
ensures compliance with regulatory guidelines and promotes a
HSL’s Total Income under Indian Accounting Standards was
compliance culture in the Bank.
` 1,990.30 crore as against ` 1,399.43 crore in the previous
Your Bank has a comprehensive Know Your Customer, year and Net Profit was ` 984.34 crore as against ` 703.22
Anti Money Laundering (AML) and Combating Financing of crore in the previous year. The company has a customer base of
Terrorism (CFT) policy (based on the RBI guidelines/provisions 38.30 lakh to whom it offers an exhaustive range of investment
of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002) incorporating and protection products. In the year under review, HSL had
the key elements of Customer Acceptance Policy, Customer 12.73 lakh transacting customers. The focus on digitalisation
Identification Procedures, Risk Management and Monitoring of continued. Notably, 91 per cent of its customers accessed its
Transactions. The policy is subjected to an annual review and is services digitally, against 92 per cent in the previous year.
duly approved by the Board.
In a conscious effort to rationalise the distribution network
Your Bank besides having robust controls in place to ensure with greater emphasis on digital offerings, HSL consolidated
adherence to the KYC guidelines at the time of account opening its existing branches to end with 216 branches across 147
also has monitoring process at various stages of the customer cities / towns at the end of the year. It created digital Boarding
lifecycle including a continuous review process in the form of Journeys which led to more than 50 per cent customers being
transaction monitoring carried out by a dedicated AML CFT onboarded digitally.
monitoring team, which carries out transaction reviews for
In the case of Margin Trade Funding (MTF), the average book
identification of suspicious patterns/trends that enables your
size during the year was ` 2,992 crore, which is more than three
Bank to further carry out enhanced due diligence (wherever
times the average book size of ` 930 crore in the last financial
required) and appropriate actions thereafter. The status of
year. The book size at the year end stands at ` 3,288 crore.
adherence to the KYC, AML and CFT guidelines is also placed
before the Audit Committee of the Board for their review at Nifty rose right from the beginning of FY 2021-22 to touch a peak
quarterly intervals. in mid-October 2021. It corrected later to a low in early March
2022. An upward bounce later led to Nifty closing the fiscal not
The Audit team and the Compliance team undergo regular
very far from the all-time high of October 2021. The Indian equity
training both in-house and external to equip them with the
market gave solid returns in FY 2021-22, despite geopolitical
necessary knowhow and expertise to carry out the function.
turmoil playing spoilsport in the last quarter of the financial
The Audit Committee of the Board reviews the effectiveness year. Nifty50 recorded an impressive 19 per cent year-on-year
of controls, compliance with regulatory guidelines as also the gain and ended the financial year with the second-best returns
performance of the Audit and Compliance functions in your Bank in seven years. Broader markets also put up an impressive
and provides direction, wherever deemed fit. Your Bank has performance. The Nifty Midcap 100, up more than 25 per cent
always adhered to the highest standards of compliance and y-o-y, and the Nifty Smallcap 100, up more than 29 per cent
has put in place appropriate controls and risk measurement y-o-y, out performed the benchmark in FY 2021-22. Sectoral
and risk management tools to ensure a robust compliance and indices also posted decent performance during this period.
governance structure.
151
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
As on March 31, 2022, your Bank held 95.96 per cent stake Fee-based products/Insurance Services
in HSL.
HDB is a registered Corporate Insurance Agent having licence
HDB Financial Services Limited from Insurance Regulatory & Development Authority of India
(IRDAI). The company is engaged in the sale of both Life and
Incorporated in 2007, HDB is a leading NBFC that caters to the
General (Non-Life) Insurance products.
evolving needs of its customers by re-imagining opportunities
and fulfilling their aspirations. It has a strong network of over BPO Services
1,374 branches spread across 989 cities/towns. HDB’s net
HDB runs a Collections BPO business, offering end-to end,
interest income grew 9.4 per cent to ` 5,037.5 crore for the
specialised collection services with domain expertise in
year ended March 31, 2022, from ` 4,605.0 crore in the year
collections tele-calling, recovery management, collections
ended March 31, 2021. Profit for the year under review was
analytics and cash reconciliation management. The division
` 1,011.4 crore against ` 391.5 crore in the previous year. Its
also delivers back-office services such as forms processing,
Assets Under Management for the year ended March 31, 2022
documents verification, finance and accounting services and
stood at ` 61,444.3 crore compared to ` 61,560.7 crore in the
correspondence management and front office services such as
previous year.
contact centre management and outbound marketing.
HDB offers a comprehensive suite of products and service
The Enablers
offerings that are tailor-made to suit its customers’ requirements,
including first-time borrowers and the under- served segments. HDB’s presence across diverse digital channels has enabled
the company to offer a wide variety of financial solutions to its
Products and Services
customers. HDB’s customers can access and manage their loan
HDB is engaged in the business of Financing, fee-based account 24/7 through its Mobile Banking Application - ‘HDB On
products and BPO services. The Go’, Customer Service Portal to manage the loan account,
Missed Call Service, WhatsApp Account Management Service
Financing: HDB offers a diverse range of product offerings
and the Chatbot #AskPriya.
(secured and unsecured) to various customer segments. These
include Consumer Loans, Enterprise Loans, Asset Finance and As on March 31, 2022, your Bank held 94.96 per cent stake
Micro-Lending. in HDB.
Consumer Loans
Other Statutory disclosures
Consumer loans are offered to customers to buy consumer
durables, lifestyle products and digital products. HDB also Number of Meetings of the Board, attendance,
provides personal and Gold loans to individuals for personal, meetings and constitution of various Committees
family or household purposes to meet their short or medium
Fourteen (14) meetings of the Board were held during the year
term requirements. The Company also provides auto loans and
under review. The details of Board meetings held during the
two-wheeler loans.
year, attendance of Directors at the meetings and constitution
Enterprise Loans of various Committees of the Board are included separately in
the Corporate Governance Report.
HDB offers secured and unsecured loans designed for SMEs,
including working capital and term loans.
Annual Return
Asset Finance
In accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013, the
HDB offers loans for the purchase of new and used commercial Annual Return of the Bank in the prescribed Form MGT-7 is
vehicles and construction equipment that generate income for available on the website of the Bank at the link https://www.
the borrowers. The customer base includes fleet owners, first hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/investor-relations/annual-
time users, first time borrowers and captive use buyers. reports.
Micro Lending
Requirement for maintenance of cost records
HDB offers micro-loans to borrowers through the Joint Liability
The cost records as specified by the Central Government under
Groups (JLGs) framework. With Micro-Lending, HDB endeavours
section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, are not required to
to empower and promote financial inclusion within these
be maintained by the Bank.
sections, thus resulting in sustainable development of the nation.
152
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
details in respect of frauds reported by auditors • We have laid down internal financial controls to be followed
under section 143 (12) by the Bank and have ensured that such internal financial
controls were adequate and operating effectively.
During the year under review, no instances of fraud committed
against the Bank by its officers or employees were reported by • We have devised proper systems to ensure compliance
the Statutory Auditors and Secretarial Auditors under Section with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such
143(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 to the Audit Committee or systems were adequate and were operating effectively.
the Board of Directors of the Bank.
Compliance with Secretarial Standards
directors’ Responsibility Statement
The Bank is in compliance with all applicable Secretarial
Pursuant to Section 134 (3) (c) read with Section 134 (5) of the Standards as notified from time to time.
Companies Act, 2013, the Board of Directors hereby confirm that:
Statutory Auditors
• In the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable
accounting standards have been followed along with M. M. Nissim & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants and MSKA &
proper explanation relating to material departures. Associates, Chartered Accountants, have conducted the joint
statutory audit of the Bank for FY 2021-22, pursuant to the
• We have selected such accounting policies and applied
approval of the RBI and the shareholders of the Bank.
them consistently and made judgments and estimates that
are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Audit
view of the state of affairs of the Bank as on March 31, 2022 Committee, has finalized for recommendation to RBI for
and of the profit of the Bank for the year ended on that date. approval, the name of M/s. Price Waterhouse LLP, Chartered
Accountants as the first preferred firm to act as Joint Statutory
• We have taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance
Auditors of the Bank in relation to the Financial Years 2022-23,
of adequate accounting records in accordance with the
2023-24 and 2024-25, subject to approval of the shareholders at
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, for safeguarding
the ensuing Annual General Meeting (AGM). This firm shall act as
the assets of the Bank and for preventing and detecting
the Joint Statutory Auditors along with M.M. Nissim & Co. LLP,
fraud and other irregularities.
Chartered Accountants for the remainder of the latter's tenure.
• We have prepared the annual accounts on a going
Appropriate resolutions in this regard are also being proposed
concern basis.
at the ensuing AGM.
During the year ended March 31, 2022, fees paid to MSKA & Associates and M.M. Nissim & Co. LLP and their respective network
firms on consolidated basis are as follows:
(` in crores)
Fees (excluding taxes) HDFC Bank to Statutory Auditors HDFC Bank to network firms of Subsidiaries of HDFC Bank
Statutory Auditors to Statutory Auditors and its
network firms
Statutory Audit* 3.85 - -
Certification & other attestation 1.88 - -
services
Non-audit services - - -
Outlays 0.02 - -
Total 5.75 - -
*Out of the total statutory audit fees, ` 3.30 crore were approved at the AGM held on July 17, 2021 and the balance ` 0.55 crore is proposed to the
shareholders for approval at the ensuing AGM
disclosure under Foreign exchange Management the Bank has obtained a certificate from MSKA & Associates,
Act, 1999 Chartered Accountants, to this effect.
As far as FEMA compliances in relation to strategic downstream
Corporate Social Responsibility
investments in the Bank’s subsidiaries is concerned, during the
year under review, there have been no strategic downstream The brief outline of the CSR policy of the Bank and the initiatives
investments made by Bank in its subsidiaries. Accordingly, undertaken by the Bank on CSR activities during the year are
153
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
set out in Annexure 2 of this report in the format prescribed of the Bank, i.e. Share Dealing Code of the Bank, (d) wilful data
in the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) breach and/ or unauthorized disclosure of Bank’s proprietary
Rules, 2014. This Policy is available on the Bank’s website at data including customer data.
https://v1.hdfcbank.com/csr/index.aspx.
All Protected Disclosures made under the policy shall be
made to the Whistle Blower Committee through the following
Related Party Transactions
modes; (a) By letter in a closed / sealed envelope addressed
Particulars of contracts or arrangements with related parties to Whistle Blower committee, (b) by submission of the same
referred to in Section 188 (1), as prescribed in Form AOC-2 under on the information portal of the Bank, (c) by way of an email
Rule 8 (2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is enclosed addressed to whistleblower@hdfcbank.com. In exceptional
as Annexure 3. circumstances, the Whistle Blower may make such Protected
Disclosures directly to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee
Particulars of loans, Guarantees or Investments of the Bank.
Pursuant to Section 186 (11) of the Companies Act, 2013, the All Protected Disclosures received under this Policy would be
provisions of Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013, except examined by the Whistle Blower Committee and further assign the
sub-section (1), do not apply to a loan made, guarantee given investigation to an appropriate Investigation Officer(s) depending
or security provided or any investment made by a banking on the nature of the subject matter of the Protected Disclosure.
company in the ordinary course of business. The particulars of The Investigation Authority shall place the investigation report in
investments made by the Bank are disclosed in note number 10 respect of any Protected Disclosure before the Whistle Blower
of Schedule 18 of the Financial Statements as per the applicable Committee together with any other supporting documents
provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. which may be required by the Whistle Blower Committee and
shall discuss the findings of the investigation with the Whistle
Financial Statements of Subsidiaries and Blower Committee. After review of the investigation report
Associates and the requisite supporting documents, the Whistle Blower
Committee shall take the necessary actions in relation to the
In terms of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 and read
Protected Disclosure.
with Rule 8 (1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 the
performance and financial position of the Bank’s subsidiaries Details of Whistle blower complaints received and subsequent
and associates are enclosed as Annexure 4 to this report. action taken and the functioning of the Whistle Blower
There were no entities which became or ceased to be the Bank’s mechanism are reviewed periodically by the Audit Committee
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures during the year. of the Board. During the financial year 2021-22, a total of 147
such complaints were received and taken up for investigation
whistle Blower Policy / vigil Mechanism which has resulted in certain staff actions in 47 cases post
investigation. The broad categories of whistle blower complaints
The Bank encourages an open and transparent system of
were in the areas of improper business practices, behavioural
working and dealing amongst its stakeholders. While the Bank's
related issues and corruption.
"Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy" directs employees to uphold
Bank values and conduct business worldwide with integrity and The Policy is available on the website of the Bank at the link-
highest ethical standards, the Bank has also adopted a "Whistle https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-
Blower Policy" to encourage and empower the Employees/ governance/codes-and-policies
Stakeholders to make or report any Protected Disclosures under
the Policy, without any fear of reprisal, retaliation, discrimination Securities Class Action Suit
or harassment of any kind.
On September 3, 2020, a securities class action lawsuit was filed
This Policy has also been put in place to provide a mechanism against the Bank and certain of its current and former officers in
through which adequate safeguards can be provided against the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New
victimization of employees who avail of this mechanism. The York. The complaint was amended on February 8, 2021. The
policy would cover and will be applicable to the Protected amended complaint alleges that the Bank, its former Managing
Disclosures related to violation/ suspected violation of the Code Director, Mr. Aditya Puri, and the present Managing Director
of Conduct including (a) breach of applicable law; (b) fraud or & CEO, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan made materially false and
corruption; (c) leakage/suspected leakage of unpublished price misleading statements regarding certain aspects of the Bank’s
sensitive information which are in violation to SEBI (Prohibition business and compliance policies, which resulted in the Bank’s
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and related internal policy American Depository Share price declining on July 13, 2020
154
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
thereby allegedly causing damage to the Bank’s investors. On employees, creditors and other stakeholders, since the proposed
April 9, 2021, the Bank, Mr. Puri, and Mr. Jagdishan served their amalgamation will yield advantages as set out, inter alia, below:
motion to dismiss the amended complaint, and on July 23, 2021,
(a) the amalgamation, through the Scheme, shall enable HDFC
they served their reply brief in support of the motion and filed
Bank to build its housing loan portfolio and enhance its
all of the motion papers. The Court held oral argument on the
existing customer base;
motion to dismiss on January 14, 2022, and the motion remains
pending before the Court. The Bank believes that the asserted (b) The amalgamation is based on leveraging the significant
claims are baseless and without merit and intends to vigorously complementarities that exist amongst the parties to the
defend against the allegations. Scheme. It would create meaningful value for various
stakeholders including respective shareholders, customers,
Material developments: Proposed Scheme of employees, as the combined business would benefit
Amalgamation from increased scale, comprehensive product offering,
balance sheet resiliency and the ability to drive synergies
The Board of Directors of HDFC Bank Limited (‘HDFC Bank’) at
across revenue opportunities, operating efficiencies and
its meeting held on April 4, 2022, approved a composite scheme
underwriting efficiencies, amongst others;
of amalgamation (‘Scheme’) for the amalgamation of: (i) HDFC
Investments Limited and HDFC Holdings Limited, wholly-owned (c) HDFC Bank is a private sector bank and has a large base of
subsidiaries of the Housing Development Finance Corporation over 6.8 Crore customers. The Bank platform will provide a
Limited (‘HDFC Limited’), with and into HDFC Limited and (ii) well-diversified low cost funding base for growing the long
HDFC Limited with and into HDFC Bank and matters related tenor loan book acquired by the HDFC Bank pursuant to
thereto. the amalgamation;
With effect from the appointed date and upon the amalgamation (d) HDFC Bank is a banking company with a large distribution
of HDFC Limited with and into HDFC Bank becoming effective, network that offers product offerings in the retail and
HDFC Limited along with all its assets, liabilities, contracts, wholesale segments. HDFC Limited is a premier housing
employees, licenses, records and approvals being their finance company in India and provides housing loans to
respective integral parts shall stand transferred to and vest in individuals as well as loans to corporates, undertakes lease
or shall be deemed to have been transferred to and vested in rental discounting and construction finance apart from
HDFC Bank, as a going concern. being a financial conglomerate. A combination of HDFC
Limited and HDFC Bank is entirely complementary to, and
Upon the Scheme becoming effective and in consideration of the
enhances the value proposition of, HDFC Bank;
proposed amalgamation of HDFC Limited with and into HDFC
Bank, HDFC Limited will stand dissolved without being wound (e) HDFC Bank would benefit from a larger balance sheet and
up and the shareholders of HDFC Limited as on the record networth which would allow underwriting of larger ticket
date will receive 42 shares of HDFC Bank (each of face value of loans and also enable a greater flow of credit into the
` 1), for 25 shares held in HDFC Limited (each of face value of Indian economy;
` 2). This share exchange ratio has been arrived at based on a
HDFC Limited has invested capital and developed skills
joint valuation report submitted by two Registered Valuers and
and has set up approximately 464 (Four Hundred and Sixty
independent Chartered Accountancy firms appointed by HDFC
Four) offices across the country. These offices can be used
Bank and HDFC Limited, which was supported by a Fairness
to sell the entire product suite of both HDFC Bank and
Opinion provided by two SEBI registered merchant bankers.
HDFC Limited;
During the period between the approval of the Scheme by the
(f) The loan book of HDFC Limited is diversified having
respective boards of HDFC Bank and HDFC Limited and up to
cumulatively financed over 9 million dwelling units. With
the effectiveness of the Scheme, the business of HDFC Bank
HDFC Limited’s leadership in the home loan arena,
and HDFC Limited shall be carried out with reasonable diligence
developed over the past 45 years, HDFC Bank would be
and business prudence in the ordinary course, consistent with
able to provide to customers flexible mortgage offerings in
past practice, in accordance with the applicable laws and as
a cost-effective and efficient manner;
mutually agreed.
(g) HDFC Bank has access to funds at lower costs due to
The Board of Directors of HDFC Bank and HDFC Limited
its high level of current and savings accounts deposits
have opined that the proposed amalgamation would be in the
(CASA). With the amalgamation of HDFC Limited with and
best interest of the respective companies, their shareholders,
into HDFC Bank, HDFC Bank will be able to offer more
competitive housing products;
155
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
(h) HDFC Limited’s rural housing network and affordable Board Performance evaluation
housing lending is likely to qualify for HDFC Bank as priority
The performance evaluation of the Board, Committees of the
sector lending and will also enable a higher flow of credit
Board and the individual members of the Board (including the
into priority sector lending, including agriculture;
Chairman) for FY 2021-22, was carried out internally pursuant to
(i) the amalgamation will result in reducing HDFC Bank’s the framework laid down by the Nomination and Remuneration
proportion of exposure to unsecured loans; Committee (NRC). A questionnaire for the evaluation of the
Board, its Committees and the individual members of the Board
(j) HDFC Limited has built technological capabilities to
(including the Chairman), designed in accordance with the said
evaluate the credit worthiness of customers using
framework and covering various aspects of the performance
analytical models, and has developed unique skills in
of the Board and its Committees, including composition, roles
financing various customer segments. The models have
and responsibilities, Board processes, Boardroom culture,
been tested and refined over the years at scale and HDFC
adherence to Code of Conduct and Ethics, quality and flow of
Bank will benefit from such expertise in underwriting and
information, as well as measurement of performance in the areas
financing of mortgage offerings;
of strength and areas of focus, as identified in the previous year's
(k) HDFC Bank can leverage on the loan management evaluation, was sent out to the Directors. The Committees were
system, comprising rule engines, IT tools and rules, agents evaluated inter alia on parameters such as composition, terms of
connected through a central system; reference, quality of discussions, contribution to Board decisions
and balance of agenda between the Committee and the Board.
(l) The amalgamation is expected to result in bolstering the
The responses received to the questionnaires on evaluation of
capital base and bringing in resiliency in the balance sheet
the Board and its Committees were placed before the meeting
of HDFC Bank.
of the Independent Directors for consideration. The assessment
(m) HDFC Investments Limited and HDFC Holdings Limited of performance of Non-Independent Directors on key personal
are Systemically Important Non - Deposit Taking Non - and professional attributes was also carried out at the meeting
Banking Financial Companies and are also wholly owned of Independent Directors. The assessment of performance of
subsidiaries of HDFC Limited. The proposed amalgamation the Independent Directors on the Board (including Chairman)
shall result in simplified corporate structure. was subsequently discussed by the Board. In addition to the
above parameters, the Board also evaluated fulfillment of the
The Scheme is subject to receipt of requisite approvals, including
independence criteria as specified in SEBI (Listing Obligations
from statutory and regulatory authorities, as required under
and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2015 by the
applicable laws. The scheme has been filed with BSE Limited,
Independent Directors of the Bank and their independence from
National Stock Exchange of India Limited and Reserve Bank
the management.
of India.
The evaluation brought out the cohesiveness of the Board, a
Statement on declaration by Independent directors Boardroom culture of trust and cooperation, and Boardroom
discussions which are open, transparent and encourage diverse
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Mrs. Lily Vadera, Mr. Malay Patel,
viewpoints. Other areas of strength included effective discharge
Mr. M. D. Ranganath, Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, Mr. Sandeep Parekh,
of Board's roles and responsibilities. Some of the areas of focus
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari and Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi
for the Board going forward included increasing time dedicated
are the Independent Directors on the Board of the Bank as on
to strategy- competitive positioning and benchmark, long term
March 31, 2022.
succession planning and talent management, improvement in
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 149 of the Act, the Board processes and quality of information. The Board also
Independent Directors have submitted declarations that each of noted that while there has been positive development in the
them meets the criteria of independence as provided in Section areas of focus identified in the previous year's evaluation, efforts
149(6) of the Act along with Rules framed thereunder and need to continue in that direction. The appropriate feedback
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India was conveyed to the Board members and other concerned
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, stakeholders, for suitable action.
2015. There has been no change in the circumstances affecting
their status as Independent Directors of the Bank. In the opinion Policy on Appointment and Remuneration of
of the Board, the Independent Directors possess the requisite directors and Key Managerial Personnel
integrity, experience, expertise and proficiency required under
Your Bank has in place a Policy for appointment and fit and
all applicable laws and the policies of the Bank.
proper criteria for Directors of the Bank. The Policy lays down
156
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
the criteria for identification of persons who are qualified and the Directors of your Bank other than Mr. Patel is a director of
‘fit and proper’ to become Directors on the Board- such as the Bank’s subsidiaries as on March 31, 2022.
academic qualifications, competence, track record, integrity, etc.
which shall be considered by the NRC while recommending Succession Planning
appointment of Directors. The Policy is available on the website
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee ('NRC') and the
of the Bank at the link https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/
Board of Directors (“the Board”), review succession planning
about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and-policies.
and transitions at the Board and Senior Management levels. The
The remuneration of all employees of the Bank, including Whole Board composition and the desired skill sets/ areas of expertise
Time Directors, Material Risk Takers, Key Managerial Personnel at the Board level are continuously reviewed and vacancies, if
and Senior Management, is governed by the Compensation any, are reviewed in advance through a systematic due diligence
Policy of the Bank. The same is available at the web-link https:// process. The recent appointment on the Board of Mrs. Lily
www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/ Vadera as an Independent Director was done taking into account
codes-and-policies. The Compensation Policy of the Bank, duly her skill sets/areas of expertise in the banking industry.
reviewed and recommended by the NRC has been articulated in
Succession planning at Senior Management levels, including
line with the relevant Reserve Bank of India guidelines.
business and assurance functions, is continuously reviewed to
Your Bank’s Compensation Policy is aimed to attract, retain, ensure continuity and depth of leadership at two levels below the
reward and motivate talented individuals critical for achieving Managing Director. Successors are identified prior to the Senior
strategic goals and long term success. The Compensation Management positions falling vacant, to ensure a smooth and
Policy is aligned to business strategy, market dynamics, internal seamless transition.
characteristics and complexities within the Bank. The ultimate
Succession planning is a continuous process which is periodically
objective is to provide a fair and transparent structure that helps
reviewed by the NRC and the Board.
the Bank to retain and acquire the talent pool critical to building
competitive advantage and brand equity.
Significant and Material Orders Passed by
Your Bank’s approach is to have a “pay for performance” Regulators
culture based on the belief that the Performance Management
1) Reserve Bank of India (RBI) by an order dated May 27, 2021,
System provides a sound basis for assessing performance
levied a penalty of `10 cores (Rupees ten crores only) for
holistically. The compensation system should also take into
marketing and sale of third-party non-financial products
account factors such as roles, skills / competencies, experience
to the Bank’s auto loan customers, arising from a whistle
and grade / seniority to differentiate pay appropriately on the
blower complaint, which revealed, inter alia, contravention
basis of contribution, skill and availability of talent on account
of Section 6(2) and Section 8 of the Banking Regulation
of competitive market forces. The details of the Compensation
Act, 1949. The Bank has discontinued the sale of said
Policy are also included in Note No. 25 of Schedule 18 forming
third-party non-financial product since October 2019.
part of the Accounts.
The penalty was paid by the Bank.
Non-Executive Directors are paid remuneration by way of sitting
2) SEBI issued final order on January 21, 2021, levying a
fees for attending meetings of the Board and its Committees,
penalty of `1 crore on the Bank, in the matter of invocation
which are determined by the Board based on applicable
of securities pledged by BMA Wealth Creators (BRH
regulatory prescriptions.
Wealth Kreators) for availing credit facilities. SEBI has also
Further, expenses incurred by them for attending meetings directed the Bank to transfer sale proceeds of ` 158.68
of the Board and Committees in person are reimbursed at crores on invocation of securities, along with interest to
actuals. Pursuant to the relevant RBI guidelines and approval escrow account with a nationalised bank by marking lien
of the shareholders, the Non-Executive Directors, other than in favour of SEBI. The Bank had challenged SEBI's order
the Chairperson, are paid fixed remuneration of ` 20,00,000 before SAT and SAT, vide its interim order, have stayed
(Rupees Twenty Lakh Only) per annum for each Non-Executive operation of SEBI’s order. SAT, vide its final order dated
Director on proportionate basis. February 18, 2022, allowed the Bank’s appeal and quashed
SEBI’s Order.
Mr. Malay Patel, Independent Director of the Bank, is also an
Independent Director on the Board of HDFC Securities Limited, 3) RBI has issued an Order dated December 02, 2020 (“Order”)
subsidiary of the Bank. Mr. Patel receives sitting fees and to HDFC Bank Limited (the “Bank”) with regard to certain
reimbursement of expenses at actuals incurred for attending incidents of outages in the internet banking/mobile banking/
Board/ Committee meetings from the said subsidiary. None of payment utilities of the Bank over the past 2 years, including
157
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
the outages in the Bank’s internet banking and payment During the financial year 2021-22, there have been no changes
system on November 21, 2020 due to a power failure in in the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank other
the primary data centre. RBI, vide above order, advised than the above.
the Bank (a) to stop all digital business generating activities
planned under its ‘Digital 2.0’ and proposed Business Particulars of employees
generating applications digital also imposed restrictions
The information in terms of Section 197(12) of the Act read with
and (b) to stop sourcing of new credit card customers.
Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of
The Bank has initiated remedial activities including fixing
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is given in Annexure 5.
of staff accountability and the same were communicated
Further, the statement containing particulars of employees as
to the RBI. Basis the Bank’s submission, RBI vide its letter
required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013
dated August 17, 2021, has relaxed the restriction placed
read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment
on sourcing of new credit cards customers and further vide
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is given
its letter dated March 11, 2022 has lifted the restrictions on
in an Annexure and forms part of this report. In terms of Section
the business generating activities planned under the Bank’s
136(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, the annual report and the
Digital 2.0 program.
financial statements are being sent to the Members excluding
the aforesaid Annexure. The Annexure is available for inspection
directors and Key Managerial Personnel
and any Member interested in obtaining a copy of the Annexure
In compliance with Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013, may write to the Company Secretary of the Bank.
Mrs. Renu Karnad will retire by rotation at the ensuing Annual
General Meeting and is eligible for re-appointment. A resolution Conservation of energy and Technology Absorption
seeking shareholders’ approval for her re-appointment forms
Please refer to page no. 58 for information on Conservation of
a part of the Notice of this AGM. A brief resume is furnished
Energy and page no. 143 for information on Technology Absorption.
in the report on Corporate Governance for the information
of shareholders.
Foreign exchange earnings and Outgo
During the year, Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was appointed as the
During the year, the total foreign exchange earned by the
Part-time Chairman and Independent Director on the Board of
Bank was ` 3,907.9 crore (on account of net gains arising on
the Bank with effect from May 5, 2021 and Mrs. Lily Vadera was
all exchange / derivative transactions) and the total foreign
appointed as an Independent Director on the Board of the Bank
exchange outgo was ` 2,248.3 crore towards the operating and
with effect from November 26, 2021.
capital expenditure requirements.
Further, Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as
Non- Executive (Non-Independent) Director of the Bank, effective Secretarial Audit
from February 18, 2022, citing potential future transactions/
In terms of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the
arrangements which may materialize between the Bank and a
Rules made thereunder, M/s. Alwyn Jay & Co., Company
company in which Mr. Nadhamuni may be interested. Your Board
Secretaries were appointed as Secretarial Auditors of the Bank
places on record its sincere appreciation for the contribution
for the financial year 2021-22. The report of the Secretarial
made by Mr. Nadhamuni during his tenure with the Bank and
Auditors is enclosed as Annexure 6 to this Report. There are
wishes him well in future endeavours.
no observations/ qualifications/ comments in the Report of the
Further, at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on Secretarial Auditor.
April 16, 2022, Mrs. Renu Karnad has been re-appointed as
the Non-Executive Director (Nominee of Housing Development Corporate Governance
Finance Corporation Limited, promoter of the Bank) on the
In compliance with Regulation 34 and other applicable provisions
Board of the Bank, for a period of five (5) years with effect from
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
September 3, 2022, subject to the approval of the shareholders
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, a separate
at the ensuing AGM.
report on Corporate Governance along with a certificate of
compliance from the Secretarial Auditors, forms an integral part
of this Report.
158
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Headwinds have now appeared in the form of inflationary
pressures due to a combination of supply chain disruptions
The Bank’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
and geopolitical tensions particularly the Ukraine crisis. In an
containing a report on its Corporate Social Responsibility
effort to contain inflation the RBI has hiked the Repo Rate by 90
Activities and Initiatives in the format adopted by companies in
basis points in two announcements - an off cycle one on May
India as per the guidelines of the Securities and Exchange Board
4 and the June Policy- to 4.90 per cent. Notwithstanding these
of India in this regard forms an integral part of this report.
challenges the Indian economy is expected to be the fastest
growing one in the world. That is clearly good news.
Information under the Sexual harassment of
women at workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Going forward, the Bank has a huge opportunity as India is
Redressal) Act, 2013 still under penetrated when it comes to banking services.
Your Bank clearly has certain factors in its favour : A strong
The relevant information is included in the Corporate
balance sheet with among the lowest NPA levels in the industry
Governance Report.
and a trusted franchise. The regulators too have been kind.
Our progress against our regulatory commitments over the past
Acknowledgement
year has resulted in the lifting of the restrictions placed on new
Your Directors would like to place on record their gratitude for card acquisitions in August 2021, followed by the removal of the
all the guidance and co-operation received from the Reserve embargo on the Digital 2.0 program in March 2022. The Bank
Bank of India and other government and regulatory agencies. has also rolled out the Future Ready Strategy. All this will help
Your Directors would also like to take this opportunity to express the Bank move forward in the next level of its growth journey.
their appreciation for the hard work and dedicated efforts put It will do this by focusing on its five core values: Customer
in by the Bank’s employees and look forward to their continued Focus, Operational Excellence, Product Leadership, People and
contribution in building a ‘World Class Indian Bank.’ Sustainability. And adhere to the highest standards of corporate
governance as we continue to ‘Lead Responsibly’.
Conclusion
The year started in the shadow of the pandemic. The good news
On behalf of the Board of Directors
is that it more or less appears to be behind us. In no small
measure due to the roll out of the vaccination programme.
The recovery in health has been followed by clear signs of Sashidhar Jagdishan Atanu Chakraborty
economic recovery with the country's GDP growing by 8.7 per
Managing Director Part-time Chairman and
cent in 2021-22 against a contraction of 6.6 per cent in the
and CEO Independent Director
previous year.
Mumbai, June 10, 2022
159
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Annexure 1 to the Directors’ Report
The ESOP Schemes of the Bank are in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 [erstwhile Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits)
Regulations, 2014 (“the Regulations”)] and the details as per the Regulations and as required to be disclosed pursuant to sub rule
(9) of Rule 12 of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014, are as under:
Schemes Date of Total No Grant Options Options Options Options Options Options Total
Share- of Options Price (`) Opening Granted / Vested FV Exercised Forfeited Lapsed Options in
holders Approved FV ` 1/- balance Options ` 1/- & Shares Force as on
Approval Face value FV ` 1/- Re- Allotted of March 31,
of ` 1/- each instated ` 1/- 2022
FV ` 1/-
Plan C-ESOS XXIII 17th June, 2005 10,00,00,000 417.75 9,700 8,700 1,000 0
Plan F-ESOS XXIV 27th June, 2013 20,00,00,000 417.75 35,58,600 35,49,300 9,300 0
Plan F-ESOS XXV 27th June, 2013 20,00,00,000 546.33 1,55,16,200 1,03,12,000 0 61,100 51,43,100
Plan F-ESOS XXVII 27th June, 2013 20,00,00,000 716.6 1,58,68,540 34,32,004 0 45,800 1,23,90,736
Plan F-ESOS XXVIII 27th June, 2013 20,00,00,000 731.08 30,930 0 0 0 30,930
Plan G-ESOS XXIX 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1030.6 2,95,53,280 63,81,300 1,20,27,590 2,74,000 149550 1,71,02,140
Plan G-ESOS XXX 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1003.03 7,47,310 1,69,200 2,50,000 8,000 0 4,89,310
Plan G-ESOS XXXI 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1045.23 4,80,400 1,12,000 97100 0 0 3,83,300
Plan G -ESOS XXXII 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1107.18 5,26,800 1,24,700 133500 24400 0 3,68,900
Plan G -ESOS XXXIII 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1229 4,36,51,000 1,01,70,200 2227200 8,24,900 11600 4,05,87,300
Plan G -ESOS XXX1V 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 882.85 10,20,400 2,36,100 37800 29500 0 9,53,100
Plan G -ESOS XXXV 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1235.8 57205600 14173500 689300 1137700 0 55378600
Plan G -ESOS XXXVI 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1426.45 0 2,53,90,600 0 0 350000 0 25040600
Plan G -ESOS XXXVII 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1516.95 0 2,38,000 0 0 0 0 238000
Total :- 16,81,68,760 2,56,28,600 3,13,67,000 3,27,64,494 26,48,500 2,78,350 15,81,06,016
Options Exercised during FY 2021-22 32,764,494
Share Capital Money received during FY 2021-22 3,27,64,494.00
Share Premium Money received during FY 2021-22 26,064,848,619.40
Perquisite Tax Amount collected during FY 2021-22 9,656,899,957.00
Total Amount collected during FY 2021-22 35,754,513,070.40
Note: One (1) share of the face value of ` 1/- each would arise on exercise of One (1) Equity Stock Option
Vesting Except for the death/ permanent disablement or retirement of the employee, the options will vest only if the employee is in the
Requirements continuous and uninterrupted employment of the Bank as on the date of vesting.
Maximum Term of Provided the employee is in the continuous and uninterrupted employment of the Bank, the options vested under the ESOP
Options Schemes XXIII to ESOP Scheme XXVIII will lapse in case the same are not exercised by the employee within 4 years from
the respective dates of vesting. However, for the grant of options under the ESOP Schemes XXIX to ESOP Scheme XXXVII,
the vested options will lapse in case the same are not exercised by the employee within 2 years from the respective dates
of vesting.
In case of death/ permanent disablement or retirement of the employee to whom the options are granted, all unvested options
shall get vested to the employee on the date of happening of such event and should be exercised within one year period or its
lapse date whichever is earlier from the date of such event for options granted under ESOP Scheme XXIII to ESOP Scheme
XXXV. However, in case of ESOP Scheme XXXVI to ESOP Scheme XXXVII the vesting will happen on date of such event and
exercisable within two years from the occurrence of the event or its lapse date whichever is earlier.
Source of shares Primary
Variation in terms The below modification was approved by Shareholders as a Special Resolution in the Annual General Meeting held on
of ESOS July 17, 2021.
Amendment to the ESOS Plan D-2007, ESOS-Plan E-2010, ESOS-Plan F-2013 and ESOS-Plan G-2016, to incorporate the
changes mentioned in the explanatory statement to the Notice of the AGM held on July 17, 2021.
160
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
i. deTAIlS OF OPTIONS GRANTed TO SeNIOR MANAGeRIAl PeRSONNel ANd KMP*
S. No. Name Grade Final Grant
1. Anantharaman S** Group Head 86,200
2. Anjani Rathor Group Head 1,03,700
3. Arup Rakshit Group Head 86,200
4. Arvind Kapil Group Head 1,03,700
5. Arvind Vohra Group Head 1,03,700
6. Ashima Bhat Group Head 1,03,700
7. Ashish Parthasarthy Group Head 1,03,700
8. Benjamin Frank Group Head 86,200
9. Bhavesh Zaveri Group Head 86,200
10. Chakrapani Venkatachari Group Head 86,200
11. Jimmy Tata Group Head 1,03,700
12. Nirav Shah Group Head 1,03,700
13. Parag Rao Group Head 1,03,700
14. Rahul Shukla Group Head 1,03,700
15. Rakesh Singh Group Head 1,03,700
16. Ramesh Lakshminarayanan Group Head 1,03,700
17. Raveesh Bhatia Group Head 86,200
18. S Sampathkumar Group Head 1,03,700
19. Sanmoy Chakrabarti Group Head 86,200
20. Santosh Haldankar Senior Vice President (Legal ) & Company Secretary 12,100
21. Smita Bhagat Group Head 1,03,700
22. Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Chief Financial Officer 1,03,700
23. Vinay Razdan Group Head 1,03,700
* No ESOPs were granted to the Managing Director and Executive Director during FY 2021-22.
** Exited during the year
ii. Other employees who receive a grant in any one year of options amounting to None
5 % or more of options granted during that year
iii. Identified employees who were granted options, during any one year, equal to None
or exceeding 1 percent of the issued capital (excluding outstanding warrants and
conversions)
iv. Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) pursuant to the issue of shares on exercise The diluted EPS of the Bank calculated after considering the
of option calculated in accordance with Accounting Standard (AS) - 20 (Earnings effect of potential equity shares arising on account of exercise
Per Share) of options is ` 66.3
v. Where the company has calculated the employee compensation cost using During the year, the compensation cost for options granted
the intrinsic value of the stock options, the difference between the employee has been recognised basis the fair value of the options
compensation cost so computed and the employee compensation cost that shall calculated based on the Black-Scholes model
have been recognized if it had used the fair value of the options, shall be disclosed.
The impact of this difference on profits and on EPS of the company shall also be
disclosed
vi. Weighted average exercise prices and weighted average fair values of options The weighted average price of the stock options exercised
shall be disclosed separately for options whose exercise price either equals or is ` 796.5 and the weighted average fair value is ` 214.98
exceeds or is less than the market price of the stock options
vii. A description of the method and significant assumptions used during the year The Bank adopted the Fair value method to account for the
to estimate the fair value of options, at the time of grant including the following stock options it granted to the employees during the year. The
weighted average information: Bank calculated the fair value of options at the time of grant,
using Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions
I. Risk-free interest rate 4.38 percent to 6.07 percent
161
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
II. Expected life 1 to 6 years
III. Expected volatility 23.86 percent to 38.70 percent
IV. Expected dividends 0.21 percent to 0.52 percent
V. The price of the underlying share in the market at the time of option grant The market price per share was ` 1,426.45 and ` 1,518.05
at the time of grant of options under ESOS XXXVI and ESOS
XXXVII respectively.
VI. The weighted average market price of Bank’s shares on NSE at the time of ` 1,422.61 and `1,524.49 at the time of grant of options
option grant under ESOS XXXVI and ESOS XXXVII respectively.
VII. Method used and assumptions made to incorporate effects of expected early The Black-Scholes model is used to calculate the fair value of
exercise options at the time of grant.
VIII. How expected volatility was determined, including explanation of the extent to Stock expected volatility is completely based on GARCH
which expected volatility was based on historical volatility volatility forecasting model using historical stock prices from
the market.
IX. Whether and how any other features of the option grant were incorporated into Stock price and risk free interest rate are variables based on
the measurement of fair value, such as a market condition actual market data at the time of ESOP valuation.
162
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Annexure 2 to the Directors’ Report
1. Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company
The Bank’s CSR is implemented under the aegis of ‘Parivartan’ which is the umbrella brand for all the Bank's social initiatives.
Parivartan aims to bring about a transformation in the communities in which the bank operates through multiple initiatives in the areas
of Education, Skill training and livelihood enhancement, Health Care, Sports, Environmental Sustainability and Rural Development.
The Bank's programs are guided by CSR Policy duly approved by the Board which is driven by the vision of “Creating Sustainable
Communities”. The CSR policy and programs are aligned to comply with the requirements of Section 135 of the Companies Act,
2013 and are monitored by a board level committee.
2. Composition of CSR and eSG Committee:
Sl. Name of Director Designation /Nature of Directorship Number of meetings of the Number of meetings of
No. Committee held during the the Committee attended
year during the year
1 Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari* (Chairperson, Independent Director) 5 4
2 Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi* Independent Director 5 2
3 Mr. Kaizad Bharucha Executive Director 5 5
4 Mr. Malay Patel Independent Director 5 5
5 Mr. Sanjiv Sachar Independent Director 5 5
6 Mrs. Renu Karnad Non-Executive Director 5 5
*During the year, Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi ceased to be a member of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021 while Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita
Maheshwari was inducted as a member on the Committee with effect from June 9, 2021.
3. Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR and ESG committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved
by the board are disclosed on the website of the company:
https://v1.hdfcbank.com/csr/index.aspx
4. Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of
the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report):
The Bank carried out 8 impact assessment studies in FY 2021-22 of which 2 impact assessment studies were mandated in
compliance with the requirements of CSR Rules, additionally 6 impact assessment studies were conducted.
Below is the web link of mandatory impact assessment studies conducted:
https://v1.hdfcbank.com/csr/our-commitment.aspx
5. Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year, if any
Sl. Financial Year Amount available for set-off Amount required to be setoff
No. from preceding financial for the financial year, if
years (in `) any (in `)
1 2020-21 7.05 Cr 0
Total 7.05 Cr 0
6. Average net profit of the company as per section 135(5): ` 36,693 Cr
7. (a) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5): ` 733.86 Cr
163
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
(b) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: ` 0
(c) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any: ` 0
(d) Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c): ` 733.86 Cr
8. (a) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Total Amount Amount Unspent (in `)
Spent for the
Total Amount transferred to Amount transferred to any fund specified under
Financial Year.
Unspent CSR Account as per Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
(` Cr.)
section 135(6)
Amount Date of transfer Name of the Fund Amount Date of transfer
736.01 NA NA NA NA NA
(b) Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
1 Promoting Promoting Yes Uttar Varanasi 1 1.31 1.31 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
quality Education (ii) Pradesh Cement
education Foundation
2 Support for Promoting Yes Rajasthan Karauli 1 1.49 1.49 NA No Baif CSR00000259
school children Education (ii) Institute For
Sustaintgable
Livelihoods
And
Development
3 Promoting Promoting Yes Rajasthan & Tonk, Dungarpur, 1 3.55 3.55 NA No Bal Raksha CSR00000158
quality Education (ii) J &K Srinagar, Badgam, Bharat
education Anantnag, Jammu
and Samba
4 Promoting Promoting Yes Karnataka, Tumkur, Medchal, 1 5.06 5.06 NA No Bal Raksha CSR00000158
quality Education (ii) Telangana, Srikakulam, Bharat
education Andhra Vijayanagaram,
Pradesh Vishakhapattanam,
Guntur, Prakasam,
Nellore, Chittoor,
Kadappa,
Anantpuram, Kurnul,
West Godavari,
Krishna, East
Godavari
5 Educational Promoting Yes Pan India Multiple districts 1 8.3 8.3 NA No Buddy4study CSR00000121
Crisis Education (ii) India
Scholarship Foundation
Support
6 Promoting Promoting Yes Pan India Multiple districts 1 3.28 3.28 NA No Central CSR00000107
quality Education (ii) Square
education Foundation
7 Promoting Promoting Yes Delhi Delhi 1 1.08 1.08 NA No Centum CSR00000520
quality Education (ii) Foundation
education
164
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
8 Smart School Promoting Yes Gujarat Banaskantha 3 0.12 0.12 NA No Collectives CSR00000508
project Education (ii) For
Integrated
Livelihood
Initiatives
9 Promoting Promoting Yes Himachal Shimla 1 1 1 NA No Efrah- A CSR00004094
quality Education (ii) Pradesh Society
education For Social
Welfare
10 Entre- Promoting Yes Kerala & Thiruvananthapuram, 1 1.08 1.08 NA No Ict Academy CSR00009157
preneurship Education (ii) Tamil Nadu Kollam, Alappuzha, Of Tamilnadu
Training Kottayam, Idukki,
Program Ernakulam, Thrissur,
Virudhunagar, Vellore,
Chennai, Tiruvallur,
Kanchipuram,
Madurai, Tirupur,
Coimbatore, Karur,
Namakkal, Salem,
Dindigul, Siva Ganga,
Erode, Tirunelveli,
Pondicherry,
Cuddalore
11 Scholarship Promoting Yes Haryana Sonipat 3 3.18 3.18 NA No International CSR00000712
support Education (ii) Foundation
program For Research
And
Education
(Ifre)
12 Student Promoting Yes Pan India Multiple districts 4 1.99 1.99 NA No Khan CSR00001762
Learning Education (ii) Academy
improvement India
program
13 Anando Promoting Yes Maharashtra Yavatmal 3 0.09 0.09 NA No Light Of Life CSR00000156
Education (ii) Trust
14 Support for Promoting Yes Maharashtra Raigad 3 0.09 0.08 NA No Light Of Life CSR00000156
school children Education (ii) Trust
15 Project Utkarsh Promoting Yes Rajasthan Jaipur 2 0.15 0.15 NA No Moinee CSR00000043
Education (ii) Foundation
16 Project Utkarsh Promoting Yes Rajasthan Bikaner 1 1.2 1.2 NA No Moinee CSR00000043
Education (ii) Foundation
17 Promoting Promoting Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 1 0.3 0.3 NA No Save The CSR00000158
quality Education (ii) Children
education India
18 Upgradation Promoting Yes Punjab Ludhiana 1 1.01 1.01 NA No Society For CSR00000283
of government Education (ii) Action In
schools Community
Health
19 Zero Promoting Yes Pan India Multiple districts 5 10.31 10.31 NA No Sri Aurobindo CSR00000200
Investment Education (ii) Society
Innovation
for Education
initiatives
165
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
20 Promoting Promoting Yes Jharkhand Singhbhum 1 2 2 NA No Tata Steel CSR00001142
quality Education (ii) Foundation
education
21 Digital Promoting Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 3 0.67 0.67 NA No The CSR00001977
Equalizer Education (ii) American
India
Foundation
Trust
22 Promoting Promoting Yes Odisha & Naupada, Balangir, 3 2.65 2.65 NA No The CSR00001977
quality Education (ii) Jharkhand East Singhbhum American
education India
Foundation
Trust
23 Promoting Promoting Yes Pan India Multiple projects 2 4 4 NA No The CSR00001977
quality Education (ii) American
education India
Foundation
Trust
24 Promoting Promoting Yes Maharashtra, Thane, Mumbai, 3 0.23 0.22 NA No Udayan Care CSR00000619
quality Education (ii) Haryana, Oune, Kurukshetra,
education and Punjab Panchkula,
Phagwara
25 Promoting Promoting Yes Jharkhand Ranchi, Khunti, 3 4 4 NA No Wockhardt CSR00000161
quality Education (ii) Bokaro and Dhanbad Foundation
education
26 Plastic Waste Preventive Yes Madhya Gwalior and Thane 3 0.41 0.41 NA No Centre For CSR00001260
Management and Curative Pradesh and Environment
Healthcare (i) Maharashtra Education
(Cee) Society
Ahmedabad
27 Plastic Waste Preventive Yes Assam and Kamrup, Samastipur 3 0.51 0.51 NA No Centre For CSR00001260
Management and Curative Bihar and Patna Environment
Healthcare (i) Education
(Cee) Society
Ahmedabad
28 Plastic Waste Preventive Yes Andhra Rajanna Sircilla NTR 3 0.39 0.39 NA No Centre For CSR00001260
Management and Curative Pradesh and Krishna Environment
Healthcare (i) Telangana Education
(Cee) Society
Ahmedabad
29 Plastic Waste Preventive Yes Punjab and Ludhiana, Jammu 3 0.44 0.44 NA No Centre For CSR00001260
Management and Curative Jammu & and Leh Environment
Healthcare (i) Kashmir Education
(Cee) Society
Ahmedabad
30 Plastic Waste Preventive Yes Jharkhand Ranchi and Khorda 3 0.41 0.41 NA No Centre For CSR00001260
Management and Curative Environment
Healthcare (i) Education
(Cee) Society
Ahmedabad
166
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
31 Plastic Waste Preventive Yes Odisha Ganjam and Sarguja 3 0.12 0.12 NA No Centre For CSR00001260
Management and Curative Environment
Healthcare (i) Education
(Cee) Society
Ahmedabad
32 Solid waste Preventive Yes Goa and Panjim, Rishikesh, 4 2 2 NA No Charities Aid CSR00001692
management and Curative Uttarakhand Haldwani, Dehradun Foundation
Healthcare (i) and Uttarkashi India
33 Solid Waste Preventive Yes Himachal Dharamshala 3 1.11 1.11 NA No Waste CSR00002589
Management and Curative Pradesh Warriors
Healthcare (i)
34 Trauma Care Preventive Yes Gujarat Ahmedabad, 1 0.09 0.09 NA No Lifeline CSR00005458
upskilling and Curative Vadodara, Surat, Foundation
program Healthcare (i) Bhuj, Gandhidham,
Rajkot and
Bhavnagar
35 Mental Health Preventive Yes PAN India Multiple districts 1 0.09 0.09 NA No The Live CSR00012198
Program and Curative Love Laugh
Healthcare (i) Foundation
36 Covid relief Preventive Yes Pan India Multiple districts 2 1.74 1.74 NA Yes Direct NA
program and Curative
Healthcare
(i)/ Disaster
Management
(xii)
37 Covid relief Preventive Yes PAN India Multiple districts 2 17.73 17.73 NA Yes Direct NA
program and Curative
Healthcare
(i)/ Disaster
Management
(xii)
38 Covid relief Preventive Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 2 0.09 0.09 NA Yes Direct NA
program and Curative
Healthcare
(i)/ Disaster
Management
(xii)
39 Covid relief Preventive Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 2 0.21 0.21 NA Yes Direct NA
program and Curative
Healthcare
(i)/ Disaster
Management
(xii)
40 Natural Ensuring Yes Punjab Firozpur 1 0.44 0.44 NA No Aiilsg CSR00000373
Resource Environmental
Management Sustainability
(iv)
41 Natural Ensuring Yes Chhattisgarh Korba 3 0.31 0.31 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
Resource Environmental Cement
Management Sustainability Foundation
(iv)
167
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
42 Solar Energy Ensuring Yes Uttarakhand Haridwar 1 1.8 1.8 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
Project Environmental Cement
Sustainability Foundation
(iv)
43 Natural Ensuring Yes Rajasthan Jhadol 3 0.17 0.17 NA No Baif CSR00000259
Resource Environmental Institute For
Management Sustainability Sustainable
(iv) Livelihood
And
Development
(Bisld)
44 Water Supply Ensuring Yes Karnataka Chikkaballapur 3 0.74 0.74 NA No Foundation CSR00000637
Management Environmental For
Sustainability Ecological
(iv) Security
45 Natural Ensuring Yes Rajasthan Chittorgarh 3 0.5 0.5 NA No Foundation CSR00000637
Resource Environmental For
Management Sustainability Ecological
(iv) Security (Fes)
46 Plastic Waste Ensuring Yes Assam Golaghat 2 5.9 5.9 NA No Gramin Vikas CSR00000633
Management Environmental Trust
Sustainability
(iv)
47 Natural Ensuring Yes Rajasthan Banswara 1 0.8 0.8 NA No Nm Sadguru CSR00000285
Resource Environmental Water And
Management Sustainability Development
(iv) Foundation
48 Tree plantation Ensuring Yes PAN INDIA Multiple districts 1 8 8 NA Yes Direct NA
Environmental
Sustainability
(iv)
49 Solar Ensuring Yes Chhattisgarh Raigarh, 1 1.3 1.3 NA No Professional CSR00000973
streetlights Environmental Kondagaon,Bastar Assistance
installation Sustainability For
(iv) Development
Action
50 Natural Ensuring Yes Rajasthan Pratapgarh 3 0.96 0.96 NA No Self Reliant CSR00001911
Resource Environmental Initiatives
Management Sustainability Through
(iv) Joint Action
(Srijan)
51 Natural Ensuring Yes Uttarakhand, Nainital, Biswanath 3 2.16 2.16 NA No Society CSR00000399
Resource Environmental Assam, Charali Khorda For The
Management Sustainability Odisha, Upliftment Of
(iv) Villagers &
Development
Of Himalayan
Areas
(Suvidha)
52 Natural Ensuring Yes Jharkhand East Singhum 1 0.44 0.44 NA No Tata Steel CSR00001142
Resource Environmental Foundation
Management Sustainability
(iv)
168
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
53 Natural Ensuring Yes Uttarakhand Chamoli 1 0.8 0.8 NA No Himmotthan CSR00000081
Resource Environmental Society
Management Sustainability
(iv)
54 Solar Panel Ensuring Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 2 0.02 0.02 NA No United Way CSR00000762
Installation Environmental Of Mumbai
Sustainability
(iv)
55 Livelihood Vocational Yes Gujarat Surendranagar & 3 0.28 0.28 NA No Aga Khan CSR00004229
Enhancement Training and Dang Rural
for farmers Livelihood Support
Enhancement Programme
(ii) India
56 Livelihood Vocational Yes Madhya Harda 1 1.91 1.91 NA No Aga Khan CSR00004229
enhancement Training and Pradesh Rural
of farmers Livelihood Support
Enhancement Programme
(ii) India
57 Skill training to Vocational Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 3 0.3 0.3 NA No All India CSR00000373
youth Training and Institute Of
Livelihood Local Self
Enhancement Government
(ii)
58 Livelihood Vocational Yes Gujarat Junagadh 3 0.11 0.11 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
Enhancement Training and Cement
for farmers Livelihood Foundation
Enhancement
(ii)
59 Livelihood Vocational Yes Uttarakhand Haridwar 1 1.01 1.01 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
Enhancement Training and Cement
for farmers Livelihood Foundation
Enhancement
(ii)
60 Livelihood Vocational Yes PUNJAB Muktsar 3 0.82 0.82 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
Enhancement Training and Cement
for women Livelihood Foundation
Enhancement
(ii)
61 Skill Training for Vocational Yes Chhattisgarh Bilaspur 3 0.3 0.3 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
youth Training and Cement
Livelihood Foundation
Enhancement
(ii)
62 Skill training of Vocational Yes Uttar Noida 3 1.04 1.04 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
youth Training and Pradesh Cement
Livelihood Foundation
Enhancement
(ii)
63 Skill Training Vocational Yes Uttar Lucknow 1 0.49 0.49 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
Program for Training and Pradesh Cement
Youth Livelihood Foundation
Enhancement
(ii)
169
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
64 Skill Training Vocational Yes Uttarakhand Haridwar 3 1.7 1.68 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
Program for Training and Cement
Youth Livelihood Foundation
Enhancement
(ii)
65 Skill Training Vocational Yes Pan India Multiple District 3 0.51 0.51 NA No Anudip CSR00000060
and Livelihood Training and Foundation
Enhancement Livelihood For Social
Enhancement Welfare
(ii)
66 Skill Training for Vocational Yes Pan India Multiple District 1 2 2 NA No Apparel CSR00000393
youth Training and Made Ups
Livelihood And Home
Enhancement Furnishing
(ii) Sector Skill
Council
67 Training of Vocational Yes Pan India Multiple District 1 7.18 7.18 NA No Apparel CSR00000393
youth Training and Made Ups
Livelihood And Home
Enhancement Furnishing
(ii) Sector Skill
Council
68 Skill training of Vocational Yes Himachal Sirmaur 3 1.5 1.5 NA No Appropriate CSR00000392
youth Training and Pradesh Technology
Livelihood India
Enhancement
(ii)
69 Integrated Vocational Yes Meghalaya West Jayantya 4 0.94 0.94 NA No Aroh CSR00000044
Watershed Training and Foundation
Management Livelihood
and Enterprise Enhancement
Development (ii)
Program
70 Integrated Vocational Yes Maharashtra Osmanabad 2 0.91 0.91 NA No Baif CSR00000259
Livestock Training and Institute For
Development Livelihood Sustainable
Enhancement Livelihoods
(ii) And
Development
71 Livelihood Vocational Yes Uttar Raebareli 3 0.6 0.6 NA No Baif CSR00000259
Enhancement Training and Pradesh Institute For
for farmers Livelihood Sustainable
Enhancement Livelihoods
(ii) And
Development
72 Livelihood Vocational Yes Uttar Multiple districts s 3 0.5 0.5 NA No Baif CSR00000259
Enhancement Training and Pradesh & Institute For
for farmers Livelihood Ditricts Sustainable
Enhancement Livelihoods
(ii) And
Development
170
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
73 Livelihood Vocational Yes Andhra Telangana - 3 1.03 1.03 NA No Baif CSR00000259
enhancement Training and pradesh Rangareddy, Institute For
of farmers Livelihood Vikarabad, Sustainable
Enhancement Mahabubnagar, AP - Livelihoods
(ii) Prakasham, Guntur And
Development
74 Livelihood Vocational Yes Madhya Mandsaur 3 0.2 0.2 NA No Baif CSR00000259
enhancement Training and Pradesh Institute For
of farmers Livelihood Sustainable
Enhancement Livelihoods
(ii) And
Development
75 Livestock Vocational Yes Karnataka Haveri, Dharwad, 3 0.94 0.94 NA No Baif CSR00000259
development Training and Davangere, Institute For
program Livelihood Gadag, Vijayapura, Sustainable
Enhancement Bagalkote, Ballary, Livelihoods
(ii) and Belgaum And
Development
76 Skills Training Vocational Yes Odisha Sambalpur 0.34 0.34 NA No Baif CSR00000259
and Livelihood Training and Institute For
Enhancement Livelihood Sustainable
Enhancement Livelihoods
(ii) And
Development
77 Promoting Vocational Yes Ladakh Leh, Kargil 3 1.41 1.41 NA No Barefoot CSR00011699
community led Training and College
enterprises Livelihood International
Enhancement
(ii)
78 Livelihood Vocational Yes Andhra Krishna 3 0.16 0.15 NA No Bharatiya CSR00001952
enhancement Training and pradesh Yuva Shakti
of farmers Livelihood Trust
Enhancement
(ii)
79 Livelihood Vocational Yes Telangana Hydrabad, 3 0.13 0.12 NA No Bharatiya CSR00001952
enhancement Training and Rangareddy Yuva Shakti
of farmers Livelihood Trust
Enhancement
(ii)
80 Livelihood Vocational Yes Maharashtra Satara 1 1.44 1.44 NA No Bharatiya CSR00001952
Promotion for Training and Yuva Shakti
Farmers Livelihood Trust
Enhancement
(ii)
81 Livelihood Vocational Yes Gujarat Chhota Udepur 1 1.73 1.73 NA No Care India CSR00000786
Promotion for Training and Solutions For
Farmers Livelihood Sustainable
Enhancement Development
(ii)
82 Livelihood Vocational Yes Madhya Damoh 1 1.85 1.85 NA No Care India CSR00000786
Promotion for Training and Pradesh Solutions For
Farmers Livelihood Sustainable
Enhancement Development
(ii)
171
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
83 Livelihood Vocational Yes PUNJAB Bathinda 1 2.26 2.23 NA No Care India CSR00000786
Promotion for Training and Solutions For
Farmers Livelihood Sustainable
Enhancement Development
(ii)
84 Skill Training Vocational Yes Karnataka Dharwad 2 3.61 3.61 NA No Deshpande CSR00001646
Program for Training and Foundation.
Youth Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
85 Livelihood Vocational Yes Maharashtra Aurangabad, 3 0.51 0.51 NA No Dhan CSR00000273
Enhancement Training and Beed, Nanded, Foundation
for women Livelihood Osmanabad, Hingoli
Enhancement
(ii)
86 Livelihood Vocational Yes Tamilnadu Sivaganga 1 1.66 1.66 NA No Dhan CSR00000273
Promotion for Training and Foundation
Farmers Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
87 Skill training of Vocational Yes Tamilnadu Chennai and Kochi 3 0.22 0.22 NA No Dr Reddys CSR00000794
Persons with Training and and Kerala Foundation
Disabilities Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
88 Skill training of Vocational Yes Gujarat Rajkot & Navsari 3 0.36 0.36 NA No Dr Reddys CSR00000794
youth Training and Foundation
Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
89 Livelihood Vocational Yes Uttarakhand Champawat 3 1.23 1.23 NA No End Poverty CSR00000314
Enhancement Training and
for farmers Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
90 Livelihood Vocational Yes Gujarat Mahisagar 3 0.87 0.87 NA No Foundation CSR00000637
Enhancement Training and For
for tribals Livelihood Ecological
Enhancement Security
(ii)
91 Livelihood Vocational Yes Rajasthan Bhilwara 1 1.68 1.68 NA No Foundation CSR00000637
Promotion Training and For
Livelihood Ecological
Enhancement Security
(ii)
92 Skill Training for Vocational Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 1 0.4 0.4 NA No Friends CSR00000051
Youth Training and Union For
Livelihood Energizing
Enhancement Lives
(ii)
172
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
93 Skill Training Vocational Yes Chandigarh Chandigarh 3 2.12 2.12 NA No Friends CSR00000051
Program for Training and Union For
Youth Livelihood Energizing
Enhancement Lives
(ii)
94 Skill Training Vocational Yes Maharashtra Pune 1 2.97 2.97 NA No Friends CSR00000051
Program for Training and Union For
Youth Livelihood Energizing
Enhancement Lives
(ii)
95 Skills Training Vocational Yes Odisha Bhuvaneshwar 2 0.93 0.93 NA No Friends CSR00000051
and Livelihood Training and Union For
Enhancement Livelihood Energizing
Enhancement Lives
(ii)
96 Livelihood Vocational Yes Assam Darang 3 0.14 0.12 NA No Fxb India CSR00000076
enhancement Training and Suraksha
for women Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
97 Skill Vocational Yes Pan India Multiple District 3 0.82 0.82 NA No Head CSR00000919
Enhancement Training and Held High
of Youth Livelihood Foundation
Enhancement
(ii)
98 Livelihood Vocational Yes Uttarakhand Uttarkashi 3 0.81 0.8 NA No Himalayan CSR00008707
Enhancement Training and Action
for farmers Livelihood Research
Enhancement Centre
(ii)
99 Farmers Vocational Yes Jammu and Ladakh 3 1.69 1.69 NA No Himmotthan CSR00000081
training Training and Kashmir Society
program Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
100 Livelihood Vocational Yes Uttar Chamoli 1 1.03 1.03 NA No Himmotthan CSR00000081
Enhancement Training and Pradesh Society
for farmers Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
101 Skill Training for Vocational Yes Kerala Palakkad 3 1.4 1.4 NA No Iit Palakkad CSR00006228
Youth Training and
Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
102 Skill training for Vocational Yes Jammu and Kupwara,Gandebal, 3 1.2 1.2 NA No Indian CSR00000109
farmers Training and Kashmir Baramula, Budgam, Society Of
Livelihood Shopian, Pulwama Agribusiness
Enhancement Professionals
(ii)
173
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
103 Livelihood Vocational Yes Jammu and Kashmir 3 0.72 0.72 NA No Indo Global CSR00001677
enhancement Training and Kashmir Social
for artisans and Livelihood Service
farmers Enhancement Society
(ii)
104 Livelihood Vocational Yes Karnataka Hassan, 3 3.58 3.58 NA No Indus Tree CSR00000571
Enhancement Training and Chikmangular Crafts
for farmers Livelihood Shivmogga Madurai, Foundation
Enhancement Myladuriathurai,
(ii) Nagapatinam,
Tirunelveli, Tuticorn
105 Livelihood Vocational Yes Jharkhand Ranchi (Regional 1 1.28 1.28 NA No Kgvk CSR00000159
Enhancement Training and Project)
for farmers Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
106 Entrepreneurial Vocational Yes Odisha Kandamal 3 0.96 0.96 NA No Kiit CSR00002635
skill Training and Technology
development Livelihood Business
for women Enhancement Incubator
(ii)
107 Skills Training Vocational Yes Odisha Sambalpur 3 0.2 0.2 NA No Mahashakti CSR00002561
and Livelihood Training and Foundation
Enhancement Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
108 Value chain Vocational Yes Karnataka Uttra Kannada, 3 0.3 0.3 NA No Manuvikasa CSR00002730
development Training and Uduppi
for fisher Livelihood
women Enhancement
(ii)
109 Livelihood Vocational Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 3 0.45 0.45 NA No New CSR00000754
Enhancement Training and Resolution
for women Livelihood India
Enhancement
(ii)
110 Skill Training for Vocational Yes Chandigarh Chandigarh 1 1.21 1.21 NA No Orion CSR00000597
youth Training and Educational
Livelihood Society
Enhancement
(ii)
111 Training of Vocational Yes Jharkhand Gumla, Ranchi, West 1 2.69 2.69 NA No Paniit Alumni CSR00000005
nurses Training and Singhbhum Reach
Livelihood For India
Enhancement Foundation
(ii)
112 Skill training for Vocational Yes Rajasthan Udaipur 3 0.47 0.47 NA No Professional CSR00000973
farmers Training and Assistance
Livelihood For
Enhancement Development
(ii) Action
174
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
113 Skill training for Vocational Yes Bihar Kisangunj, Jamui, 3 0.39 0.39 NA No Professional CSR00000973
farmers Training and Banka & Samstipur Assistance
Livelihood For
Enhancement Development
(ii) Action
114 Livelihood Vocational Yes Chhattisgarh Dhamtari 3 1.13 1.13 NA No Professional CSR00000973
Enhancement Training and Assistance
for women Livelihood For
Enhancement Development
(ii) Action
115 Livelihood Vocational Yes Chhattisgarh Raigarh 3 1.84 1.84 NA No Professional CSR00000973
Enhancement Training and Assistance
for women Livelihood For
Enhancement Development
(ii) Action
116 Livelihood Vocational Yes Madhya Panna and 3 1.2 1.2 NA No Professional CSR00000973
Enhancement Training and Pradesh Chattarpur Assistance
for women Livelihood For
Enhancement Development
(ii) Action
117 Livelihood Vocational Yes Chhattisgarh Bastar 3 1.6 1.6 NA No Professional CSR00000973
Promotion for Training and Assistance
Farmers Livelihood For
Enhancement Development
(ii) Action
118 Livelihood Vocational Yes Jharkhand Dumka 1 1.96 1.96 NA No Professional CSR00000973
Promotion for Training and Assistance
Farmers Livelihood For
Enhancement Development
(ii) Action
119 Skills Training Vocational Yes West bengal Bankura 3 0.72 0.71 NA No Professional CSR00000973
and Livelihood Training and Assistance
Enhancement Livelihood For
Enhancement Development
(ii) Action
120 Skills Training Vocational Yes West bengal Purulia 3 0.82 0.82 NA No Professional CSR00000973
and Livelihood Training and Assistance
Enhancement Livelihood For
Enhancement Development
(ii) Action
121 Skill training for Vocational Yes Maharashtra Palghar 3 0.23 0.23 NA No Raah CSR00003673
artisans Training and Foundation
Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
122 Skill Training for Vocational Yes Maharashtra Mumbai, Pune, 1 0.08 0.08 NA No Red Dot CSR00005987
Health workers Training and Satara, Udipi, Goa Foundation
Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
175
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
123 Farmers Vocational Yes Himachal Mandi 3 1.68 1.68 NA No Sanjeevani CSR00000466
training Training and Pradesh Vikas Evam
program Livelihood Jan Kalyan
Enhancement Samiti
(ii)
124 Skill training for Vocational Yes Uttar Varanasi 1 0.4 0.33 NA No Sarthak CSR00001093
youth Training and Pradesh Educational
Livelihood Trust
Enhancement
(ii)
125 Skill training of Vocational Yes Kerala Thiruvananpuram 1 0.35 0.34 NA No Sarthak CSR00001093
disabled youth Training and Educational
Livelihood Trust
Enhancement
(ii)
126 Skill training for Vocational Yes Jharkhand Khunti, Muzaffarpur, 3 1.18 1.18 NA No Sarva Seva CSR00000224
farmers Training and and Bihar Vaishali, Gaya, Samity
Livelihood Jehanabad, Sanstha
Enhancement Samstipur, Nawada
(ii)
127 Livelihood Vocational Yes Uttar chitrakoot 3 0.69 0.69 NA No Self Reliant CSR00001911
Enhancement Training and Pradesh Initiatives
for farmers Livelihood Through
Enhancement Joint Action
(ii)
128 Livelihood Vocational Yes Rajasthan Baran 3 2.85 2.85 NA No Self Reliant CSR00001911
Promotion for Training and Initiatives
Farmers Livelihood Through
Enhancement Joint Action
(ii)
129 Skill Training for Vocational Yes Pan India Multiple District 1 12 12 NA No Society For CSR00000829
Women Training and Development
Livelihood Alternatives
Enhancement
(ii)
130 Livelihood Vocational Yes Assam, Golaghat, Ri 3 3.45 3.44 NA No Suvidha.. CSR00000399
Development Training and Meghalaya, Bhoi, Khorda and
through Livelihood Odisha and Darbhanga
Organic Enhancement Bihar
Agriculture (ii)
131 Skill training of Vocational Yes Maharashtra Nagpur and North 3 0.11 0.11 NA No Tata CSR00002739
youth Training and & Goa Goa Community
Livelihood Initiatives
Enhancement Trust
(ii)
132 Livelihood Vocational Yes Gujarat Dahod 1 1.46 1.46 NA No Tata CSR00003775
Promotion for Training and Education
Farmers Livelihood And
Enhancement Development
(ii) Trust
176
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
133 Livelihood Vocational Yes Jharkhand Dumka 1 1.02 0.7 NA No Tata CSR00003775
Promotion for Training and Education
Farmers Livelihood And
Enhancement Development
(ii) Trust
134 Livelihood Vocational Yes Odisha Kalahandi 1 0.21 0.21 NA No Tata CSR00003775
Promotion for Training and Education
Farmers Livelihood And
Enhancement Development
(ii) Trust
135 Livelihood Vocational Yes Uttarakhand Pitthoragarh 1 0.5 0.5 NA No Tata CSR00003775
Promotion for Training and Education
Farmers Livelihood And
Enhancement Development
(ii) Trust
136 Livelihood Vocational Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 3 0.29 0.29 NA No Tata Institute CSR00003475
Enhancement Training and Of Social
for socially Livelihood Sciences,
excluded and Enhancement Mumbai
stigmatised (ii)
populations
137 Skill Training for Vocational Yes Jharkhand Kharsawan 3 0.9 0.9 NA No Tata Steel CSR00001142
Youth Training and Foundation
Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
138 Livelihood Vocational Yes Maharashtra Ratnagiri 1 0.91 0.91 NA No The Pride CSR00001069
Promotion for Training and India
Farmers Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
139 Skill training for Vocational Y Yes Jharkhand Simdega, Ranchi 3 0.33 0.33 NA No Transforming CSR00000421
farmers Training and es Rural India
Livelihood es Foundation
Enhancement
(ii)
140 Skill training of Vocational Yes Delhi NCR Delhi, Gautam 1 0.21 0.21 NA No Udayan Care CSR00000619
youth Training and and UP Buddha Nagar and
Livelihood Ghaziabad
Enhancement
(ii)
141 Livelihood Vocational Yes Rajasthan Madhopur 1 0.28 0.28 NA No Udyogini CSR00001487
Promotion for Training and
Farmers Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
142 Skill training of Vocational Yes Pan India Multiple District 3 4.87 4.87 NA No United Way CSR00000216
youth Training and Of Delhi
Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
177
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
143 Women and Vocational Yes Rajasthan Bikaner 3 2.32 2.32 NA No Urmul CSR00000567
farmers training Training and Seemant
program Livelihood Samiti
Enhancement
(ii)
144 Farmers Vocational Yes Jharkhand Gumla 3 0.95 0.95 NA No Vikas CSR00000367
training Training and Samvad
program Livelihood Samiti
Enhancement
(ii)
145 Livelihood Vocational Yes Telangana Mulungu 2 1.62 1.62 NA No Vrutti CSR00000538
Enhancement Training and
for farmers Livelihood
Enhancement
(ii)
146 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Chindwada 4 0.02 0.02 NA No Watershed CSR00000518
Development Development Pradesh Organisation
Program Projects (x) Trust
147 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Sagar 2 0.73 0.73 NA No Abhyuday CSR00000495
Development Development Pradesh Sansthan
Program Projects (x)
148 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Ratlam 4 0.19 0.19 NA No Baif CSR00000308
Development Development Pradesh Development
Program Projects (x) Research
Foundation
149 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Assam Kamrup 4 0.07 0.07 NA No Fxb India CSR00000076
Development Development Suraksha
Program Projects (x)
150 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Assam Nalbari 4 0.29 0.29 NA No Gramya CSR00000407
Development Development Vikash
Program Projects (x) Mancha
151 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Odisha Nayagarh 4 1.42 1.42 NA No Gram Vikas CSR00000596
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
152 Holistic Rural Rural Yes PUNJAB Amritsar 4 0.17 0.17 NA No Shramik CSR00000332
Development Development Bharti
Program Projects (x)
153 Holistic Rural Rural Yes PUNJAB Fazilka 4 0.52 0.52 NA No Centre For CSR00000339
Development Development Advance
Program Projects (x) Research
And
Development
154 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttarakhand Haridwar 4 1.57 1.57 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
Development Development Cement
Program Projects (x) Foundation
155 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Shahdol 4 2.18 2.18 NA No Action CSR00001213
Development Development Pradesh For Social
Program Projects (x) Advan-
Cement (Asa)
156 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Meghalaya Ri-Bhoi 4 0.72 0.72 NA No Fxb India CSR00000076
Development Development Suraksha
Program Projects (x)
178
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
157 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Dhamtari 4 0.48 0.46 NA No Gramin Vikas CSR00000633
Development Development Trust
Program Projects (x)
158 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Khunti 4 1.84 1.84 NA No Network For CSR00002858
Development Development Enterprise
Program Projects (x) Enhan-
Cement And
Develop-
Ment
Support
Needs
159 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Odisha Rayagada 4 1.97 1.97 NA No Prayatn CSR00000483
Development Development Sanstha
Program Projects (x)
160 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Bihar Vaishali 4 0.53 0.53 NA No Aga Khan CSR00004229
Development Development Rural
Program Projects (x) Support
Programme
India
161 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Ramgarh 4 3 3 NA No Kgvk CSR00000159
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
162 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Haryana Mahendragarh 4 0.64 0.64 NA No S M Sehgal CSR00000262
Development Development Foundation
Program Projects (x)
163 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Assam Dhemaji 3 0.16 0.16 NA No World Vision CSR00004211
Development Development India
Program Projects (x)
164 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Barabanki 4 1.47 1.46 NA No Aga Khan CSR00008713
Development Development Pradesh Foundation
Program Projects (x)
165 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Satara 3 0.09 0.09 NA No Action For CSR00000092
Development Development Agricultural
Program Projects (x) Renewal In
Maharashtra
Afarm
166 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Dhule 3 0.14 0.14 NA No Vikas Sahyog CSR00001779
Development Development Pratishthan
Program Projects (x)
167 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Kerala Idukki, Wayanadu, 3 1.27 1.27 NA No M S CSR00000470
Development Development Alapuzha, Kottayam, Swaminathan
Program Projects (x) Pathanamthitta, Research
Ernakulam Foundation
168 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Nanded 3 1.42 1.42 NA No Centre For CSR00000339
Development Development Advance
Program Projects (x) Research
And
Development
169 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Gujarat Sabarkantha 4 3.04 3.04 NA No Collectives CSR00000508
Development Development For
Program Projects (x) Integrated
Livelihood
Initiatives
179
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
170 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Gujarat Narmada 3 1.73 1.73 NA No Aga Khan CSR00004229
Development Development Rural
Program Projects (x) Support
Programme
India
171 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Gujarat Kheda 3 1.66 1.66 NA No Foundation CSR00000637
Development Development For
Program Projects (x) Ecological
Security
172 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Dumka 4 3.06 3.06 NA No Professional CSR00000973
Development Development Assistance
Program Projects (x) For
Development
Action
173 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Assam Kamrup 3 2.16 2.16 NA No Citizens CSR00000589
Development Development Foundation
Program Projects (x)
174 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Rajasthan Jaisalmer 3 1.86 1.86 NA No Urmul Rural CSR00000546
Development Development Health
Program Projects (x) Research
And
Development
Trust
175 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Karnataka Gulberga, Bidar, 3 2.65 2.65 NA No Myrada CSR00001099
Development Development Raichur
Program Projects (x)
176 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Prayagraj (Allahabad) 3 1.88 1.88 NA No Peoples CSR00000125
Development Development Pradesh Action For
Program Projects (x) National
Integration
177 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Rajasthan Dhaulpur 3 1.95 1.95 NA No Manjari CSR00000074
Development Development Foundation
Program Projects (x)
178 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Rajasthan Karauli 3 1.64 1.64 NA No Udyogini CSR00001487
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
179 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Haryana Yamunanagar 4 1.88 1.88 NA No Centre For CSR00000339
Development Development Advance
Program Projects (x) Research
And
Development
180 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Surguja 3 0.46 0.46 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
Development Development Cement
Program Projects (x) Foundation
181 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Barwani 3 1.37 1.37 NA No Aga Khan CSR00004229
Development Development Pradesh Rural
Program Projects (x) Support
Programme
India
180
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
182 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Bilaspur 3 0.48 0.48 NA No National CSR00000206
Development Development Institute Of
Program Projects (x) Women Child
And Youth
Development
183 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Korea(Koriya) 3 0.77 0.77 NA No Watershed CSR00000518
Development Development Organisation
Program Projects (x) Trust
184 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Kanker 3 0.48 0.48 NA No Udyogini CSR00001487
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
185 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Yawatmal 3 1.49 1.49 NA No Sanjeevani CSR00000270
Development Development Inst. For
Program Projects (x) Empower-
Ment &
Develop-
Ment
186 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Balod 3 0.57 0.53 NA No Vrutti CSR00000538
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
187 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Rajasthan Dausa 2 2.12 2.11 NA No Baif CSR00000308
Development Development Development
Program Projects (x) Research
Foundation
188 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Palghar 2 1.09 1.09 NA No All India CSR00000373
Development Development Institute Of
Program Projects (x) Local Self
Government
189 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Vidisha 2 2.52 2.52 NA No Arpan Seva CSR00000826
Development Development Pradesh Sansthan
Program Projects (x)
190 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Janjgir-Champa 3 1.17 1.17 NA No Indo Global CSR00001677
Development Development Social
Program Projects (x) Service
Society
191 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Himachal Kangra 3 2.32 2.32 NA No Peoples CSR00000125
Development Development Pradesh Action For
Program Projects (x) National
Integration
192 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Assam Darang 3 1.65 1.65 NA No Fxb India CSR00000076
Development Development Suraksha
Program Projects (x)
193 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Kabeerdham 3 0.77 0.77 NA No Aroh CSR00000044
Development Development Foundation
Program Projects (x)
194 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Jashpur 3 1.59 1.59 NA No Self Reliant CSR00001911
Development Development Initiatives
Program Projects (x) Through
Joint Action
195 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Meghalaya East Khasi 3 1.45 1.45 NA No Aroh CSR00000044
Development Development Foundation
Program Projects (x)
181
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
196 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Assam Vishwanath Chirali 4 2.14 2.14 NA No Suvidha.. CSR00000399
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
197 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Rajasthan Pali 2 1.52 1.52 NA No Self Reliant CSR00001911
Development Development Initiatives
Program Projects (x) Through
Joint Action
198 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Rajasthan Rajasmand 2 2.17 2.17 NA No Seva Mandir CSR00000288
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
199 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Durg 2 4.14 4.14 NA No Care India CSR00000786
Development Development Solutions For
Program Projects (x) Sustainable
Development
200 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Khandwa 3 1.26 1.26 NA No Indo Global CSR00001677
Development Development Pradesh Social
Program Projects (x) Service
Society
201 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Khargone 3 2.32 2.32 NA No Suvidha.. CSR00000399
Development Development Pradesh
Program Projects (x)
202 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Hazaribagh 4 2.89 2.89 NA No Kgvk CSR00000159
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
203 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Sikkim East Sikkim 2 1.54 1.54 NA No Citizens CSR00000589
Development Development Foundation
Program Projects (x)
204 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Bihar Nalanda 4 1.89 1.89 NA No Oxfam India CSR00000839
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
205 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Gujarat Somnath 3 0.73 0.73 NA No Tns India CSR00001337
Development Development Foundation
Program Projects (x)
206 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Odisha Koraput 3 1.26 1.26 NA No Foundation CSR00000637
Development Development For
Program Projects (x) Ecological
Security
207 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Jalna 3 3.47 3.47 NA No Watershed CSR00000518
Development Development Organisation
Program Projects (x) Trust
208 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Osmanabad 3 1.27 1.27 NA No Cohesion CSR00000148
Development Development Foundation
Program Projects (x) Trust
209 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Ujjain 2 1.81 1.81 NA No Action CSR00001213
Development Development Pradesh For Social
Program Projects (x) Advance-
Ment (Asa)
210 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Rajasthan Dholpur 1 0.31 0.31 NA No Manjari CSR00000074
Development Development Foundation
Program Projects (x)
182
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
211 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Balrampur 3 1.82 1.82 NA No Udyogini CSR00001487
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
212 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Surajpur 2 1.45 1.45 NA No Indo Global CSR00001677
Development Development Social
Program Projects (x) Service
Society
213 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Sarguja 3 0.92 0.92 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
Development Development Cement
Program Projects (x) Foundation
214 Holistic Rural Rural Yes PUNJAB Patiala 2 2.5 2.5 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
Development Development Cement
Program Projects (x) Foundation
215 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Assam Lakhimpur 1 1.69 1.69 NA No Indo Global CSR00001677
Development Development Social
Program Projects (x) Service
Society
216 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Gariaband 2 1.41 1.4 NA No National CSR00000206
Development Development Institute Of
Program Projects (x) Women Child
And Youth
Development
217 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Gorakhpur 3 2.49 2.49 NA No Peoples CSR00000748
Development Development Pradesh Action For
Program Projects (x) National
Integration
218 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Varanasi 1 1.28 1.28 NA No Aroh CSR00000044
Development Development Pradesh Foundation
Program Projects (x)
219 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Burhanpur 2 1.74 1.64 NA No Aga Khan CSR00004229
Development Development Pradesh Rural
Program Projects (x) Support
Programme
India
220 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Ranchi 1 0.36 0.36 NA No Nav Bharat CSR00001693
Development Development Jagriti
Program Projects (x) Kendra
221 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Meghalaya Ri-Bhoi 2 2.73 2.73 NA No Society For CSR00000283
Development Development Action In
Program Projects (x) Community
Health
222 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Haryana Nuh 3 1.77 1.77 NA No S M Sehgal CSR00000262
Development Development Foundation
Program Projects (x)
223 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Bahraich 3 1.8 1.8 NA No Aga Khan CSR00008713
Development Development Pradesh Foundation
Program Projects (x)
224 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Rajasthan Alwar 2 1.83 1.83 NA No Ibtada CSR00002333
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
183
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
225 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttarakhand Almora 3 2.76 2.76 NA No Himmotthan CSR00000081
Development Development Society
Program Projects (x)
226 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Jhabua 3 0.9 0.9 NA No Baif CSR00000259
Development Development Pradesh Institute For
Program Projects (x) Sustainable
Livelihoods
And
Development
227 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Bihar Gaya 1 1.93 1.93 NA No Nav Jagriti CSR00000824
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
228 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Guna 1 1.32 1.32 NA No End Poverty CSR00000314
Development Development Pradesh
Program Projects (x)
229 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Chandrapur 1 1.63 1.63 NA No Krushi Vikas CSR00001360
Development Development Va Gramin
Program Projects (x) Prashikshan
Sanstha
230 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Haryana Rewari 3 2.13 2.13 NA No End Poverty CSR00000314
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
231 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Hingoli 1 2.4 2.4 NA No Baif CSR00000259
Development Development Institute For
Program Projects (x) Sustainable
Livelihoods
And
Development
232 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Tamilnadu Virudhunagar 4 3.04 3.04 NA No National Agro CSR00000610
Development Development Foundation
Program Projects (x)
233 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Himachal Hamirpur 1 2.01 2.01 NA No Himmotthan CSR00000081
Development Development Pradesh Society
Program Projects (x)
234 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Karnataka Koppal 1 0.79 0.79 NA No Baif CSR00000259
Development Development Institute For
Program Projects (x) Sustainable
Livelihoods
And
Development
235 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Andhra Anantapur 1 1.14 1.14 NA No Foundation CSR00000637
Development Development pradesh For
Program Projects (x) Ecological
Security
236 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Sitapur 1 2.25 2.25 NA No Aga Khan CSR00008713
Development Development Pradesh Foundation
Program Projects (x)
237 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Rajgarh 1 1.14 1.14 NA No Arpan Seva CSR00000826
Development Development Pradesh Sansthan
Program Projects (x)
184
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
238 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Gujarat Kheda 1 1.96 1.96 NA No Foundation CSR00000637
Development Development For
Program Projects (x) Ecological
Security
239 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Lalitpur 1 1.2 1.2 NA No Centre For CSR00000339
Development Development Pradesh Advance
Program Projects (x) Research
And
Development
240 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Pratapgarh 1 1.31 1.31 NA No Peoples CSR00000125
Development Development Pradesh Action For
Program Projects (x) National
Integration
241 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Balod 3 1.19 1.19 NA No Vrutti CSR00000538
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
242 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Satara 1 1.35 1.35 NA No Action For CSR00000092
Development Development Agricultural
Program Projects (x) Renewal In
Maharashtra
Afarm
243 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Nasik 1 2.37 2.37 NA No Sanjeevani CSR00000270
Development Development Inst. For
Program Projects (x) Empower-
Ment &
Develop-
Ment
244 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Bihar Sitamarhi 1 0.82 0.82 NA No Oxfam India CSR00000839
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
245 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Agra 3 1.92 1.92 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
Development Development Pradesh Cement
Program Projects (x) Foundation
246 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Kerala Ernakualam 3 1.51 1.51 NA No M S CSR00000470
Development Development Swaminathan
Program Projects (x) Research
Foundation
247 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Shrawasti 3 2.16 2.16 NA No Gorakhpur CSR00000748
Development Development Pradesh Environ-
Program Projects (x) Mental Action
Group
248 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Chandauli 3 1.43 1.42 NA No Sahbhagi CSR00000486
Development Development Pradesh Shikshan
Program Projects (x) Kendra
249 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Sikkim W Sikkim 3 1.98 1.98 NA No Gramin Vikas CSR00000633
Development Development Trust
Program Projects (x)
250 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Bihar Sheikhpura 3 1.07 1.07 NA No Integrated CSR00000268
Development Development Development
Program Projects (x) Foundation
251 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Odisha Jagatsinghpur 1 1.59 1.59 NA No Harsha Trust CSR00001106
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
185
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
252 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Odisha Kalahandi 3 2.41 2.34 NA No Oxfam India CSR00000839
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
253 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Odisha Puri 4 0.98 0.98 NA No Prayatn CSR00000483
Development Development Sanstha
Program Projects (x)
254 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Korea 3 1.69 1.69 NA No Watershed CSR00000518
Development Development Organisation
Program Projects (x) Trust
255 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Balrampur 3 1.73 1.73 NA No Udyogini CSR00001487
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
256 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Gujarat Amreli 3 0.89 0.89 NA No Coastal CSR00002590
Development Development Salinity
Program Projects (x) Prevention
Cell
257 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Gujarat Panchmahals 3 1.46 1.46 NA No Navin- CSR00000285
Development Development Chandra
Program Projects (x) Mafatlal
Sadguru
Water And
Develop-
Ment
Foundation
258 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh BALODA BAZAR 3 0.71 0.67 NA No Gramin Vikas CSR00000633
Development Development Trust
Program Projects (x)
259 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Assam Baksa 3 1.34 1.34 NA No Gramya CSR00000407
Development Development Vikash
Program Projects (x) Mancha
260 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Palamu 4 2.07 2.07 NA No Aident Social CSR00000766
Development Development Welfare
Program Projects (x) Organisation
261 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Bokaro 3 1.19 1.19 NA No Life CSR00000579
Development Development Education
Program Projects (x) And
Development
Support
262 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Mathura 3 1.21 1.21 NA No S M Sehgal CSR00000262
Development Development Pradesh Foundation
Program Projects (x)
263 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Jhansi 1 0.86 0.86 NA No Self Reliant CSR00001911
Development Development Pradesh Initiatives
Program Projects (x) Through
Joint Action
264 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Sitapur 3 0.58 0.58 NA No Aga Khan CSR00008713
Development Development Pradesh Foundation
Program Projects (x)
265 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Lakhimpur 3 0.6 0.6 NA No Aga Khan CSR00008713
Development Development Pradesh Foundation
Program Projects (x)
186
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
266 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Ayodhya 3 1.07 1.07 NA No Peoples CSR00000125
Development Development Pradesh Action For
Program Projects (x) National
Integration
267 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Bulandshahr 3 1.36 1.36 NA No End Poverty CSR00000314
Development Development Pradesh
Program Projects (x)
268 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Koderma 3 1.72 1.72 NA No Support. CSR00007700
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
269 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Saraikela Kharsawan 3 1.22 1.22 NA No Centre CSR00008062
Development Development For World
Program Projects (x) Solidarity
270 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Latehar 3 1.27 1.27 NA No Vikas Bharti CSR00001499
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
271 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Odisha Nabarangpur 3 0.46 0.46 NA No Agragamee CSR00008478
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
272 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Bihar Begusarai 3 0.77 0.77 NA No Nirdesh CSR00008272
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
273 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Bihar Aurangabad 3 1.72 1.72 NA No Rashtriye CSR00002390
Development Development Gramin Vikas
Program Projects (x) Nidhi
274 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Amravati 3 1.13 1.13 NA No Vikas Sahyog CSR00001779
Development Development Pratishthan
Program Projects (x)
275 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Dhar 1 1.47 1.47 NA No Watershed CSR00000518
Development Development Pradesh Organisation
Program Projects (x) Trust
276 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Wardha 3 0.16 0.16 NA No Aga Khan CSR00001277
Development Development Agency For
Program Projects (x) Habitat India
277 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Saharanpur 3 0.86 0.86 NA No Centre For CSR00000339
Development Development Pradesh Advance
Program Projects (x) Research
And
Development
278 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Sehore 3 1.4 1.4 NA No Arpan Seva CSR00000826
Development Development Pradesh Sansthan
Program Projects (x)
279 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Dewas 4 0.74 0.74 NA No Samaj CSR00002541
Development Development Pradesh Pragati
Program Projects (x) Sahayog
280 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Chhattisgarh Bemetara 1 0.5 0.5 NA No Samerth CSR00000832
Development Development Charitable
Program Projects (x) Trust
187
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
281 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Uttar Kaushambi 3 0.87 0.87 NA No Baif CSR00000259
Development Development Pradesh Institute For
Program Projects (x) Sustainable
Livelihoods
And
Development
282 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Godda 3 0.58 0.58 NA No Professional CSR00000973
Development Development Assistance
Program Projects (x) For
Development
Action
283 Holistic Rural Rural Yes PUNJAB Partner 1 1.25 1.25 NA No Centre For CSR00000339
Development Development Advance
Program Projects (x) Research
And
Development
284 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Himachal Una 3 0.23 0.23 NA No Ambuja CSR00006913
Development Development Pradesh Cement
Program Projects (x) Foundation
285 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Haryana Mahendragarh 3 0.41 0.41 NA No S M Sehgal CSR00000262
Development Development Foundation
Program Projects (x)
286 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Shajapur 1 1.26 1.26 NA No Arpan Seva CSR00000826
Development Development Pradesh Sansthan
Program Projects (x)
287 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Chhindwara 1 1.55 1.55 NA No Naman Sewa CSR00008347
Development Development Pradesh Samiti
Program Projects (x)
288 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Madhya Indore 1 0.65 0.65 NA No Sai Jyoti CSR00007807
Development Development Pradesh Gramodoyog
Program Projects (x) Samaj Sewa
Samiti
289 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Andhra Andhra 3 0.66 0.66 NA No Foundation CSR00000637
Development Development pradesh For
Program Projects (x) Ecological
Security
290 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Andhra Prakasam 3 0.28 0.28 NA No Baif CSR00000259
Development Development pradesh Institute For
Program Projects (x) Sustainable
Livelihoods
And
Development
291 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Karnataka Krishnagiri 3 0.18 0.18 NA No Myrada CSR00001099
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
292 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Karnataka Gulbarga 3 0.7 0.7 NA No Myrada CSR00001099
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
293 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Karnataka Yadgiri 3 0.68 0.67 NA No Myrada CSR00001099
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
188
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
294 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Karnataka Bidar 3 0.51 0.51 NA No Myrada CSR00001099
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
295 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Kerala Wayanadu,Idukki 3 0.32 0.32 NA No M S CSR00000470
Development Development Swaminathan
Program Projects (x) Research
Foundation
296 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Kerala Thiruvananthapuram 3 0.38 0.38 NA No Dhan CSR00000273
Development Development Foundation
Program Projects (x)
297 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Nanded 3 0.43 0.43 NA No Centre For CSR00000339
Development Development Advance
Program Projects (x) Research
And
Development
298 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Maharashtra Bhandara 3 0.36 0.36 NA No Vikas Sahyog CSR00001779
Development Development Pratishthan
Program Projects (x)
299 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Meghalaya Ri Bhoi 3 0.14 0.14 NA No Fxb India CSR00000076
Development Development Suraksha
Program Projects (x)
300 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Odisha Bolangir 3 0.7 0.7 NA No Gram Vikas CSR00000596
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
301 Holistic Rural Rural Yes West bengal South 24 Paraganas 3 0.33 0.33 NA No Sabuj CSR00000299
Development Development Sangha
Program Projects (x)
302 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Odisha Kendrapara 3 0.18 0.18 NA No Youth CSR00016873
Development Development Council For
Program Projects (x) Development
Alternative
(Ycda)
303 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Bihar Nawada 3 0.33 0.33 NA No Bhartiya CSR00001501
Development Development Jan Uthan
Program Projects (x) Parishad
304 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Khunti 2 0.39 0.39 NA No Network For CSR00002858
Development Development Enterprise
Program Projects (x) Enhance-
Ment And
Develop-
Ment
Support
Needs
305 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Lohardaga 3 0.44 0.44 NA No Baif CSR00000259
Development Development Institute For
Program Projects (x) Sustainable
Livelihoods
And
Development
306 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Sahebganj 3 0.54 0.54 NA No Pravah CSR00002347
Development Development
Program Projects (x)
189
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of area project dura- allocated spent in transferred Imple- Through Implementing
Project activities (Yes/ tion for the the to menta- Agency
in Schedule No) project current Unspent tion -
VII (` Cr.) financial CSR Direct
to the Act Year (` Account (Yes/No)
Cr) for the
project as
State District Name CSR
per
Registration
Section
Number
135(6)
(` Cr)
307 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Bihar Munger 3 0.15 0.15 NA No Baif CSR00000259
Development Development Institute For
Program Projects (x) Sustainable
Livelihoods
And
Development
308 Holistic Rural Rural Yes Jharkhand Giridih 3 0.24 0.24 NA No Jan Jagran CSR00000161
Development Development Kendra
Program Projects (x)
309 Financial Rural Yes Pan India Multiple districts 1 157.54 157.54 NA Yes Direct NA
Literacy Development
Program Projects (x)
310 Dairy Support Rural Yes Pan India 1 19.19 19.19 NA Yes Direct NA
Program Development
Projects (x)
Total 613.02 *612.16 NA*
* Bank has overachieved it’s 2% mandatory CSR obligation for FY 2021-22. Hence, unspent balance of INR 0.86 Cr. against the excess fund disbursed
will not be transferred to unspent CSR account for FY 2021-22 and same will be treated as opening balance for FY 2022-23.
(c) Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of activities area project spent Imple- Through Implementing
Project in Schedule VII (Yes/ for the menta- Agency
to the Act No) project tion -
(` Cr) Direct
(Yes/No)
State District Name CSR Registration
Number
1 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Madhya Sagar 0.08 No Abhyuday Sansthan CSR00000495
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh
Management (xii)
2 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Satara 0.01 No Action For CSR00000092
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Agricultural Renewal
Management (xii) In Maharashtra Farm
3 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Madhya Ujjain 0.01 No Action For Social CSR00001213
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh Advancement (Asa)
Management (xii)
4 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Madhya Shahdol 0.03 No Action For Social CSR00001213
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh Advancement (Asa)
Management (xii)
5 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Tamilnadu Melmaruvathur 0.56 No Adhiparasakthi CSR00000466
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Charitable Medical
Management (xii) Educational And
Cultural Trust
6 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Uttar Barabanki 0.01 No Aga Khan CSR00008713
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh Foundation
Management (xii)
190
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of activities area project spent Imple- Through Implementing
Project in Schedule VII (Yes/ for the menta- Agency
to the Act No) project tion -
(` Cr) Direct
(Yes/No)
State District Name CSR Registration
Number
7 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Uttar Bahraich 0.09 No Aga Khan CSR00008713
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh Foundation
Management (xii)
8 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Bihar Vaishali 0.03 No Aga Khan Rural CSR00004229
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Support Programme
Management (xii) India
9 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Madhya Barwani 0.04 No Aga Khan Rural CSR00004229
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh Support Programme
Management (xii) India
10 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Gujarat Narmada 0.03 No Aga Khan Rural CSR00004229
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Support Programme
Management (xii) India
11 Incubator Contribution to Yes Odisha Bhubaneswar 0.25 No Aic Cv Raman CSR00017678
Support Incubators or Research College Of
Program (ix - a) Engineering
Foundation
12 Incubator Contribution to Yes PUNJAB Mohali 0.5 No Aic Isb Association CSR00004912
Support Incubators or Research
Program (ix - a)
13 Incubator Contribution to Yes Rajasthan Jaipur 0.25 No Aic Jklu Foundation CSR00018265
Support Incubators or Research
Program (ix - a)
14 Incubator Contribution to Yes Gujarat Ahmedabad 0.1 No Aic Lmcp Foundation CSR00005955
Support Incubators or Research
Program (ix - a)
15 Incubator Contribution to Yes Maharashtra Pune 0.5 No Aic Mitadt Incubator CSR00003125
Support Incubators or Research Forum
Program (ix - a)
16 Incubator Contribution to Yes Karnataka Bangalore 0.98 No Aic Ncore CSR00017882
Support Incubators or Research Developmental
Program (ix - a) Impact Foundation
17 Incubator Contribution to Yes Andhra Anantapur 0.25 No Aic Sku CSR00017704
Support Incubators or Research pradesh Confederation
Program (ix - a)
18 Incubator Contribution to Yes Sikkim Majitar 0.25 No Aic Smu Technology CSR00004563
Support Incubators or Research Business Incubation
Program (ix - a) Foundation
19 Incubator Contribution to Yes Delhi New Delhi 0.9 No Aic Stpinext CSR00019475
Support Incubators or Research Initiatives
Program (ix - a)
20 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Uttarakhand Haridwar 0.08 No Ambuja Cement CSR00006913
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Foundation
Management (xii)
21 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Chhattisgarh Sarguja 0.00 No Ambuja Cement CSR00006913
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Foundation
Management (xii)
22 Incubator Contribution to Yes Uttar Noida 0.5 No Amity Technology CSR00018123
Support Incubators or Research Pradesh Incubator
Program (ix - a)
191
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of activities area project spent Imple- Through Implementing
Project in Schedule VII (Yes/ for the menta- Agency
to the Act No) project tion -
(` Cr) Direct
(Yes/No)
State District Name CSR Registration
Number
23 Incubator Contribution to Yes Kerala Kollam 0.5 No Amrita Technology CSR00018348
Support Incubators or Research Business Incubator
Program (ix - a)
24 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Raigad 0.73 No Annada CSR00000749
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
25 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Uttar Varanasi 0.08 No Aroh Foundation CSR00000044
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh
Management (xii)
26 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Chhattisgarh Kawardha 0.03 No Aroh Foundation CSR00000044
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
27 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Madhya Rajgrah 0.02 No Arpan Seva CSR00000826
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh Sansthan
Management (xii)
28 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Madhya Vidisha 0.07 No Arpan Seva CSR00000826
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh Sansthan
Management (xii)
29 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Pan India Guwahati 1 No Assam Arogya Nidhi CSR00009814
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
30 Incubator Contribution to Yes Gujarat Surat 0.5 No Association CSR00003499
Support Incubators or Research For Harnessing
Program (ix - a) Innovation And
Entrepreneurship
31 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Madhya Dhar 0 No Baif Development CSR00000308
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh Research Foundation
Management (xii)
32 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Madhya Jhabua 0.28 No Baif Institute CSR00000259
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh For Sustainable
Management (xii) Livelihoods And
Development
33 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Hingoli 0.01 No Baif Institute CSR00000259
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster For Sustainable
Management (xii) Livelihoods And
Development
34 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Karnataka Koppal 0.01 No Baif Institute CSR00000259
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster For Sustainable
Management (xii) Livelihoods And
Development
35 Support to Preventive and Curative Yes Pan India Jaipur 0.72 No Bhagwan Mahaveer CSR00001480
person with Healthcare (i) Viklang Sahayata
disability Samiti
36 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 0.12 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
37 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Himachal Pan India 5.73 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh
Management (xii)
192
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of activities area project spent Imple- Through Implementing
Project in Schedule VII (Yes/ for the menta- Agency
to the Act No) project tion -
(` Cr) Direct
(Yes/No)
State District Name CSR Registration
Number
38 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Pan India Separate list 12.99 No Buddy4study India CSR00000121
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster provided Foundation
Management (xii)
39 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Pan India PATNA 3 No Care India Solutions CSR00000786
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster For Sustainable
Management (xii) Development
40 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Chhattisgarh Durg 0.04 No Care India Solutions CSR00000786
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster For Sustainable
Management (xii) Development
41 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Uttar Lalitpur 0.04 No Centre For Advance CSR00000339
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh Research And
Management (xii) Development
42 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Haryana Yamuna Nagar 0.03 No Centre For Advance CSR00000339
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Research And
Management (xii) Development
43 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Nanded 0.04 No Centre For Advance CSR00000339
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Research And
Management (xii) Development
44 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 0.18 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
45 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Osmanabad 0.02 No Cohesion Foundation CSR00000148
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Trust
Management (xii)
46 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Gujarat Sabarkantha 0.02 No Collectives For CSR00000508
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Integrated Livelihood
Management (xii) Initiatives
47 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative PUNJAB Ludhiana, Khargone 1.19 No Concern India CSR00000898
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster and Kendrapada Foundation
Management (xii)
48 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Pan India Multiple districts 1 No Csc Academy CSR00006887
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
49 Training on Vocational Training and Yes Maharashtra Multiple districts 0.25 No Csc Academy CSR00006887
Phlebetomy Livelihood Enhancement
(ii)
50 Digitization in Promoting Education (ii) Yes Odisha Angul, Pali 2 No Csc Academy CSR00006887
villages
51 Incubator Contribution to Yes Karnataka Bangalore 0.9 No Derbi Foundation CSR00010231
Support Incubators or Research
Program (ix - a)
52 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 1.15 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
53 Flood Relief Disaster Management Yes Maharashtra Sangli 0.05 No Donatekart CSR00005168
program (xii) Foundation
193
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of activities area project spent Imple- Through Implementing
Project in Schedule VII (Yes/ for the menta- Agency
to the Act No) project tion -
(` Cr) Direct
(Yes/No)
State District Name CSR Registration
Number
54 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Uttar Gorakhpur 0 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh
Management (xii)
55 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Madhya Guna 0.17 No End Poverty CSR00000314
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh
Management (xii)
56 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Haryana Rewari 0.18 No End Poverty CSR00000314
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
57 Incubator Contribution to Yes Maharashtra Pune 1 No Entrepreneurship CSR00000220
Support Incubators or Research Development Center
Program (ix - a)
58 Incubator Contribution to Yes Telangana Hyderabad 0.25 No Foundation For Cfhe CSR00001821
Support Incubators or Research
Program (ix - a)
59 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Odisha Koraput 0.02 No Foundation For CSR00000637
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Ecological Security
Management (xii)
60 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Gujarat Kheda 0.02 No Foundation For CSR00000637
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Ecological Security
Management (xii)
61 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Gujarat Kheda 0.02 No Foundation For CSR00000637
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Ecological Security
Management (xii)
62 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Andhra Ananthpur 0.09 No Foundation For CSR00000637
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster pradesh Ecological Security
Management (xii)
63 Support to Training to Promote Yes Pan India Multiple District 1.5 No Foundation For CSR00001100
Olympiads Sports (vii) Promotion Of Sports
And Games
64 Incubator Contribution to Yes Karnataka Hubballi 0.25 No Foundation For CSR00001469
Support Incubators or Research Sandboxstartup
Program (ix - a) Initiatives
65 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Mumbai, Thane 0.79 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
66 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Punjab Ludhiana 0.01 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
67 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Gujarat Ahmedabad 0.5 No Gcs Med College CSR00000688
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Hosp And Research
Management (xii) Centre
68 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Karnataka Ranchi 0.15 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
69 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Pan India Partner 3.04 No Giveindia CSR00000389
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
194
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of activities area project spent Imple- Through Implementing
Project in Schedule VII (Yes/ for the menta- Agency
to the Act No) project tion -
(` Cr) Direct
(Yes/No)
State District Name CSR Registration
Number
70 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes West bengal Washim 0.53 No Giveindia CSR00000389
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
71 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Pan India Pan India 4.78 No Giveindia CSR00000389
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
72 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Pan India Pan India 8.78 No Giveindia CSR00000389
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
73 Payroll Giving Eradicating Poverty (i)/ Yes Pan India Pan India 0.41 No Giveindia CSR00000389
Programme Promoting Education (ii)/
Gender Equality (iii)
74 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Chhattisgarh Dhamtari 0.07 No Gramin Vikas Trust CSR00000633
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
75 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Assam Nalbari 0.05 No Gramya Vikash CSR00000407
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Mancha
Management (xii)
76 Incubator Contribution to Yes Gujarat Ahmedabad 0.9 No Gujarat Student CSR00023347
Support Incubators or Research Startup And
Program (ix - a) Innovation Hub
77 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Uttarakhand Almora 0.01 No Himmotthan Society CSR00000081
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
78 Incubator Contribution to Yes Telangana Hyderabad 0.5 No I Tic Foundation Iit CSR00003816
Support Incubators or Research Hyderabad
Program (ix - a)
79 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Rajasthan Alwar 0.01 No Ibtada CSR00002333
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
80 Incubator Contribution to Yes Karnataka Bangalore 0.5 No Indian Institute CSR00003458
Support Incubators or Research Of Management
Program (ix - a) Bangalore
81 Incubator Contribution to Yes Chhattisgarh Bhilai 0.76 No Indian Institute Of CSR00018467
Support Incubators or Research Technology Bhilai
Program (ix - a)
82 Incubator Contribution to Yes Delhi New Delhi 0.5 No Indian Society CSR00000109
Support Incubators or Research Of Agribusiness
Program (ix - a) Professionals
83 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Uttar Bhadohi, Varanasi, 1.27 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh Lucknow
Management (xii)
84 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Chhattisgarh Surajpur 0.1 No Indo Global Social CSR00001677
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Service Society
Management (xii)
85 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Chhattisgarh Champa 0.1 No Indo Global Social CSR00001677
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Service Society
Management (xii)
195
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of activities area project spent Imple- Through Implementing
Project in Schedule VII (Yes/ for the menta- Agency
to the Act No) project tion -
(` Cr) Direct
(Yes/No)
State District Name CSR Registration
Number
86 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Madhya Khandwa 0.06 No Indo Global Social CSR00001677
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh Service Society
Management (xii)
87 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Himachal Mandi 0.01 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh
Management (xii)
88 Purchase Preventive and Curative Yes Uttarakhand Dehradun 0.27 Yes Direct NA
of Medical Healthcare (i)
Equipment
89 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Bihar Samastipur 0.02 No Integrated CSR00000268
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Development
Management (xii) Foundation
90 Incubator Contribution to Yes Telangana Hyderabad 0.5 No International Institute CSR00005001
Support Incubators or Research Of Information
Program (ix - a) Technology
Hyderabad
Foundation
91 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Kerala Thrissur 0.62 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
92 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Pan India Assam - KAMRUP 12.35 No Karuna Trust CSR00000946
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster (Rural), Tinsukia,
Management (xii) Biswanath,
NAGAON, Sonitpur,
Morigaon, Morigaon.
Manipur - Imphal
East, Thoubal,
Tamenglong.
Meghalaya - West
Jaintia Hills, West
Khasi Hills, East
Garo Hills. Nagaland
- Dimapur. Sikkim
- East Sikkim. WB -
KTiruppur, Alimpong,
Koochbehar,
Karnataka - Kurg,
Shimogga, Kolar,
Srinivaspur,
Gulbarga, Bellari,
Arunachal -
TAWANG, West
Tripura, Tamil Nadu
- Virudhunagar,
Thanjavur, Vellore,
Tirunelveli, Mizoram -
Aizwal, Saiha
93 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Punjab Patiala 0 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
196
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of activities area project spent Imple- Through Implementing
Project in Schedule VII (Yes/ for the menta- Agency
to the Act No) project tion -
(` Cr) Direct
(Yes/No)
State District Name CSR Registration
Number
94 Incubator Contribution to Yes Odisha Bhubaneswar 0.26 No Kiit Technology CSR00002635
Support Incubators or Research Business Incubator
Program (ix - a)
95 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Kerala Wayanadu,Idukki, 0.05 No M S Swaminathan CSR00000470
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Kuttanadu, Enakulam Research Foundation
Management (xii)
96 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Rajasthan Dholpur 0.07 No Manjari Foundation CSR00000074
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
97 Incubator Contribution to Yes Maharashtra Aurangabad 0.5 No Marathwada CSR00012590
Support Incubators or Research Accelerator For
Program (ix - a) Growth And
Incubation Council
98 Purchase of Preventive and Curative Yes Tamilnadu Kolkata 0.9 No Medical Research CSR00002370
Machinery for Healthcare (i) Foundation
Hospital
99 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 0.34 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
100 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Chhattisgarh Bilaspur 0.02 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
101 Promoting Promoting Education (ii) Yes Uttarakhand Dehradun 0.51 No Meerabo Global CSR00005114
Quality Foundation
Education
102 Support Preventive and Curative Yes Uttar Madan 1.5 No Msbsv Mahamana CSR00001287
to Cancer Healthcare (i) Pradesh Pandit Madan Mohan
Patients Malviya Cancer
Centre Tata Memorial
103 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Karnataka Gulberga, Bidar, 0.1 No Myrada CSR00001099
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Raichur
Management (xii)
104 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Tamilnadu Virudhunagar 0.03 No National Agro CSR00000610
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Foundation
Management (xii)
105 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Chhattisgarh Pendra 0.07 No National Institute Of CSR00000206
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Women Child And
Management (xii) Youth Development
106 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Chhattisgarh Gariabandh 0.02 No National Institute Of CSR00000206
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Women Child And
Management (xii) Youth Development
107 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Bihar Gaya 0.03 No Nav Jagriti CSR00000824
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
108 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Jharkhand Khunti 0.04 No Network For CSR00002858
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Enterprise
Management (xii) Enhancement
And Development
Support Needs
197
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of activities area project spent Imple- Through Implementing
Project in Schedule VII (Yes/ for the menta- Agency
to the Act No) project tion -
(` Cr) Direct
(Yes/No)
State District Name CSR Registration
Number
109 Distribution Ensuring Environmental Yes Jharkhand Lucknow 2.62 Yes Direct NA
of E- Sustainability (iv)
Rikshaws
110 Promoting Promoting Education (ii) Yes Rajasthan Alwar 0.2 No Orion Educational CSR00000597
Quality Society
Education
111 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Bihar Nalanda 0.12 No Oxfam India CSR00000839
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
112 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Bihar Sitamarhi 0.08 No Oxfam India CSR00000839
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
113 Incubator Contribution to Yes Gujarat Gandhinagar 0.5 No Pdeu Innovation And CSR00001317
Support Incubators or Research Incubation Centre
Program (ix - a)
114 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Uttar Prayagraaj 0.04 No Peoples Action For CSR00000125
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh National Integration
Management (xii)
115 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Uttar Gorakhpur 0.04 No Peoples Action For CSR00000125
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh National Integration
Management (xii)
116 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Uttar Pratapgarh 0.01 No Peoples Action For CSR00000125
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh National Integration
Management (xii)
117 Solar Stree Ensuring Environmental Yes Himachal Kullu 0.22 No Peoples Action For CSR00000125
Light Sustainability (iv) Pradesh National Integration
118 Promotion Ensuring Environmental Yes Uttar Kaushambi and 0.6 No Peoples Action For CSR00000125
of Clean and Sustainability (iv) Pradesh Shahjahapur National Integration
Renewable
Energy
119 Water Supply Preventive and Curative Yes Himachal Bilaspur 0.24 No Peoples Action For CSR00000125
Management Healthcare (i) Pradesh National Integration
120 Tree Ensuring Environmental Yes Pan India Prayagraj 0.02 Yes Direct NA
Plantation Sustainability (iv)
Program
121 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Odisha Rayagada 0.12 No Prayatn Sanstha CSR00000483
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
122 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Tamilnadu Chennai 0.45 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
123 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Jharkhand Dumka 0.03 No Professional CSR00000973
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Assistance For
Management (xii) Development Action
124 Infrastructure Training to Promote Yes West bengal Kolkata 0.73 Yes Direct NA
for sports Sports (vii)
complex
198
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of activities area project spent Imple- Through Implementing
Project in Schedule VII (Yes/ for the menta- Agency
to the Act No) project tion -
(` Cr) Direct
(Yes/No)
State District Name CSR Registration
Number
125 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Haryana Nuh 0.04 No S M Sehgal CSR00000262
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Foundation
Management (xii)
126 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Haryana Mahendragarh 0.02 No S M Sehgal CSR00000262
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Foundation
Management (xii)
127 Controlling Ensuring Environmental Yes Chhattisgarh Bilaspur 0.2 Yes Direct NA
Air Pollution Sustainability (iv)
128 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Yavatmal 0.02 No Sanjeevani Inst. For CSR00000270
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Empowerment &
Management (xii) Development
129 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Nasik 0.05 No Sanjeevani Inst. For CSR00000270
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Empowerment &
Management (xii) Development
130 Carbon Ensuring Environmental Yes Himachal Mandi 2.56 No Sanjeevani Vikas CSR00000466
Footprint Sustainability (iv) Pradesh Evam Jan Kalyan
Mitigation Samiti
131 Incubator Contribution to Yes Maharashtra Pune 1 No Science And CSR00003979
Support Incubators or Research Technology Park
Program (ix - a) University Of Pune
132 Incubator Contribution to Yes Kerala Trivandrum 0.2 No Sctimst Technology CSR00008116
Support Incubators or Research Business Incubator
Program (ix - a) For Medical Devices
And Biomaterials
133 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Rajasthan Pali 0.06 No Self Reliant Initiatives CSR00001911
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Through Joint Action
Management (xii)
134 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Chhattisgarh Jashpur 0.03 No Self Reliant Initiatives CSR00001911
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Through Joint Action
Management (xii)
135 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Karnataka Rajanna Sircilla 1.5 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
136 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Pan India Pan India 0.05 No Setu Charitable Trust CSR00001063
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
137 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Rajasthan Rajasmand 0.01 No Seva Mandir CSR00000288
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
138 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 0.01 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
139 Skill training Vocational Training and Yes Uttar Lucknow 0.3 Yes Direct NA
for youth Livelihood Enhancement Pradesh
(ii)
140 Incubator Contribution to Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 0.5 No Social Entrepreneurs CSR00001257
Support Incubators or Research Foundation India
Program (ix - a)
199
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of activities area project spent Imple- Through Implementing
Project in Schedule VII (Yes/ for the menta- Agency
to the Act No) project tion -
(` Cr) Direct
(Yes/No)
State District Name CSR Registration
Number
141 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Tamilnadu Viluppuram 0.49 No Sri Aurobindo CSR00000200
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Society
Management (xii)
142 Scholarship Promoting Education (ii) Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 0.34 No Sri Sathya Sai Trust CSR00001704
support
program
143 Felicitating Armed Force Veterans Yes Pan India Multiple District 0.25 No Sri Shanmukhananda CSR00001777
martyrs and (vi) Fine Arts &
disabled Sangeetha Sabha
soldiers
144 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Maharashtra Mumbai 0.67 Yes Direct NA
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
145 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Assam Golaghat 0.17 No Suvidha.. CSR00000399
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
146 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Assam Biswanath 0.03 No Suvidha.. CSR00000399
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
147 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Madhya Khargone 0.04 No Suvidha.. CSR00000399
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh
Management (xii)
148 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Uttarakhand Almoda and Tehri 0.38 No Suvidha.. CSR00000399
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
149 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Pan India Pune 1.75 No Symbiosis Society CSR00005192
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
150 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Mumbai 0.2 No Taj Public Service CSR00000540
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Welfare Trust
Management (xii)
151 Support Preventive and Curative Yes Pan India Multiple districts 0.5 No Tata Memorial Centre CSR00001287
to Cancer Healthcare (i)
Patients
152 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Gujarat Somnath 0.08 No Tns India Foundation CSR00001337
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
153 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Rajasthan Karauli 0.04 No Udyogini CSR00001487
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
154 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Chhattisgarh Balrampur 0.01 No Udyogini CSR00001487
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
155 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Chhattisgarh Kanker 0.01 No Udyogini CSR00001487
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
156 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Rajasthan Jaisalmer 0.01 No Urmul Rural Health CSR00000546
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Research And
Management (xii) Development Trust
200
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of activities area project spent Imple- Through Implementing
Project in Schedule VII (Yes/ for the menta- Agency
to the Act No) project tion -
(` Cr) Direct
(Yes/No)
State District Name CSR Registration
Number
157 Water Preventive and Curative Yes Pan India Multiple District 0.01 Yes Direct NA
Management Healthcare (i)
tool
158 Sanitation Preventive and Curative Yes Tamilnadu Venkatapuram 0.49 No Voice Foundation CSR00000951
project Healthcare (i)
159 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Chhattisgarh Balod 0 No Vrutti CSR00000538
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
160 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Madhya Chhindwara 0.02 No Watershed CSR00000518
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Pradesh Organisation Trust
Management (xii)
161 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Jalna 0.01 No Watershed CSR00000518
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Organisation Trust
Management (xii)
162 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Gujarat Ahmedabad, 2 No Yuva Unstoppable CSR00000473
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster Gandhinagar
Management (xii)
163 COVID Relief Preventive and Curative Yes Maharashtra Lonavala 0 No Yuva Unstoppable CSR00000473
Program Healthcare (i)/ Disaster
Management (xii)
164 Smart Class Promoting Education (ii) Yes Chhattisgarh Raipur, Korba, 0.47 No Yuva Unstoppable CSR00000473
project Mahasamund,
Bilaspur,
Rajnandgaon,
Dhamtari,
Kabirdham, Raigarh,
Janjgir Champa,
Durg, Bastar,
Kondagaon, Kanker,
Jashpur, Mungeli,
Surguja, Dantevada,
Bijapur, Koriya,
165 Smart Class Promoting Education (ii) Yes PUNJAB Amritsar 0.5 No Yuva Unstoppable CSR00000473
project
166 Smart Class Promoting Education (ii) Yes Odisha Angul, Khurda, 2.2 No Yuva Unstoppable CSR00000473
project Nayagarh,
Jagatsinghpur,
Kendrapara, Bolangir,
Boudh, Kandhamal,
Jharsuguda,
Keonjhar,
Mayurbhanj,
Sambalpur, Cuttack,
Jagatsinghpur, Puri,
Bargarh, Kalahandi,
Koraput, Malkangiri,
Rayagada, Balasore,
Bhadrak, Ganjam,
Khurda, Jajpur
167 Smart Class Promoting Education (ii) Yes Delhi Delhi 0.22 No Yuva Unstoppable CSR00000473
project
201
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Sl. Name Item from the Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of Implementation -
No. of the list of activities area project spent Imple- Through Implementing
Project in Schedule VII (Yes/ for the menta- Agency
to the Act No) project tion -
(` Cr) Direct
(Yes/No)
State District Name CSR Registration
Number
168 Smart Class Promoting Education (ii) Yes Delhi Delhi 1.53 No Yuva Unstoppable CSR00000473
project
169 Smart Class Promoting Education (ii) Yes PUNJAB Rajpura 0.75 No Yuva Unstoppable CSR00000473
project
170 Smart Class Promoting Education (ii) Yes PUNJAB Amritsar 0.95 No Yuva Unstoppable CSR00000473
project
171 Community Preventive and Curative Yes Uttar Siddharth Nagar 0.12 No Yuva Unstoppable CSR00000473
Toilets Healthcare (i) Pradesh
172 Digitisation of Promoting Education (ii) Yes Uttar Varanasi, Lucknow, 0.34 No Yuva Unstoppable CSR00000473
government Pradesh Kaasganj, Kakori,
schools Gorakhpur,
Total 110.83
(d) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: ` 12.53 Cr
(e) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: ` 0.49 Cr
(f) Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e): ` 736.01 Cr
(g) Excess amount for set off, if any
Sl. Particular Amount
No. (` Cr.)
(i) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5) 733.86
(ii) Total amount spent for the Financial Year 736.01
(iii) Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)] 2.15
(iv) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the NA
previous financial years, if any
(v) Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)] 2.15
9 (a) Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years: NA
(b) Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s): NA
202
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
10. In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR
spent in the financial year (asset-wise details) : No capital assets have been created or acquired in the name of the Bank
through CSR Spend in the financial year.
(a) Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s): NA
(b) Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset: NA
(c) Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset is registered, their address
etc: NA
(d) Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and location of the capital asset): NA
11. Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5): NA
Sashidhar Jagdishan Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
Managing Director & CEO (Chairperson, CSR and ESG Committee)
203
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Annexure 3 to the Directors’ Report
Form No. AOC – 2
(Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the company with related parties referred to in sub-
section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transactions under third proviso thereto
1. Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis: Nil
2. Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis:
(a) Name(s) of the related party Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
Nature of relationship Promoter of the Bank
(b) Nature of contracts/arrangements/transactions Purchase of home loans
(c) Duration of the contracts / arrangements/ 1 year
transactions
d) Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or The Bank has an option to purchase up to 70% of the loans sourced by it.
transactions including the value, if any: Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited continues servicing of the
assigned portfolio for which the Bank pays servicing fees.
Home loans purchased: ` 28,205.24 crs
(e) Date(s) of approval by the Board, if any: N.A.
(f) Amount paid as advances, if any: Nil
Note: The above mentioned transactions were entered into by the Bank in its ordinary course of business. Materiality threshold is as prescribed in
Rule 15 (3) of the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Amendment Rules, 2019.
204
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Annexure 4 to the Directors’ Report
Performance and financial position of subsidiaries of the Bank as on March 31, 2022
(` crore)
Name of entity Net assets as of March 31, 2022 Profit for the
year ended March 31, 2022
As % of Amount*** As % of Amount***
consolidated net consolidated
assets** profit
Parent:
HDFC Bank Limited 97.08% 240,092.94 97.13% 36,961.33
Subsidiaries*:
1. HDFC Securities Limited 0.66% 1,644.71 2.62% 995.94
2. HDB Financial Services Limited 3.97% 9,823.61 2.68% 1,020.19
Minority Interest in all subsidiaries 0.29% 720.42 0.26% 98.15
* The subsidiaries are domestic entities
** Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities including minority interest
*** Amounts are before inter-company adjustments
205
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Annexure 5 to the Directors’ Report
disclosures on Remuneration by relevant RBI guidelines [presently at ` 20,00,000
(Rupees Twenty Lakhs Only) per annum for each Non-
1. Ratio of Remuneration of each director to the Executive Director has been considered. Mr. Atanu
median employees’ remuneration for the FY Chakraborty, Part Time Chairman and Independent
2021-22 Director is not eligible for the same pursuant to the
RBI guidelines and is entitled to a remuneration as
Name and Designation Ratio
separately approved by the RBI. During the year,
Atanu Chakraborty, Part-Time Chairman and 14.42 : 1 Mr. Chakraborty was paid such remuneration of
Independent Director
` 31,70,698.96 (i.e. ` 35,00,000 per annum) on
Renu Karnad, Non-Executive Director (Nominee of 16.17 : 1 proportionate basis.
HDFC Ltd)
Srikanth Nadhamuni, Non-Executive Director 15.37 : 1 2. Percentage increase in remuneration of each
Malay Patel, Independent Director 15.96 : 1 director, CFO, CeO, CS or Manager, if any, in
Umesh Chandra Sarangi, Independent Director 15.01 : 1 the FY 2021-22
Sanjiv Sachar, Independent Director 16.49 : 1
Designation Percentage
Sandeep Parekh, Independent Director 13.42 : 1
Managing DirectorA 0.00
MD Ranganath, Independent Director 17.86 : 1
Executive DirectorB 0.00
Sunita Maheshwari, Independent Director 8.67 : 1
Chief Financial Officer 3.37
Lily Vadera, Independent Director 2.73 : 1
Company Secretary 2.75
Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director & CEO 147 : 1*
A & B As per the salary review approval process of the Reserve Bank of
Kaizad Bharucha, Executive Director 136 : 1*
India, the salary increment proposal to be effected from April 01 in a
*In case of Managing Director & CEO and the Executive Director, the given financial year can only be made in the subsequent financial year
Bank has considered the annualised fixed pay for the computation of post assessment of performance for the reference financial year. For
ratios. Fixed pay includes - salary, allowances, retiral benefits as well e.g. salary increment proposal to be made to the RBI effective April
as value of perquisites as approved by the Reserve Bank of India. 01, 2020 can only be made post assessment of performance for the
Variable Pay has been excluded from the same. financial year 2020 – 2021. The approval received from the RBI will
therefore be retrospectively applied from April 01, 2020. Therefore,
For the Directors other than Managing Director & CEO and Executive due to this process, the salary increase given in the particular year will
Director, the actual remuneration paid during the year 2021–22 has always be reported as zero.
been considered while calculating the ratio of remuneration to the
median employees’ remuneration. The salary increase for previous financial year i.e. 2020 – 2021 paid
retrospectively from April 01, 2020 was approved by the RBI on March
Note:
23, 2022.
1. Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was appointed as the Part
A Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, the current Managing Director & CEO,
Time Chairman and Independent Director of the Bank
held the title of Group Head- Finance prior to his appointment as the
with effect from May 5, 2021. Managing Director & CEO of the Bank with effect from October 27,
2020. The percentage increase mentioned in previous year disclosures
2. Mrs. Lily Vadera was appointed as an Independent of 6.66 % is the increase he received in his previous role as Group
Director of the Bank with effect from November Head. No salary increase or variable pay in the financial year 2021-
2022 has been recommended or approved so far for the Managing
26, 2021.
Director as an application for the same would be submitted to the
3. Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as RBI post approval by the NRC and the Board after due performance
assessment for the year 2021-2022.
Non-Executive (Non-Independent) Director of the
Bank with effect from February 18, 2022. B Mr. Kaizad Bharucha the current Executive Director received an 8.00%
increase on Fixed Pay effective April 01, 2020, the approval for which
4. All employees of the Bank, including overseas
was received on March 23, 2022. The components considered for
employees, have been considered. Fixed Pay increase were as follows: Basic, Consolidated Allowances,
Leave Travel Allowance, Provident Fund, Superannuation and Gratuity.
5. In case of non-executive directors, sitting fees paid There was no increase given on Perquisites.
for attending Board and Committee meetings during
FY 2021-22 and fixed remuneration paid as permitted
206
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Non-executive / Independent Directors:
5. Average percentage increase already made
The Non-Executive Directors are paid sitting fees of ` 50,000 or
in the salaries of employees other than the
` 100,000 per meeting for attending Committee & Board meetings.
The Board of Directors increased the sitting fees of certain key managerial personnel in the last financial
Committee meetings to ` 100,000 per meeting with effect from year and its comparison with the percentage
April 1, 2021, namely, Audit Committee, Risk Policy & Monitoring
increase in the managerial remuneration and
Committee, Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Credit Approval
Committee and IT Strategy Committee. Subsequently, sitting fees justification thereof and point out if there are
payable for attending Independent Directors Meeting and Customer any exceptional circumstances for increase in
Service Committee meeting were increased to ` 1,00,000 with effect the managerial remuneration
from August 14, 2021 and November 26, 2021 respectively. The
Non-Executive Directors, other than the Chairman, are paid fixed The average percentage increase for Key Managerial
remuneration of ` 20,00,000 (Rupees Twenty Lakh Only) per annum
Personnel : 3.06%*
for each Non-Executive Director, on proportionate basis.
The average percentage increase for Non-Managerial
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Part Time Chairman & Independent Director
Staff : 8.91%
was paid remuneration of ` 31,70,698.96 (i.e. ` 35,00,000 per annum)
on proportionate basis, during FY 2021-22 as approved by the RBI, in
The average percentage increase in the salaries is inclusive
addition to sitting fees and provision of car for official and personal use.
of front line sales and overseas staff and is primarily on
3. Percentage Increase in the median account of annual fixed pay increase and promotions.
remuneration of employees in the FY 2021-22
*The average percentage increase is only for Company
The percentage increase in median remuneration of employees in the Secretary and Chief Financial Officer. Whole Time Directors
FY 2021-22 was 1.21%. This includes front line sales and overseas
are excluded from the calculation since they did not receive
staff.
increment for the financial year 2021 - 2022. For more
details please refer to the foot notes of point number 2.
4. The number of permanent employees on the
rolls of the Bank
6. Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the
As of March 31, 2022, the number of permanent employees on the remuneration policy of the company
rolls of the Bank was 1,41,579.
Yes
207
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Annexure 6 to the Directors’ Report
FORM NO. MR 3 (v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under
SeCReTARIAl AudIT RePORT the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992
FOR The FINANCIAl YeAR eNded (‘SEBI Act’), as amended from time to time:
31ST MARCh, 2022
a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration Regulations, 2011;
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
To, (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
The Members,
c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
HDFC Bank Limited
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance Regulations, 2018;
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to
d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share
good corporate practices by HDFC Bank Limited (CIN:
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity)
L65920MH1994PLC080618) (hereinafter called “the Bank”).
Regulations, 2021 (erstwhile The Securities and
The Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee
us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conduct, Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (repealed w.e.f. August
statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon. 13, 2021);
Based on our verification of the Bank's statutory registers, e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and
books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations,
records maintained by the Bank and the information provided 2021 (erstwhile The Securities and Exchange Board of
by the Bank, its officers, agents and authorized representatives India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations,
during the conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in 2008 (repealed w.e.f. August 9, 2021);
our opinion, the Bank has, during the audit period covering the
f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
financial period ended on 31st March, 2022, complied with the
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents)
statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Bank has
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and
followed proper Board processes and has required compliance
dealing with client - Not applicable as the Bank
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to
is not registered as Registrar to issue and
the reporting made hereinafter:
Share Transfer Agent during the financial year
We have examined the books, papers, minutes books, forms under review;
and returns filed and other records maintained by the Bank for
g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting
the financial period ended on 31st March, 2022 in accordance
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 - Not applicable
with the provisions of:
as the Bank has not delisted / proposed to delist
(i) The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the Rules its equity shares from any stock exchange
made thereunder; during the financial year under review;
(ii) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback
and the Rules made thereunder; of Securities) Regulations, 2018 - Not applicable
as the Bank has not bought back / proposed
(iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
to buy-back any of its securities during the
laws framed thereunder;
financial year under review;
(iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the
i) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
Rules and Regulations made thereunder for compliance
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018;
to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas
Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings, j) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Bankers
as applicable; to an issue) Regulations, 1994;
208
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
k) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 3. RBI, vide its order dated December 02, 2020 with regard
Bankers) Regulations, 1992; to on certain incidents of outages in the internet banking
/ mobile banking / payment utilities of the Bank over the
l) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign
past 2 years, had advised the Bank (a) to stop all digital
Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019
business generating activities planned under its ‘Digital
(vi) Other specific business/industry related laws applicable 2.0’ and proposed Business generating applications digital
to the Bank - The Bank has complied with the provisions also imposed restrictions and (b) to stop sourcing of new
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, Master Circulars, credit card customers with regard to on certain incidents of
Notifications and Guidelines and other directions pertaining outages in the internet banking / mobile banking / payment
to commercial banking issued by Reserve Bank of India utilities of the Bank over the past 2 years. Further, basis
(RBI) from time to time. Further, the Bank has complied with the Bank’s submission, RBI vide its letter dated August
other applicable general business laws, rules, regulations 17, 2021, have relaxed the restriction placed on sourcing
and guidelines. of new credit cards customers and further vide its letter
dated March 11, 2022 have lifted the restrictions on the
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses
business generating activities planned under the Bank’s
of the following:
Digital 2.0 program.
i. Secretarial Standards with regard to Meeting of Board of
We further report that:
Directors (SS-1) and General Meetings (SS-2) issued by The
Institute of Company Secretaries of India; and (a) The Board of Directors of the Bank is duly constituted with
proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive
ii. The Securities and Exchange Board of India
Directors and Independent Directors.
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015. (b) The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors
that took place during the period under review were carried
During the period under review, the Bank has complied with
out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines and
Standards mentioned above subject to the following observations: (c) Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the
Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda
1. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has imposed, by an order dated
were sent in advance as prescribed under the applicable
May 27, 2021 (as received by the Bank on May 28, 2021), a
Secretarial Standards, and a system exists for seeking
monetary penalty of `10.00 crore (Rupees ten crore only)
and obtaining further information and clarifications on
on HDFC Bank Limited (‘Bank’). As per the said order, the
the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful
penalty has been imposed in exercise of powers vested
participation at the meeting.
in RBI under the provisions of Section 47A(1)(c) read with
Section 46(4)(i) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (Act), (d) The minutes of the Board meetings and Committee
for marketing / sale of third party non-financial products Meetings have not identified any dissent by members of
in contravention of provisions of Section 6(2) and Section the Board /Committee of the Board respectively hence we
8 of the Act. The Bank has discontinued the sale of said have no reason to believe that the decisions by the Board
third-party non-financial product since October, 2019. The were not approved by all the directors/members present.
penalty was paid by the Bank.
We further report that, there are adequate systems and
2. SEBI issued final order on January 21, 2021, levying a processes in the Bank commensurate with the size and operations
penalty of ` 1 crore on the Bank, in the matter of invocation of the Bank to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable
of securities pledged by BMA Wealth Creators (BRH Wealth laws, rules, regulations and guidelines. As informed, the Bank
Kreators) for availing credit facilities. SEBI has also directed has responded appropriately to communication received from
the Bank to transfer sale proceeds of Rs.158.68 crores various statutory / regulatory authorities including initiating
on invocation of securities, along with interest to escrow actions for corrective measures, wherever found necessary.
account with a nationalised bank by marking lien in favour
We further report that during the audit period the following
of SEBI. The Bank had challenged SEBI's order before
events / actions have taken place, having a major bearing on
Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) and SAT, vide its interim
the Bank’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules,
order, have stayed operation of SEBI’s order. SAT, vide its
regulations, guidelines and standards:
final order dated February 18, 2022, allowed the Bank’s
appeal and quashed SEBI’s Order. 1. The Bank has raised U.S.$ 1,000,000,000 (U.S.$ One
Billion) by the issue and allotment of Direct, Subordinated,
209
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report
Unsecured 3.70% Basel III Compliant Additional Tier I Notes Annexure A
(“Notes”) to overseas investors in reliance on Rule 144A
To
under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the
The Members,
“Securities Act”) and outside the United States in offshore
HDFC Bank Limited
transactions as defined in and in reliance on Regulation S
under the Securities Act. The Notes will be listed on the Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with
India International Exchange (IFSC) Limited and the NSE this letter.
IFSC Limited (NSE International Exchange).
1. The compliance of provisions of all laws, rules, regulations,
2. Approval of the Shareholders was obtained at the Annual standards applicable to HDFC Bank Limited (hereinafter
General Meeting held on 17th July, 2021: called ‘the Bank’) is the responsibility of the management
of the Bank. Our examination was limited to the verification
a. to borrow or raise funds in Indian Currency by issue
of records and procedures on test check basis for the
of Unsecured Perpetual Debt Instruments (part of
purpose of issue of the Secretarial Audit Report.
Additional Tier I Capital), Tier II Capital Bonds and
Long-Term Bonds (Financing of Infrastructure & 2. Maintenance of secretarial and other records of applicable
affordable Housing) on a private placement basis for laws is the responsibility of the management of the Bank.
an amount in aggregate not exceeding Rs.50,000 Cr; Our responsibility is to issue Secretarial Audit Report,
based on the audit of the relevant records maintained and
b. to amend the HDFC Bank Limited Employees’ Stock
furnished to us by the Bank, along with explanations where
Option Scheme, 2007 (“ESOS-Plan D-2007”);
so required.
c. to amend the HDFC Bank Limited Employees’ Stock
3. We have followed the audit practices and processes as
Option Scheme, 2010 (“ESOS-Plan E-2010”);
were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about
d. to amend the HDFC Bank Limited Employees’ Stock the correctness of the contents of the secretarial and other
Option Scheme, 2013 (“ESOS-Plan F-2013”); legal records, legal compliance mechanism and corporate
conduct. Further part of the verification was done on the
e. to amend the HDFC Bank Limited Employees’ Stock
basis of electronic data provided to us by the Bank due to
Option Scheme, 2016 (“ESOS-Plan G-2016”);
COVID-19 Pandemic restrictions and on test check basis to
3. The Bank has issued and allotted 6.44% Unsecured, ensure that correct facts as reflected in secretarial and other
Redeemable Long Term, Fully Paid-up, Non-Convertible records produced to us. We believe that the processes
Bonds in the nature of Debentures amounting to Rs.5000 and practices we followed, provides a reasonable basis
Crore (50000 Bonds of face value Rs.10,00,000/- each) on for our opinion for the purpose of issue of the Secretarial
a private placement basis, on September 27, 2021. Audit Report.
4. The Bank has allotted 3,27,64,494 Equity Shares of Re.1/- 4. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness
each under “Employee Stock Option Schemes” of the Bank. of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Bank.
Place : Mumbai ALWYN JAY & Co. 5. Wherever required, we have obtained the management
Date : June 10, 2022 Company Secretaries representation about list of applicable laws, compliance
of laws, rules and regulations and major events during the
Office Address : [Alwyn D’Souza, FCS.5559] audit period.
Annex-103, Dimple Arcade, [Partner]
6. The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as
Asha Nagar, Kandivali (East), [Certificate of Practice No.5137]
to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficacy or
Mumbai 400101. [UDIN : F005559D000481232]
effectiveness with which the management has conducted
the affairs of the Bank.
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date Place : Mumbai ALWYN JAY & Co.
which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of Date : June 10, 2022 Company Secretaries
this report.
Office Address : [Alwyn D’Souza, FCS.5559]
Annex-103, Dimple Arcade, [Partner]
Asha Nagar, Kandivali (East), [Certificate of Practice No.5137]
Mumbai 400101. [UDIN : F005559D000481232]
210
Independent Auditor's Report
To the Members of HDFC Bank Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the standalone financial statements of HDFC Bank Limited (“the Bank”), which comprise the Balance Sheet as at
March 31, 2022, the Profit and Loss Account, the Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone
financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial
statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the
manner so required for Banking Companies and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Accounting Standards prescribed
under section 133 of the Act read with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 as amended and other accounting principles generally
accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Bank as at March 31, 2022 and its profit and its cash flows for the year ended on
that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act.
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Bank in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“the ICAI”) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the
standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone
financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2022. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
211
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Independent Auditor's Report
Identification of Non-performing advances (NPA) and provisioning on advances:
Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at March 31, 2022: ` 1,368,821 Crores
Provision for NPA as at March 31, 2022: ` 11,733 Crores
(Refer Schedule 9, Schedule 17(C)(2), Schedule 18(13))
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Reserve Bank of India’s (“RBI”) guidelines on Income recognition, Tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls (including
asset classification and provisioning (“IRACP”) prescribe the prudential application controls) over approval, recording, monitoring, and recovery
norms for the identification and classification of non-performing assets of loans, monitoring overdue / stressed accounts, identification of NPA,
(“NPA”) and the minimum provision required for such assets. provision for NPA, and valuation of security including collateral.
The Bank is required to have Board approved policy as per IRACP Testing of Application controls includes testing of automated controls,
guidelines for NPA identification and provision. reports and system reconciliations.
The Bank is also required to apply its judgment to determine the Evaluated the governance process and tested controls over calculations
identification and provision required against NPAs by applying of provision on non-performing advances, basis of provisioning in
quantitative as well as qualitative factors. The risk of identification of accordance with the Board approved policy.
NPAs is affected by factors like stress and liquidity concerns in certain
Selected the borrowers based on quantitative and qualitative risk factors
sectors.
for their assessment of appropriate classification as NPA including
The provision on NPA is estimated based on ageing and classification computation of overdue ageing to assess its correct classification and
of NPAs, recovery estimates, nature of loan product, value of security provision amount as per extant IRACP norms and Bank policy.
and other qualitative factors and is subject to the minimum provisioning
Performed other substantive procedures including but not limited to
norms specified by RBI and approved policy of the Bank in this regard.
the following:
Additionally, the Bank makes provisions on exposures that are not
• Selected samples of performing loans and assessed independently
classified as NPAs including advances to certain sectors and identified
as to whether those should be classified as NPA;
advances or group advances that can potentially slip into NPA. These
are classified as contingency provisions. • For samples selected examined the security valuation, financial
statements and other qualitative information of the borrowers;
The Management of the Bank also makes an assessment of the impact
on borrowers’ accounts which were restructured as per RBI Circulars • Considered the accounts reported by the Bank and other Banks as
issued to provide relief to the borrowers. Special Mention Accounts (“SMA”) in RBI’s Central Repository of
Information on Large Credits (CRILC) to identify stress;
Since the identification of NPAs and provisioning for advances require
a significant level of estimation and given its significance to the overall • For selected samples assessed independently accounts that can
audit including possible observation by RBI which could result into potentially be classified as NPA and Red Flagged Accounts;
disclosure in the financial statements, we have ascertained identification
and provisioning for NPAs as a key audit matter. • Performed inquiries with the credit and risk departments to ascertain
if there were indicators of stress or an occurrence of an event of
default in a particular loan account or any product category which
needed to be considered as NPA;
• Held specific discussions with the management of the Bank on
sectors where there is perceived credit risk and the steps taken to
mitigate the risks to identified sectors;
• Selected and tested samples of accounts which were restructured
under MSME restructuring circular and Resolution Framework for
COVID-19 related stress circular for their compliance with the RBI
directions; and
• Assessed the adequacy of disclosures against the relevant
accounting standards and RBI requirements relating to NPAs.
212
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Evaluation of litigations included in Contingent Liabilities
Particulars As at March 31, 2022
Legal Cases ` 131 Crores
Taxes ` 1,293 Crores
(Refer Schedule 12, Schedule 17(C)(17), Schedules 18(18)(c)(1) & (2))
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank has material open tax litigations which involve significant Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
judgement to determine the possible outcome of these disputes.
Testing the design and operating effectiveness of the Bank’s key
Significant management judgement is needed in determining whether controls over the estimation, monitoring and disclosure of provisions
an obligation exists and whether a provision should be recognised as and contingent liabilities.
at the reporting date, in accordance with the accounting criteria set
Our substantive audit procedures included and were not limited to the
under Accounting Standard 29 - Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and
following:
Contingent Assets (‘AS 29’), or whether it needs to be disclosed as a
contingent liability. Further significant judgements are also involved in • Obtained an understanding of the Bank’s process for determining
measuring such obligations, the most significant of which are: tax liabilities, tax provisions and contingent liabilities pertaining to
legal matters and taxation matters;
• Assessment of liability: Judgement is involved in the determination
of whether an outflow in respect of identified material matters are • Obtained list of cases / matters in respect of which litigations were
probable and can be estimated reliably; outstanding as at reporting date:
• Adequacy of provisions: The appropriateness of assumptions and Ø For significant legal matters, we sought external confirmations
judgements used in the estimation of significant provisions; and and also corroborated with management’s documented
conclusions on the assessment of outstanding litigations against
• Adequacy of disclosures of provision for liabilities and charges, and
the Bank;
contingent liabilities.
Ø For significant taxation matters, we involved our tax specialist
The Bank’s assessment is supported by the facts of matter, their own
to gain an understanding of the current status of the litigations,
judgement, experience, and advises from legal and independent tax
including understanding of various orders / notices received by
consultants wherever considered necessary.
the Bank and the management’s grounds of appeals before the
Since the assessment of these open litigations requires significant level relevant appellate authorities.
of judgement in interpretation of law, we have included this as a key
• Evaluated the merit of the subject matter under consideration
audit matter.
with reference to the grounds presented therein and available
independent legal / tax advice; and
• Agreed underlying tax balances to supporting documentation,
including correspondence with tax authorities.
• Assessed the disclosures in the standalone financial statements.
213
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Independent Auditor's Report
Information Technology (“IT”) Systems and Controls
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank has a complex IT architecture to support its day-to-day Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
business operations. High volume of transactions are processed and
For testing the IT general controls, application controls and IT dependent
recorded on single or multiple applications.
manual controls, we involved specialists as part of the audit. The team
The reliability and security of IT systems plays a key role in the business also assisted in testing the accuracy of the information produced by the
operations of the Bank. Since large volume of transactions are Bank’s IT systems.
processed daily, the IT controls are required to ensure that applications
Obtained a comprehensive understanding of IT applications
process data as expected and that changes are made in an appropriate
implemented at the Bank. It was followed by process understanding,
manner.
mapping of applications to the same and understanding financial risks
Appropriate IT general controls and application controls are required to posed by people-process and technology.
ensure that such IT systems are able to process the data, as required,
Key IT audit procedures includes testing design and operating
completely, accurately and consistently for reliable financial reporting.
effectiveness of key controls operating over user access management
We have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as key audit matter because (which includes user access provisioning, de-provisioning, access
of the high level automation, significant number of systems being used review, password configuration review, segregation of duties and
by the management and the complexity of the IT architecture and its privilege access), change management (which include change release
impact on the financial reporting system. in production environment are compliant to the defined procedures
and segregation of environment is ensured), program development
(which include review of data migration activity), computer operations
(which includes testing of key controls pertaining to, backup, Batch
processing (including interface testing), incident management and data
centre security), System interface controls. This included testing that
requests for access to systems were appropriately logged, reviewed
and authorized.
In addition to the above, the design and operating effectiveness of
certain automated controls, that were considered as key internal system
controls over financial reporting were tested. Using various techniques
such as inquiry, review of documentation / record / reports, observation
and re-performance. We also tested few controls using negative testing
technique. We had taken adequate samples of instances for our test.
Tested compensating controls and performed alternate procedures,
where necessary. In addition, understood where relevant, changes
made to the IT landscape during the audit period.
Information Other than the Standalone Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information in the Basel
III - Pillar 3 disclosures and graphical representation of financial highlights but does not include the financial statements and our
auditor’s reports thereon, which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, and the Annual Report, which is expected to
be made available to us after that date.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so,
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or our knowledge obtained
in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that
we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate
the matter to Those Charged with Governance.
214
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Responsibilities of Management and Those charged with Governance for Standalone Financial
Statements
The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation
of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance and cash
flows of the Bank in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards
specified under Section 133 of the Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and circulars, guidelines and directions issued by the
RBI from time to time (the “RBI Guidelines”) as applicable to the Bank. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI Guidelines for safeguarding of the assets of the Bank
and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making
judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal
financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant
to the preparation and presentation of the standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Bank’s ability to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting
unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or
in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
standalone financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout
the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide
a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Bank
has internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of
such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures
made by the Management of the Bank.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the
Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention
in our Auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However,
future events or conditions may cause the Bank to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures,
and whether the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves
fair presentation.
215
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Independent Auditor's Report
We communicate with Those Charged with Governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide Those Charged with Governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with Those Charged with Governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the standalone financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2022 and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter
or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1. The Balance Sheet and the Profit and Loss Account have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of Section 29 of
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 read with Section 133 of the Act and relevant rules issued thereunder.
2. As required by sub-section 3 of Section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that:
a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were
necessary for the purpose of our audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
b) The transactions of the Bank, which have come to our notice during the course of our audit, have been within the powers
of the Bank;
c) Since the key operations of the Bank are automated with the key applications integrated to the core banking system, the
audit is carried out centrally as all the necessary records and data required for the purposes of our audit are available
therein, though during the course of our audit we visited 94 branches.
3. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were
necessary for the purposes of our audit;
b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Bank so far as it appears from our
examination of those books;
c) The Balance Sheet, the Profit and Loss Account and the Statement Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement
with the books of account;
d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under
Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 to the extent they are not inconsistent
with the guidelines prescribed by the RBI;
e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on March 31, 2022 taken on record by the
Board of Directors, none of the directors are disqualified as on March 31, 2022 from being appointed as a director in
terms of Section 164(2) of the Act;
f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Bank and the
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure A”;
g) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given
to us:
i. The Bank has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial statements
- Refer Schedule 12, Schedule 17(C)(17) and Schedules 18(18)(c)(1) & (2) to the standalone financial statements;
216
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
ii. The Bank has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material foreseeable
losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts - Refer Schedule 17(C)(7) and 17(C)(17), Schedule
18(11) and Schedule 18(18)(c) to the standalone financial statements;
iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection
Fund by the Bank during the year ended March 31, 2022;
iv. 1. The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in the
notes to accounts, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share
premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank to or in any other persons / entities, including
foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the
Intermediary has, whether directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
2. The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in the
notes to accounts, no funds have been received by the Bank from any persons / entities, including foreign
entities, that the company has directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee,
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
3. Based on the audit procedures which we have considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances
and according to the information and explanations provided to us by the Management in this regard, nothing
has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations made by the Management under
sub-clause (1) and (2) contain any material misstatement; and
v. The Bank has paid dividend during the year which is in compliance with section 123 of the Act.
h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the requirements of section
197(16) of the Act, as amended; the Bank is a Banking Company as defined under Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
Accordingly, the requirements prescribed under section 197 of the Act do not apply.
Other Matter
The audit of standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2021 was conducted by MSKA & Associates, Chartered
Accountants, the statutory auditor of the Bank, who had expressed an unmodified opinion on those financial statements. Accordingly,
we, M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants, do not express any opinion on the figures reported in the standalone financial
statements for the year ended / as at March 31, 2021.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statement is not modified in respect of the above matter.
For MSKA & Associates For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105047W ICAI Firm Registration Number:
107122W/W100672
Swapnil Kale Sanjay Khemani
Partner Partner
Membership Number: 117812 Membership Number: 044577
UDIN: 22117812AHEKWE1480 UDIN: 22044577AHEOLM8359
Mumbai, Mumbai,
April 16, 2022 April 16, 2022
217
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Independent Auditor's Report
AnnexuRe A TO The IndependenT AudITOR’S RepORT OF even dATe On The STAndALOne
FInAncIAL STATeMenTS OF hdFc BAnK LIMITed
[Referred to in paragraph 3(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the Independent Auditor’s Report of
even date to the Members of HDFC Bank Limited on the Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2022]
Report on the Internal Financial controls under clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the companies
Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of HDFC Bank Limited (“the Bank”) as of March
31, 2022 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Bank for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial controls
The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control
with reference to financial statements criteria established by the Bank considering the essential components of internal control
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India (ICAI) (the “Guidance Note”). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient
conduct of its business, including adherence to Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds
and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information,
as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank's internal financial controls with reference to financial statements based on our
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed
to be prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls. Those Standards
and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether internal financial controls with reference to financial statements was established and maintained and if
such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial
statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, assessing the
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the
Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial controls With reference to Financial Statements
A Bank’s internal financial control with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A Bank's internal financial control with reference to financial statements includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the Bank are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
Bank; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the Bank's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
218
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial controls With reference to financial statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of
collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject
to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Bank has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements and
such internal financial controls with reference to financial statements were operating effectively as at March 31, 2022, based on
the internal control with reference to financial statements criteria established by the Bank considering the essential components of
internal control stated in the Guidance Note.
For MSKA & Associates For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105047W ICAI Firm Registration Number:
107122W/W100672
Swapnil Kale Sanjay Khemani
Partner Partner
Membership Number: 117812 Membership Number: 044577
UDIN: 22117812AHEKWE1480 UDIN: 22044577AHEOLM8359
Mumbai, Mumbai,
April 16, 2022 April 16, 2022
219
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Balance Sheet
As at March 31, 2022
` in '000
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital 1 5,545,541 5,512,776
Reserves and surplus 2 2,395,383,846 2,031,695,513
Deposits 3 15,592,174,400 13,350,602,208
Borrowings 4 1,848,172,073 1,354,873,236
Other liabilities and provisions 5 844,074,643 726,021,504
Total 20,685,350,503 17,468,705,237
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India 6 1,299,956,352 973,407,363
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 7 223,312,892 221,296,594
Investments 8 4,555,356,930 4,437,282,921
Advances 9 13,688,209,314 11,328,366,309
Fixed assets 10 60,836,735 49,093,169
Other assets 11 857,678,280 459,258,881
Total 20,685,350,503 17,468,705,237
Contingent liabilities 12 13,954,422,995 9,710,975,961
Bills for collection 569,680,463 447,481,440
Significant accounting policies and notes to the financial statements 17 & 18
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Balance Sheet.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates For M M Nissim & Co LLP Atanu Chakraborty Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part Time Chairman of the Board Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: ICAI Firm Registration Number:
105047W 107122W/W100672 M. D. Ranganath Malay Patel
Independent Director Independent Director
Swapnil Kale Sanjay Khemani Lily Vadera Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner Partner Independent Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812 Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022 Company Secretary
220
Profit and Loss Account
For the year ended March 31, 2022
` in '000
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I INCOME
Interest earned 13 1,277,531,191 1,208,582,265
Other income 14 295,099,004 252,048,927
Total 1,572,630,195 1,460,631,192
II EXPENDITURE
Interest expended 15 557,435,282 559,786,560
Operating expenses 16 374,421,858 327,226,301
Provisions and contingencies [Refer Schedule 18 (23)] 271,159,503 262,453,079
Total 1,203,016,643 1,149,465,940
III PROFIT
Net profit for the year 369,613,552 311,165,252
Balance in the Profit and Loss account brought forward 736,527,947 574,924,020
Total 1,106,141,499 886,089,272
IV APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve 92,403,388 77,791,313
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year 35,923,960 -
Transfer to General Reserve 36,961,355 31,116,525
Transfer to Capital Reserve 6,664,722 22,916,842
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve Account 2,331,331 616,645
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve - 17,120,000
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet 931,856,743 736,527,947
Total 1,106,141,499 886,089,272
V EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE (FACE VALUE ` 1 PER SHARE) ` `
Basic 66.80 56.58
Diluted 66.35 56.32
Significant accounting policies and notes to the financial statements 17 & 18
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Profit and Loss Account.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates For M M Nissim & Co LLP Atanu Chakraborty Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part Time Chairman of the Board Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: ICAI Firm Registration Number:
105047W 107122W/W100672 M. D. Ranganath Malay Patel
Independent Director Independent Director
Swapnil Kale Sanjay Khemani Lily Vadera Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner Partner Independent Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812 Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022 Company Secretary
221
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended March 31, 2022
` in '000
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before income tax 490,154,792 416,589,837
Adjustments for:
Depreciation on fixed assets 15,998,039 13,024,133
(Profit) / loss on revaluation of investments (15,463,977) 14,853,243
Amortisation of premium on held to maturity investments 8,213,244 7,654,693
(Profit) / loss on sale of fixed assets 33,388 (15,407)
Provision / charge for non performing assets 106,334,842 116,499,658
Provision for standard assets and contingencies 49,569,684 42,694,827
Dividend from subsidiaries (8,308,954) (4,830,434)
Employee Stock Options Expense 3,259,696 -
649,790,754 606,470,550
Adjustments for:
Increase in investments (121,951,685) (525,406,084)
Increase in advances (2,466,388,983) (1,509,246,390)
Increase in deposits 2,241,572,192 1,875,579,261
(Increase) / decrease in other assets (380,235,846) 100,182,759
Increase / (decrease) in other liabilities and provisions 75,178,971 (6,756,511)
(2,034,597) 540,823,585
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds) (140,052,624) (125,875,723)
Net cash flows (used in) / from operating activities (142,087,221) 414,947,862
Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchase of fixed assets (21,407,866) (16,173,763)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 182,956 141,637
Dividend from subsidiaries 8,308,954 4,830,434
Net cash flow used in investing activities (12,915,956) (11,201,692)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Proceeds from issue of share capital, net of issue expenses 26,097,614 17,600,995
Proceeds from issue of Additional Tier I capital bonds 81,627,500 -
Redemption of Tier II capital bonds (36,500,000) (11,050,000)
Net proceeds / (repayments) in other borrowings 446,616,337 (80,362,136)
Dividend paid during the year (35,923,960) -
Net cash flow from / (used in) financing activities 481,917,491 (73,811,141)
Effect of exchange fluctuation on translation reserve 1,650,973 (1,418,252)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 328,565,287 328,516,777
Cash and cash equivalents as at April 1st 1,194,703,957 866,187,180
Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31st 1,523,269,244 1,194,703,957
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates For M M Nissim & Co LLP Atanu Chakraborty Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part Time Chairman of the Board Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: ICAI Firm Registration Number:
105047W 107122W/W100672 M. D. Ranganath Malay Patel
Independent Director Independent Director
Swapnil Kale Sanjay Khemani Lily Vadera Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner Partner Independent Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812 Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022 Company Secretary
222
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 1 - capital
` in '000
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Authorised capital
6,50,00,00,000 (31 March, 2021 : 6,50,00,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 1/- each 6,500,000 6,500,000
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital
5,54,55,40,976 (31 March, 2021 : 5,51,27,76,482) Equity Shares of ` 1/- each 5,545,541 5,512,776
Total 5,545,541 5,512,776
Schedule 2 - ReSeRveS and SuRpluS
` in '000
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Statutory reserve
Opening balance 423,605,693 345,814,380
Additions during the year 92,403,388 77,791,313
Total 516,009,081 423,605,693
II General reserve
Opening balance 167,607,883 136,491,358
Additions during the year 36,961,355 31,116,525
Total 204,569,238 167,607,883
III Balance in profit and loss account 931,856,743 736,527,947
IV Share premium account
Opening balance 605,126,833 587,555,328
Additions during the year 26,064,849 17,571,505
Total 631,191,682 605,126,833
V Amalgamation reserve
Opening balance 10,635,564 10,635,564
Additions during the year - -
Total 10,635,564 10,635,564
VI Capital reserve
Opening balance 49,564,566 26,647,724
Additions during the year 6,664,722 22,916,842
Total 56,229,288 49,564,566
VII Investment reserve
Opening balance 616,645 -
Additions during the year 2,398,701 616,645
Deductions during the year (67,370) -
Total 2,947,976 616,645
VIII Investment fluctuation reserve
Opening balance 36,190,000 19,070,000
Additions during the year - 17,120,000
Total 36,190,000 36,190,000
IX Foreign currency translation account
Opening balance 1,820,382 3,238,634
Additions / (deductions) during the year 1,650,973 (1,418,252)
Total 3,471,355 1,820,382
X Cash flow hedge reserve
Opening balance - -
Additions / (deductions) during the year (976,777) -
Total (976,777) -
223
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
` in '000
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
XI Employees stock options reserve
Opening balance - -
Additions during the year 3,259,696 -
Total 3,259,696 -
Total 2,395,383,846 2,031,695,513
Shedule 3 - depoSitS
` in '000
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
A I Demand deposits
(i) From banks 55,508,311 38,701,928
(ii) From others 2,337,597,681 2,083,119,132
Total 2,393,105,992 2,121,821,060
II Savings bank deposits 5,117,385,438 4,035,000,577
III Term deposits
(i) From banks 98,018,897 106,458,399
(ii) From others 7,983,664,073 7,087,322,172
Total 8,081,682,970 7,193,780,571
Total 15,592,174,400 13,350,602,208
B I Deposits of branches in India 15,490,951,433 13,291,717,787
II Deposits of branches outside India 101,222,967 58,884,421
Total 15,592,174,400 13,350,602,208
Schedule 4 - BoRRowingS
` in '000
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Borrowings in India
(i) Reserve Bank of India 90,200,000 90,200,000
(ii) Other banks 7,001,848 8,860,455
(iii) Other institutions and agencies 842,557,858 659,354,025
(iv) Upper and lower tier II capital and innovative perpetual debts 134,770,000 171,270,000
(v) Bonds and Debentures (excluding subordinated debt) 236,750,000 186,750,000
Total 1,311,279,706 1,116,434,480
II Borrowings outside India 536,892,367 238,438,756
Total 1,848,172,073 1,354,873,236
Secured borrowings included in I and II above: Nil (previous year: Nil) except borrowings of ` 24,204.49 crore (previous year: ` 44,625.92 crore) under
repurchase transactions (including tri-party repo) and transactions under Liquidity Adjustment Facility.
224
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Schedule 5 - otheR liaBilitieS and pRoviSionS
` in '000
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Bills payable 130,937,438 124,241,904
II Interest accrued 67,482,314 62,334,334
III Others (including provisions) 580,028,887 486,411,605
IV Contingent provisions against standard assets 65,626,004 53,033,661
Total 844,074,643 726,021,504
Schedule 6 - caSh and BalanceS with ReSeRve Bank of india
` in '000
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes) 112,044,402 106,925,639
II Balances with Reserve Bank of India:
(a) In current accounts 817,771,950 594,421,724
(b) In other accounts 370,140,000 272,060,000
Total 1,187,911,950 866,481,724
Total 1,299,956,352 973,407,363
Schedule 7 - BalanceS with BankS and Money at call and ShoRt notice
` in '000
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I In India
(i) Balances with banks:
(a) In current accounts 3,227,259 8,333,753
(b) In other deposit accounts 119,869 9,869
Total 3,347,128 8,343,622
(ii) Money at call and short notice:
(a) With banks - -
(b) With other institutions 4,913,271 -
Total 4,913,271 -
Total 8,260,399 8,343,622
II Outside India
(i) In current accounts 73,622,217 110,344,840
(ii) In deposit accounts 20,204,262 3,909,632
(iii) Money at call and short notice 121,226,014 98,698,500
Total 215,052,493 212,952,972
Total 223,312,892 221,296,594
225
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 8 - inveStMentS
` in '000
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
A Investments in India in
(i) Government securities 3,665,273,063 3,511,410,385
(ii) Other approved securities - -
(iii) Shares 4,855,855 4,332,926
(iv) Debentures and bonds 647,083,638 617,897,218
(v) Subsidiaries / joint ventures 38,264,875 38,264,875
(vi) Others (Units, CDs, CPs, PTCs and security receipts) 173,655,256 241,696,270
Total 4,529,132,687 4,413,601,674
B Investments outside India in
(i) Government securities (including Local Authorities) 2,275,818 5,936,075
(ii) Other investments
(a) Shares 26,426 35,024
(b) Debentures and bonds 23,921,999 17,710,148
Total 26,224,243 23,681,247
Total 4,555,356,930 4,437,282,921
Schedule 9 - advanceS
` in '000
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
A (i) Bills purchased and discounted 290,524,179 345,427,765
(ii) Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand 4,334,112,539 3,630,544,900
(iii) Term loans 9,063,572,596 7,352,393,644
Total 13,688,209,314 11,328,366,309
B (i) Secured by tangible assets* 9,031,012,224 7,618,839,623
(ii) Covered by bank / government guarantees 483,870,294 393,758,390
(iii) Unsecured 4,173,326,796 3,315,768,296
Total 13,688,209,314 11,328,366,309
* Includes advances against stock and book debts of ` 175,547.78 crore (previous year: ` 131,211.86 crore)
C I Advances in India
(i) Priority sector 3,889,850,541 2,574,675,399
(ii) Public sector 1,356,938,096 1,199,082,740
(iii) Banks 68,862,972 85,383,854
(iv) Others 7,944,406,589 7,153,125,825
Total 13,260,058,198 11,012,267,818
C II Advances outside India
(i) Due from banks 49,098,849 55,276,539
(ii) Due from others
(a) Bills purchased and discounted 2,548,344 63,490
(b) Syndicated loans 5,418,892 8,347,907
(c) Others 371,085,031 252,410,555
Total 428,151,116 316,098,491
Total 13,688,209,314 11,328,366,309
(Advances are net of provisions)
226
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Schedule 10 - fixed aSSetS
` in '000
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
A Premises (including land)
Gross block
At cost on 31 March of the preceding year 20,283,839 18,636,852
Additions during the year 1,667,165 1,745,137
Deductions during the year (130,218) (98,150)
Total 21,820,786 20,283,839
Depreciation
As at 31 March of the preceding year 6,908,835 6,341,803
Charge for the year 715,944 660,308
On deductions during the year (112,842) (93,276)
Total 7,511,937 6,908,835
Net block 14,308,849 13,375,004
B Other fixed assets (including furniture and fixtures)
Gross block
At cost on 31 March of the preceding year 124,715,562 111,296,870
Additions during the year 26,294,103 16,176,309
Deductions during the year (4,949,973) (2,757,617)
Total 146,059,692 124,715,562
Depreciation
As at 31 March of the preceding year 88,997,397 79,272,764
Charge for the year 15,285,413 12,360,893
On deductions during the year (4,751,004) (2,636,260)
Total 99,531,806 88,997,397
Net block 46,527,886 35,718,165
C Assets on lease (plant and machinery)
Gross block
At cost on 31 March of the preceding year 4,546,923 4,546,923
Additions during the year - -
Total 4,546,923 4,546,923
Depreciation
As at 31 March of the preceding year 4,104,467 4,104,467
Charge for the year - -
Total 4,104,467 4,104,467
Lease adjustment account
As at 31 March of the preceding year 442,456 442,456
Charge for the year - -
Total 442,456 442,456
Unamortised cost of assets on lease - -
Total 60,836,735 49,093,169
227
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 11 - otheR aSSetS
` in '000
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Interest accrued 134,467,710 118,762,922
II Advance tax / tax deducted at source (net of provisions) 42,693,607 36,071,347
III Stationery and stamps 420,769 434,856
IV Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims 512,211 512,557
V Bond and share application money pending allotment - 225,000
VI Security deposit for commercial and residential property 5,687,636 5,483,331
VII Others* 673,896,347 297,768,868
Total 857,678,280 459,258,881
*Includes deferred tax asset (net) of ` 6,229.67 crore (previous year: ` 4,937.76 crore) and deposits placed with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB on account
of shortfall in lending to priority sector of ` 44,738.08 crore (previous year: ` 9,320.37 crore)
Schedule 12 - contingent liaBilitieS
` in '000
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts - taxation 12,931,485 12,677,596
II Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts - others 1,311,797 2,275,100
III Liability for partly paid investments - -
IV Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts 6,551,871,752 4,964,726,675
V Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts 5,897,615,819 3,577,046,284
VI Guarantees given on behalf of constituents - in India 833,910,325 751,195,338
- outside India 3,524,321 1,800,917
VII Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations 615,639,684 376,536,252
VIII Other items for which the bank is contingently liable 37,617,812 24,717,799
Total 13,954,422,995 9,710,975,961
Schedule 13 - inteReSt eaRned
` in '000
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Interest / discount on advances / bills 985,120,227 948,345,362
II Income from investments 260,461,338 232,142,691
III Interest on balance with RBI and other inter-bank funds 25,523,700 23,412,507
IV Others 6,425,926 4,681,705
Total 1,277,531,191 1,208,582,265
228
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Schedule 14 - otheR incoMe
` in '000
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Commission, exchange and brokerage 195,365,747 161,693,202
II Profit / (loss) on sale of investments (net) 7,362,434 53,523,204
III Profit / (loss) on revaluation of investments (net) 15,463,977 (14,853,243)
IV Profit / (loss) on sale of building and other assets (net) 706,725 484,014
V Profit / (loss) on exchange / derivative transactions (net) 39,079,094 24,384,132
VI Income earned by way of dividends from subsidiaries / 8,308,954 4,830,434
associates and / or joint ventures abroad / in India
VII Miscellaneous income 28,812,073 21,987,184
Total 295,099,004 252,048,927
Schedule 15 - inteReSt expended
` in '000
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Interest on deposits 489,089,952 501,433,080
II Interest on RBI / inter-bank borrowings 68,189,380 58,225,908
III Other interest 155,950 127,572
Total 557,435,282 559,786,560
Schedule 16 - opeRating expenSeS
` in '000
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Payments to and provisions for employees 120,316,860 103,647,937
II Rent, taxes and lighting 16,408,506 16,981,899
III Printing and stationery 5,285,712 4,291,454
IV Advertisement and publicity 2,161,308 954,746
V Depreciation on bank's property 15,998,039 13,024,133
VI Directors' fees / remuneration, allowances and expenses 70,825 51,433
VII Auditors' fees and expenses 62,572 46,273
VIII Law charges 2,548,186 1,366,427
IX Postage, telegram, telephone etc. 5,697,517 4,807,651
X Repairs and maintenance 17,259,357 16,162,822
XI Insurance 19,093,514 17,228,235
XII Other expenditure* 169,519,462 148,663,291
Total 374,421,858 327,226,301
* Includes professional fees, commission to sales agents, card and merchant acquiring expenses and system management fees.
229
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 17 - Significant accounting policies (‘HFT’), “Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Held to Maturity”
appended to and forming part of the financial (‘HTM’) categories (hereinafter called “categories”).
statements for the year ended March 31, 2022 Subsequent shifting amongst the categories is done
in accordance with the RBI guidelines. Under each of
A BAckground these categories, investments are further classified under
six groups (hereinafter called “groups”) - Government
HDFC Bank Limited (‘HDFC Bank’ or ‘the Bank’),
Securities, Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures
incorporated in Mumbai, India is a publicly held banking
and Bonds, Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures
company engaged in providing a range of banking and
and Other Investments.
financial services including retail banking, wholesale
banking and treasury operations. The Bank is governed Purchase and sale transactions in securities are accounted
by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the Companies on settlement date except in the case of equity shares
Act, 2013. The Bank has overseas branch operations in which are accounted on trade date.
Bahrain, Hong Kong, Dubai and Offshore Banking Unit at
Basis of classification:
International Financial Service Centre (IFSC), GIFT City,
Investments that are held for resale within 90 days from
India. The financial accounting systems of the Bank are
the date of purchase are classified under HFT category.
centralised and, therefore, accounting returns are not
Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity are
required to be submitted by branches of the Bank.
classified under HTM category. Investments in the equity
of subsidiaries / joint ventures are categorised as HTM.
B BASiS of PrePArAtion
Investments which are not classified in either of the above
The financial statements have been prepared and presented categories are classified under AFS category.
under the historical cost convention and accrual basis of
Acquisition cost:
accounting, unless otherwise stated and are in accordance
Brokerage, commission, etc. and broken period interest
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India
on debt instruments are recognised in the Profit and Loss
(‘GAAP’), statutory requirements prescribed under the Third
Account and are not included in the cost of acquisition.
Schedule of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, circulars
and guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) disposal of investments:
from time to time (RBI guidelines), Accounting Standards Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid
(‘AS’) specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, three categories is recognised in the Profit and Loss
2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, Account. Cost of investments is based on the weighted
2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, average cost method. The profit from sale of investment
2021, in so far as they apply to banks. under HTM category, net of taxes and transfer to statutory
reserve is appropriated from the Profit and Loss Account
use of estimates
to “Capital Reserve”.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity
Short sale:
with GAAP requires the management to make estimates
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central
and necessary assumptions in the reported amounts of
Government dated securities. The short position is
assets and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as
categorised under HFT category and netted off from
of the date of the financial statements and the reported
investments. The short position is marked to market and
income and expenses for the reporting year. Management
loss, if any, is charged to the Profit and Loss Account
believes that the estimates used in the preparation of the
while gain, if any, is ignored. Profit / Loss on short sale is
financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual
recognised on settlement date.
results could differ from these estimates. Any revision in
the accounting estimates is recognised prospectively in the Valuation:
current and future periods. Investments classified under AFS and HFT categories are
marked to market individually and depreciation / appreciation
c PrinciPAl Accounting PolicieS is aggregated for each group and net depreciation in each
group is provided and net appreciation is ignored.
1 investments
Traded investments are valued based on the trades /
classification:
quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or prices
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, investments are
published by Financial Benchmarks India Pvt Ltd.
classified on the date of purchase into “Held for Trading”
230
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
(FBIL) with Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives provided earlier. The book value of individual securities is
Association (FIMMDA) as the calculating agent. Investments not changed on such revaluation of investments.
denominated in foreign currencies are valued based on the
Investments classified under HTM category are carried
prices provided by market information providers such as
at their acquisition cost and not marked to market. Any
Bloomberg, Refinitiv, etc.
premium on acquisition is amortised over the remaining
The market value of unquoted government of India securities, maturity period of the security on a constant yield-to-
state government securities and special bonds such as oil maturity basis. Such amortisation of premium is adjusted
bonds, fertilizer bonds, etc. issued by the government of against interest income from investments. Any diminution,
India is computed as per the prices published by FBIL with other than temporary, in the value of investments in HTM
FIMMDA as the calculating agent. category is provided for.
The valuation of other unquoted fixed income securities (viz. Non-performing investments are identified and provision
other approved securities and bonds and debentures), and are made thereon based on the RBI guidelines. The
preference shares, is done with appropriate mark-up, i.e. provision on such non-performing investments are not set
applicable FIMMDA published credit spread over the Yield off against the appreciation in respect of other performing
to Maturity (YTM) rates for government of India securities as investments. Interest on non-performing investments is not
published by FBIL with FIMMDA as the calculating agent. recognised until received.
Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-up repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions:
value, if the latest Balance Sheet is available or at ` 1 for Repurchase (Repo) and reverse repurchase (Reverse
each company. Repo) transactions are reflected as borrowing and lending
transactions respectively.
Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest net asset value
declared by the respective schemes of the mutual fund. Borrowing cost on repo transactions is accounted as
interest expense and revenue on reverse repo transactions
Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of deposits
is accounted as interest income.
being discounted instruments, are valued at carrying cost.
2 Advances
Investments in Security receipts (SR) and unquoted units
of Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT) are valued as classification:
per the net asset value provided by the issuing Asset Advances are classified as performing and non-performing
Reconstruction Company and InvIT trust respectively. based on the RBI guidelines and are stated net of bills
rediscounted, inter-bank participation with risk, specific
Investments in unquoted Venture Capital Fund (VCF) are
provisions, interest in suspense for non-performing
categorised, at the discretion of the Bank, under HTM
advances, claims received from Credit Guarantors,
category for an initial period of three years and valued at
provisions for funded interest term loan and provision for
cost during this period. Such investments are transferred
diminution in the fair value of restructured assets.
to the AFS category after the said period of three years.
Investments in AFS category are valued at NAV shown by Provisioning:
the VCF in its financial statements. Units are valued based Specific loan loss provisions in respect of non-performing
on the latest audited financials of the VCF, if available or at advances are made based on management’s assessment
` 1 per VCF as per the RBI guidelines. of the degree of impairment of advances, subject to the
minimum provisioning prescribed by the RBI.
Pass Through Certificates (PTC) including Priority Sector-
PTCs are valued by using FIMMDA credit spread as The specific provision for retail non-performing assets are
applicable for the NBFC category, based on the credit rating also based on the nature of product and delinquency levels.
of the respective PTC over the YTM rates for government Specific loan loss provisions in respect of non-performing
of India securities published by FBIL with FIMMDA as the advances are included under Provisions and Contingencies.
calculating agent.
Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance
Net depreciation, if any, compared to the acquisition cost, with the Bank’s policy. Recoveries from bad debts written-
in any of the six groups, is charged to the Profit and Loss off are included under other income.
Account. The net appreciation, if any, in any of the six groups
In relation to derivative contracts with non-performing
is not recognised except to the extent of depreciation
borrowers, the Bank makes provision for the entire amount
231
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
of overdue and future receivables relating to positive with) and consideration is received. Sales / transfers that do
marked to market value of the said derivative contracts. not meet true sale criteria are accounted for as borrowings.
For a securitisation or direct assignment transaction, the
The Bank maintains general provision for standard assets
Bank recognises profit upon receipt of the funds and loss
including credit exposures computed as per the current
is recognised at the time of sale.
marked to market values of interest rate and foreign
exchange derivative contracts and gold. In the case of On sale of stressed assets, if the sale is at a price below
overseas branches, general provision on standard assets the net book value (i.e., funded outstanding less specific
is maintained at the higher of the levels stipulated by the provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the Profit and
respective overseas regulator or RBI. Provision for standard Loss Account and if the sale is for a value higher than the
assets is included under other liabilities. net book value, the excess provision is credited to the
Profit and Loss Account in the year when the sum of cash
In addition to the above, the Bank on a prudent basis
received by way of initial consideration and / or redemption
makes provisions on advances or exposures which are not
or transfer of security receipts issued by SC / RC exceeds
NPAs, but has reasons to believe on the basis of the extant
the net book value of the loan at the time of transfer.
environment or specific information or basis regulatory
guidance / instructions, of a possible slippage of a specific In respect of stressed assets sold under an asset
advance or a group of advances or exposures or potential securitisation, where the investment by the bank in security
exposures. These are classified as contingent provisions receipts (SRs) backed by the assets sold by it is more than
and included under other liabilities. 10 percent of such SRs, provisions held are higher of the
provisions required in terms of net asset value declared by the
Provisions made in addition to the Bank’s policy for specific
Securitisation Company (‘SC’) / Reconstruction Company
loan loss provisions for non-performing assets, possible
(‘RC’) and provisions as per the extant norms applicable to
slippage of specific exposures and regulatory general
the underlying loans, notionally treating the book value of
provisions are categorised as floating provisions. Creation
these SRs as the corresponding stressed loans assuming
of floating provisions is considered by the Bank up to a level
the loans remained in the books of the Bank.
approved by the Board of Directors. Floating provisions
are used only for contingencies under extraordinary The Bank invests in Pass Through Certificates (PTCs)
circumstances and for making specific provisions for non- issued by other Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs). These
performing accounts. Floating provisions are included are accounted at acquisition cost and are classified as
under other liabilities. investments. The Bank also buys loans through the direct
assignment route which are classified as advances. These
Further to the provisions required to be held according
are carried at acquisition cost unless it is more than the
to the asset classification status, provisions are held for
face value, in which case the premium is amortised based
individual country exposures (other than for home country
on effective interest rate method.
exposure). Countries are categorised into risk categories
as per Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank
(‘ECGC’) guidelines and provisioning is done in respect of participation with and without risk. In the case of participation
that country where the net funded exposure is one percent with risk, the aggregate amount of the participation issued
or more of the Bank’s total assets. Provision for country risk by the Bank is reduced from advances. In case where
is included under other liabilities. the Bank is assuming risk by participation, the aggregate
amount of the participation is classified under advances.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines on the prudential
In the case of issue of participation certificate without
framework for resolution of stressed assets and the
risk, the aggregate amount of participation issued by the
resolution frameworks for COVID-19 related stress and
Bank is classified under borrowings and where the Bank
its Board approved policy, the Bank has implemented
is acquiring participation certificate, the aggregate amount
resolution plans for eligible borrowers. The asset
of participation acquired is shown as due from banks
classification and necessary provisions thereon are done
under advances.
in accordance with the said RBI guidelines.
4 fixed assets and depreciation
3 Securitisation and transfer of assets
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated
Assets transferred through securitisation and direct
depreciation as adjusted for impairment, if any. Cost
assignment of cash flows are de-recognised in the Balance
includes cost of purchase and all expenditure like site
Sheet when they are sold (true sale criteria being fully met
preparation, installation costs and professional fees
232
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
incurred on the asset before it is ready to use. Subsequent 5 impairment of assets
expenditure incurred on assets put to use is capitalised only
The Bank assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether
when it increases the future benefit / functioning capability
there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
from / of such assets.
Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent the
Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated
the fixed asset on a straight-line basis. The management recoverable amount.
believes that the useful life of assets assessed by the
6 translation of foreign currency items
Bank, pursuant to Part C of Schedule II to the Companies
Act, 2013, taking into account changes in environment, Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic
changes in technology, the utility and efficacy of the asset operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing
in use, fairly reflects its estimate of useful lives of the fixed on the date of the transaction. Income and expenditure
assets. The estimated useful lives of key fixed assets are items of integral foreign operations (representative offices)
given below: are translated at the weekly average closing rates and
of non-integral foreign operations (foreign branches and
Estimated useful
offshore banking units) at the monthly average closing rates.
Estimated useful life specified under
Asset life as assessed by Schedule II of the
Foreign currency monetary items of domestic and integral
the Bank Companies Act,
2013 foreign operations are translated at the closing exchange
Owned Premises 61 years 60 years rates notified by Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association
Automated Teller 10 years 15 years of India (FEDAI) as at the Balance Sheet date and the
Machines (ATMs)
resulting net revaluation profit or loss arising due to a net
Electrical equipments 6 to 10 years 10 years
open position in any foreign currency is recognised in the
and installations
Profit and Loss Account.
Office equipments 3 to 6 years 5 years
Computers 3 years 3 years Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency
Modems, routers, 3 to 6 years 6 years assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations
switches, servers,
are translated at closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI
network and related
at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss
IT equipments
arising from exchange differences are accumulated in the
Motor cars 4 years 8 years
Foreign Currency Translation Account until disposal of the
Furniture and fittings 16 years 10 years
non-integral foreign operations in accordance with AS - 11,
• Improvements to lease hold premises are amortised The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates and the
over the remaining primary period of lease. extant RBI guidelines.
• Software and system development expenditure is Foreign currency denominated contingent liabilities on
depreciated over a period of 5 years. account of foreign exchange and derivative contracts,
guarantees, letters of credit, acceptances and
• Point of sales terminals are depreciated over a period
endorsements are reported at closing rates of exchange
of 4 years.
notified by FEDAI as at the Balance Sheet date.
• For assets purchased and sold during the year,
7 foreign exchange and derivative contracts
depreciation is provided on pro-rata basis.
Foreign exchange spot and forward contracts, both
• Whenever there is a revision of the estimated useful
deliverable and non-deliverable, outstanding as at the
life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable amount
Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are revalued at
is charged over the revised remaining useful life of the
the closing spot and forward rates respectively as notified
said asset.
by FEDAI and at interpolated rates for contracts of interim
• Profit on sale of immovable property net of taxes and maturities. The USD-INR exchange rate for valuation of
transfer to statutory reserve, are transferred to capital contracts having longer maturities i.e. greater than one year,
reserve account. is derived using the USD-INR spot rate as well as relevant
INR yield curve and USD yield curve. For other currency
• Assets (other than POS terminals) costing less than
pairs, the forward points (for rates / tenors not published
` 5,000 individually, are fully depreciated in the year
by FEDAI) are obtained from Refinitiv or Bloomberg for
of purchase.
valuation of the forex deals. Valuation is considered on
233
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
present value basis. For this purpose, the forward profit end basis, such interest is accounted on receipt basis in
or loss on the deals are discounted till the valuation date accordance with the RBI communication.
using the discounting yields. The resulting profit or loss
Interest income on investments in PTCs and loans bought
on valuation is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
out through the direct assignment route is recognised at
Foreign exchange contracts are classified as assets when
their effective interest rate.
the fair value is positive (positive marked to market value) or
as liabilities when the fair value is negative (negative marked Income on non-coupon bearing discounted instruments is
to market value). recognised over the tenor of the instrument on a constant
yield basis.
Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for
trading, that are entered into to establish the amount of Loan processing fee is recognised as income when due.
reporting currency required or available at the settlement Syndication / Arranger fee is recognised as income when
date of a transaction, and are outstanding at the Balance a significant act / milestone is completed.
Sheet date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate.
Gain / loss on sell down of loans is recognised in line with
The premium or discount arising at the inception of such
the extant RBI guidelines.
forward exchange contract is amortised as expense or
income over the life of the contract. Dividend on equity shares, preference shares and on
mutual fund units is recognised as income when the right
The Bank recognises all derivative contracts at fair value, on
to receive the dividend is established.
the date on which the derivative contracts are entered into
and are re-measured at fair value as at the Balance Sheet Guarantee commission, commission on letter of credit,
date. Derivatives are classified as assets when the fair value annual locker rent fees and annual fees for credit cards
is positive (positive marked to market value) or as liabilities are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period
when the fair value is negative (negative marked to market of contract. Other fees and commission income are
value). recognised when due, where the Bank is reasonably
certain of ultimate collection.
The Bank as part of its risk management strategy, makes
use of financial derivative instruments, including foreign Fees paid / received for priority sector lending certificates
exchange forward contracts, for hedging the risk embedded (PSLC) is recognised on straight-line basis over the period
in some of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the of the certificate.
balance sheet. The Bank identifies the hedged item (asset
9 employee benefits
or liability) at the inception of the transaction itself. Hedge
effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception of employee Stock option Scheme (eSoS):
the hedge and at the reporting date thereafter. The Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘the Scheme’)
provides for the grant of options to acquire equity shares
In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of
of the Bank to its employees and whole time directors.
the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognised
The options granted to employees vest as per their vesting
in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow
schedule and these may be exercised by the employees
hedges, the changes in fair value of effective portion are
within a specified period.
recognised in Reserves and Surplus under ‘Cash flow
hedge reserve’ and ineffective portion of an effective The Bank follows the intrinsic value method to account for
hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in the Profit its stock-based employee compensation plans in respect of
and Loss Account. The accumulated balance in the cash options granted up to March 31, 2021. Compensation cost
flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging relationship, is is measured by the excess, if any, of the market price of
recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at the same time the underlying stock over the exercise price as determined
that the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the under the option plan. The market price is the closing
Profit and Loss Account. price on the stock exchange where there is highest trading
volume on the working day immediately preceding the date
8 revenue recognition
of grant. Compensation cost, if any is amortised over the
Interest income is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account vesting period.
on an accrual basis, except in the case of non-performing
Effective April 01, 2021, the fair value of share-linked
assets and overdue interest on retail EMI based performing
instruments on the date of grant for all instruments granted
advances, which are recognised when realised. In case
after March 31, 2021 is recognised as an expense in
of domestic advances, where interest is collected on rear
234
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
accordance with the RBI guidelines on Compensation of Provident fund:
Whole Time Directors/ Chief Executive Officers/ Material The Bank is covered under the Employees Provident Fund
Risk Takers and Control Function staff. The fair value of the and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and accordingly
stock-based employee compensation is estimated using all employees of the Bank are entitled to receive benefits
Black-Scholes model. The compensation cost is amortised under the provident fund. The Bank contributes an amount,
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the option on a monthly basis, at a determined rate (currently 12%
with a corresponding credit to Employee Stock Options of employee’s basic salary). Of this, the Bank contributes
Reserve. On exercise of the stock options, corresponding an amount equal to 8.33% of employee’s basic salary up
balance in Employee Stock Options Reserve is transferred to a maximum salary level of ` 15,000/- per month, to the
to Share Premium. In respect of the options which expire Pension Scheme administered by the Regional Provident
unexercised, the balance standing to the credit of Employee Fund Office. The balance amount of the 12% employer’s
Stock Options Reserve is transferred to General Reserve. share is contributed to an exempted Trust set up by the
Bank and administered by a Board of Trustees. The Bank
gratuity:
recognises such contributions as an expense in the year in
The Bank has an obligation towards gratuity, a defined
which it is incurred.
benefit retirement plan covering all eligible employees.
The plan benefit vests upon completion of five years of Interest payable to the members of the exempted trust shall
service and is in the form of lump sum amount, without an not be lower than the statutory rate of interest declared by
upper limit, equivalent to 15 days’ basic salary payable for the Central Government under the Employees Provident
each completed year of service to all eligible employees on Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and
resignation, retirement, death while in employment or on shortfall, if any, shall be made good by the Bank.
termination of employment. The Bank makes contributions
The guidance note on implementing AS-15, Employee
to a recognised Gratuity Trust administered by trustees and
Benefits, states that benefits involving employer established
whose funds are managed by insurance companies. In
provident funds, which require interest shortfalls to be
respect of erstwhile Lord Krishna Bank (eLKB) employees,
provided, are to be considered as defined benefit plans.
the Bank makes contribution to a fund set up by eLKB and
Actuarial valuation of this Provident Fund interest shortfall
administered by the Board of Trustees.
is done as per the guidance note issued in this respect by
The defined gratuity benefit plans are valued by an The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI) and provision towards
independent actuary as at the Balance Sheet date using this liability is made.
the projected unit credit method as per the requirement of
The overseas branches of the Bank make contribution to the
AS-15, Employee Benefits, to determine the present value
respective applicable government social security scheme
of the defined benefit obligation and the related service
calculated as a percentage of the employees’ salaries.
costs. The actuarial calculations entails assumptions about
The Bank’s obligations are limited to these contributions,
demographics, early retirement, salary increases and
which are expensed when due, as such contribution is in
interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is recognised in the
the nature of defined contribution.
Profit and Loss Account.
Pension:
Superannuation:
In respect of pension payable to certain eLKB employees
The Bank has a Superannuation Plan under which
under the Lord Krishna Bank (Employees) Pension
employees of the Bank, above a prescribed grade, are
Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme, the Bank
entitled to receive retirement benefits either through salary
contributes 10% of basic salary to a pension trust set up
or under a defined contribution plan. For those opting for
by the Bank and administered by the Board of Trustees and
a defined contribution plan, the Bank contributes a sum
an additional amount towards the liability shortfall based on
equivalent to 13% of the employee’s eligible annual basic
an independent actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet
salary (15% for the whole time directors and for certain
date, which includes assumptions about demographics,
eligible employees of the erstwhile Centurion Bank of
early retirement, salary increases and interest rates.
Punjab (eCBoP) staff) to a Trust administered by trustees
and whose funds are managed by insurance companies. In respect of certain eLKB employees who had moved to
The Bank has no liability towards future superannuation a Cost to Company (CTC) based compensation structure
fund benefits other than its contribution and recognises and had completed less than 15 years of service, the
such contribution as an expense in the year incurred. contribution which was made until then, is maintained as a
fund and will be converted into annuity on separation after a
235
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
lock-in-period of two years. For this category of employees, with the Income Tax Act, 1961, the rules framed there
liability stands frozen and no additional provision is required under and considering the material principles set out in
except for interest as applicable to Provident Fund, which Income Computation and Disclosure Standards) and the
is provided for. net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during the
year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for
In respect of certain eLKB employees who moved to a CTC
the future tax consequences of timing differences between
structure and had completed service of more than 15 years,
the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their
pension would be paid on separation based on salary
respective tax bases, and operating loss carried forward,
applicable as on the date of movement to CTC structure.
if any. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using
Provision thereto is made based on an independent
the enacted or substantively enacted tax rates as at the
actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet date.
Balance Sheet date.
national Pension Scheme (nPS):
Current tax assets and liabilities and deferred tax assets
In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the
and liabilities are off-set when they relate to income taxes
NPS, the Bank contributes certain percentage of the basic
levied by the same taxation authority, when the Bank has
salary of employees to the aforesaid scheme, a defined
a legal right to off-set and when the Bank intends to settle
contribution plan, which is managed and administered by
on a net basis.
pension fund management companies. The Bank has no
liability other than its contribution and recognises such Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent there
contributions as an expense in the year incurred. is reasonable certainty that the assets can be realised
in future. In case of unabsorbed depreciation or carried
10 debit and credit card reward points
forward loss under taxation laws, deferred tax assets are
The Bank estimates the probable redemption of debit recognised only if there is virtual certainty of realisation
and credit card reward points and cost per point using an of such assets. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each
actuarial method by employing an independent actuary, Balance Sheet date and appropriately adjusted to reflect the
which includes assumptions such as mortality, redemption amount that is reasonably / virtually certain to be realised.
and spends. Provisions for liabilities on the outstanding
14 earnings per share
reward points are made based on an independent actuarial
valuation as at the Balance Sheet date and included in The Bank reports basic and diluted earnings per equity
other liabilities and provisions. share in accordance with AS-20, Earnings per Share. Basic
earnings per equity share has been computed by dividing
11 Bullion
net profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders by
The Bank imports bullion including precious metal bars on the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding
a consignment basis. The imports are typically on a back- for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential
to-back basis and are priced to the customer based on dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to
the price quoted by the supplier. The difference between issue equity shares were exercised or converted to equity
the price recovered from customers and cost of bullion during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share are
is accounted at the time of sale to the customers and computed using the weighted average number of equity
reported as ‘‘Other Income’’. shares and the dilutive potential equity shares outstanding
during the period except where the results are anti-dilutive.
The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending
basis and the interest thereon is accounted as interest 15 Share issue expenses
expense / income respectively.
Share issue expenses are adjusted against Share Premium
12 lease accounting Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Lease payments including cost escalation for assets taken 16 Segment information
on operating lease are recognised in the Profit and Loss
The disclosure relating to segment information is in
Account over the lease term on a straight-line basis in
accordance with AS-17, Segment Reporting and as per
accordance with the AS-19, Leases.
guidelines issued by RBI.
13 income tax
Income tax expense comprises current tax provision (i.e.
the amount of tax for the period determined in accordance
236
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
17 Accounting for provisions, contingent liabilities • a present obligation arising from a past event which
and contingent assets is not recognised as it is not probable that an outflow
of resources will be required to settle the obligation
In accordance with AS-29, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities
or a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation
and Contingent Assets, the Bank recognises provisions
cannot be made.
when it has a present obligation as a result of a past event,
it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying When there is a possible obligation or a present obligation
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation in respect of which the likelihood of outflow of resources is
and when a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation remote, no provision or disclosure is made.
can be made.
Contingent assets, if any, are not recognised in the financial
Provisions are determined based on management estimate statements since this may result in the recognition of
required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, income that may never be realised.
supplemented by experience of similar transactions. These
18 cash and cash equivalents
are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and adjusted to
reflect the current management estimates. Cash and cash equivalents include cash including
foreign currency notes and gold in hand, balances with
A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and
• a possible obligation arising from a past event, the short notice.
existence of which will be confirmed by the occurrence
19 corporate social responsibility
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future
events not within the control of the Bank; or Expenditure towards corporate social responsibility, in
accordance with Companies Act, 2013, is recognised in
the Profit and Loss Account.
237
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Schedule 18 - Notes forming part of the financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2022
Amounts in notes forming part of the financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2022 are denominated in rupee crore to
conform to extant RBI guidelines, except where stated otherwise.
1. dividend
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), vide its notification dated April 22, 2021 mentioned that banks may pay dividend on equity
shares from the profits for the financial year ended March 31, 2021, subject to the quantum of dividend being not more than
fifty per cent of the amount determined as per the dividend payout ratio prescribed by RBI. Accordingly, the Bank has paid
dividend of ` 6.50 per equity share of ` 1/- each aggregating to ` 3,592.40 crore, for the financial year ended March 31, 2021.
2. Proposed scheme of amalgamation
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 04, 2022, approved a composite Scheme of amalgamation ("Scheme"),
for the amalgamation of: (i) HDFC Investments Limited and HDFC Holdings Limited, into and with Housing Development
Finance Corporation Limited ("HDFC Limited"); and thereafter (ii) HDFC Limited into HDFC Bank Limited, and their respective
shareholders and creditors, under Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws including the
rules and regulations. The share exchange ratio shall be 42 equity shares of face value of ` 1/- each of the Bank for every 25
equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each of HDFC Limited. The Scheme is subject to the receipt of requisite approvals from
statutory and regulatory authorities, and the respective shareholders and creditors, under applicable law.
As per the scheme, the appointed date for the amalgamation of HDFC Limited with and into the Bank shall be the effective
date of the scheme. Upon the scheme becoming effective, the Bank will issue equity shares to the shareholders of HDFC
Limited as on the record date. The equity shares held by HDFC Limited in the Bank will be extinguished as per the scheme.
3. change in accounting policy
The RBI, vide its clarification dated August 30, 2021 on Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive
Officers / Material Risk Takers and Control Function Staff, advised Banks that the fair value of share-linked instruments on the
date of grant should be recognised as an expense for all instruments granted after the accounting period ending March 31,
2021. Accordingly, the Bank has changed its accounting policy from the intrinsic value method to the fair value method for all
employee stock options granted after March 31, 2021. The fair value is estimated on the date of grant using Black-Scholes
model and is recognised as compensation expense over the vesting period. As a result, ‘Employees cost’ for the year ended
March 31, 2022 is higher by ` 325.97 crore with a consequent reduction in profit after tax by the said amount.
4. capital adequacy
The Bank’s capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (‘Capital Adequacy Ratio’) is calculated in accordance with the RBI guidelines
on Basel III capital regulations (‘Basel III’). The phasing in of the minimum capital ratio requirement under Basel III is as follows:
(% of RWAs)
As at March 31,
Minimum ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets
2020 2021 2022
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) 7.575 7.575 8.200
Tier 1 capital 9.075 9.075 9.700
Total capital 11.075 11.075 11.700
The above minimum CET 1, Tier 1 and total capital ratio requirements include Capital Conservation Buffer (CCB) and additional
capital applicable to our Bank being Domestic-Systemically Important Bank (D-SIB).
238
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
The Bank’s capital adequacy ratio computed under Basel III is given below:
(` crore)
As at March 31,
Particulars
2022 2021
CET 1 capital 225,585.50 190,602.36
Additional Tier 1 capital 16,221.25 7,985.00
Tier 1 capital 241,806.75 198,587.36
Tier 2 capital 13,927.75 13,958.94
Total capital 255,734.50 212,546.30
Total risk weighted assets 1,353,510.85 1,131,143.88
Capital adequacy ratios under Basel III
CET 1 16.67% 16.85%
Tier 1 17.87% 17.56%
Tier 2 1.03% 1.23%
Total 18.90% 18.79%
Leverage Ratio 10.62% 10.40%
Percentage of the shareholding of Government of India Nil Nil
Amount of non-equity Tier 1 capital raised during the year, of which: 8,318.25 Nil
Basel III compliant Perpetual Debt instrument 8,318.25 Nil
Amount of Tier 2 capital raised during the year, of which: Nil Nil
Basel III compliant Non-cumulative Subordinated bonds Nil Nil
As on March 31, 2022, the Bank’s subordinated and perpetual debt capital instruments amounted to ` 5,477.00 crore (previous
year: ` 9,127.00 crore) and ` 16,318.25 crore (previous year: ` 8,000.00 crore) respectively.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, banks are required to make consolidated Pillar 3 and Net Stable Funding Ratio
(NSFR) disclosures under the Basel III Framework. These disclosures are available on the Bank's website at the following link:
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/resources/regulatory-disclosures. The disclosures have not been subjected to audit by
the statutory auditors of the Bank.
capital infusion
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has allotted 3,27,64,494 equity shares (previous year: 2,94,90,022 equity
shares) aggregating to face value of ` 3.27 crore (previous year: ` 2.95 crore) on exercise of stock options. Accordingly, the
share capital increased by ` 3.27 crore (previous year: ` 2.95 crore) and the share premium increased by ` 2,606.48 crore
(previous year: ` 1,757.15 crore).
The details of the movement in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank are given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Opening balance 551.28 548.33
Addition pursuant to stock options exercised 3.27 2.95
Closing balance 554.55 551.28
5. earnings per equity share
Basic and diluted earnings per equity share of the Bank have been calculated based on the net profit after tax of ` 36,961.36
crore (previous year: ` 31,116.53 crore) and the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year of
5,53,32,03,566 (previous year: 5,49,96,68,151).
239
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Following is the reconciliation between the basic and diluted earnings per equity share:
For the years ended
Particulars
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Nominal value per share (`) 1.00 1.00
Basic earnings per share (`) 66.80 56.58
Effect of potential equity shares (per share) (`) (0.45) (0.26)
Diluted earnings per share (`) 66.35 56.32
Basic earnings per equity share of the Bank has been computed by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share
has been computed by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders by the weighted average
number of equity shares and dilutive potential equity shares outstanding during the year, except where the results are anti-
dilutive. The dilutive impact is on account of stock options granted to employees by the Bank. There is no impact of dilution
on the profits in the current year and previous year.
Following is the reconciliation of the weighted average number of equity shares used in the computation of basic and diluted
earnings per share:
For the years ended
Particulars
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing basic earnings per equity 5,53,32,03,566 5,49,96,68,151
share
Effect of potential equity shares outstanding 3,77,30,419 2,57,50,092
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing diluted earnings per equity 5,57,09,33,985 5,52,54,18,243
share
6. Reserves and Surplus
Statutory Reserve
The Bank has made an appropriation of ` 9,240.34 crore (previous year: ` 7,779.13 crore) out of profits for the year ended
March 31, 2022 to the Statutory Reserve pursuant to the requirements of Section 17 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and
RBI guidelines dated September 23, 2000.
General Reserve
The Bank has made an appropriation of ` 3,696.14 crore (previous year: ` 3,111.65 crore) out of profits for the year ended
March 31, 2022 to the General Reserve.
capital Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has appropriated ` 666.47 crore (previous year: ` 2,291.68 crore), being the
profit from sale of investments under HTM category and profit on sale of immovable properties, net of taxes and transfer to
statutory reserve, from the Profit and Loss Account to the Capital Reserve.
Investment Reserve Account
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has appropriated ` 233.13 crore (net) (previous year: ` 61.66 crore (net)) from
Profit and Loss Account to Investment Reserve Account as per the RBI guidelines.
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank made transfer of Nil (previous year: ` 1,712.00 crore) to Investment Fluctuation
Reserve. As per RBI guidelines, banks were required to create an Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR) equivalent to 2.00% of
their HFT and AFS investment portfolios by March 31, 2021. The balance in the IFR as at March 31, 2022 is 2.28% (previous
year: 2.00%) of the Bank’s HFT and AFS investment portfolios.
240
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
cash Flow hedge Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has recognised ` (97.68) crore (previous year: Nil) as Cash Flow Hedge
Reserve on derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedge.
employee Stock Option Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has recognised ` 325.97 crore (previous year: Nil) as Employee Stock Option
Reserve on account of fair valuation of share-linked instruments.
draw down from Reserves
The Bank has not undertaken any drawdown from reserves during the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021.
7. Accounting for employee share based payments
The shareholders of the Bank approved the grant of equity share options under Plan “C” in June 2005, Plan “D” in June 2007,
Plan “E” in June 2010, Plan “F” in June 2013 and Plan “G” in July 2016. Under the terms of each of these Plans, the Bank may
issue to its employees and Whole Time Directors, Equity Stock Options (‘ESOPs’) each of which is convertible into one equity
share. All the plans were framed in accordance with the SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme & Employee Stock Purchase
Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to time and as applicable at the time of the grant. The accounting for the
stock options has been in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and
Sweaty Equity) Regulations, 2021 and RBI guidelines to the extent applicable.
Plans C, D, E, F and G provide for the issuance of options at the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee of the Board (‘NRC’) at the closing price on the working day immediately preceding the date when options are
granted. This closing price is the closing price of the Bank’s equity share on an Indian stock exchange with the highest trading
volume as of the working day preceding the date of grant.
The vesting conditions applicable to the options are at the discretion of the NRC. These options are exercisable on vesting,
for a period as set forth by the NRC at the time of the grant. The period in which the options may be exercised cannot exceed
five years from date of expiry of vesting period. During the financial year 2021-22, certain modifications were made in the
subsisting ESOP Plans pursuant to the approval of the shareholders of the Bank as to allow any employee of the Bank moving
/ getting transferred to a subsidiary company, to be so entitled to the stock options already granted to such an employee as
continuity of service for Long Term Incentives earned during the course of his / her service with the Bank.
Activity in the options outstanding under the employee Stock Option Plans
• Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2022:
Number of Weighted average
Particulars
options exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of year 16,81,68,760 1,063.79
Granted during the year 2,56,28,600 1,427.29
Exercised during the year 3,27,64,494 796.52
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year 29,26,850 1,196.30
Options outstanding, end of year 15,81,06,016 1,175.65
Options exercisable 6,53,21,116 1,036.49
• Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2021:
Number of Weighted average
Particulars
options exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of year 14,28,65,602 899.03
Granted during the year 5,74,66,600 1,235.80
Exercised during the year 2,94,90,022 596.85
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year 26,73,420 1,107.22
Options outstanding, end of year 16,81,68,760 1,063.79
Options exercisable 6,44,53,260 834.48
241
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2022:
Range of exercise Number of shares Weighted average life Weighted average
Plan
price (`) arising out of options of options (in years) exercise price (`)
Plan F 417.75 to 731.08 1,75,64,766 1.07 666.77
Plan G 882.85 to 1,516.95 14,05,41,250 2.70 1,239.25
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2021:
Range of exercise Number of shares Weighted average life Weighted average
Plan
price (`) arising out of options of options (in years) exercise price (`)
Plan C 417.75 9,700 0.32 417.75
Plan F 417.75 to 731.08 3,49,74,270 1.48 610.67
Plan G 882.85 to 1,235.80 13,31,84,790 3.18 1,182.83
In accordance with the RBI clarification dated August 30, 2021, the Bank has estimated the fair value of the options granted
after March 31, 2021 using Black-Scholes model. This is recognised as compensation expense over the vesting period of the
options with effect from April 01, 2021.
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2022 are given below:
Particulars March 31, 2022
Dividend yield 0.21% to 0.52%
Expected volatility 23.86% to 38.70%
Risk - free interest rate 4.38% to 6.07%
Expected life of the options 1 to 6 Years
8. Other liabilities
• The Bank held provisions towards standard assets amounting to ` 6,562.60 crore as at March 31, 2022 (previous year:
` 5,303.37 crore). These are included under other liabilities.
 Provision for standard assets is made @ 0.25% for direct advances to agriculture and Small and Micro Enterprises
(SMEs) sectors, @ 1% for advances to commercial real estate sector, @ 0.75% for advances to commercial real
estate - residential housing sector, @ 5% on restructured standard advances, @ 2% until after one year from the date
on which the rates are reset at higher rates for housing loans offered at a comparatively lower rate of interest in the
first few years and @ 2% on all exposures to the wholly owned step down subsidiaries of the overseas subsidiaries
of Indian companies, sanctioned / renewed after December 31, 2015.
 Provision is maintained at rates higher than the regulatory minimum, on standard advances based on evaluation of
the risk and stress in various sectors as per the policy approved by the Board of the Bank.
 In accordance with regulatory guidelines and based on the information made available by its customers to the Bank,
for exposures to customers who have not hedged their foreign currency exposures, provision for standard assets
is made at levels ranging up to 0.80% depending on the likely loss the entities could incur on account of exchange
rate movements.
 Provision for standard assets of overseas branches is made at higher of rates prescribed by the overseas regulator
or RBI.
 For all other loans and advances including credit exposures computed as per the current marked to market values
of interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts, provision for standard assets is made @ 0.40%.
 In accordance with RBI guidelines, an additional provision is made @ 3% on the incremental exposure to the
"Specified Borrowers" (except NBFCs / HFCs) beyond normally permitted lending limit (NPLL) as defined by RBI.
• Other liabilities include contingent provisions of ` 9,684.88 crore as at March 31, 2022 (previous year: ` 5,861.17 crore)
in respect of advances.
242
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
• The Bank has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and
gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other liabilities
as at March 31, 2022 include unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 7,464.74 crore (previous
year: ` 8,127.65 crore).
9. unhedged foreign currency exposure
The Bank has in place a policy and process for managing currency induced credit risk. The credit appraisal memorandum
prepared at the time of origination and review of a credit facility is required to discuss the exchange risk that the customer
is exposed to from all sources, including trade related, foreign currency borrowings and external commercial borrowings. It
could cover the natural hedge available to the customer as well as other hedging methods adopted by the customer to mitigate
exchange risk. For foreign currency loans granted by the Bank beyond a defined threshold the customer is encouraged to
enter into appropriate risk hedging mechanisms with the Bank. Alternatively, the Bank satisfies itself that the customer has
the financial capacity to bear the exchange risk in the normal course of its business and / or has other mitigants to reduce the
risk. On a monthly basis, the Bank reviews information on the unhedged portion of foreign currency exposures of customers,
whose total foreign currency exposure with the Bank exceeds a defined threshold. Based on the monthly review, the Bank
proposes suitable hedging techniques to the customer to contain the risk. A Board approved credit risk rating linked limit on
unhedged foreign currency position of customers is applicable when extending credit facilities to a customer. The compliance
with the limit is assessed by estimating the extent of drop in a customer’s annual Earnings Before Interest and Depreciation
(‘EBID’) due to a potentially large adverse movement in exchange rate impacting the unhedged foreign currency exposure of
the customer. Where a breach is observed in such a simulation, the customer is advised to reduce its unhedged exposure.
In accordance with RBI guidelines, as at March 31, 2022 the Bank holds standard asset provisions of ` 355.00 crore (previous
year: ` 230.31 crore) and maintains capital (including CCB & D-SIB) of ` 1,412.67 crore (previous year: ` 918.77 crore) in respect
of the unhedged foreign currency exposure of its customers.
243
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
244
stnemtsevnI
.01
:2202
,13
hcraM
ta
sa
stnemtsevni
fo
noitisopmoc
)erorc
`(
latoT
aidnI
edistuo
stnemtsevnI
aidnI
ni
stnemtsevnI
stnemtsevnI
latoT
tnemnrevoG
-tsevnI
seiraidisbuS
seitiruceS
latoT
seiraidisbuS
rehtO
serutnebeD
tnemnrevoG
stnem
srehtO
tnioj
ro
/
dna
gnidulcni(
stnemtsevnI
srehtO
tnioj
ro
/
dna
serahS
devorppA
sdnoB
dna
seitiruceS
edistuo
serutnev
lacol
aidnI
ni
serutnev
seitiruceS
aidnI
)seitirohtua
ot
dleH
ytirutaM
68.012,792
-
-
-
-
68.012,792
53.31
94.628,3
25.061,8
-
-
05.012,582
ssorG
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
:sseL
noisivorP -non
rof
gnimrofrep
stnemtsevni
)IPN(
68.012,792
-
-
-
-
68.012,792
53.31
94.628,3
25.061,8
-
-
05.012,582
teN
rof
elbaliavA
elaS
03.046,551
51.526,2
48.493,2
-
13.032
51.510,351
25.373,61
-
37.481,65
69.035
-
49.529,97
ssorG
)40.043(
)37.2(
-
-
)37.2(
)13.733(
-
-
-
)83.54(
-
)39.192(
:sseL
rof
noisivorP
noitaicerped
IPN
dna
62.003,551
24.226,2
48.493,2
-
85.722
48.776,251
25.373,61
-
37.481,65
85.584
-
10.436,97
teN
rof
dleH
gnidarT
61.590,3
-
-
-
-
61.590,3
65.740,1
-
35.363
-
-
70.486,1
ssorG
)95.07(
-
-
-
-
)95.07(
)09.86(
-
)24.0(
-
-
)72.1(
:sseL
rof
noisivorP
noitaicerped
IPN
dna
75.420,3
-
-
-
-
75.420,3
66.879
-
11.363
-
-
08.286,1
teN
23.649,554
51.526,2
48.493,2
-
13.032
71.123,354
34.434,71
94.628,3
87.807,46
69.035
-
15.028,663
latoT
stnemtsevnI
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
:sseL
noisivorP -non
rof
gnimrofrep
stnemtsevni
MTH
rof
yrogetac
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
245
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
latoT
aidnI
edistuo
stnemtsevnI
aidnI
ni
stnemtsevnI
stnemtsevnI
latoT
tnemnrevoG
-tsevnI
seiraidisbuS
seitiruceS
latoT
seiraidisbuS
rehtO
serutnebeD
tnemnrevoG
stnem
srehtO
tnioj
ro
/
dna
gnidulcni(
stnemtsevnI
srehtO
tnioj
ro
/
dna
serahS
devorppA
sdnoB
dna
seitiruceS
edistuo
serutnev
lacol
aidnI
ni
serutnev
seitiruceS
aidnI
)seitirohtua
)36.014(
)37.2(
-
-
)37.2(
)09.704(
)09.86(
-
)24.0(
)83.54(
-
)02.392(
:sseL
rof noisivorP noitaicerped rof IPN
dna
TFH
dna
SFA
seirogetac
96.535,554
24.226,2
48.493,2
-
85.722
72.319,254
35.563,71
94.628,3
63.807,46
85.584
-
13.725,663
teN
:1202
,13
hcraM
ta
sa
stnemtsevni
fo
noitisopmoc
)erorc
`(
latoT
aidnI
edistuo
stnemtsevnI
aidnI
ni
stnemtsevnI
stnemtsevnI
latoT
tnemnrevoG
seiraidisbuS
-tsevnI
seitiruceS
-tsevnI
latoT
seiraidisbuS
-nebeD
rehtO
/
dna
tnemnrevoG
stnem
srehtO
gnidulcni(
ni
stnem
srehtO
tnioj
ro
/
dna
dna
serut
serahS
devorppA
tnioj
ro
seitiruceS
edistuo
lacol
aidnI
serutnev
sdnoB
seitiruceS
serutnev
aidnI
)seitirohtua
ot
dleH
ytirutaM
11.356,362
-
-
-
-
11.356,362
91.21
94.628,3
97.430,8
-
-
46.977,152
ssorG
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
:sseL
noisivorP -non
rof
gnimrofrep stnemtsevni
)IPN(
11.356,362
-
-
-
-
11.356,362
91.21
94.628,3
97.430,8
-
-
46.977,152
teN
elbaliavA elaS
rof
67.700,271
02.573,2
15.477,1
-
96.006
65.236,961
25.899,91
-
42.982,05
90.494
-
17.058,89
ssorG
)09.015(
)80.7(
-
-
)80.7(
)28.305(
-
-
-
)97.06(
-
)30.344(
:sseL
rof noisivorP noitaicerped IPN
dna
68.694,171
21.863,2
15.477,1
-
16.395
47.821,961
25.899,91
-
42.982,05
03.334
-
86.704,89
teN
rof
dleH
gnidarT
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
246
latoT
aidnI
edistuo
stnemtsevnI
aidnI
ni stnemtsevnI
stnemtsevnI
latoT
tnemnrevoG
seiraidisbuS
-tsevnI
seitiruceS
-tsevnI
latoT
seiraidisbuS
-nebeD
rehtO
/
dna
tnemnrevoG
stnem
srehtO
gnidulcni(
ni
stnem
srehtO
tnioj
ro
/
dna
dna
serut
serahS
devorppA
tnioj
ro
seitiruceS
edistuo
lacol
aidnI
serutnev
sdnoB
seitiruceS
serutnev
aidnI
)seitirohtua
02.919,8
-
-
-
-
02.919,8
87.994,4
-
86.564,3
-
-
47.359
ssorG
)88.043(
-
-
-
-
)88.043(
)68.043(
-
-
-
-
)20.0(
:sseL
rof
noisivorP
noitaicerped
IPN
dna
23.875,8
-
-
-
-
23.875,8
29.851,4
-
86.564,3
-
-
27.359
teN
70.085,444
02.573,2
15.477,1
-
96.006
78.402,244
94.015,42
94.628,3
17.987,16
90.494
-
90.485,153
latoT
stnemtsevnI
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
:sseL
noisivorP -non
rof
gnimrofrep stnemtsevni
MTH
rof
yrogetac
)87.158(
)80.7(
-
-
)80.7(
)07.448(
)68.043(
-
-
)97.06(
-
)50.344(
:sseL
rof
noisivorP
noitaicerped
IPN
dna
SFA
rof
TFH
dna
seirogetac
92.827,344
21.863,2
15.477,1
-
16.395
71.063,144
36.961,42
94.628,3
17.987,16
03.334
-
40.141,153
teN
stisoped
fo
etacfiitrec
liN
dna
)erorc
68.779
`
:raey
suoiverp(
erorc
28.641
`
ot
gnitagergga
repap
laicremmoc
ni
stnemtsevni
edulcni
2202
,13
hcraM
ta
sa
aidnI
ni
stnemtsevni
rehtO
•
.)liN
:raey
suoiverp(
:raey
suoiverp(
erorc
02.293,2
`
fo
serutnebed
dna
sdnob
dna
)erorc
05.3
`
:raey
suoiverp(
erorc
46.2
`
fo
serahs
sedulcni
2202
,13
hcraM
ta
sa
aidnI
edistuo
tnemtsevnI
rehtO
•
.)erorc
10.177,1
`
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
• Movement in provisions held towards depreciation on investments & Investment Fluctuation
Reserve:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
i) Movement in provisions held towards depreciation on investments
a) Opening balance 851.78 978.47
b) Add: Provision made during the year (including provision on non-performing 12.00 790.99
investments)
c) Less: Write-off, write back of excess provision during the year 453.15 917.68
d) Closing balance 410.63 851.78
ii) Movement of Investment Fluctuation Reserve
a) Opening balance 3,619.00 1,907.00
b) Add: Amount transferred during the year - 1,712.00
c) Less: Drawdown - -
d) Closing balance 3,619.00 3,619.00
iii) Closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments 2.28% 2.00%
in AFS and HFT category
Movement in provisions held towards depreciation on investments has been reckoned on a yearly basis.
• Repo transactions
 Details of repo / reverse repo deals excluding tri-party repo / reverse repo (in face value terms) done during the year
ended March 31, 2022:
(` crore)
Minimum Maximum Daily average Outstanding as at
Particulars outstanding during outstanding during outstanding during March 31, 2022
the year the year the year
Securities sold under repo
1. Government securities 9,020.00 34,381.25 10,466.70 14,465.00
2. Corporate debt securities - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - -
Securities purchased under reverse
repo
1. Government securities 8,968.09 131,685.88 65,670.26 35,746.89
2. Corporate debt securities - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - -
• Details of repo / reverse repo deals excluding tri-party repo / reverse repo (in face value terms) done during the year
ended March 31, 2021:
(` crore)
Minimum Maximum Daily average Outstanding as at
Particulars outstanding during outstanding during outstanding during March 31, 2021
the year the year the year
Securities sold under repo
1. Government securities 1,747.44 35,747.72 11,871.55 13,939.92
2. Corporate debt securities - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - -
Securities purchased under reverse
repo
1. Government securities 3,840.10 135,217.76 61,602.21 24,948.85
2. Corporate debt securities - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - -
247
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
• Details of tri-party repo / reverse repo deals (in amount of funds borrowed or lent terms) done during the year ended
March 31, 2022:
(` crore)
Minimum Maximum Daily average Outstanding as at
Particulars outstanding during outstanding during outstanding during March 31, 2022
the year the year the year
Securities sold under tri-party repo
1. Government securities - 70,080.05 33,659.03 9,799.00
2. Corporate debt securities - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - -
Securities purchased under tri-party
repo
1. Government securities - 44,926.80 432.45 -
2. Corporate debt securities - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - -
• Details of tri-party repo / reverse repo deals (in amount of funds borrowed or lent terms) done during the year ended
March 31, 2021:
(` crore)
Minimum Maximum Daily average Outstanding as at
Particulars outstanding during outstanding during outstanding during March 31, 2021
the year the year the year
Securities sold under tri-party repo
1. Government securities - 62,412.35 28,907.14 30,706.00
2. Corporate debt securities - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - -
Securities purchased under tri-party
repo
1. Government securities - 1,000.00 2.74 -
2. Corporate debt securities - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - -
• Non-SLR investment portfolio
• Issuer-wise composition of non-SLR investments as at March 31, 2022:
(` crore)
Amount Extent of Extent of Extent of Extent of
private “below “unrated” “unlisted”
Sr.
Issuer placement # investment securities# (2) securities# (2)
No.
grade”
securities# (1)
1 Public sector undertakings 9,373.42 7,770.27 - - -
2 Financial institutions 5,467.21 1,865.00 - - -
3 Banks 3,676.36 1,889.77 1,715.19 - -
4 Private corporate 49,264.41 31,047.96 - 11.45 2,900.71
5 Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures (3) 3,826.49 3,826.49 - - -
6 Others 17,517.92 16,240.06 - - -
7 Provision held towards depreciation (117.43)
Total 89,008.38 62,639.55 1,715.19 11.45 2,900.71
# Amounts reported under these columns are not mutually exclusive.
(1) Includes overseas investment of ` 1,715.19 crore in bond and debentures issued by entities having domicile in India, where the issuer
rating given by domestic rating agencies is above investment grade.
(2) Excludes investments in securities issued by foreign sovereigns, equity shares, units of equity oriented mutual fund schemes, equity / debt
instruments / units issued by venture capital funds, commercial paper, certificate of deposits, securities acquired by way of conversion
of debt, security receipts, pass through certificates and unlisted convertible debentures.
(3) Investments in debt securities issued by Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures have been classified under Private Corporates.
248
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
• Issuer-wise composition of non-SLR investments as at March 31, 2021:
(` crore)
Amount Extent of Extent of Extent of Extent of
private “below “unrated” “unlisted”
Sr.
Issuer placement# investment securities# (2) securities# (2)
No.
grade”
securities# (1)
1 Public sector undertakings 7,058.68 6,505.03 - - -
2 Financial institutions 3,490.82 1,200.00 - - -
3 Banks 3,642.70 255.40 1,427.68 - -
4 Private corporate 50,843.98 36,117.38 1,021.46 0.44 2,640.09
5 Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures (3) 3,826.49 3,826.49 - - -
6 Others 24,133.31 19,032.85 - - -
7 Provision held towards depreciation (408.73)
Total 92,587.25 66,937.15 2,449.14 0.44 2,640.09
# Amounts reported under these columns are not mutually exclusive.
(1) Includes overseas investment of ` 1,449.14 crore in bond and debentures issued by entities having domicile in India, where the issuer
rating given by domestic rating agencies is above investment grade.
(2) Excludes investments in securities issued by foreign sovereigns, equity shares, units of equity oriented mutual fund schemes, equity / debt
instruments / units issued by venture capital funds, commercial paper, certificate of deposits, securities acquired by way of conversion
of debt, security receipts, pass through certificates and unlisted convertible debentures.
(3) Investments in debt securities issued by Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures have been classified under Private Corporates.
• Non-performing non-SLR investments:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Opening balance 82.44 82.44
Additions during the year - -
Reductions during the year 47.41 -
Closing balance 35.03 82.44
Total provisions held 35.03 60.79
• Securities kept as margin
The details of securities that are kept as margin are as under:
(` crore)
Sr. Face value as at March 31,
Particulars
No. 2022 2021
I. Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards:
a) Collateral and funds management - Securities segment 5,300.00 2,120.00
b) Collateral and funds management - Tri-party Repo 59,013.79 62,361.84
c) Default fund - Forex Forward segment 235.10 150.00
d) Default fund - Forex Settlement segment 51.05 51.05
e) Default fund - Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) segment 65.65 48.00
f) Default fund - Securities segment 65.00 65.00
g) Default fund - Tri-party repo segment 55.00 50.00
II. Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards:
a) Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) 50,539.64 51,725.77
b) Repo transactions 49,971.80 49,959.91
III. Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 107.72 107.72
(NSCCIL) towards NSE Currency Derivatives segment.
IV. Securities kept as margin with Indian Clearing Corporation Limited towards 161.00 161.00
BSE Currency Derivatives segment.
V. Securities kept as margin with Metropolitan Clearing Corporation of India 13.00 13.00
towards MCX Currency Derivatives segment.
249
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
• Sale and transfers to / from HTM category
• During the year ended March 31, 2022, there has been no sale from, and transfer to / from, HTM category in excess
of 5% of the book value of investments held in the HTM category at the beginning of the year.
• In accordance with the RBI guidelines, sale from, and transfer to / from, HTM category exclude:
a. The one-time transfer of securities to / from HTM category with the approval of Board of Directors undertaken
by banks at the beginning of the accounting year;
b. Direct sales from HTM for bringing down SLR holdings in HTM category consequent to a downward revision
in SLR requirements by RBI;
c. Sales to the Reserve Bank of India under liquidity management operations of RBI such as the Open Market
Operations (OMO) and the Government Securities Acquisition Programme (GSAP);
d. Repurchase of Government Securities by Government of India from banks under buyback / switch operations;
e. Repurchase of State Development Loans by respective state governments under buyback / switch
operations; and
f. Additional shifting of securities explicitly permitted by the Reserve Bank of India.
11. derivatives
• Forward Rate Agreements (FRA) / Interest Rate Swaps (IRS)*
(` crore)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No.
i) The total notional principal of swap agreements 518,928.08 317,188.20
ii) Total losses which would be incurred if counter parties failed to fulfill their 3,011.67 3,251.25
obligations under the agreements
iii) Collateral required by the Bank upon entering into swaps*** - 17.10
iv) Concentration of credit risk arising from swaps (%)** 47.17% 62.04%
v) Concentration of credit risk arising from swaps (Amount)** 1,420.65 2,017.07
vi) The fair value of the swap book 255.15 (141.37)
* Interest Rate Swaps are comprised of INR Interest Rate Swaps and FCY Interest Rate Swaps.
** Concentration of credit risk arising from swaps is with banks as at March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021.
*** Represents outstanding amount of net margin received from customers as at March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021.
The nature and terms of Rupee IRS outstanding as at March 31, 2022 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos. Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 2 600.00 INCMT Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 3,609 220,044.98 OIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 4,041 222,466.69 OIS Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 2 1,000.00 MIOIS Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 425 28,418.85 MIFOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 99 5,209.83 MIFOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 27 2,040.00 MOD MIFOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 18 995.00 MOD MIFOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Total 480,775.35
250
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
The nature and terms of foreign currency IRS as on March 31, 2022 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos. Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 1 60.05 GBP SONIA Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 1 60.05 GBP SONIA Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 4 161.22 EURIBOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 8 434.95 EURIBOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 42 5,742.58 USD LIBOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 205 24,189.96 USD LIBOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 4 463.50 USD SOFR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 16 1,979.35 USD SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Total 33,091.66
The nature and terms of Forward Rate Agreement as on March 31, 2022 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos. Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 214 5,061.07 Bond Yield Sell FRA
Total 5,061.07
The nature and terms of Rupee IRS outstanding as at March 31, 2021 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos. Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 2 600.00 INCMT Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 2,414 115,869.21 OIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 2,288 117,077.25 OIS Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 566 32,993.50 MIFOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 281 13,465.00 MIFOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Total 280,004.96
The nature and terms of foreign currency IRS as on March 31, 2021 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos. Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 1 91.25 GBP LIBOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 1 91.25 GBP LIBOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 2 37.77 EURIBOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 6 316.46 EURIBOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 84 9,350.78 USD LIBOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 227 25,206.95 USD LIBOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Total 35,094.46
The nature and terms of Forward Rate Agreement as on March 31, 2021 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos. Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 66 2,088.78 Bond Yield Sell FRA
Total 2,088.78
251
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
• Exchange traded interest rate derivatives
(` crore)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No.
i) The total notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives Nil Nil
undertaken during the years reported
ii) The total notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives Nil Nil
outstanding
iii) The notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives N.A. N.A.
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’
iv) Mark to market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding and N.A. N.A.
not ‘highly effective’
• Qualitative disclosures on risk exposure in derivatives
Overview of business and processes
Derivatives are financial instruments whose characteristics are derived from underlying assets, or from interest rates, exchange
rates or indices. These include forwards, swaps, futures and options. The notional amounts of financial instruments such as
foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with the instruments recognised on the Balance
Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and,
therefore, do not indicate the Bank’s exposure to credit or price risks. The following sections outline the nature and terms of
the derivative transactions generally undertaken by the Bank.
Interest rate contracts
Forward rate agreements give the buyer the ability to determine the underlying rate of interest for a specified period
commencing on a specified future date (the settlement date). The underlying rate of interest could be an interest rate curve,
interest rate index or bond yield. There is no exchange of principal and settlement is effected on the settlement date. The
settlement amount is the difference between the contracted rate and the market rate prevailing on the settlement date
discounted for the interest period of the agreement.
Interest rate swaps involve the exchange of interest obligations with the counterparty for a specified period without
exchanging the underlying (or notional) principal.
Interest rate caps and floors give the buyer the ability to fix the maximum or minimum rate of interest. The writer of
the contract pays the amount by which the market rate exceeds or is less than the cap rate or the floor rate respectively.
A combination of interest rate caps and floors can create structures such as interest rate collar, cap spreads and floor spreads.
Interest rate futures are standardised interest rate derivative contracts traded on a recognised stock exchange to buy or
sell a notional security or any other interest bearing instrument or an index of such instruments or interest rates at a specified
future date, at a price determined at the time of the contract.
exchange rate contracts
Forward foreign exchange contracts are agreements to buy or sell fixed amounts of currency at an agreed exchange rate
on a future date. These instruments are carried at fair value, determined based on either FEDAI rates or market quotations.
Cross currency swaps are agreements to exchange principal amounts denominated in different currencies. Cross currency
swaps may also involve the exchange of interest payments on one specified currency for interest payments in another specified
currency for a specified period.
Currency options (including Exchange Traded Currency Option) give the buyer, on payment of a premium, the right but
not an obligation, to buy or sell specified amounts of currency at an agreed exchange rate on or before a specified future date.
Currency futures contract is a standardised contract traded on an exchange, to buy or sell a certain underlying currency
on a certain date in the future, at a specified price. The contract specifies the rate of exchange between one unit of currency
with another.
252
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
The Bank’s derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sale activities include the structuring and marketing of
derivatives to customers to enable them to hedge their market risks (both interest rate and exchange risks), within the regulatory
framework as applicable from time to time. The Bank deals in derivatives on its own account (trading activity) principally for the
purpose of generating a profit from short term fluctuations in price yields or implied volatility. The Bank also deals in derivatives
to hedge the risk embedded in some of its Balance Sheet assets or liabilities.
constituents involved in derivative business
The Treasury front-office enters into derivative transactions with customers and inter-bank counterparties. The Bank has an
independent back-office and mid-office as per regulatory guidelines. The Bank has credit risk and market risk departments, as
part of the Risk Management Group, that assesses counterparty credit risk and market risk limits, within the risk architecture
and processes of the Bank.
derivative policy
The Bank has in place a Derivative policy which covers various aspects that apply to the functioning of the derivative business.
The derivative business is administered through various market risk limits such as position limits, tenor limits, sensitivity limits,
scenario based profit and loss limit for option portfolio, stop loss trigger levels and value-at-risk limits that are recommended
by the Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee (‘RPMC’) to the Board of Directors for approval. All methodologies that are used
to assess market and credit risks for derivative transactions are specified by the credit risk and market risk units. Limits are
monitored on a daily basis by the mid-office.
The Bank has a Board approved policy on Customer Suitability & Appropriateness, which forms part of the Derivative policy, to
ensure that derivative transactions entered into are appropriate and suitable to the customer’s nature of business / operations.
Before entering into a derivative deal with a customer, the Bank scores the customer on various risk parameters and based
on the overall score level it determines the kind of product that best suits its risk appetite and the customer’s requirements.
classification of derivatives book
The derivative book is classified into trading and hedging book. Classification of the derivative book is made on the basis of
the definitions of the trading and hedging specified in the RBI guidelines. The trading book is managed within the trading limits
recommended by the RPMC and approved by the Board of Directors.
hedging policy
For derivative contracts designated as hedging instruments, the Bank documents, at inception of the hedge, the relationship
between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, the risk management objective for undertaking the hedge and the
methods used to assess the hedge effectiveness. Hedge effectiveness is ascertained at the time of inception of the hedge
and periodically thereafter. Hedge effectiveness is measured by the degree to which changes in the fair value or cash flows
of the hedged item that are attributable to a hedged risk are offset by changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedging
instrument using various qualitative and quantitative methods.
The hedging book consists of transactions to hedge Balance Sheet assets or liabilities. The tenor of hedging instrument may be
less than or equal to the tenor of underlying hedged asset or liability. The Bank as part of its risk management strategy, makes
use of financial derivative instruments, including foreign exchange forward contracts, for hedging the risk embedded in some
of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the balance sheet. In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value
of the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow hedges
other than for foreign exchange forward contracts, the changes in fair value of effective portion are recognised in Reserves
and Surplus under ‘Cash flow hedge reserve’ and ineffective portion of an effective hedging relationship, if any, is recognised
in the Profit and Loss Account. The accumulated balance in the cash flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging relationship,
is recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at the same time that the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the Profit
and Loss Account. Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for trading, that are entered into to establish the amount
of reporting currency required or available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are outstanding at the Balance Sheet
date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate. The premia or discount arising at the inception of such forward exchange
contract is amortised as expense or income over the life of the contract.
• Provisioning, collateral and credit risk mitigation
The Bank enters into derivative transactions with counterparties based on their business ranking and financial position.
The Bank sets up appropriate limits upon evaluating the ability of the counterparty to honour its obligations in the event of
253
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
crystallisation of the exposure. Appropriate credit covenants are stipulated where required, as trigger events to call for collaterals
or terminate a transaction and contain the risk. Further, to mitigate the current exposure in non-centrally cleared forex and
derivative transactions, Bank has entered into Credit Support Annex (‘CSA’) agreements with some of the major international
counterparty banks and few Indian financial institutions.
The Bank, at the minimum, conforms to the RBI guidelines with regard to provisioning requirements. Overdue receivables
representing crystallised positive mark to market value of a derivative contract are transferred to the account of the borrower
and treated as non-performing assets, if these remain unpaid for 90 days or more. Full provision is made for the entire amount
of overdue and future receivables relating to positive marked to market value of non-performing derivative contracts.
• Quantitative disclosure on risk exposure in derivatives
(` crore)
Sr.
Particulars Currency derivatives Interest rate derivatives
No.
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
1 Derivatives (notional principal amount)
a) Hedging 7,579.25 - - -
b) Trading 62,860.03 40,074.83 519,322.30 317,629.80
2 Marked to market positions
a) Asset (+) 1,108.41 922.74 3,019.64 3,253.93
b) Liability (-) (672.91) (594.51) (2,764.49) (3,395.30)
c) Net 435.50 328.23 255.15 (141.37)
3 Credit exposure 3,983.65 3,077.28 6,896.91 5,423.27
4 Likely impact of one percentage change in interest rate
(100*PV01)**
a) On hedging derivatives 2.82 - - -
b) On trading derivatives 49.06 32.08 501.21 187.97
5 Maximum of 100*PV01 observed during the year**
a) On hedging* 5.05 - - -
b) On trading 57.78 43.07 527.62 187.97
6 Minimum of 100*PV01 observed during the year**
a) On hedging* 1.97 - - -
b) On trading 33.04 18.83 272.28 0.34
* Computed for the month end dates where hedge deals were outstanding.
** Amounts given are absolute values on a net basis, excluding currency options.
 As at March 31, 2022, the notional principal amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts classified as trading amounted to ` 655,187.18
crore (previous year: ` 496,472.67 crore). There were no foreign exchange contracts classified as hedging outstanding as at March 31, 2022
(previous year: Nil).
 The notional principal amounts of derivatives reflect the volume of transactions outstanding as at the Balance Sheet date and do not represent
the amounts at risk.
 For the purpose of this disclosure, currency derivatives include currency options purchased and sold and cross currency swaps.
 For the purpose of this disclosure, interest rate derivatives include interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and interest rate caps and floors.
 The Bank has computed the maximum and minimum of PV01 for the year based on the balances as at the end of every month.
 In respect of derivative contracts, the Bank has computed the exposure under the Current Exposure Method for counterparty credit risk capital
computation based on the guidelines issued by RBI on “Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts - Amendments to Prudential Guidelines”
dated March 30, 2021. However, for the purpose of calculating product-wise derivative exposure as mentioned in point number 3 in table above,
bank has calculated using Current Exposure Method (‘CEM’) without netting benefits and the balance outstanding as on March 31, 2022.
12. credit default swaps
The Bank has not transacted in credit default swaps during the year ended March 31, 2022 (previous year: Nil).
254
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
13. Asset quality
• Classification of assets and provisions held as at March 31, 2022:
(` crore)
Standard Non-Performing Total
Total Substandard Doubtful Loss Total Non-
Standard Performing
Advances Assets
Gross Standard Advances
and NPAs ^
Opening Balance 1,128,309.31 8,100.47 5,392.69 1,592.84 15,086.00 1,143,395.31
Add: Additions during the year 26,861.43
Less: Reductions during the 25,806.47
year*
Closing balance 1,364,413.25 8,392.21 6,347.08 1,401.67 16,140.96 1,380,554.21
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due
to:
i) Upgradation* 9,485.80
ii) Recoveries (excluding 6,890.80
recoveries from upgraded
accounts)
iii) Technical / Prudential Write-offs
iv) Write-offs other than those 9,429.87
under (iii) above
Provisions (excluding Floating
Provisions)
Opening balance of provisions 5,303.37 3,836.02 5,102.32 1,592.84 10,531.18 15,834.55
held
Add: Fresh provisions made 17,771.79
during the year
Less: Excess provision reversed / 16,569.69
Write-off loans
Closing balance of provisions 6,562.60 4,165.31 6,166.30 1,401.67 11,733.28 18,295.88
held
Net NPAs
Opening Balance 4,264.45 290.37 - 4,554.82
Add: Fresh additions during the 9,089.64
year
Less: Reductions during the year 9,236.78
Closing Balance 4,226.90 180.78 - 4,407.68
^ NPAs include investments and foreign exchange and derivatives aggregating to ` 39.99 crore (previous year: ` 86.67 crore) that are classified as
non-performing by the Bank.
* includes those accounts where all overdue have been paid.
255
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
• Classification of assets and provisions held as at March 31, 2021:
(` crore)
Standard Non-Performing Total
Total Substandard Doubtful Loss Total Non-
Standard Performing
Advances Assets
Gross Standard Advances and
NPAs ^
Opening Balance 990,167.42 7,308.53 4,335.42 1,006.02 12,649.97 1,002,817.39
Add: Additions during the year 16,040.01
Less: Reductions during the year* 13,603.98
Closing balance 1,128,309.31 8,100.47 5,392.69 1,592.84 15,086.00 1,143,395.31
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due
to:
i) Upgradation* 1,601.63
ii) Recoveries (excluding 2,713.27
recoveries from upgraded
accounts)
iii) Technical / Prudential Write-offs -
iv) Write-offs other than those 9,289.08
under (iii) above
Provisions (excluding Floating
Provisions)
Opening balance of provisions 4,437.86 3,973.67 4,127.92 1,006.02 9,107.61 13,545.47
held
Add: Fresh provisions made 13,027.95
during the year
Less: Excess provision reversed / 11,604.38
Write-off loans
Closing balance of provisions held 5,303.37 3,836.02 5,102.32 1,592.84 10,531.18 15,834.55
Net NPAs
Opening Balance 3,334.86 207.50 - 3,542.36
Add: Fresh additions during the 3,012.06
year
Less: Reductions during the year 1,999.60
Closing Balance 4,264.45 290.37 - 4,554.82
^ NPAs include investments and foreign exchange and derivatives aggregating to ` 86.67 crore (previous year: ` 90.59 crore) that are
classified as non-performing by the Bank.
* includes those accounts where all overdue have been paid.
• Technical or prudential write-offs
Technical or prudential write-offs refer to the amount of non-performing assets which are outstanding in the books of
the branches, but have been written-off (fully or partially) at the head office level. The financial accounting systems of the
Bank are integrated and there are no write-offs done by the Bank which remain outstanding in the books of the branches.
Movement in the stock of technically or prudentially written-off accounts is given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Opening balance of technical / prudential write-offs - -
Technical / Prudential write-offs during the year - -
Recoveries made from previously technically / prudentially written-off accounts - -
during the year
Closing balance of technical / prudential write-offs - -
256
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
• Floating provisions
Floating provision of ` 1,451.28 crore (previous year: ` 1,451.28 crore) has been included under “Other Liabilities”.
Movement in floating provision is given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Opening balance 1,451.28 1,451.28
Provisions made / reinstated during the year - -
Draw down made during the year - -
Closing balance 1,451.28 1,451.28
Floating provisions shall be utilised as per the Board approved policy for contingencies under extraordinary circumstances
and for making specific provision for impaired accounts in accordance with the RBI guidelines / directives.
Ratios March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Gross non-performing assets to gross advances1 1.17% 1.32%
Gross non-performing advances to gross advances 1.17% 1.31%
Percentage of net non-performing assets2 to net advances3 0.32% 0.40%
Provision coverage ratio4 72.69% 69.81%
1 Gross advances are net of bills rediscounted and interest in suspense.
2 Net NPAs are non-performing assets net of specific provisions, claims received from Credit Guarantors, provisions for funded interest
term loans classified as NPAs and provisions in lieu of diminution in the fair value of restructured assets classified as NPAs.
3 Net advances are equivalent to gross advances net of specific loan loss provisions, claims received from Credit Guarantors, provision for
funded interest term loans classified as NPA and provisions in lieu of diminution in the fair value of restructured assets.
4 Provision coverage ratio does not include assets written-off.
The Honourable Supreme Court of India (Hon’ble SC), in a public interest litigation (Gajendra Sharma Vs. Union of
India & Anr), vide an interim order dated September 03, 2020 (“Interim Order”), had directed banks that accounts
which were not declared NPA till August 31, 2020 shall not be declared as NPA till further orders. Accordingly, the
Bank did not classify any account which was not NPA as of August 31, 2020 as per the RBI IRAC norms, as NPA
after August 31, 2020.
The Interim Order granted to not declare accounts as NPA stood vacated on March 23, 2021 vide the judgement of
the Hon’ble SC in the matter of Small Scale Industrial Manufacturers Association vs. UOI & Ors. and other connected
matters. In accordance with the instructions in paragraph 5 of the RBI circular dated April 07, 2021 issued in this
connection, the Bank continued with the asset classification of borrower accounts as per the extant RBI instructions
/ IRAC norms.
• Divergence in the asset classification and provisioning
In terms of the RBI guidelines, banks are required to disclose the divergence in asset classification and provisioning
consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts to the financial statements, wherever the
additional provisioning assessed / additional gross NPAs identified by RBI exceeds the threshold specified by RBI. The
threshold for provisioning is 10 per cent of the reported profit before provisions and contingencies for the reference period
and that for additional gross NPAs is 15 per cent of the published incremental Gross NPAs for the reference period.
There was no divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs for the years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020.
257
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
• Details of accounts subjected to restructuring
Agriculture and Corporates Micro, Small and Retail (excluding Total
allied activities (excluding MSME) Medium agriculture and
Enterprises (MSME) MSME)
March March March March March March March March March March
31, 2022 31, 2021 31, 2022 31, 2021 31, 2022 31, 2021 31, 2022 31, 2021 31, 2022 31, 2021
Number of - 1 - 2 1 1 - - 1 4
borrowers
Gross - 27.50 - 92.46 23.15 26.72 - - 23.15 146.68
Amount
Standard
(` crore)
Provision - - - - - - - - - -
held
(` crore)
Number of 169 15 - - 476 8 1,260 707 1,905 730
borrowers
Gross 2.77 0.46 - - 67.25 0.99 104.11 26.49 174.13 27.94
Amount
Substandard
(` crore)
Provision - - - - - 0.78 - 0.06 - 0.84
held
(` crore)
Number of 3 - 1 2 41 1 93 1 138 4
borrowers
Gross 0.15 - 4.42 6.80 16.77 6.25 5.92 0.16 27.26 13.21
Amount
Doubtful
(` crore)
Provision - - - - 0.35 - - - 0.35 -
held
(` crore)
Number of 172 16 1 4 518 10 1,353 708 2,044 738
borrowers
Gross 2.92 27.96 4.42 99.26 107.17 33.96 110.03 26.65 224.54 187.83
Amount
Total
(` crore)
Provision - - - - 0.35 0.78 - 0.06 0.35 0.84
held
(` crore)
• Details of accounts restructured under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector under
RBI guidelines issued in January 2019:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No. of accounts restructured Amount outstanding No. of accounts restructured Amount outstanding
2,87,562 6,874.39 2,82,589 3,391.35
• Provision pertaining to fraud accounts reported during the year:
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No. of frauds reported 6,543 5,232
Amount involved in fraud (` crore) 505.86 1,640.80
Amount involved in fraud net of recoveries / write-offs as at the end of the year (` crore) 231.74 1,321.08
Provisions held as at the end of the year (` crore) 231.74 1,321.08
Amount of unamortised provision debited from “other reserves” as at the end of the - -
year (` crore)
Above table represents all frauds reported during the year.
The information on frauds for the financial year ended March 31, 2021 includes certain large value credits which were already reckoned as NPAs
in the prior years and these were fully provided for.
258
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
• Details of resolution plan implemented under the Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress
as per RBI circular dated August 06, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and May 05, 2021 (Resolution
Framework 2.0) as at March 31, 2022 are given below:
(` crore)
Type of Borrower Exposure to Of (A), aggregate Of (A), amount Of (A), amount paid Exposure to
accounts classified debt that slipped into written off during the by the borrowers accounts classified
as Standard NPA during the half- half-year# during the half-year** as Standard
consequent to year ended March consequent to
implementation of 31, 2022 implementation of
resolution plan - resolution plan -
Position as at the end Position as at the end
of the previous half- of this half-year i.e.
year i.e. September March 31, 2022^
30, 2021 (A)*
Personal Loans 11,588.80 1,594.28 620.09 212.96 9,781.56
Corporate persons 1,834.34 128.64 1.61 193.29 1,512.41
Of which, MSMEs 159.92 5.71 0.58 0.03 154.18
Others 2,457.43 303.17 21.97 58.19 2,096.07
Total 15,880.57 2,026.09 643.67 464.44 13,390.04
* Includes restructuring done in respect of requests received as of September 30, 2021 processed subsequently.
# Represents debt that slipped into NPA and was subsequently written-off during the half-year ended March 31, 2022.
** Amount paid by the borrower during the half-year is net of additions in the borrower account including additions due to interest capitalisation.
^ Excludes other facilities to the borrowers aggregating to ` 2,307.65 crore which have not been restructured.
Details of Resolution Plan (RP) implemented under Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed
Assets dated June 07, 2019:
(` crore)
No. of borrowers Amount Outstanding
March 31, 2022 - -
March 31, 2021 - -
Transfer of Assets
• Details of non-performing assets (NPAs) transferred during the financial year 2021-2022:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Particulars To Asset To permitted To other transferees
Reconstruction transferees
Companies (ARCs)
Number of accounts 70,921 65,704 -
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred 2,187.81 449.46 -
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred 3.01 2.01 -
(in years)
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer) 992.38 188.86 -
Aggregate consideration 1,093.10 35.94 -
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts 2.67 - -
transferred in earlier years
No excess provisions were reversed to the Profit and Loss Account on account of sale of NPAs.
• Details of stressed loan (Non-performing asset and Special Mention Account) transferred during the
financial year 2020-2021:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Particulars To Asset To permitted To other transferees
Reconstruction transferees
Companies (ARCs)
Number of accounts 1,67,197 - -
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred 4,107.60 - -
259
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Particulars To Asset To permitted To other transferees
Reconstruction transferees
Companies (ARCs)
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in years) 2.70 - -
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer)* 3,164.66 - -
Aggregate consideration 2,051.06 - -
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts trans- - - -
ferred in earlier years
*If accounts had been classified as NPA during the period of operation of the Interim Order dated September 03, 2020 of the Hon'ble SC,
specific provision would have been made for the accounts sold. Accordingly, the net book value would have been ` 2,419.41 crore.
No excess provisions were reversed to the Profit and Loss Account on account of sale of NPAs.
• Pursuant to RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021, Banks are required to
disclose transfer of "loans not in default and Special Mention Accounts" respectively. The Bank has not transferred any
loans not in default / Special Mention Accounts during the period from September 24, 2021 to March 31, 2022.
• Details of ratings of SRs outstanding as on March 31, 2022 are given below:
(` crore)
Rating Rating Agency Recovery rating Outstanding as at
March 31, 2022
R2 CRISIL 75% - 100% 182.87
NR2 India Ratings 100% - 150% 366.20
NR3 India Ratings 75% - 100% 614.34
NR4 India Ratings 50% - 75% 218.01
NA* 102.30
Total 1,483.72
* Pursuant to regulatory norms, the ARC has time to obtain initial rating of SRs from an approved credit rating agency within a period of six
months from the date of acquisition of assets by it.
• Details of ratings of SRs outstanding as on March 31, 2021 are given below:
(` crore)
Rating Rating Agency Recovery rating Outstanding as at
March 31, 2021
R2 CRISIL 75% - 100% 367.20
NR2 India Ratings 100% - 150% 1,243.49
NR3 India Ratings 75% - 100% 372.77
Total 1,983.46
Acquisition of Assets
• During the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, no non-performing financial assets were
acquired by the Bank.
• Pursuant to the RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021, the details
of loans acquired during the period from September 24, 2021 to March 31, 2022 are given below:
• Details of loans not in default acquired through assignment are given below:
Particulars Value
Aggregate amount of loans acquired (` in crore) 18,094.40
Weighted average residual maturity (in years) 14.99
Weighted average holding period by originator (in years) 1.57
Retention of beneficial economic interest by the originator 10%
Tangible security coverage 100%
The loans acquired are not rated as these are to non-corporate borrowers.
260
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
From the above, 58 loans aggregating to ` 11.45 crore was repurchased by the transferor in compliance with paragraph
48 of Master Direction - RBI (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021.
• The Bank has not acquired any Special Mention Account.
• The RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021 has mandated disclosure of
transfer of loan assets. Considering the terms ‘loans not in default’ and ‘special mention account’ under this circular
vis-a-vis loans termed as ‘standard’ as hitherto and the separate processes prescribed therein for transfer of such
assets, the Bank believes that such disclosure would be more meaningful if disclosed prospectively and therefore
transfer of loan exposures prior to September 24, 2021 including comparatives of previous year are not considered
relevant for disclosure.
• During the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, there were no standard assets securitised-out by
the Bank.
• Securitised assets as per books of SPVs sponsored by the Bank
There are no SPVs sponsored by the Bank as at March 31, 2022 and as at March 31, 2021.
• Off-Balance Sheet SPVs
There are no Off-Balance Sheet SPVs sponsored by the Bank, which need to be consolidated as per accounting norms.
14. details of exposures to real estate and capital market sectors, risk category-wise country exposures,
factoring exposures, single / group borrower exposures, unsecured advances and concentration of
deposits, advances, exposures and NPAs
• Details of exposure to real estate sector
Exposure is higher of limits sanctioned or the amounts outstanding as at the year end.
(` crore)
Category March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
a) Direct exposure 133,650.15 114,575.93
(i) Residential mortgages* 83,773.07 71,673.56
(of which housing loans eligible for inclusion in priority sector advances) (29,375.95) (27,886.84)
(ii) Commercial real estate 49,683.48 42,587.09
(iii) Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other securitised
exposures:
(a) Residential 160.09 227.73
(b) Commercial real estate 33.51 87.55
b) Indirect exposure 36,208.42 32,877.30
Fund based and non-fund based exposures on National Housing Bank (NHB) and 36,208.42 32,877.30
Housing Finance Companies (HFCs)
Total exposure to real estate sector 169,858.57 147,453.23
* includes loans purchased under the direct loan assignment route.
• Details of capital market exposure
Exposure is higher of limits sanctioned or the amounts outstanding as at the year end.
(` crore)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No.
(i) Direct investments made in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible 7,107.55 6,247.22
debentures and units of equity oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is
not exclusively invested in corporate debt
(ii) Advances against shares, bonds, debentures or other securities or on clean 3,067.03 143.97
basis to individuals for investment in shares (including IPO’s / ESOP’s),
convertible bonds, convertible debentures and units of equity oriented mutual
funds
261
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No.
(iii) Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or 4,036.47 5,156.29
convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds are taken as
primary security
(iv) Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by collateral security 379.35 423.41
of shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity
oriented mutual funds i.e. where the primary security other than shares /
convertible bonds / convertible debentures / units of equity oriented mutual
funds does not fully cover the advances
(v) Secured and unsecured advances to stock brokers and guarantees issued on 14,216.38 9,875.78
behalf of stock brokers and market makers
(vi) Loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares / bonds / 4,643.34 4,154.34
debentures or other securities or on clean basis for meeting promoter’s
contribution to the equity of new companies in anticipation of raising resources
(vii) Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows / issues - -
(viii) Underwriting commitments taken up in respect of primary issue of shares or - -
convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual
funds
(ix) Financing to stock brokers for margin trading - -
(x) All exposures to venture capital funds (both registered and unregistered) 17.90 12.49
Total exposure to capital market 33,468.02 26,013.50
• Details of risk category wise country exposure
(` crore)
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Risk Category
Exposure (net) Provision held Exposure (net) Provision held
Insignificant 30,148.36 - 33,231.41 -
Low 16,729.52 - 12,744.74 -
Moderately low 1,054.54 - 2,031.36 -
Moderate 474.80 - 625.57 -
Moderately high 260.29 - 2.71 -
High 7.06 - 0.15 -
Very high 24.76 - 26.79 -
Total 48,699.33 - 48,662.73 -
• Details of factoring exposure
The factoring exposure of the Bank as at March 31, 2022 is ` 7,865.01 crore (previous year: ` 4,358.45 crore).
• Intra-Group exposure
Intra-Group exposures in accordance with RBI guidelines are as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Total amount of intra-group exposures 12,765.40 11,659.17
Total amount of top 20 intra-group exposures 12,765.40 11,659.17
Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the Bank on borrowers / 0.57% 0.63%
customers
Details of breach of limits on intra-group exposures and regulatory action thereon, if any Nil Nil
• Details of Single Counterparty Limit / Limit for Group of Connected Counterparties exceeded by the
Bank.
The RBI has prescribed limits linked to a bank’s eligible capital base in respect of exposures to single counterparty and
group of connected counterparties. During the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021 the Bank was within
the limits prescribed by the RBI.
262
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
• Unsecured advances
Advances for which intangible collaterals such as rights, licenses, authority, trademarks, patents, etc. are charged in
favour of the Bank in respect of projects financed by the Bank, are reckoned as unsecured advances under Schedule 9
of the Balance Sheet in line with extant RBI guidelines. There are no such advances outstanding as at March 31, 2022
(previous year: Nil).
• Inter-bank Participation with risk sharing
The aggregate amount of participation issued by the Bank and reduced from advances as per regulatory guidelines as
at March 31, 2022 was Nil (previous year: Nil).
• Concentration of deposits, advances, exposures and NPAs
a) Concentration of deposits
(` crore, except percentages)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Total deposits of twenty largest depositors 61,578.97 54,551.06
Percentage of deposits of twenty largest depositors to total deposits of the Bank 3.9% 4.1%
b) Concentration of advances
(` crore, except percentages)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Total advances to twenty largest borrowers 295,918.84 225,412.82
Percentage of advances of twenty largest borrowers to total advances of the Bank 13.8% 12.9%
Advances comprise credit exposure (funded and non-funded credit limits) including derivative transactions computed as per current
exposure method in accordance with RBI guidelines.
c) Concentration of exposure
(` crore, except percentages)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Total exposure to twenty largest borrowers / customers 319,497.99 252,112.93
Percentage of exposure of twenty largest borrowers / customers to total 14.4% 13.7%
exposure of the Bank on borrowers / customers
Exposures comprise credit exposure (funded and non-funded credit limits) including derivative transactions and investment exposure in
accordance with RBI guidelines.
d) Concentration of NPAs
(` crore, except percentages)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Total gross exposure to top twenty NPA accounts 2,306.92 2,930.96
Percentage of exposures to the twenty largest NPA exposure to total Gross 14.3% 19.4%
NPAs.
e) Sector-wise advances
(` crore)
As at March 31, 2022 As at March 31, 2021
% of gross % of gross
N S o r. . Sector Gross p G e r r o f s o s r m no in n g - no lo n a -p ns e r t f o o r g m ro in s g s Gross p G e r r o f s o s r m no in n g - no lo n a -p ns e r t f o o r g m ro in s g s
advances advances
loans advances in loans advances in
that sector that sector
A Priority sector
1 Agriculture and allied 102,210.34 4,157.29 4.07% 92,904.27 3,409.52 3.67%
activities
2 Advances to industries 130,568.43 772.65 0.59% 66,235.29 384.89 0.58%
eligible as priority sector
lending
263
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
As at March 31, 2022 As at March 31, 2021
% of gross % of gross
N S o r. . Sector Gross p G e r r o f s o s r m no in n g - no lo n a -p ns e r t f o o r g m ro in s g s Gross p G e r r o f s o s r m no in n g - no lo n a -p ns e r t f o o r g m ro in s g s
advances advances
loans advances in loans advances in
that sector that sector
3 Services 126,753.53 2,584.04 2.04% 69,688.06 1,347.39 1.93%
4 Personal loans 35,235.05 523.70 1.49% 32,616.87 337.72 1.04%
Sub-total (A) 394,767.35 8,037.68 2.04% 261,444.49 5,479.52 2.10%
B Non-Priority sector
1 Agriculture and allied 3,408.11 421.79 12.38% 3,399.43 410.75 12.08%
activities
2 Industry 295,034.46 1,927.23 0.65% 265,490.84 2,064.11 0.78%
3 Services 327,552.74 2,758.63 0.84% 294,532.37 3,806.07 1.29%
4 Personal loans 359,751.56 2,995.63 0.83% 318,441.52 3,325.55 1.04%
Sub-total (B) 985,746.87 8,103.28 0.82% 881,864.16 9,606.48 1.09%
Total (A) + (B) 1,380,514.22 16,140.96 1.17% 1,143,308.65 15,086.00 1.32%
• Details of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs)
The Bank enters into transactions for the sale or purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs). In the case of
a sale transaction, the Bank sells the fulfilment of priority sector obligation and in the case of a purchase transaction the
Bank buys the fulfilment of priority sector obligation through RBI trading platform. There is no transfer of risks or loan
assets in such transactions. The details of purchase / sale of PSLC during the year are as under:
(` crore)
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Type of PSLCs
PSLC bought PSLC sold PSLC bought PSLC sold
during the year during the year during the year during the year
Agriculture 726.00 - 3,030.00 -
Small and Marginal farmers 887.25 - 625.00 -
Micro Enterprises 31,280.00 - 18,830.00 -
General 67,707.50 - 61,842.50 2,000.00
Total 100,600.75 - 84,327.50 2,000.00
15. Other fixed assets
Other fixed assets include amount capitalised relating to software having useful life of five years. Details regarding the same
are tabulated below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Cost
As at March 31 of the previous year 3,566.70 3,236.57
Additions during the year 806.03 330.13
Deductions during the year (0.01) -
Total (a) 4,372.72 3,566.70
Depreciation
As at March 31 of the previous year 2,822.87 2,473.76
Charge for the year 443.58 349.11
On deductions during the year (0.01) -
Total (b) 3,266.44 2,822.87
Net value (a-b) 1,106.28 743.83
264
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
16. Other assets
• Other assets include deferred tax asset (net) of ` 6,229.67 crore (previous year: ` 4,937.76 crore). The break-up of the
same is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Deferred tax asset arising out of:
Loan loss and contingencies 5,745.11 4,441.48
Employee benefits 58.41 67.14
Depreciation 66.90 53.02
Others 359.25 376.12
Total (a) 6,229.67 4,937.76
Deferred tax liability (b) - -
Deferred tax asset (net) (a-b) 6,229.67 4,937.76
• Key items under "Others" in Other assets are as under:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Deposit with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB - PSL shortfall 44,738.08 9,320.37
Unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts* 7,923.90 8,472.31
Deferred tax assets 6,229.67 4,937.76
Accounts receivable 4,129.31 3,139.47
Deposits & amounts paid in advance 3,297.55 3,134.56
Advances for capital assets 1,067.48 766.70
Residual items 3.64 5.72
Total 67,389.63 29,776.89
* The Bank has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and gross unrealised loss
on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities.
265
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
266
seitilibail
dna
stessa
yek
fo
nrettap
ytirutaM
.71
.IBR
eht
yb
deussi
senilediug
eht
rep
sa
stekcub
ytirutam
eht
ni
defiissalc
era
seitilibail
dna
stessA
)erorc
`(
latoT
revO
sraey
3
revO
raey
1
revO
6
revO
3
revO
ot
shtnom
2
2
ot
syad
13
03
ot
51
syad
41
ot
8
7 ot
2
yad
1
ta
sA
sraey
5
ot
ot
1
ot
shtnom
6
ot
shtnom
shtnom
3
shtnom
syad
syad
2202
,13
hcraM
sraey
5
sraey
3
raey
shtnom
39.028,863,176.217,822
28.062,581
93.712,065
28.955,101
69.822,09
43.972,35
08.371,15
61.746,54
08.751,51
56.596,12
25.788,51
*secnavda
& snaoL
96.535,554
85.056,77
99.245,21
90.893,951
48.489,72
45.536,32
95.423,8
92.346,9
14.540,7
74.311,4
47.639,22
51.062,201
*stnemtsevnI
44.712,955,178.094,934
40.770,51
79.971,966
61.509,301
80.450,57
13.555,53
43.702,05
21.307,73
76.851,03
67.345,07
21.243,23
*stisopeD
12.718,481
00.000,31
52.399,71
35.912,84
50.308,62
74.370,51
40.351,8
20.313,02
95.630,51
68.771,3
77.405,61
36.245
*sgniworroB
92.220,39
09.957
87.227,1
39.479,4
92.826,3
79.212,41
68.733,6
27.202,9
85.737,81
90.902,6
95.679,21
85.952,41
ycnerruc
ngieroF stessa
40.774,28
55.024,3
39.555,8
01.431,9
26.154,9
40.403,01
00.219,8
82.811,31
73.205,9
49.937,4
53.348,2
68.494,2
ycnerruc
ngieroF seitilibail
.secnalaB
ycnerruC
ngieroF
edulcni
detneserper
stnuoma
ehT
*
.IBR
eht
ot
dettimbus
nruter
eht
gnilipmoc
rof
knaB
eht
yb
desu
sa
snoitpmussa
dna
setamitse
emas
eht
no
desab
si stekcub
ytirutam
eht
rednu
seitilibail
dna
stessa
fo
noitacfiissalC
.smeti
teehs
ecnalab-ffo
sedulcxe
seitilibail
dna
stessa
ycnerruc
ngierof
fo
elfiorp
ytirutaM
)erorc
`(
latoT
revO
sraey
3
revO
raey
1
revO
6
revO
3
revO
ot
shtnom
2
2
ot
syad
13
03
ot
51
syad
41
ot
8
7 ot
2
yad
1
ta
sA
sraey
5
ot
ot
1
ot
shtnom
6
ot
shtnom
shtnom
3
shtnom
syad
syad
1202
,13
hcraM
sraey
5
sraey
3
raey
shtnom
36.638,231,1
19.841,631
71.824,321
70.704,384
00.832,901
80.879,69
15.381,84
69.637,94
17.758,44
90.605,01
80.254,02
50.009,9
*secnavda
& snaoL
03.827,344
56.152,56
48.560,9
21.222,441
05.596,32
41.545,61
38.825,9
62.028,9
64.417,5
40.283,4
80.161,34
83.143,211
*stnemtsevnI
22.060,533,1
91.954,573
72.107,41
49.830,235
80.259,19
69.193,87
33.596,63
84.474,05
16.380,03
79.419,04
82.466,07
11.486,31
*stisopeD
23.784,531
00.007,41
00.572,8
65.696,83
58.202,01
95.832,11
61.157,2
29.351,7
05.110,4
82.702,1
02.299,63
62.852
*sgniworroB
60.964,67
83.262
88.900,1
55.951,6
43.823,4
75.297,11
58.190,5
51.906,4
82.497,31
98.299,2
62.239,21
19.594,31
ycnerruc
ngieroF stessa
74.763,84
37.240,7
86.278
11.415,7
30.985,6
41.538,7
05.612,3
16.221,4
16.726,4
49.899,1
92.938,2
38.807,1
ycnerruc
ngieroF seitilibail
.secnalaB
ycnerruC
ngieroF
edulcni
detneserper
stnuoma
ehT
*
.IBR
eht
ot
dettimbus
nruter
eht
gnilipmoc
rof
knaB
eht
yb
desu
sa
snoitpmussa
dna
setamitse
emas
eht
no
desab
si stekcub
ytirutam
eht
rednu
seitilibail
dna
stessa
fo
noitacfiissalC
.smeti
teehs
ecnalab-ffo
sedulcxe
seitilibail
dna
stessa
ycnerruc
ngierof
fo
elfiorp
ytirutaM
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
18. Provisions and contingent liabilities
Given below is the movement in provisions and a brief description of the nature of contingent liabilities recognised by the Bank.
a) Provision for credit card and debit card reward points
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Opening provision for reward points 638.79 734.15
Provision for reward points made during the year 465.13 375.21
Utilisation / write-back of provision for reward points (468.01) (470.57)
Closing provision for reward points 635.91 638.79
b) Provision for legal and other contingencies
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Opening provision 503.55 445.35
Movement during the year (net) 32.54 58.20
Closing provision 536.09 503.55
c) Description of contingent liabilities
Sr. Contingent liability* Brief description
No.
1 Claims against the Bank The Bank is a party to various taxation matters in respect of which appeals are pending. The Bank
not acknowledged as expects the outcome of the appeals to be favorable based on decisions on similar issues in the
debts - taxation previous years by the appellate authorities, based on the facts of the case and taxation laws.
2 Claims against the Bank The Bank is a party to various legal proceedings in the normal course of business. The Bank does not
not acknowledged as expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s financial
debts - others conditions, results of operations or cash flows.
3 Partly paid investments This represents amount remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid investments.
4 Liability on account of The Bank enters into foreign exchange contracts, currency options, forward rate agreements, currency
forward exchange and swaps and interest rate swaps with inter-bank participants on its own account and for customers.
derivative contracts Forward exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at
the contracted rate. Currency swaps are commitments to exchange cash flows by way of interest
/ principal in one currency against another, based on predetermined rates. Interest rate swaps are
commitments to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash flows. The notional amounts of financial
instruments such as foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with
instruments recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future
cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the
Bank’s exposure to credit or price risks. The derivative instruments become favorable (assets) or
unfavorable (liabilities) as a result of fluctuations in market rates or prices relative to their terms.
5 Guarantees given on As a part of its commercial banking activities, the Bank issues documentary credit and guarantees
behalf of constituents, on behalf of its customers. Documentary credits such as letters of credit enhance the credit standing
acceptances, of the Bank’s customers. Guarantees generally represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will
endorsements and other make payments in the event of the customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
obligations
6 Other items for which the These include: a) Credit enhancements in respect of securitised-out loans; b) Bills rediscounted by
Bank is contingently liable the Bank; c) Capital commitments; d) Underwriting commitments; e) Investment purchases pending
settlement; f) Amount transferred to the RBI under the Depositor Education and Awareness Fund
(DEAF).
* Also refer Schedule 12 - Contingent liabilities
267
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
19. Business ratios / information
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Interest income as a percentage to working funds1 7.03% 7.64%
Net interest income as a percentage to working funds 3.96% 4.10%
Net interest income as a percentage to average interest earning assets 4.20% 4.34%
Non-interest income as a percentage to working funds 1.62% 1.59%
Cost of Deposits2 3.56% 4.15%
Operating profit3 as a percentage to working funds 3.53% 3.62%
Return on assets (average) 2.03% 1.97%
Business4 per employee (` in crore) 20.25 19.30
Profit per employee5 (` in crore) 0.28 0.26
Debt-Equity Ratio6 0.33 0.30
Return on Equity Ratio7 16.90% 16.60%
Definitions of certain items in Business ratios / information:
1. Working funds is the daily average of total assets during the year.
2. Cost of Deposits is the ratio of interest expense on deposits to daily average of total deposits.
3. Operating profit is profit for the year before provisions and contingencies and profit / (loss) on sale of building and other fixed assets (net).
4. Business is the total of quarterly average of net advances and deposits (net of inter-bank deposits).
5. Productivity ratios are based on average employee numbers.
6. Debt represents borrowings with residual maturity of more than one year.
7. Return on Equity represents net profit after tax to average equity share capital and reserves.
20. Interest income
Interest income under the sub-head Income from Investments includes dividend on units of mutual funds and equity and
preference shares received during the year ended March 31, 2022 amounting to ` 1,623.48 crore (previous year: ` 453.82
crore).
21. Other income
• Commission, exchange and brokerage income
 Commission, exchange and brokerage income is net of correspondent bank charges.
 Bancassurance business
Commission income for the year ended March 31, 2022 includes fees of ` 1,556.51 crore (previous year: ` 1,481.36
crore) in respect of life insurance business and ` 266.11 crore (previous year: ` 279.05 crore) in respect of general
insurance and health insurance business.
 Marketing and distribution
Commission income for the year ended March 31, 2022 includes income from marketing and distribution of
` 3,059.05 crore (previous year: ` 2,112.67 crore), which comprises of income for displaying publicity materials at
the Bank’s branches / ATMs, commission on mutual funds, pension and other investment / saving products and
sourcing and referral income.
• Miscellaneous income
Miscellaneous income includes recoveries from written-off accounts amounting to ` 2,765.13 crore (previous year:
` 2,148.42 crore).
22. Other expenditure
Other expenditure includes commission paid to sales agents amounting to ` 3,718.81 crore (previous year: ` 2,611.72 crore),
exceeding 1% of the total income of the Bank.
268
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
23. Provisions and contingencies
The break-up of ‘Provisions and contingencies’ included in the Profit and loss Account is given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Provision for income tax - Current 13,346.03 11,644.77
- Deferred (1,291.91) (1,102.31)
Provision for NPAs1 10,119.38 11,450.19
Provision for diminution in value of non-performing investments (14.52) (16.82)
Provision for standard assets 1,257.85 866.63
Other provisions and contingencies2 3,699.12 3,402.85
Total 27,115.95 26,245.31
1. Includes loss on sale of NPAs / stressed assets.
2. Includes provisions for tax, legal and other contingencies ` 3,704.83 crore (previous year: ` 3,401.29 crore), provisions / (write-back) for
securitised-out assets ` 0.14 crore (previous year: ` (2.21) crore) and standard restructured assets ` (5.85) crore (previous year: ` 3.77 crore).
24 employee benefits
Gratuity
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined
benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1 857.58 725.87
Interest cost 56.41 45.94
Current service cost 109.39 100.50
Benefits paid (56.13) (38.21)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:
Experience adjustment (65.14) 26.48
Assumption change 8.32 (3.00)
Present value of obligation as at March 31 910.43 857.58
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1 743.24 514.93
Expected return on plan assets 53.26 40.89
Contributions 131.14 104.45
Benefits paid (56.13) (38.21)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment 21.96 105.74
Assumption change 1.97 15.44
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 895.44 743.24
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 895.44 743.24
Present value of obligation as at March 31 (910.43) (857.58)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 (14.99) (114.34)
Expenses recognised in Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost 56.41 45.94
Current service cost 109.39 100.50
Expected return on plan assets (53.26) (40.89)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year (80.75) (97.70)
Net cost 31.79 7.85
Actual return on plan assets 77.19 162.07
Estimated contribution for the next year 148.57 131.14
269
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Assumptions
Discount rate 6.80% per annum 6.50% per annum
Expected return on plan assets 6.50% per annum 6.50% per annum
Salary escalation rate 7.00% per annum 7.00% per annum
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and
other relevant factors.
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Bank at the beginning of the
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets are
given below:
% of fair value to total plan assets
Category of plan assets
as at March 31, 2022 as at March 31, 2021
Government securities 28.80% 27.90%
Debenture and bonds 24.52% 26.04%
Equity shares 40.40% 41.23%
Others 6.28% 4.83%
Total 100.00% 100.00%
Experience adjustment
(` crore)
Years ended March 31,
Particulars
2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
Plan assets 895.44 743.24 514.93 501.71 416.40
Defined benefit obligation 910.43 857.58 725.87 617.96 542.97
Surplus / (deficit) (14.99) (114.34) (210.94) (116.25) (126.57)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan 21.96 105.74 (64.41) 11.70 0.13
assets
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan (65.14) 26.48 (8.46) 7.12 10.44
liabilities
Pension
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the
defined benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1 89.99 64.15
Interest cost 5.19 3.79
Current service cost 1.40 1.37
Past service cost 7.69 -
Benefits paid (20.43) (11.63)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:
Experience adjustment 6.44 31.41
Assumption change (2.26) 0.90
Present value of obligation as at March 31 88.02 89.99
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan
assets
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1 0.33 9.51
Expected return on plan assets 0.04 0.32
Contributions 20.70 2.30
Benefits paid (20.43) (11.63)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment 0.39 (0.20)
270
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Assumption change (0.15) 0.03
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 0.88 0.33
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 0.88 0.33
Present value of obligation as at March 31 (88.02) (89.99)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 (87.14) (89.66)
Expenses recognised in Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost 5.19 3.79
Current service cost 1.40 1.37
Past service cost 7.69 -
Expected return on plan assets (0.04) (0.32)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year 3.95 32.48
Net cost 18.19 37.32
Actual return on plan assets 0.27 0.15
Estimated contribution for the next year 18.86 13.09
Assumptions
Discount rate 6.80% per annum 6.50% per annum
Expected return on plan assets 6.50% per annum 6.50% per annum
Salary escalation rate 7.00% per annum 7.00% per annum
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and
other relevant factors.
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Bank at the beginning of the
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets are
given below:
% of fair value to total % of fair value to total
Category of plan assets plan assets plan assets
as at March 31, 2022 as at March 31, 2021
Government securities 34.17% 42.87%
Debenture and bonds 3.58% 35.11%
Others 62.25% 22.02%
Total 100.00% 100.00%
Experience adjustment
(` crore)
Years ended March 31,
Particulars
2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
Plan assets 0.88 0.33 9.51 21.95 31.30
Defined benefit obligation 88.02 89.99 64.15 69.54 73.06
Surplus / (deficit) (87.14) (89.66) (54.64) (47.59) (41.76)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan 0.39 (0.20) 0.28 0.48 0.59
assets
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan 6.44 31.41 9.06 3.32 3.95
liabilities
Amortisation of expenditure on account of enhancement in family pension of employees of banks
The Reserve Bank of India, vide its notification dated October 04, 2021 granted Banks an option to amortise the expenditure
on account of enhancement of family pension, over a period not exceeding five years beginning with the financial year ending
March 31, 2022, subject to a minimum of one-fifth of the total amount involved being expensed every year. The Bank has not
availed the said option and has recognised the entire expenditure on account of enhancement of family pension in financial
year ended March 31, 2022.
271
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Provident fund
The guidance note on AS-15, Employee Benefits, states that employer established provident funds, where interest is guaranteed
are to be considered as defined benefit plans and the liability has to be valued. The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI) has issued
a guidance note on valuation of interest rate guarantees on exempt provident funds. The actuary has accordingly valued the
same and the Bank held a provision of Nil as at March 31, 2022 (previous year: Nil), towards the present value of the guaranteed
interest benefit obligation. The actuary has followed the deterministic approach as prescribed by the guidance note.
Assumptions
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Discount rate (GOI security yield) 6.80% per annum 6.50% per annum
Expected guaranteed interest rate 8.10% per annum 8.50% per annum
The Bank does not have any unfunded defined benefit plan. The Bank contributed ` 420.98 crore (previous year: ` 370.13
crore) to the provident fund, ` 5.72 crore (previous year: ` 4.63 crore) to the National Pension Scheme (for employees who
opted) and ` 76.37 crore (previous year: ` 75.64 crore) to the superannuation plan.
The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘the Code’) relating to employee benefits, during the employment and post-employment,
has received Presidential assent on September 28, 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Further, the
Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on November 13, 2020. The effective date from
which the changes are applicable is yet to be notified and rules for quantifying the financial impact are not yet issued. The
Bank will assess the impact of the Code and will give appropriate impact in the financial statements in the period in which, the
Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
25. disclosures on remuneration
Qualitative Disclosures
A. Information relating to the bodies that oversee remuneration
Name and composition
The Board of Directors of the Bank has constituted the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (hereinafter, the ‘NRC’)
for overseeing and governing the compensation policies of the Bank. The NRC is comprised of five non-executive directors
as of March 31, 2022. Further, four members of the NRC are also members of the Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee
(hereinafter, the ‘RPMC’) of the Board.
As of March 31, 2022, the NRC is comprised of Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi, Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, Mr. Sandeep Parekh,
Mr. M.D. Ranganath and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty. Further, Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Parekh
and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty are also the members of the RPMC. Mr. Sanjiv Sachar is the chairperson of the NRC.
Mandate of the NRc
The primary mandate of the NRC is to oversee and review the implementation of compensation policies of the Bank.
The NRC periodically reviews the overall Remuneration Policy of the Bank with a view to attract, retain and motivate
employees. In this capacity it is required to review and approve the design of the total compensation framework, including
compensation strategy programs and plans, on behalf of the Board of Directors. The compensation structure and pay
revision for the Group Heads, Material Risk Takers, Senior Management, Risk and Control Staff, Key Management
Personnel and Whole Time Directors (who are also Material Risk Takers) of the Bank is approved by the NRC and
subsequently approved by the Board of Directors. The compensation of the Whole Time Directors requires the additional
approval of the Reserve Bank of India. The NRC co-ordinates with the RPMC to ensure that compensation is aligned
with prudent risk taking. Further the NRC also reviews the appointments of individuals at the levels of Group Heads, Key
Management Personnel, Senior Management and Whole Time Directors of the Bank.
272
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
External Consultants:
The Bank engaged with the following consultants during the year ended March 31, 2022:
1. AON Consulting Private Limited - in respect of the Bank’s annual salary market benchmarking exercise.
2. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP - in respect of the Bank’s benchmarking exercise pertaining to executive
compensation.
3. Mercer Consulting (India) Private Limited - in the area of job evaluation.
Scope of the Bank’s Remuneration Policy:
The Remuneration Policy of the Bank includes within its scope all business lines and functions, and all permanent staff in
the Bank’s domestic as well as international offices. The principles articulated in the compensation policy are applicable
uniformly across the Bank. However any statutory / regulatory provisions applicable in overseas locations take precedence
over the Remuneration Policy of the Bank.
All permanent employees of the Bank except those covered under the long term wage agreement are covered by the
said Remuneration Policy. The number of employees covered under the compensation policy was 1,41,349 as at March
31, 2022 (previous year: 1,19,858).
B. Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration processes and the key features and
objectives of remuneration policy
I. Key Features and Objectives of Remuneration Policy
The Bank’s Remuneration Policy (the ‘Policy’) is aligned to business strategy, market dynamics, internal characteristics
and complexities within the Bank. The ultimate objective of the Policy is to provide a fair and transparent structure
that helps in acquiring and retaining the talent pool critical to build competitive advantage and brand equity. The
Policy has been designed basis the principles for sound compensation practices in accordance with regulatory
requirements and provides a framework to create, modify and maintain appropriate compensation programs and
processes with adequate supervision and control.
The Bank’s performance management system provides a sound basis for assessing employee performance holistically.
The Bank’s compensation framework is aligned with the performance management system and differentiates pay
appropriately amongst its employees based on degree of contribution, performance, skill, experience, grade and
availability of talent owing to competitive market forces. Further, the Bank also considers compliance to processes,
regulatory compliance and risk management as an integral part of its performance appraisal process. These factors
are given due weightage for the purposes of the final performance rating of employees for a given performance year.
The NRC considers the aforementioned principles enunciated in the Bank’s compensation policy and ensures that:
(a) the compensation is adjusted for all types of prudent risk taking;
(b) compensation outcomes are symmetric with risk outcomes;
(c) compensation payouts are sensitive to the time horizon of risk; and
(d) the mix of cash, equity and other forms of compensation are aligned with risk.
Review of Remuneration Policy of the Bank
The Remuneration Policy of the Bank was reviewed by the NRC during the year ended March 31, 2021 and changes
were made to the policy in accordance with the revised guidelines on compensation of Whole Time Directors /
Chief Executive Officers / Material Risk Takers and Control Function staff issued on dated November 4, 2019. These
guidelines are applicable for the performance year commencing on April 1, 2020 and shall govern all remuneration
payouts subsequent to March 31, 2021.
273
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
II. design and Structure of Remuneration
The design and structure of remuneration in accordance with the RBI guidelines dated November 4, 2019, pertaining
to the performance year 2020-2021 and the related payouts made in the financial year ended March 31, 2022 are
as follows:
a) Fixed Pay
The Remuneration Policy ensures that the fixed component of the compensation is reasonable, taking into
account all relevant factors including industry practice.
Elements of Fixed Pay:
The fixed pay component of the Bank’s compensation structure typically consists of elements such as base
salary, allowances, perquisites and retirement benefits. Perquisites extended are in the nature of company
car, company leased accommodation, club membership and such other benefits or allowances in lieu of such
perquisites / benefits. Retirement benefits include contributions to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund
(for employees above certain job bands), National Pension Scheme and Gratuity. The Bank also provides
pension to certain employees of the erstwhile Lord Krishna Bank (eLKB) under the Indian Banks’ Association
(‘IBA’) structure.
Determinants of Fixed Pay:
The fixed pay is primarily determined by taking into account factors such as the job size, performance,
experience, location, market competitiveness of pay and is designed to meet the following key objectives of:
(a) fair compensation given the role complexity and size;
(b) fair compensation given the individual’s skill, competence, experience and market pay position;
(c) contribution to post retirement benefits; and
(d) compliance with all statutory obligations.
The quantum of fixed pay for the Senior Management i.e. Employees in Executive Vice President and above
grades, Material Risk Takers other than Whole Time Directors, Risk and Control Staff and Key Management
Personnel are approved by the NRC and the Board.
The quantum of fixed pay for Whole Time Directors is approved by the NRC and the Board, and is subject to
the approval of the RBI.
b) Variable Pay - For Senior Management and Material Risk Takers
The performance management system forms the basis for variable pay allocation of the Bank. The Remuneration
Policy of the Bank ensures that the performance management system is comprehensive and considers both,
quantitative and qualitative performance measures.
(i) Composition of Variable pay
The variable pay will be in the form of share linked instruments or a mix of cash and share linked instruments.
The share linked instrument used in the financial year 2021-22 was the Employee Stock Options. All plans
for grant of options are framed in accordance with the SEBI guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to
time and are approved by the shareholders of the Bank. These plans provide for the grant of options post
approval by the NRC. For Whole Time Directors the variable pay is approved by the NRC, Board and the
Reserve Bank of India.
The Bank will ensure that there is a proper balance between Fixed Pay and Variable Pay. In cases where
compensation by way of share-linked instruments is not permitted by law / regulations, the entire variable
pay will be in cash.
(ii) Limits on Variable pay
A substantial portion of compensation i.e. at least 50% will be variable and paid on the basis of individual,
business unit and organization performance. This will be in line with the principle that, at higher levels
of responsibility, the proportion of variable pay will be higher. The total variable pay shall be limited to a
maximum of 300% of the fixed pay (for the relative performance period).
274
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
In case the variable pay is upto 200% of the fixed pay, a minimum of 50% of the variable pay; and in case
the variable pay is above 200%, a minimum of 67% of the variable pay shall be via non-cash instruments.
The non-cash component in 2021-22 comprised of Employee Stock Options.
In the event that the employee is barred by statute or regulation from grant of share-linked instruments,
his / her variable pay will be capped at 150% of fixed pay but shall not be less than 50% of the fixed pay.
(iii) Deferral of Variable pay
For senior management including Whole Time Directors (WTDs) and Material Risk Takers (MRTs), de-
ferral arrangements exists for the variable pay. A minimum of 60% of total variable pay is under deferral
arrangements. If cash component is a part of the variable pay, at least 50% of the cash bonus is deferred.
In cases where cash component of the bonus is under Rs 25 lakh, deferral arrangements is not necessary.
The deferral period is a minimum of three years and is applicable to both cash and non-cash components
of variable pay. The deferral period for share linked instruments / ESOPs is governed by the ESOP Scheme
Rules which is approved by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board. In 2021-22,
the deferment of cash variable pay, where applicable, was 3 years in the case of cash variable pay and 4
years (vesting period) in the case of Employee Stock Options.
(iv) Vesting of Variable Pay
The deferred portion of the remuneration vests at the end of deferral period and is spread out over the
course of the deferral period. The first vesting is not before one year from the commencement of the
deferral period. The vesting is no faster than on a pro rata basis and the frequency of the vesting is more
than a year in order to ensure appropriate assessment of risk.
(v) Malus / Clawback Arrangement
The Bank believes in sustained business performance in tandem with prudent risk taking. The Bank,
therefore, has devised appropriate deterrents in order to institutionalize the aforementioned commitment.
Malus Arrangement: The provision of a Malus arrangement would entail cancellation of payout for the
deferred portion of reward (cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument). The
RBI guidelines define Malus thus “A Malus arrangement permits the bank to prevent vesting of all or part of the
amount of a deferred remuneration. Malus arrangement does not reverse vesting after it has already occurred”.
Clawback Arrangement: The provision of Clawback arrangement would entail return of payout of reward
(cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument) made in the previous years
attributable to a given reference year wherein the incident has occurred. The return would be in terms of
net amount. The RBI guidelines define Clawback thus “A Clawback is a contractual agreement between the
employee and the bank in which the employee agrees to return previously paid or vested remuneration to the
bank under certain circumstances”.
The Malus and Clawback clause will be actioned when the employee demonstrates behaviour involving
fraudulent behaviour, moral turpitude, lack of integrity, flagrant breach of company policies and statutory
norms resulting in financial or non-financial losses. Manifestation of behaviour listed above is presumed to
have a malafide intent. Illustrative list of conditions are enumerated below. The occurrence of any / some / all
of the following conditions / events shall trigger a review by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee for
the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement:
a) Substantial Financial Deterioration in profitability or risk parameters
b) Reckless, negligent or willful actions or exhibited inappropriate values and behavior
c) Fraud that requires a financial restatement
d) Reputational harm
e) Exposing the bank to substantial risk
f) Such other conditions or events, of similar nature as above, as determined by NRC for triggering review
by NRC for the purpose of application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement.
275
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
In determining the causes for deterioration in financial performance under (a), the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee may take into consideration and have due regard to the fact whether the deterioration was for factors
within control or whether it was on account of conditions like global market headwinds, industry performance,
changes in legal / regulatory regime, force majeure events like occurrence of natural disasters, pandemic, other
socio-economic conditions, etc.
While undertaking the review for the concerned person for the application of the Malus or the Clawback
arrangement based on any trigger events, when determining accountability of the concerned person, the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall be guided by the principles of proportionality, culpability or
proximity or nexus to the event or misconduct.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, wherever the assessed divergence in bank’s provisioning for Non-
Performing Assets (NPAs) or asset classification exceeds the prescribed threshold for public disclosure, the
bank shall not pay the unvested portion of the variable compensation for the assessment year under ‘Malus’
arrangement. Further, in such situations, no proposal for increase in variable pay (for the assessment year)
shall be entertained. In case the bank’s post assessment Gross NPAs are less than 2.0%, these restrictions
will apply only if criteria for public disclosure are triggered either on account of divergence in provisioning or
both provisioning and asset classification.
The NRC may decide to apply Malus on part, or all of the variable pay. The time horizon for the application of
Malus / Clawback clause shall be four years from the date of reward.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall review the act of misconduct / incident to ascertain the
degree of accountability attributable to a Whole Time Director / Material Risk Taker / Senior Management (Job
Bands C1 and above) prior to applying the Malus or Clawback arrangement.
The criteria for Malus / Clawback will be reviewed by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee annually.
(vi) Approval Process:
The Variable Pay for Senior Management, Material Risk Takers other than Whole Time Directors, Risk
and control staff is approved by the NRC and the Board. For Whole Time Directors the variable pay is
approved by the NRC, Board and the Reserve Bank of India.
Employees other than Senior Management, Material Risk Takers, Whole Time Directors
The Bank has formulated the following variable pay plans:
(i) Annual Bonus Plan
The quantum of variable payout is a function of the performance of the Bank, performance of the business unit,
performance of the individual employee, job band of the employee and the functional category. Basis these
key determinants and due adjustment for risk alignment, a payout matrix for variable pay is developed. Market
trends for specific businesses / functions along with inputs from compensation surveys may also be used in
finalising the payout.
Bonus pools are designed to meet specific business needs therefore resulting in differentiation in both the
quantum and the method of payout across functions. Typically higher levels of responsibility receive a higher
proportion of variable pay vis-à-vis fixed pay.
(ii) Performance-Linked Plans (PLPs)
PLPs are formulated for employees in sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given
business / service targets but have limited impact on risk since credit decisions are exercised independent
of these functions. All PLP payouts are based on a balanced scorecard framework which factors not just
quantitative, but also qualitative measures, and are subject to achievement of individual targets enumerated in
the respective scorecards of the employees. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial
year to provide for any unforeseen performance risks. Employees who are on the PLPs are excluded from the
Annual Bonus Plan.
276
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
(iii) Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOPs)
Employees in Job Bands D3 and above also receive ESOPs as a vehicle to create a balance between short
term rewards and long term sustainable value creation. ESOPs play a key role in the attraction and retention
of key talent.
The NRC grants options after considering parameters such as the incumbent’s grade and performance rating,
and such other factors as may be deemed appropriate by the NRC.
All plans for grant of options are framed in accordance with the SEBI guidelines, 1999 as amended from time
to time and are approved by the shareholders of the Bank. These plans provide for the grant of options post
approval by the NRC.
The Bank grants ESOPs to eligible employees. Such ESOPs vest over four tranches spread over a period of
48 months.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, Employee Stock Options is included as part of Variable Pay.
Risk, Control and Compliance Staff
The Bank has separated the Risk, Control and Compliance functions from the Business functions in order
to create a strong culture of checks and balances and to eliminate any possible conflict of interest between
revenue generation and risk management and control. Accordingly, the overall variable pay as well as the
annual salary increment of the employees in the Risk, Control and Compliance functions is based on their
performance, functional objectives and goals. The Bank ensures that the mix of fixed to variable compensation
for these functions is weighted in favour of fixed compensation.
Guaranteed Bonus
Guaranteed Bonuses are not consistent with sound risk management or pay for performance principles of the
Bank and therefore do not form an integral part of the general compensation practice.
For critical hiring for some select strategic roles, the Bank may consider granting of bonus, based on the
performance rating upon confirmation, as a prudent way to avoid loading the entire cost of attraction into the
fixed component of the compensation which could have a long term cost implication for the Bank. For such
hiring, the said bonus is generally decided by taking into account appropriate risk factors and market conditions.
For hiring at levels of Whole Time Directors / Managing Director / Material Risk Takers and certain employees
in select strategic roles, a signon bonus, if any, is limited to the first year only and would be in the form of
Employee Stock Options.
Severance Pay
The Bank does not grant severance pay other than accrued benefits (such as gratuity, pension) except in cases
where it is mandated by any statute.
Hedging
The Bank does not provide any facility or fund or permit its Whole Time Directors and employees to insure or hedge
their compensation structure to offset the risk alignment effects embedded in their compensation arrangement.
Statutory Bonus
Some employees are also paid statutory bonus as per the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 as amended from time
to time.
III. Remuneration Processes
Fitment at the time of Hire
Pay scales at the Bank are set basis the job size, experience, location and the academic and professional credentials
of the incumbent.
The compensation of new hires is in line with the existing pay ranges and consistent with the compensation levels of
the existing employees of the Bank at similar profiles. The pay ranges are subject to change basis market trends and
the Bank’s talent management priorities. While the Bank believes in the internal equity and parity as a key determinant
277
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
of pay, it does acknowledge the external competitive pressures of the talent market. Accordingly, there could be
certain key profiles with critical competencies which may be hired at a premium and treated as an exception to the
overall pay philosophy. Any deviation from the defined pay ranges is treated as a hiring exception requiring approval
with appropriate justification.
Pay Increment / Pay Revision
The Bank strives to ensure external competitiveness as well as internal equity without diluting the overall focus on
optimising cost. In order to enhance the Bank’s external competitiveness, it participates in an annual salary survey of
the banking sector to understand key market trends as well as get insights on relative market pay position compared
to peers. The Bank endeavors to ensure that most employees progress to the median of the market in terms of
fixed pay over time. This coupled with key internal data indicators like performance score, job family, experience,
job grade and salary budget form the basis of decision making on revisions in fixed pay.
Increments in fixed pay for majority of the employee population are generally undertaken once every financial year.
However, promotions, confirmations and change in job dimensions could also lead to a change in the fixed pay
during other times of the financial year.
The Bank also makes salary corrections and adjustments during the financial year for competitive pay positioning
for the purpose of retention of critical skills in the domain of Information Technology, Digital, Information Security,
Data Science as well as business segments that are strategic focus areas of the bank. However, such pay revisions
are done on an exception basis.
The Fixed Pay for the Material Risk Takers (other than Whole Time Directors), Senior Management, Key Management
Personnel is approved by the NRC and the Board. The Fixed Pay for the Whole Time Directors is approved by the
NRC, Board and the Reserve Bank of India.
c. description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the remuneration
processes, including the nature and type of the key measures used to take account of these risks
The Bank takes into account various types of risks in its remuneration processes. The Bank follows a comprehensive
framework that includes within its ambit the key dimensions of remuneration such as fixed pay, variable pay and long
term incentives (i.e. Employee Stock Options).
Fixed pay: The Bank conducts a comprehensive market benchmarking study to ensure that employees are competitively
positioned in terms of fixed pay. The Bank follows a robust salary review process wherein revisions in fixed compensation
are based on performance. The Bank also makes salary adjustments taking into consideration pay positioning of
employees vis-à-vis market reference points. Through this approach the Bank endeavors to ensure that the talent risk
due to attrition is mitigated. Fixed pay could be revised downwards as well, in the event of certain proven cases of
misconduct by an employee.
Variable pay: The Bank has distinct types of variable pay plans as given below:
(a) Quarterly / monthly performance-linked pay (PLP) plans:
All quarterly / monthly PLP plans are based on the principle of balanced scorecard framework that includes within
its ambit both quantitative and qualitative factors including key strategic objectives that ensure future competitive
advantage for the Bank. PLP plans, by design, have deterrents that play a role of moderating payouts based on the
non-fulfillment of established quantitative / qualitative risk factors. Deterrents also include risks arising out of non-
compliance, mis-sell etc. Further, a portion of all payouts under the PLP plans is deferred till the end of the financial
year to provide for any unforeseen performance risks. Employees who are part of the PLP plans are excluded from
the Annual Bonus Plan.
(b) Variable Pay:
The Bank takes into consideration the fact that a portion of the Bank’s profits are directly attributable to various
types of risks the Bank is exposed to such as credit risk and market risk.
278
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
The framework developed by the Bank in order to arrive at the quantum of bonus pool is based on the performance
of the Bank and profitability. The annual variable pay is distributed based on business unit and individual performance
and job band and role of the individual for non-business functions. The business unit performance is based on
factors such as growth in revenue, growth in profit, cost to income ratio and achievement vis-à-vis plans and key
objectives. Bonus pay out for an individual employee in a particular grade is linked to the performance rating of the
employee and subject to meeting the Bank’s standards of ethical conduct.
The Bank has devised appropriate Malus and Clawback clauses as a risk mitigant for Whole Time Directors,
Material Risk Takers, Senior Management (i.e. Employees in the job Bands of Executive Vice President and above).
Under the Malus clause the incumbent could forego the vesting of the deferred variable pay in full or in part. Under
the Clawback clause the incumbent is obligated to return all the tranches of variable pay payout pertaining to
the reference performance year. The deferred variable pay is paid out post review and approval by the NRC and
the Board.
d. description of the ways in which the Bank seeks to link performance during a performance measurement
period with levels of remuneration
The Bank has a robust performance management system for evaluating the performance of its Whole Time Directors.
The performance appraisal system is based on a Balanced Scorecard Framework and considers qualitative as well as
quantitative factors of performance which includes the following parameters:
1. Business Performance - This includes business growth, profitability, asset quality and shareholder value
2. Stakeholder Relationship - This includes net promoter score and corporate social responsibility
3. Audit and Compliance - This includes internal audit reports and compliance with the regulations and
inspection reports
4. Digital Transformation - This includes performance on initiatives required to run the bank and grow the bank
5. Organizational Excellence - This includes succession planning and employee engagement
While the above parameters form the core evaluation parameters for the Bank and the remuneration of its Whole Time
Directors, each of the business units are measured on the following from a remuneration standpoint:
a) Increase in plan over the previous year;
b) Actual growth in revenue over previous year;
c) Growth in net revenue (%);
d) Achievement of net revenue against plan (%);
e) Actual profit before tax;
f) Growth in profit before tax compared to the previous year;
g) Improvement in cost to income over the previous year; and
h) Achievement of key strategic objectives.
The process by which levels of remuneration in the Bank are aligned to the performance of the Bank, business unit and
individual employees is articulated below:
Fixed Pay
The Bank reviews the fixed pay portion of the compensation structure basis merit-based increments and market
corrections. These are based on a combination of performance rating, job band and the functional category of the
individual employee. For a given job band, the merit increment is directly related to the performance rating. The Bank
strives to ensure that most employees progress to the median of the market in terms of fixed pay over time. All other
things remaining equal, the correction percentage is directly related to the performance rating of the individual.
Variable Pay
Basis the performance of the business unit, individual performance and role, the Bank has formulated the following
variable pay plans:
• Variable Pay Plans:
For Employees in Job Bands of Vice President and above (includes employees in Senior Management,
Material Risk Takers, Whole Time Directors) the variable Pay intends to reward short term as well as long term
sustained performance of the bank and shareholder value creation.
279
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Short term Performance: Short term performance is realised in the form of cash variable pay. The cash variable
pay is based on performance rating and the job band of the individual and is further enhanced or moderated by the
business performance multiplier and role. The cash variable pay is computed on the gross salary.
Long term Performance: Employee Stock options are granted to employees based on their performance rating
and Job band and the value of the same is realised vide long term performance of the bank and creation of
shareholder value.
For Employees in Job Bands below Vice President:
At these levels the variable pay is in the form of Cash variable pay only and is based on the Annual performance.
The Bank’s annual bonus is computed as a percentage of the gross salary for every job band. The bonus multiple
is based on performance of the business unit (based on the parameters above), performance rating, job band and
the functional category of the individual employee. The business performance category determines the multiplier for
the bonus. All other things remaining equal, for a given job band, the bonus is directly related to the performance
rating. Employees who are part of the annual cash Variable Pay plan are not part of the Performance Linked Plans
mentioned below.
• Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
The Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given
sales, collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to the
achievement of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated by
qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for any
unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on the plan,
could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
E. Description of the ways in which the Bank seeks to adjust remuneration to take account of the longer term
performance
For employees in Senior Management, Material Risk Takers and Whole Time Directors the Bank seeks to adjust
remuneration to take account of the longer term performance in the following way.
(i) Limits on variable pay
A substantial portion of compensation i.e. at least 50% will be variable and paid on the basis of individual, business
unit and organization performance. This will be in line with the principle that, at higher levels of responsibility, the
proportion of variable pay will be higher. The total variable pay shall be limited to a maximum of 300% of the fixed pay.
In case the variable pay is upto 200% of the fixed pay, a minimum of 50% of the variable pay; and in case the
variable pay is above 200%, a minimum of 67% of the variable pay shall be via non-cash instruments. The non-cash
component in 2021-22 comprised of Employee Stock Options.
In the event that the employee is barred by statute or regulation from grant of share-linked instruments, his / her
variable pay will be capped at 150% of fixed pay but shall not be less than 50% of the fixed pay.
(ii) Deferral of variable pay
For senior management including Whole Time Directors (WTDs) and Material Risk Takers (MRTs), deferral arrangements
will exist for the variable pay. A minimum of 60% of total variable pay will be under deferral arrangements. If cash
component is a part of the variable pay, at least 50% of the cash bonus shall be deferred. In cases where cash
component of the bonus is under Rs 25 lakh, deferral arrangements would not be necessary.
The deferral period would be a minimum of three years and will be applicable to both cash and non-cash components
of variable pay. The deferral period for share linked instruments / ESOPs will be governed by the ESOP Scheme Rules
which will be approved by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board. In 2021-22 the deferment
of cash variable pay, where applicable, was 3 years in the case of cash variable pay and 4 years (vesting period) in
the case of Employee Stock Options.
(iii) Vesting of Variable Pay
The deferred portion of the remuneration will vest at the end of deferral period and will be spread out over the course
of the deferral period. The first vesting would not be before one year from the commencement of the deferral period.
280
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
The vesting would be no faster than on a pro rata basis and the frequency of the vesting would be more than a year
in order to ensure appropriate assessment of risk.
(iv) Malus / Clawback Arrangement:
The Bank believes in sustained business performance in tandem with prudent risk taking. The Bank, therefore, has
devised appropriate deterrents in order to institutionalize the aforementioned commitment.
Malus Arrangement: The provision of a Malus arrangement would entail cancellation of payout for the deferred portion
of reward (cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument). The RBI guidelines define Malus
thus “A Malus arrangement permits the bank to prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of a deferred remuneration.
Malus arrangement does not reverse vesting after it has already occurred”.
Clawback Arrangement: The provision of Clawback arrangement would entail return of payout of reward (cash variable
pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument) made in the previous years attributable to a given reference
year wherein the incident has occurred. The return would be in terms of net amount. The RBI guidelines define Clawback
thus “A Clawback is a contractual agreement between the employee and the bank in which the employee agrees to
return previously paid or vested remuneration to the bank under certain circumstances”.
The Malus and Clawback clause will be actioned when the employee demonstrates behaviour involving fraudulent
behaviour, moral turpitude, lack of integrity, flagrant breach of company policies and statutory norms resulting in financial
or non-financial losses. Manifestation of behaviour listed above is presumed to have a malafide intent. Illustrative list of
conditions are enumerated below. The occurrence of any / some / all of the following conditions / events shall trigger a
review by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee for the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement:
a) Substantial Financial Deterioration in profitability or risk parameters
b) Reckless, negligent or willful actions or exhibited inappropriate values and behavior
c) Fraud that requires a financial restatement
d) Reputational harm
e) Exposing the bank to substantial risk
f) Such other conditions or events, of similar nature as above, as determined by NRC for triggering review by NRC for
the purpose of application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement.
In determining the causes for deterioration in financial performance under (a), the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
may take into consideration and have due regard to the fact whether the deterioration was for factors within control or
whether it was on account of conditions like global market headwinds, industry performance, changes in legal / regulatory
regime, force majeure events like occurrence of natural disasters, pandemic, other socio-economic conditions etc.
While undertaking the review for the concerned person for the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement
based on any trigger events, when determining accountability of the concerned person, the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee shall be guided by the principles of proportionality, culpability or proximity or nexus to the event or misconduct.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, wherever the assessed divergence in bank’s provisioning for Non-Performing
Assets (NPAs) or asset classification exceeds the prescribed threshold for public disclosure, the bank shall not pay the
unvested portion of the variable compensation for the assessment year under ‘Malus’ arrangement. Further, in such
situations, no proposal for increase in variable pay (for the assessment year) shall be entertained. In case the bank’s post
assessment Gross NPAs are less than 2.0%, these restrictions will apply only if criteria for public disclosure are triggered
either on account of divergence in provisioning or both provisioning and asset classification.
The NRC may decide to apply Malus on part, or all of the unvested deferred Variable pay. The time horizon for the
application of Malus / Clawback clause shall be four years from the date of reward.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall review the act of misconduct / incident to ascertain the degree of
accountability attributable to a Whole Time Director / Material Risk Taker / Senior Management (C1 and above) prior to
applying the Malus or Clawback arrangement.
The criteria for Malus / Clawback will be reviewed by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee annually.
281
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Employees other than Whole Time Directors, Material Risk Takers and Senior Management
The Bank has formulated the following variable pay plans:
• Annual Cash Variable Pay plan:
The quantum of variable payout is a function of the performance of the Bank, performance of the individual employee, job
band of the employee and the functional category. Basis these key determinants and due adjustment for risk alignment,
a payout matrix for variable pay is developed. Market trends for specific businesses / functions along with inputs from
compensation surveys may also be used in finalising the payout.
Bonus pools are designed to meet specific business needs therefore resulting in differentiation in both the quantum and
the method of payout across functions. Typically higher levels of responsibility receive a higher proportion of variable pay
vis-à-vis fixed pay.
For Employees in Job Bands of Vice President and above the variable Pay intends to reward short term as well as
long term sustained performance of the bank and shareholder value creation.
Short term Performance: Short term performance is realised in the form of cash variable pay. The cash variable pay is
based on performance rating and the job band of the individual and is further enhanced or moderated by the business
performance multiplier and role. The cash variable pay is computed on the gross salary.
Long term Performance: Employee Stock options are granted to employees based on their performance rating and
Job band and the value of the same is realised vide long term performance of the Bank and creation of shareholder value.
The vesting period for Employee Stock Option is 4 years.
• Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
The Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given sales,
collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to the achievement
of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated by qualitative parameters.
A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for any unforeseen performance
risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on the plan, could be paid out monthly
or quarterly.
F. Description of the different forms of variable remuneration (i.e. cash, shares, ESOPs and other forms) that
the Bank utilises and the rationale for using these different forms
The Bank recognises the importance of variable pay in reinforcing a pay for performance culture. Variable pay stimulates
employees to stretch their abilities to exceed expectations.
• Annual Cash Variable Pay
These are paid to reward performance for a given financial year. This covers all employees (excluding employees
under PLPs). This is based on performance of the business unit, performance rating, job band and functional
category of the individual. For higher job bands the proportion of variable pay to total compensation tends to be
higher. For Material Risk Takers, Senior Management and Whole Time Directors 50% of the cash variable pay is
deferred over 3 years in the event the cash variable pay exceeds 25 lakhs.
• Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
The Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given
sales, collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to the
achievement of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated by
qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for any
unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on the plan,
could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
• Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP)
This is to reward for contribution of employees in creating a long term, sustainable earnings and enhancing
shareholder value. Only employees in a certain job band and with a specific performance rating are eligible for
stock options. Performance is the key criteria for granting stock options.
282
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Quantitative disclosures
The quantitative disclosures for the financial year ended March 31, 2022 cover the Bank’s Whole Time Directors and Material
Risk Takers. The Material Risk Takers are identified in accordance with the revised guidelines on remuneration issued by the
RBI on November 4, 2019. Hitherto, the quantitative disclosures would cover the Bank’s Whole Time Directors and Key Risk
Takers as per the erstwhile guidelines on remuneration dated January 13, 2012.
Sr. No. Subject March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
(a) Number of meetings held by the Number of meetings: 13 Number of meetings: 28
Nomination and Remuneration Committee Sitting fees paid: ` 0.61 crore Sitting fees paid: ` 0.57 crore
(NRC) during the financial year and sitting
fees paid to its members
(b) (i) Number of employees having received a 75 76
variable remuneration award during the
financial year
(b) (ii) Number and total amount of sign-on 25,000 ESOPs granted as sign-on No stock options granted as sign-on
awards made during the financial year awards awards
(b) (iii) Number and total amount of guaranteed None None
bonuses awarded during the financial year
(b) (iv) Details of severance pay, in addition to None None
accrued benefits, if any
(c) (i) Total amount of outstanding deferred 1. Deferred Cash variable pay - ` 18.53 Cash bonus - ` 3.91 crore.
remuneration, split into cash, shares and crore
share-linked instruments and other forms 2. ^Employee Stock Options (ESOP) -
31,66,000 Options
(c) (ii) Total amount of deferred remuneration ` 2.44 crore ` 2.68 crore
paid out in the financial year
(d) Breakdown of amount of remuneration ` 118.35 crore (Fixed*) ` 117.73 crore (Fixed*)
awards for the financial year to show fixed
` 3.84 crore (variable pay pertaining to ` 29.85 crore (variable pay pertaining
and variable, deferred and non-deferred
financial year ended March 31, 2021, to financial year ended March 31,
in relation to employees where there 2020, in relation to employees where
was no deferment of cash variable there was no deferment of pay)
pay). The same category of employees
` 1.67 crore (variable pay pertaining to
were granted 4,07,900 ESOPs.
financial year ended March 31, 2020,
` 35.50 crore (variable pay pertaining in relation to employees where there
to financial year ended March 31, was a deferment of pay), of which `
2021, in relation to employees where 1.00 crore was non-deferred variable
there was a deferment of cash variable pay and ` 0.67 crore was deferred
pay) of which ` 17.75 crore was non- variable pay.
deferred variable pay and
The Bank’s erstwhile managing
` 17.75 crore was deferred variable
director, Mr. Aditya Puri, was paid a
pay. The same category of employees
one-time lump sum payment of ` 3.50
were granted 27,58,100 ESOPs.
crore on retirement in accordance with
Number of stock options granted the approval received from the RBI.
during the financial year: 31,66,000
The approval of the RBI on the fixed
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was awarded pay revision effective April 1, 2020 and
cash variable pay ` 2.08 crore for the the variable pay of the Bank’s Whole
performance year 2019 - 2020 paid Time Directors for the financial year
out in the F.Y. 2022 basis RBI letter ended March 31, 2020 is awaited.
dated – April 29, 2021. The above
Number of stock options granted
amount is not included in the variable
during the financial year: 85,42,800
pay awarded this year as it pertains to
the previous year. The approval of the RBI in relation to
grant of stock options to the Bank’s
Whole Time Directors for the year
ended March 31, 2020 is awaited.
(e) (i) Total amount of outstanding deferred 1. Cash bonus - ` 18.53 crore Cash bonus - ` 3.91 crore.
remuneration and retained remuneration 2. ^Employee Stock Options (ESOP) -
exposed to ex-post explicit and / or 31,66,000 Options
implicit adjustments
283
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Sr. No. Subject March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
(e) (ii) Total amount of reductions during the Nil Nil
financial year due to ex-post explicit
adjustments
(e) (iii) Total amount of reductions during the Nil Nil
financial year due to ex-post implicit
adjustments
(f) Number of MRTs (Material Risk Takers) 79 78
identified.
(g) (i) Number of cases where Malus has been None None
exercised.
(g) (ii) Number of cases where Clawback has None None
been exercised.
(g) (iii) Number of cases where both Malus and None None
Clawback have been exercised.
General The mean pay for the bank as a whole The mean pay for the Bank as a whole The mean pay for the Bank as a whole
Quantitative (excluding sub-staff) and the deviation is ` 0.07 crore as of March 31, 2022. is ` 0.07 crore as of March 31, 2021.
Disclosure of the pay of each of its WTDs from the
mean pay. The ratio of the fixed pay of the The ratio of the fixed pay of the
managing director to the mean pay managing director to the mean pay
of the Bank as a whole is 94:1 as of of the Bank as a whole is 90:1 as of
March 31, 2022. March 31, 2021.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the other The ratio of the fixed pay of the other
whole time director to the mean pay whole time director to the mean pay
of the Bank as a whole is 87:1 as of of the Bank as a whole is 77:1 as of
March 31, 2022. March 31, 2021.
* Excludes gratuity benefits, since the same is computed at Bank level.
^ In accordance with the RBI guidelines, Employee Stock Options are to be included as part of variable pay. The number of options reported as
part of deferred remuneration comprise of Employee Stock Options granted during the financial year 2021-22 (as part of non cash variable pay)
and are yet to be vested. The first pay out in line with the extant RBI guidelines came into force effective April 01, 2021.
26. Segment reporting
Business segments
Business segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the target customer profile, the nature of products
and services, the differing risks and returns, the organisation structure, the internal business reporting system and the guidelines
prescribed by RBI. The Bank operates in the following segments:
a) Treasury
The treasury segment primarily consists of net interest earnings from the Bank’s investment portfolio, money market
borrowing and lending, gains or losses on investment operations and on account of trading in foreign exchange and
derivative contracts.
b) Retail banking
The retail banking segment serves retail customers through the Bank’s branch network and other channels. This segment
raises deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers with the help of specialist product
groups. Exposures are classified under retail banking taking into account the status of the borrower (orientation criterion),
the nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum thereof.
Revenues of the retail banking segment are derived from interest earned on retail loans, interest earned from other
segments for surplus funds placed with those segments, subvention received from dealers and manufacturers, fees from
services rendered, foreign exchange earnings on retail products, etc. Expenses of this segment primarily comprise interest
expense on deposits, commission paid to retail assets sales agents, infrastructure and premises expenses for operating
the branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of
specialist product groups, processing units and support groups.
284
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
c) Wholesale banking
The wholesale banking segment provides loans, non-fund facilities and transaction services to large corporates, emerging
corporates, public sector units, government bodies, financial institutions and medium scale enterprises. Revenues of the
wholesale banking segment consist of interest earned on loans made to customers, interest / fees earned on the cash
float arising from transaction services, earnings from trade services and other non-fund facilities and also earnings from
foreign exchange and derivative transactions on behalf of customers. The principal expenses of the segment consist of
interest expense on funds borrowed from external sources and other internal segments, premises expenses, personnel
costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of delivery channels, specialist product groups, processing units
and support groups.
d) Other banking business
This segment includes income from parabanking activities such as credit cards, debit cards, third party product distribution,
primary dealership business and the associated costs.
e) Unallocated
All items which are reckoned at an enterprise level are classified under this segment. This includes capital and reserves,
debt classified as Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital and other unallocable assets and liabilities such as deferred tax, prepaid expenses,
etc.
Segment revenue includes earnings from external customers plus earnings from funds transferred to other segments.
Segment result includes revenue less interest expense less operating expense and provisions, if any, for that segment.
Segment-wise income and expenses include certain allocations. Interest income is charged by a segment that provides
funding to another segment, based on yields benchmarked to an internally approved yield curve or at a certain agreed
transfer price rate. Transaction charges are levied by the retail banking segment to the wholesale banking segment for
the use by its customers of the retail banking segment’s branch network or other delivery channels. Segment capital
employed represents the net assets in that segment.
Geographic segments
The geographic segments of the Bank are categorised as domestic operations and foreign operations. Domestic operations
comprise branches in India and foreign operations comprise branches outside India.
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2022 is given below:
Business segments:
(` crore)
Sr. Treasury Retail Wholesale Other banking Total
Particulars
No. banking banking operations
1 Segment revenue 34,385.12 115,189.91 66,482.93 21,496.22 237,554.18
2 Unallocated revenue (12.18)
3 Less: Inter-segment revenue 80,278.99
4 Income from operations (1) + 157,263.01
(2) - (3)
5 Segment results 8,939.51 9,223.24 25,053.01 7,386.51 50,602.27
6 Unallocated expenses 1,586.79
7 Income tax expense (including 12,054.12
deferred tax)
8 Net profit (5) - (6) - (7) 36,961.36
9 Segment assets 551,767.34 619,468.20 808,136.61 76,591.09 2,055,963.24
10 Unallocated assets 12,571.81
11 Total assets (9) + (10) 2,068,535.05
12 Segment liabilities 77,273.63 1,292,339.74 413,825.31 5,994.76 1,789,433.44
13 Unallocated liabilities 39,008.67
14 Total liabilities (12) + (13) 1,828,442.11
285
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Sr. Treasury Retail Wholesale Other banking Total
Particulars
No. banking banking operations
15 Capital employed (9) - (12) 474,493.71 (672,871.54) 394,311.30 70,596.33 266,529.80
(Segment assets - Segment
liabilities)
16 Unallocated (10) - (13) (26,436.86)
17 Total (15) + (16) 240,092.94
18 Capital expenditure 24.69 2,393.81 229.00 148.63 2,796.13
19 Depreciation 40.48 1,295.47 149.27 114.58 1,599.80
20 Provisions for non - performing (14.52) 9,932.56 1,954.52 3,180.87 15,053.43
assets / others*
21 Unallocated other provisions* 8.40
* Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
Geographic segments:
(` crore)
Particulars Domestic International
Revenue 156,402.92 860.09
Assets 2,010,500.52 58,034.53
Capital expenditure 2,795.71 0.42
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2021 is given below:
Business segments:
(` crore)
Sr. Treasury Retail Wholesale Other banking Total
Particulars
No. banking banking operations
1 Segment revenue 32,337.67 110,210.21 57,154.30 19,937.53 219,639.71
2 Unallocated revenue 30.82
3 Less: Inter-segment revenue 73,607.41
4 Income from operations 146,063.12
(1) + (2) - (3)
5 Segment results 9,030.50 10,574.80 17,437.54 6,207.14 43,249.98
6 Unallocated expenses 1,590.99
7 Income tax expense (including 10,542.46
deferred tax)
8 Net profit (5) - (6) - (7) 31,116.53
9 Segment assets 519,641.74 521,997.22 628,731.57 67,116.08 1,737,486.61
10 Unallocated assets 9,383.91
11 Total assets (9) + (10) 1,746,870.52
12 Segment liabilities 76,276.60 1,096,217.82 338,115.31 5,857.65 1,516,467.38
13 Unallocated liabilities 26,682.31
14 Total liabilities (12) + (13) 1,543,149.69
15 Capital employed (9) - (12) 443,365.14 (574,220.60) 290,616.26 61,258.43 221,019.23
(Segment assets - Segment
liabilities)
16 Unallocated (10) - (13) (17,298.40)
17 Total (15) + (16) 203,720.83
18 Capital expenditure 24.93 1,527.55 139.94 99.72 1,792.14
19 Depreciation 36.74 1,047.40 118.18 100.09 1,302.41
20 Provisions for non - performing (16.82) 10,157.54 2,279.02 3,251.95 15,671.69
assets / others*
21 Unallocated other provisions* 31.16
* Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
286
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Geographic segments:
(` crore)
Particulars Domestic International
Revenue 145,131.15 931.97
Assets 1,703,283.63 43,586.89
Capital expenditure 1,791.73 0.41
27. liquidity coverage ratio
Quantitative information on Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) for year ended March 31, 2022 is given below :
(` crore)
Particulars Quarter ended Quarter ended Quarter ended Quarter ended
March 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 September 30, 2021 June 30, 2021
Total Total Total Total Total Total Total Total
Unweighted Weighted Unweighted Weighted Unweighted Weighted Unweighted Weighted
Value Value Value Value Value Value Value Value
(average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)*
1 Total High Quality Liquid Assets 385,997.51 417,489.13 400,953.88 373,545.17
(HQLA)
2 Retail deposits and deposits from 954,490.24 80,092.58 927,566.77 77,673.10 896,814.72 75,284.44 852,277.84 71,135.40
small business customers,
of which:
(i) Stable deposits 307,128.86 15,356.44 301,671.49 15,083.57 287,940.72 14,397.04 281,847.60 14,092.38
(ii) Less stable deposits 647,361.38 64,736.14 625,895.28 62,589.53 608,874.00 60,887.40 570,430.24 57,043.02
3 Unsecured wholesale funding, 427,179.99 236,495.87 425,733.31 238,454.69 404,540.27 227,410.53 396,313.06 217,872.62
of which:
(i) Operational deposits 50,091.34 12,318.56 49,151.99 12,082.10 41,056.81 10,080.72 47,120.53 11,571.41
(all counterparties)
(ii) Non-operational deposits 361,773.31 208,861.97 364,778.87 214,570.14 356,351.20 210,197.55 342,691.41 199,800.09
(all counterparties)
(iii) Unsecured debt 15,315.34 15,315.34 11,802.45 11,802.45 7,132.26 7,132.26 6,501.12 6,501.12
4 Secured wholesale funding 1,809.17 553.04 1,691.00 1,702.72
5 Additional requirements, of which 167,534.97 96,527.73 155,825.60 87,313.27 147,989.01 80,983.14 140,451.24 74,898.54
(i) Outflows related to derivative 84,702.91 84,702.91 75,933.90 75,933.90 69,165.62 69,165.62 63,937.12 63,937.12
exposures and other collateral
requirement
(ii) Outflows related to loss of funding - - - - - - - -
on debt products
(iii) Credit and liquidity facilities 82,832.06 11,824.82 79,891.70 11,379.37 78,823.39 11,817.52 76,514.12 10,961.42
6 Other contractual funding 27,141.50 27,141.50 24,854.04 24,854.04 23,514.45 23,514.45 22,135.84 22,135.84
obligation
7 Other contingent funding 634,305.56 29,445.82 603,961.91 28,113.35 595,276.29 27,817.78 437,391.84 19,917.22
obligations
8 Total Cash Outflows 471,512.67 456,961.49 436,701.34 407,662.34
9 Secured lending (e.g. reverse repo) - - - -
10 Inflows from fully performing 63,853.06 33,587.93 60,426.04 32,280.13 59,397.24 31,440.06 59,738.94 31,638.73
exposures
11 Other cash inflows 99,723.29 92,944.16 90,398.02 84,455.97 85,086.16 78,694.00 83,566.17 78,654.93
12 Total Cash Inflows 163,576.35 126,532.09 150,824.06 116,736.10 144,483.40 110,134.06 143,305.11 110,293.66
Total Total Total Total
Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted
Value Value Value Value
13 TOTAL HQLA 385,997.51 417,489.13 400,953.88 373,545.17
14 Total Net Cash Outflows 344,980.58 340,225.39 326,567.28 297,368.68
15 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%) 111.89% 122.71% 122.78% 125.62%
* The average weighted and unweighted amounts are calculated taking simple average based on daily observation for the respective quarters.
287
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Quantitative information on Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) for year ended March 31, 2021 is given below :
(` crore)
Particulars Quarter ended Quarter ended Quarter ended Quarter ended
March 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 September 30, 2020 June 30, 2020
Total Total Total Total Total Total Total Total
Unweighted Weighted Unweighted Weighted Unweighted Weighted Unweighted Weighted
Value Value Value Value Value Value Value Value
(average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)*
1 Total High Quality Liquid Assets 387,444.92 383,674.38 388,794.58 340,377.99
(HQLA)
2 Retail deposits and deposits from 832,171.74 69,590.69 796,241.80 66,593.38 773,039.10 64,459.71 732,384.63 60,916.81
small business customers,
of which:
(i) Stable deposits 272,529.72 13,626.49 260,616.12 13,030.81 256,883.89 12,844.19 246,433.05 12,321.65
(ii) Less stable deposits 559,642.02 55,964.20 535,625.68 53,562.57 516,155.21 51,615.52 485,951.58 48,595.16
3 Unsecured wholesale funding, 392,556.47 220,016.76 374,118.11 209,243.16 363,230.65 204,604.77 356,330.51 202,266.13
of which:
(i) Operational deposits 46,724.00 11,468.76 42,642.99 10,451.53 39,434.73 9,616.05 43,335.91 10,570.42
(all counterparties)
(ii) Non-operational deposits 337,592.54 200,308.07 322,278.94 189,595.45 314,152.61 185,345.41 300,405.14 179,106.25
(all counterparties)
(iii) Unsecured debt 8,239.93 8,239.93 9,196.18 9,196.18 9,643.31 9,643.31 12,589.46 12,589.46
4 Secured wholesale funding 1,468.48 136.02 572.08 2,536.01
5 Additional requirements, of which 129,797.30 74,882.62 100,431.39 60,570.72 109,923.16 69,254.65 94,309.70 55,993.92
(i) Outflows related to derivative 65,257.51 65,257.51 53,502.98 53,502.98 62,084.76 62,084.76 48,942.70 48,942.70
exposures and other collateral
requirement
(ii) Outflows related to loss of funding - - - - - - - -
on debt products
(iii) Credit and liquidity facilities 64,539.79 9,625.11 46,928.41 7,067.74 47,838.40 7,169.89 45,367.00 7,051.22
6 Other contractual funding 25,016.62 25,016.62 22,110.23 22,110.23 19,704.76 19,704.76 17,620.62 17,620.62
obligation
7 Other contingent funding 86,122.40 2,583.67 80,291.75 2,408.75 75,154.22 2,757.85 78,620.58 2,358.62
obligations
8 Total Cash Outflows 393,558.84 361,062.26 361,353.82 341,692.11
9 Secured lending (e.g. reverse repo) - - - - - - - -
10 Inflows from fully performing 57,894.78 30,583.31 54,243.72 28,833.52 54,736.54 29,395.55 58,619.17 31,164.09
exposures
11 Other cash inflows 86,460.73 80,668.22 71,902.59 66,534.28 83,850.84 76,900.67 73,670.94 66,790.62
12 Total Cash Inflows 144,355.51 111,251.53 126,146.31 95,367.80 138,587.38 106,296.22 132,290.11 97,954.71
Total Total Total Total
Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted
Value Value Value Value
13 TOTAL HQLA 387,444.92 383,674.38 388,794.58 340,377.99
14 Total Net Cash Outflows 282,307.31 265,694.46 255,057.60 243,737.40
15 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%) 137.24% 144.40% 152.43% 139.65%
* The average weighted and unweighted amounts are calculated taking simple average based on daily observation for the respective quarters.
Qualitative disclosure on LCR
The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) is one of the Basel Committee’s key reforms to develop a more resilient banking sector.
The objective of the LCR is to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of banks. It does this by ensuring
that banks have an adequate stock of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) that can be converted easily and
immediately into cash to meet their liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day liquidity stress scenario. The LCR is expected to
288
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
improve the banking sector’s ability to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stress, whatever the source, thus
reducing the risk of spillover from the financial sector to the real economy.
The Liquidity Risk Management of the Bank is governed by the Asset Liability Management (ALM) Policy approved by the Board.
The Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) is a decision making unit responsible for implementing the liquidity and interest rate risk
management strategy of the Bank in line with its risk management objectives and ensures adherence to the risk tolerance /
limits set by the Board. In order to determine cash outflows, the Bank segregates its deposits into various customer segments,
viz. Retail (which include deposits from individuals), Small Business Customers (those with deposits upto ` 7.5 crore), and
Wholesale (which would cover all residual deposits). Within Wholesale, deposits that are attributable to clearing, custody, and
cash management services are classified as Operational Deposits. Other contractual funding, including a portion of other
liabilities which are expected to run down in a 30 day time frame are included in the cash outflows. These classifications, based
on extant regulatory guidelines, are part of the Bank’s LCR framework, and are also submitted to the RBI.
The LCR is calculated by dividing a Bank's stock of HQLA by its total net cash outflows over a 30 day stress period. The
guidelines for LCR were effective January 1, 2015, with the minimum requirement at 60% which have risen in equal annual
steps to reach 100% on January 1, 2019. This graduated approach was designed to ensure that the LCR could be introduced
without material disruption to the orderly strengthening of banking systems or the ongoing financing of economic activity. The
present requirement, as on March 31, 2022 is 100%.
In the Indian context, the run-off factors for the stressed scenarios are prescribed by the RBI, for various categories of liabilities
(viz., deposits, unsecured and secured wholesale borrowings), undrawn commitments, derivative-related exposures, and
offset with inflows emanating from assets maturing within the same time period. Given below is a table of run-off factors and
the average LCR maintained by the Bank quarter-wise over the past two years:
Particulars Run-off factors
Retail Deposits 5% - 10%
Small Business Customers 5% - 10%
Operational deposits 5% - 25%
Non-financial corporates, sovereigns, central banks, multilateral development banks, and PSEs 40%
Other legal entities 100%
LCR Maintained LCR Required
Quarter ended
(Average)
March 31, 2022 111.89% 100.00%
December 31, 2021 122.71% 100.00%
September 30, 2021 122.78% 100.00%
June 30, 2021 125.62% 100.00%
March 31, 2021 137.24% 90.00%
December 31, 2020 144.40% 90.00%
September 30, 2020 152.43% 80.00%
June 30, 2020 139.65% 80.00%
The average LCR for the quarter ended March 31, 2022 was at 111.89% as against 137.24% for the quarter ended March 31,
2021, and above the present prescribed minimum requirement of 100%. The average HQLA for the quarter ended March 31,
2022 was ` 385,997.51 crore, as against ` 387,444.92 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. During the same period
the composition of government securities and treasury bills in the HQLA was at 89.04% as compared to 89.49% in the
previous year.
For the quarter ended March 31, 2022, derivative exposures (net of cash inflows) / collateral requirements and undrawn
commitments constituted just about 0.58% and 2.51% respectively of average cash outflow. The Bank has consistently
maintained a robust funding profile with a significant portion of funding through deposits. As of March 31, 2022 the top 20
depositors comprised of 4% of total deposits indicating a healthy and stable deposit profile.
289
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
28. Related party disclosures
As per AS-18, Related Party Disclosures read with RBI Master Direction on Financial Statements - Presentation and Disclosures,
the Bank’s related parties are disclosed below:
Promoter
Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
Subsidiaries
HDFC Securities Limited
HDB Financial Services Limited
Welfare trust of the Bank
HDB Employees Welfare Trust
Key management personnel
Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Kaizad Bharucha, Executive Director
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
Nagsri Sashidhar, Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Dhruv Sashidhar, Mythra Mahesh, Mahesh Babu Ramamurthy, Havovi
Bharucha, Huzaan Bharucha, Danesh Bharucha, Daraius Bharucha, Dilnaaz D Bharucha, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories.
The significant transactions between the Bank and related parties for year ended March 31, 2022 are given below. A specific
related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in that category:
• Interest paid: HDB Financial Services Limited ` 5.47 crore (previous year: ` 12.78 crore); Housing Development Finance
Corporation Limited ` 20.43 crore (previous year: ` 10.80 crore).
• Interest received: HDB Financial Services Limited ` 498.75 crore (previous year: ` 439.87 crore).
• Rendering of services: Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited ` 463.93 crore (previous year: ` 324.65 crore).
• Receiving of services: HDB Financial Services Limited ` 2,749.25 crore (previous year: ` 2,346.93 crore); Housing
Development Finance Corporation Limited ` 720.16 crore (previous year: ` 589.87 crore).
• Dividend paid: Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited ` 562.00 crore (previous year: Nil).
• Dividend received: HDFC Securities Limited ` 830.90 crore (previous year: ` 483.04 crore).
The Bank’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2022 are summarised
as follows:
(` crore)
Promoter Subsidiaries Key Relatives of Total
Management KMP & their
Items / Related party
personnel interested
(KMP) entities
Deposits taken 2,741.49 1,195.53 4.54 1.43 3,942.99
(5,132.37) (1,668.62) (23.02) (1.43) (6,825.44)
Deposits placed 0.32 10.62 - - 10.94
(0.32) (10.62) - - (10.94)
Advances given - 6,067.14 0.55 # 6,067.69
- (6,067.14) (0.73) (0.01) (6,067.88)
Fixed assets purchased from - - - - -
Fixed assets sold to - - - - -
Interest paid to 20.43 5.61 0.98 0.04 27.06
Interest received from - 498.75 0.02 - 498.77
Income from services rendered to 463.93 72.23 # # 536.16
Expenses for receiving services from 720.16 2,774.86 - - 3,495.02
Equity investments - 3,826.49 - - 3,826.49
- (3,826.49) - - (3,826.49)
Other investments - 5,105.62 - - 5,105.62
- (5,105.62) - - (5,105.62)
290
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Promoter Subsidiaries Key Relatives of Total
Management KMP & their
Items / Related party
personnel interested
(KMP) entities
Dividend paid to 562.00 - 2.50 # 564.50
Dividend received from - 830.90 - - 830.90
Receivable from 65.33 1.19 - - 66.52
(135.56) (7.78) - - (143.34)
Payable to 64.14 96.01 - - 160.15
(64.14) (101.83) - - (165.97)
Guarantees given 0.39 - - - 0.39
(0.40) - - - (0.40)
Remuneration paid - - 17.16 - 17.16
Loans purchased from 28,205.24 - - - 28,205.24
# Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
• Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each quarter-
end.
• Remuneration paid excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year.
• Bonus and retiral benefits for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key managerial
personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2022, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect of earlier years
was ` 2.09 crore.
The Bank being an authorised dealer, deals in foreign exchange and derivative transactions with parties which include its
promoter. The foreign exchange and derivative transactions are undertaken in line with the RBI guidelines. The notional principal
amount of foreign exchange and derivative contracts transacted with the promoter that were outstanding as on March 31, 2022
is `11,178.71 crore (previous year: ` 7,757.49 crore). The contingent credit exposure pertaining to these contracts computed
in line with the extant RBI guidelines on exposure norms was ` 236.68 crore (previous year: ` 166.45 crore).
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank purchased debt securities from HDB Financial Services Limited ` 1,316.88
crore (previous year: ` 3,146.57 crore) issued by it.
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank made investment of Nil (previous year: ` 473.06 crore) in pass through
certificates in respect of assets securitised out by HDB Financial Services Limited.
The deposit outstanding from HDB Employees Welfare Trust as at March 31, 2022 was ` 20.35 crore (previous year: ` 51.02
crore). The Bank also paid interest on deposit from HDB Employees Welfare Trust aggregating to ` 2.41 crore (previous year:
` 3.13 crore).
The Bank’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2021 are summarised
as follows:
(` crore)
Promoter Subsidiaries Key Relatives of Total
Management KMP & their
Items / Related party
personnel interested
(KMP) entities
Deposits taken 3,560.67 1,300.08 60.07 1.00 4,921.82
(3,560.67) (2,231.42 ) (717.55 ) (18.84) (6,528.48)
Deposits placed 0.32 10.62 - - 10.94
(0.47 ) (10.62) (0.76) (3.50) (15.35)
Advances given - 5,572.73 0.99 # 5,573.72
- (6,032.37) (2.32) (0.02) (6,034.71)
Fixed assets purchased from - - - - -
Fixed assets sold to - - - - -
Interest paid to 10.80 14.16 8.22 0.59 33.77
Interest received from - 440.03 0.05 - 440.08
Income from services rendered to 324.65 66.62 # # 391.27
Expenses for receiving services from 589.87 2,395.60 0.14 0.38 2,985.99
291
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Promoter Subsidiaries Key Relatives of Total
Management KMP & their
Items / Related party
personnel interested
(KMP) entities
Equity investments - 3,826.49 - - 3,826.49
- (3,826.49) - - (3,826.49)
Other investments - 3,138.89 - - 3,138.89
- (3,138.89) - - (3,138.89)
Dividend paid to - - - - -
Dividend received from - 483.04 - - 483.04
Receivable from 138.77 6.27 - - 145.04
(138.77) (10.96) - - (149.73)
Payable to 111.05 86.08 - - 197.13
(199.27) (171.13) - - (370.40)
Guarantees given 0.40 - - - 0.40
(0.41) - - (0.05) (0.46)
Remuneration paid - - 22.48 - 22.48
Loans purchased from 18,979.78 - - - 18,979.78
# Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
• Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each quarter-
end.
• Remuneration paid excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year.
• Bonus and retiral benefits for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key managerial
personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2021, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect of earlier years
was ` 2.90 crore.
• Related parties are in accordance with AS-18 Related Party Disclosures.
29 leases
Operating leases primarily comprise office premises, staff residences and Automated Teller Machines (‘ATM’s), which
are renewable at the option of the Bank. The details of maturity profile of future operating lease payments are given
below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Not later than one year 1,261.61 1,163.33
Later than one year and not later than five years 4,384.36 3,943.95
Later than five years 5,410.34 5,207.95
Total 11,056.31 10,315.23
The total of minimum lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the 1,347.58 1,390.04
year
Total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non- 55.67 56.94
cancellable sub-leases
Sub-lease amounts recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year 10.85 9.92
Contingent (usage based) lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for 321.96 324.07
the year
The Bank has sub-leased certain of its properties taken on lease.
The terms of renewal and escalation clauses are those normally prevalent in similar agreements. There are no undue restrictions
or onerous clauses in the agreements.
292
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
30. Transfers to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF)
The details of amount transferred during the respective year to deAF are as under:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Opening balance of amounts transferred to DEAF 783.99 617.69
Add: Amounts transferred to DEAF during the year 154.94 169.93
Less: Amounts reimbursed by DEAF towards claims (7.93) (3.63)
Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEAF 931.00 783.99
31. Penalties levied by the RBI
During the year ended March 31, 2022, RBI by an order dated May 27, 2021, levied a penalty of ` 10 crore for marketing and
sale of third-party non-financial products to the Bank’s auto loan customers, arising from a whistle blower complaint, which
revealed, inter alia, contravention of Section 6(2) and Section 8 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The Bank has discontinued
the sale of said third-party non-financial product since October 2019.
During the year ended March 31, 2021, RBI imposed a penalty of ` 0.10 crore for bouncing of Subsidiary General Ledger
which led to shortage of balance in certain securities in the Bank’s Constituent Subsidiary General Ledger account.
32. disclosure for complaints and grievance redress
Summary information on complaints received by the Bank from the customers and from the OBOs (Office
of Banking Ombudsman)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No.
Complaints received by the bank from its customers
1 Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year 6,263 5,057
2 Number of complaints received during the year 3,68,291 4,67,453
3 Number of complaints disposed during the year 3,67,676 4,66,247
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the bank 78,383 87,073
4 Number of complaints pending at the end of the year 6,878 6,263
Maintainable complaints received by the bank from OBOs
5 Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from OBOs 10,499 25,777
5.1 Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the bank by BOs 4,494 7,593
5.2 Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation / mediation / advisories issued 6,005 18,184
by BOs
5.3 Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by BOs against the bank Nil Nil
6 Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than those appealed) Nil Nil
Note: Maintainable complaints refer to complaints on the grounds specifically mentioned in Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021 (Previously BO
Scheme 2006) and covered within the ambit of the Scheme.
Pursuant to the RBI guidance, number of complaints for the previous year have been restated.
Overall Complaints Summary for the financial years:
Description March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
A Total Number of Complaints 4,35,152 4,80,667
B Complaints redressed by the bank within one working Day 66,861 13,214
C Net Reportable complaints (A - B) 3,68,291 4,67,453
293
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2022:
Grounds of Number of complaints Number of complaints % increase / Number of Of 5, number of
complaints pending at the received during the (decrease) in the complaints pending complaints pending
(i.e. complaints beginning of the year year number of complaints at the end of the beyond 30 days
relating to) received over the year*
previous year
1 2 3 4 5 6
ATM / Debit Cards 2,790 1,46,532 (22%) 2,299 28
Credit Cards 991 76,874 (52%) 731 -
Internet / Mobile / 1,603 68,518 21% 2,559 9
Electronic Banking
Loans and advances 533 37,738 14% 625 14
Account opening / 80 13,361 49% 146 -
difficulty in operation
of accounts
Others 266 25,268 16% 518 7
Total 6,263 3,68,291 (21%) 6,878 58
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2021:
Grounds of Number of complaints Number of complaints % increase / Number of Of 5, number of
complaints (i.e. pending at the received during the (decrease) in the complaints pending complaints pending
complaints relating to) beginning of the year year number of complaints at the end of the beyond 30 days
received over the year*
previous year
1 2 3 4 5 6
ATM / Debit Cards 2,651 1,86,775 (29%) 2,790 16
Credit Cards 540 1,60,288 (9%) 991 -
Internet / Mobile / 1,315 56,422 64% 1,603 -
Electronic Banking
Loans and advances 297 33,167 7% 533 1
Account opening / 20 8,990 (23%) 80 -
difficulty in operation
of accounts
Others 234 21,811 (10%) 266 6
Total 5,057 4,67,453 (14%) 6,263 23
* All these cases were pending within the stipulated turnaround time (TAT) of the Bank.
33. Small and micro industries
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from October 2, 2006, certain
disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. There have been no reported cases of
delays in payments to micro and small enterprises or of interest payments due to delays in such payments during the years
ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021. The above is based on the information available with the Bank which has been
relied upon by the auditors.
34. Overseas assets, NPAs and revenue
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Total Assets 58,034.53 43,586.89
Total NPAs 195.26 188.35
Total Revenue 860.09 931.97
294
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
35. corporate social responsibility
The details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities are given below:
(` crore)
Sr. Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No.
1 Amount required to be spent by the Bank 733.86 627.86
during the year
2 Amount of expenditure incurred 736.87 634.90
3 Shortfall at the end of the year - -
4 Details of unspent CSR amount for the - -
preceding three financial years
5 Reason for shortfall - -
6 Nature of CSR activities - Rural Development - Rural Development
- Promotion of Education - Promotion of Education
- Skill Training & Livelihood Enhancement - Skill Training & Livelihood Enhancement
- Financial Literacy & Inclusion - Financial Literacy & Inclusion
- Healthcare & Hygiene - Healthcare & Hygiene
7 Details of related party transactions, e.g. - -
contribution to a trust controlled by the
Bank in relation to CSR expenditure as per
relevant Accounting Standard
8 Where a provision is made with respect - -
to a liability incurred by entering into a
contractual obligation, the movements in
the provision
36. Investor education and protection fund
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by
the Bank during the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021.
37. disclosure on remuneration to Non-executive directors
Remuneration by way of sitting fees to the Non-Executive Directors for attending meetings of the Board and its committees
during the year ended March 31, 2022 amounted to ` 4.48 crore (previous year: ` 3.73 crore).
Further, in accordance with RBI guidelines, remuneration to all Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairperson for the
year ended March 31, 2022 amounted to ` 1.65 crore (previous year: ` 0.70 crore).
38. Payment of dIcGc Insurance Premium
(` crore)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No.
1 Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium (excluding GST) 1,636.66 1,413.97
2 Arrears in payment of DICGC Premium - -
39. Implementation of IFRS converged Indian Accounting Standards
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs, in its press release dated January 18, 2016, had issued a roadmap for implementation of
Indian Accounting Standards (IND-AS) for scheduled commercial banks, insurers / insurance companies and non-banking
financial companies, which was subsequently confirmed by the RBI through its circular dated February 11, 2016. This roadmap
required these institutions to prepare IND-AS based financial statements for the accounting periods beginning April 1, 2018
with comparatives for the periods beginning April 1, 2017. The implementation of IND-AS by banks requires certain legislative
changes in the format of financial statements to comply with the disclosures required under IND-AS. In April 2018, the RBI
deferred the implementation of IND-AS by a year by when the necessary legislative amendments were expected. The legislative
295
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
amendments recommended by the RBI are under consideration by the Government of India. Accordingly, the RBI, through
its circular dated March 22, 2019, deferred the implementation of IND-AS until further notice.
The Bank, being an associate of Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (the ‘Corporation’), submits its consolidated
financial information (‘fit for consolidation information’), prepared in accordance with the recognition and measurement
principles of IND-AS as specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, to the Corporation for the purposes of
the consolidated financial statements / results of the Corporation. The results of the Bank upon its first time adoption of and
transition to IND-AS, based on the updated regulations and accounting standards / guidance and business strategy at the
date of actual transition, could differ from those reported in the fit for consolidation information.
40. COVID-19
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic had led to a nation-wide lockdown in April-May 2020. This was followed by localised
lockdowns in areas with a significant number of COVID-19 cases. Following the easing of lockdown measures, there was an
improvement in economic activity in the second half of fiscal 2021. Since then India experienced two waves of the COVID-19
pandemic following the discovery of mutant coronavirus variants, leading to the reimposition of regional lockdowns which
were subsequently lifted.
The impact of COVID-19, including changes in customer behaviour and pandemic fears, as well as restrictions on business
and individual activities, led to significant volatility in global and Indian financial markets and a significant decrease in global and
local economic activities. The disruptions following the outbreak, impacted loan originations, the sale of third party products,
the use of credit and debit cards by customers and the efficiency in collection efforts resulting in increase in customer defaults
and consequent increase in provisions there against.
India is emerging from the COVID-19 pandemic. The extent to which any new wave of COVID-19 will impact the Bank's results
will depend on ongoing as well as future developments, including, among other things, any new information concerning the
severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, and any action to contain its spread or mitigate its impact whether government mandated
or elected by us.
41. Refund / Adjustment of ‘interest on interest’
In accordance with the instructions in the paragraph 5 of the RBI circular dated April 07, 2021, the Bank refunded / adjusted
'interest on interest' of ` 268.09 crore to all eligible borrowers during the year ended March 31, 2022.
42. Disclosure under Rule 11 (e) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances to its constituents including foreign entities with
permission to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like in other entities identified by such constituents. Similarly,
the Bank accepts deposits from its constituents, who may instruct the Bank to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security
or the like against such deposit in other entities identified by such constituents.
296
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
These transactions are part of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted after exercising proper due diligence
including adherence to “Know Your Customer” guidelines as applicable in respective jurisdiction.
Other than the nature of transactions described above, the Bank has not advanced / lent / invested / provided guarantee or
security to or in any other person with an understanding to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to or in any
other person. Similarly, other than the nature of transactions described above, the Bank has not received any funds from any
other person with an understanding that the Bank shall lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to or in any
other person.
43. comparative figures
Figures for the previous year have been regrouped and reclassified wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s
presentation. The previous year comparative numbers were audited by MSKA & Associates, Chartered Accountants.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates For M M Nissim & Co LLP Atanu Chakraborty Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part Time Chairman of the Board Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: ICAI Firm Registration Number:
105047W 107122W/W100672 M. D. Ranganath Malay Patel
Independent Director Independent Director
Swapnil Kale Sanjay Khemani Lily Vadera Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner Partner Independent Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812 Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022 Company Secretary
297
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Independent Auditor's Report
To the Members of HDFC Bank Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of HDFC Bank Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Bank”)
and its subsidiaries (the Bank and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), which comprise the consolidated Balance
Sheet as at March 31, 2022, the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year
then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, based on consideration of reports
of other auditors on separate financial statements and on the other financial information of subsidiaries, the aforesaid consolidated
financial statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013 (“the
Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Accounting Standards prescribed under section
133 of the Act read with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 as amended and other accounting principles generally accepted in
India, of their consolidated state of affairs of the Group as at March 31, 2022, of consolidated profit and its consolidated cash flows
for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the Act.
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are
relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements in India in terms of Code of Ethics issued by Institute of Chartered
Accountant of India (“ICAI”), and the relevant provisions of the Act and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance
with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated
financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2022. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
298
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Identification of Non - Performing advances (NPA) and provision on advances
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Reserve Bank of India’s (“RBI”) guidelines on Income recognition, Tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls (including
asset classification and provisioning (“IRACP”) prescribe the prudential application controls) over approval, recording, monitoring and recovery
norms for identification and classification of non-performing assets of loans, monitoring overdue / stressed accounts, identification of NPA,
(“NPA”) and the minimum provision required for such assets. provision for NPA and valuation of security including collateral.
The Bank is required to have Board approved policy as per IRACP Testing of Application controls include testing of automated controls,
guidelines for NPA identification and provision. reports and system reconciliations.
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to determine Evaluated the governance process and tested controls over calculations
the identification and provision required against NPAs by applying of provision on non-performing advances, basis of provisioning in
quantitative as well as qualitative factors. The risk of identification of accordance with the Board approved policy.
NPAs is affected by factors like stress and liquidity concerns in certain
Selected the borrowers based on quantitative and qualitative risk factors
sectors.
for their assessment of appropriate classification as NPA including
The provision on NPA is estimated based on ageing and classification computation of overdue ageing to assess its correct classification and
of NPAs, recovery estimates, nature of loan product, value of security provision amount as per extant IRACP norms and Bank policy.
and other qualitative factors and is subject to the minimum provisioning
Performed other substantive procedures including but not limited to
norms specified by RBI and approved policy of the Bank in this regard.
the following:
Additionally, the Bank makes provisions on exposures that are not
• Selected samples of performing loans and assessed independently
classified as NPAs including advances to certain sectors and identified
as to whether those should be classified as NPA;
advances or group advances that can potentially slip into NPA. These
are classified as contingency provisions. • For samples selected examined the security valuation, financial
statements and other qualitative information;
The Management of the Bank also makes an assessment of the impact
on borrowers’ accounts which were restructured as per RBI Circulars • Considered the accounts reported by the Bank and other Banks as
issued to provide relief to the borrowers. Special Mention Accounts (“SMA”) in RBI’s Central Repository of
Information on Large Credits (CRILC) to identify stress;
Since the identification of NPAs and provisioning for advances require
significant level of estimation and given its significance to the overall • For selected samples assessed independently accounts that can
audit including possible observation by RBI which could result into potentially be classified as NPA and Red Flagged Accounts;
disclosure in the financial statements, we have ascertained identification
and provisioning for NPAs as a key audit matter. • Performed inquiries with the credit and risk departments to ascertain
if there were indicators of stress or an occurrence of an event of
default in a particular loan account or any product category which
needed to be considered as NPA;
• Held specific discussions with the management of the Bank on
sectors where there is perceived credit risk and the steps taken to
mitigate the risks to identified sectors;
• Selected and tested samples of accounts which were restructured
under MSME restructuring circular and Resolution Framework for
COVID-19 related stress circular for their compliance with the RBI
directions;
• Assessed the adequacy of disclosures against the relevant
accounting standards and RBI requirements relating to NPAs.
299
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Independent Auditor's Report
Evaluation of litigations included in contingent liabilities
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank has material open tax litigations which involve significant Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
judgement to determine the possible outcome of these disputes.
Testing the design and operating effectiveness of the Bank’s key
Significant management judgement is needed in determining whether controls over the estimation, monitoring and disclosure of provisions
an obligation exists and whether a provision should be recognised as and contingent liabilities.
at the reporting date, in accordance with the accounting criteria set
Our substantive audit procedures included and were not limited to the
under Accounting Standard 29 - Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and
following:
Contingent Assets (‘AS 29’), or whether it needs to be disclosed as a
contingent liability. Further significant judgements are also involved in • Obtained an understanding of the Bank’s process for determining
measuring such obligations, the most significant of which are: tax liabilities, tax provisions and contingent liabilities pertaining to
legal matters and taxation matters;
• Assessment of liability: Judgement is involved in the determination
of whether an outflow in respect of identified material matters are • Obtained list of cases/matters in respect of which litigations were
probable and can be estimated reliably; outstanding as at reporting date;
• Adequacy of provisions: The appropriateness of assumptions and • For significant legal matters, we sought external confirmations and
judgements used in the estimation of significant provisions; and also corroborated with management’s documented conclusions on
the assessment of outstanding litigations against the Bank;
• Adequacy of disclosures of provision for liabilities and charges, and
contingent liabilities. • For significant taxation matters, we involved our tax specialist to gain
an understanding of the current status of the litigations, including
The Bank’s assessment is supported by the facts of matter, their own
understanding of various orders / notices received by the Bank and
judgement, experience, and advices from legal and independent tax
the management’s grounds of appeals before the relevant appellate
consultants wherever considered necessary.
authorities;
Since the assessment of these open tax litigations requires significant
• Evaluated the merit of the subject matter under consideration
level of judgement in interpretation of law, we have included this as a
with reference to the grounds presented therein and available
key audit matter.
independent legal / tax advice; and
• Agreed underlying tax balances to supporting documentation,
including correspondence with tax authorities.
• Assessed the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
300
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Information Technology (“IT”) Systems and Controls
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank has a complex IT architecture to support its day-to-day Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
business operations. High volume of transactions are processed and
For testing the IT general controls, application controls and IT dependent
recorded on single or multiple applications.
manual controls, we involved specialists as part of the audit. The team
The reliability and security of IT systems plays a key role in the business also assisted in testing the accuracy of the information produced by the
operations of the Bank. Since large volume of transactions are Bank’s IT systems.
processed daily, the IT controls are required to ensure that applications
Obtained a comprehensive understanding of IT applications
process data as expected and that changes are made in an appropriate
implemented at the Bank. It was followed by process understanding,
manner.
mapping of applications to the same and understanding financial risks
Appropriate IT general controls and application controls are required to posed by people-process and technology.
ensure that such IT systems are able to process the data, as required,
Key IT audit procedures includes testing design and operating
completely, accurately and consistently for reliable financial reporting.
effectiveness of key controls operating over user access management
We have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as key audit matter because (which includes user access provisioning, de-provisioning, access
of the high level automation, significant number of systems being used review, password configuration review, segregation of duties and
by the management and the complexity of the IT architecture and its privilege access), change management (which include change release
impact on the financial reporting system. in production environment are compliant to the defined procedures
and segregation of environment is ensured), program development
(which include review of data migration activity), computer operations
(which includes testing of key controls pertaining to Backup, Batch
processing (including interface testing), incident management and data
centre security), System interface controls. This included testing that
requests for access to systems were appropriately logged, reviewed
and authorized.
In addition to the above, the design and operating effectiveness of
certain automated controls, that were considered as key internal system
controls over financial reporting were tested. Using various techniques
such as inquiry, review of documentation / record / reports, observation
and re-performance. We also tested few controls using negative testing
technique. We had taken adequate samples of instances for our test.
Tested compensating controls and performed alternate procedures,
where necessary. In addition, understood where relevant, changes
made to the IT landscape during the audit period.
Information Other than the Consolidated Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information in the Basel
III - Pillar 3 disclosures and graphical representation of financial highlights (but does not include the financial statements and our
auditor’s reports thereon), which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, and the Annual Report, which is expected
to be made available to us after that date.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing
so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other
information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate
the matter to those Charged with Governance.
301
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Independent Auditor's Report
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial
Statements
The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial statements in term
of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated financial performance
and consolidated cash flows of the Group in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the
Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and circulars, guidelines and
directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India from time to time (the “RBI Guidelines”) as applicable to the Bank. The respective
Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in
accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI Guidelines for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for preventing and
detecting frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgements and
estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls,
that were operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and
presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the Board
of Directors of the Bank, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are
responsible for assessing the ability of the respective entity to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters
related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate
the respective entity or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the entities included in the Group are responsible for overseeing the respective entity’s financial
reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Standards on Auditing
(“SAs”) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken
on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout
the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Bank
has internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of
such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures
made by Management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the
ability of the Group to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are
302
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures,
and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves
fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the
Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and
performance of the audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated financial statements of which
we are the independent auditors. For the other entities included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been
audited by other auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits
carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with Those Charged with Governance of the Bank and such other entities included in the consolidated financial
statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide Those Charged with Governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to
bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with Those Charged with Governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2022 and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter
or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matter
• We did not audit the financial statements of two subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total assets of ` 7,226,709
Lacs as at March 31, 2022, total revenues of ` 1,346,577 Lacs and net cash flows amounting to ` 45,344 Lacs for the year
ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements. These financial statements have been audited by
other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial
statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, and our report in
terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, is based solely on the
reports of the other auditors.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is
not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors
and the financial statements certified by the Management.
• The audit of consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2021 was conducted by MSKA & Associates,
Chartered Accountants, the statutory auditor of the Bank, who had expressed an unmodified opinion on those financial
statements. Accordingly, we, M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants, do not express any opinion on the figures reported
in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended / as at March 31, 2021.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statement is not modified in respect of the above matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and the consideration of the report of the other auditors on
separate financial statements as noted in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
a. We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were
necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements;
303
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Independent Auditor's Report
b. In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated financial
statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of the other auditors;
c. The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of
preparation of the consolidated financial statements;
d. In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under
Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 to the extent they are not inconsistent
with the guidelines prescribed by RBI;
e. On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Bank as on March 31, 2022 taken on record
by the Board of Directors of the Bank and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies, none of the
directors of the Group companies, are disqualified as on March 31, 2022 from being appointed as a director in terms of
Section 164(2) of the Act;
f. With respect to the adequacy of internal financial controls with reference to the consolidated financial statements of the
Group and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure A”;
g. With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
(Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations
given to us:
i. The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated financial
position of the Group - Refer Schedule 12, Schedule 17(D)(17) and Schedule 18(12)(d)(1) & (2) to the consolidated
financial statements;
ii. Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements, as required under the applicable law or accounting
standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts - Refer
Schedule 17(D)(7) & 17(D)(17) and Schedule 18(12)(d) to the consolidated financial statements in respect of such
items as it relates to the Group; and
iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection
Fund by the Bank and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India.
iv. 1. The Management of the Bank has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as
disclosed in the notes to accounts, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed
funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank and its subsidiary companies to
or in any other persons / entities, including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding, whether
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary has, whether directly or indirectly lend or invest in other
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank, and its subsidiary companies
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
2. The Management of the Bank has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as
disclosed in the notes to accounts, no funds have been received by the Bank and its subsidiary companies
from any persons / entities, including foreign entities, that the Bank and its subsidiary companies have directly
or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf
of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the
Ultimate Beneficiaries;
3. Based on the audit procedures which we have considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances
and according to the information and explanations provided to us by the Management of Bank in this regard,
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations made by the Management
of Bank under sub-clause (1) and (2) contain any material misstatement.
v. The Bank and its subsidiary companies has paid dividend during the year which is in compliance with section 123
of the Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
304
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
h. With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditor’s Report under Section 197(16) of the Act:
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and based on the report of the statutory
auditors of subsidiary companies, the remuneration paid by the subsidiary companies to its directors is within the limit
laid down under Section 197 of the Act and the rules thereunder. Further, the Bank is a banking company as defined
under Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Accordingly, the requirements prescribed under Section 197 of the Companies Act,
2013 do not apply to the Bank.
For MSKA & Associates For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105047W ICAI Firm Registration Number:
107122W/W100672
Swapnil Kale Sanjay Khemani
Partner Partner
Membership Number: 117812 Membership Number: 044577
UDIN: 22117812AHEKRY1875 UDIN: 22044577AHEOTN5398
Mumbai, Mumbai,
April 16, 2022 April 16, 2022
305
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Independent Auditor's Report
ANNEXURE A TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT OF EVEN DATE ON THE CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF HDFC BANK LIMITED
[Referred to in paragraph 1(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the Independent Auditor’s Report
of even date to the Members of HDFC Bank limited on the consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2022]
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies
Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Bank as of and for the year ended March 31, 2022, we
have audited the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of HDFC Bank Limited (hereinafter
referred to as “the Bank”) and its subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Board of Directors of the Bank, its subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible
for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control with reference to consolidated financial
statements criteria established by the respective companies considering the essential components of internal control stated in the
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of India (“the ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business,
including adherence to the respective Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and
errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as
required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of
the Bank, its subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated in India, based on our audit. We conducted our audit in
accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued
by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of
internal financial controls. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated
financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgement, including the assessment of the
risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports
referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of the Bank, its subsidiary companies, which are companies
incorporated in India.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls With Reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
A Bank's internal financial control with reference to consolidated financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A Bank's internal financial control with reference to
consolidated financial statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Bank; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance
306
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Bank are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the Bank; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Bank's assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated
financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls With Reference to Consolidated Financial
Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements to
future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to consolidated financial statements may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the Bank, its subsidiary companies,
which are companies incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to
consolidated financial statements and such internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements were
operating effectively as at March 31, 2022, based on the internal control with reference to consolidated financial statements criteria
established by the respective companies considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note
issued by the ICAI.
Other Matters
Our aforesaid reports under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to two subsidiary companies, which are companies
incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated in India.
For MSKA & Associates For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105047W ICAI Firm Registration Number:
107122W/W100672
Swapnil Kale Sanjay Khemani
Partner Partner
Membership Number: 117812 Membership Number: 044577
UDIN: 22117812AHEKRY1875 UDIN: 22044577AHEOTN5398
Mumbai, Mumbai,
April 16, 2022 April 16, 2022
307
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at March 31, 2022
` in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital 1 554.55 551.28
Reserves and surplus 2 246,771.62 209,258.90
Minority interest 2A 720.41 632.76
Deposits 3 1,558,003.03 1,333,720.87
Borrowings 4 226,966.50 177,696.75
Other liabilities and provisions 5 89,918.19 77,646.07
Total 2,122,934.30 1,799,506.63
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India 6 130,030.71 97,370.35
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 7 25,355.02 23,902.16
Investments 8 449,263.86 438,823.11
Advances 9 1,420,942.28 1,185,283.52
Fixed assets 10 6,283.28 5,099.56
Other assets 11 90,910.36 48,879.14
Goodwill on Consolidation 148.79 148.79
Total 2,122,934.30 1,799,506.63
Contingent liabilities 12 1,400,197.64 975,280.66
Bills for collection 56,968.05 44,748.14
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Consolidated financial statements 17 & 18
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates For M M Nissim & Co LLP Atanu Chakraborty Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part Time Chairman of the Board Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: ICAI Firm Registration Number:
105047W 107122W/W100672 M. D. Ranganath Malay Patel
Independent Director Independent Director
Swapnil Kale Sanjay Khemani Lily Vadera Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner Partner Independent Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812 Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022 Company Secretary
308
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
For the year ended March 31, 2022
` in crore
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I INCOME
Interest earned 13 135,936.41 128,552.40
Other income 14 31,758.99 27,332.88
Total 167,695.40 155,885.28
II EXPENDITURE
Interest expended 15 58,584.33 59,247.59
Operating expenses 16 40,312.43 35,001.26
Provisions and contingencies [Refer Schedule 18 (12)] 30,647.74 29,779.66
Total 129,544.50 124,028.51
III PROFIT
Consolidated Net Profit for the year before minorities' interest 38,150.90 31,856.77
Less : Minorities' Interest 98.15 23.56
Consolidated Net Profit for the year attributable to the group 38,052.75 31,833.21
Add: Brought forward consolidated profit attributable to the group 78,594.20 61,817.68
Total 116,646.95 93,650.89
IV APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve 9,444.38 7,879.70
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year 3,592.40 -
Transfer to General Reserve 3,696.14 3,111.65
Transfer to Capital Reserve 666.47 2,291.68
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve Account 233.13 61.66
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve - 1,712.00
Transfer to / (from) Minority Interest (opening adjustment) (48.34) -
Balance carried over to consolidated balance sheet 99,062.77 78,594.20
Total 116,646.95 93,650.89
V EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE (FACE VALUE ` 1 PER SHARE) ` `
Basic 68.77 57.88
Diluted 68.31 57.61
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Consolidated financial statements 17 & 18
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss
Account.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates For M M Nissim & Co LLP Atanu Chakraborty Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part Time Chairman of the Board Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: ICAI Firm Registration Number:
105047W 107122W/W100672 M. D. Ranganath Malay Patel
Independent Director Independent Director
Swapnil Kale Sanjay Khemani Lily Vadera Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner Partner Independent Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812 Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022 Company Secretary
309
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended March 31, 2022
` in crore
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Cash flows from operating activities:
Consolidated profit before income tax 50,775.24 42,772.58
Adjustments for:
Depreciation on fixed assets 1,680.73 1,385.01
(Profit) / loss on revaluation of investments (1,546.40) 1,485.32
Amortisation of premium on held to maturity investments 821.32 765.47
(Profit) / loss on sale of fixed assets 3.25 0.29
Provision / charge for non performing assets 13,286.95 13,927.01
Provision for standard assets and contingencies 5,418.21 5,283.07
Employee Stock Options Expense 341.24 -
70,780.55 65,618.75
Adjustments for:
Increase in investments (10,849.22) (50,156.64)
Increase in advances (248,946.13) (155,681.07)
Increase in deposits 224,282.15 187,513.74
(Increase) / decrease in other assets (40,044.70) 8,307.68
Increase / (decrease) in other liabilities and provisions 7,655.94 (104.56)
2,878.59 55,497.90
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds) (14,838.16) (13,021.45)
Net cash flow (used in) / from operating activities (11,959.57) 42,476.45
Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchase of fixed assets (2,236.24) (1,696.15)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 19.91 15.28
Net cash flow used in investing activities (2,216.33) (1,680.87)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Increase in minority interest 135.83 56.12
Proceeds from issue of share capital, net of issue expenses 2,609.76 1,760.10
Proceeds from issue of Additional Tier I and Tier II capital bonds 8,312.75 356.50
Redemption of Tier II capital bonds (3,650.00) (1,105.00)
Net proceeds / (repayments) in other borrowings 44,308.08 (8,389.07)
Dividend paid during the year (3,592.40) -
Net cash flow from / (used in) financing activities 48,124.02 (7,321.35)
Effect of exchange fluctuation on translation reserve 165.10 (141.83)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 34,113.22 33,332.40
Cash and cash equivalents as at April 1st 121,272.51 87,940.11
Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31st 155,385.73 121,272.51
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates For M M Nissim & Co LLP Atanu Chakraborty Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part Time Chairman of the Board Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: ICAI Firm Registration Number:
105047W 107122W/W100672 M. D. Ranganath Malay Patel
Independent Director Independent Director
Swapnil Kale Sanjay Khemani Lily Vadera Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner Partner Independent Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812 Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022 Company Secretary
310
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 1 - capital
` in crore
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Authorised capital
6,50,00,00,000 (31 March, 2021 : 6,50,00,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 1/- each 650.00 650.00
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital
5,54,55,40,976 (31 March, 2021 : 5,51,27,76,482) Equity Shares of ` 1/- each 554.55 551.28
Total 554.55 551.28
Schedule 2 - ReSeRveS and SuRpluS
` in crore
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Statutory reserve
Opening balance 43,483.53 35,603.83
Additions during the year 9,444.38 7,879.70
Total 52,927.91 43,483.53
II General reserve
Opening balance 16,785.79 13,674.14
Additions during the year 3,696.14 3,111.65
Total 20,481.93 16,785.79
III Balance in profit and loss account 99,062.77 78,594.20
IV Share premium account
Opening balance 60,512.68 58,755.53
Additions during the year 2,606.48 1,757.15
Total 63,119.16 60,512.68
V Amalgamation reserve
Opening balance 1,063.56 1,063.56
Additions during the year - -
Total 1,063.56 1,063.56
VI Capital reserve
Opening balance 4,956.45 2,664.77
Additions during the year 666.47 2,291.68
Total 5,622.92 4,956.45
VII Investment reserve
Opening balance 61.66 -
Additions during the year 239.87 61.66
Deductions during the year (6.74) -
Total 294.79 61.66
VIII Investment fluctuation reserve
Opening balance 3,619.00 1,907.00
Additions during the year - 1,712.00
Total 3,619.00 3,619.00
IX Foreign currency translation account
Opening balance 182.03 323.86
Additions / (deductions) during the year 165.12 (141.83)
Total 347.15 182.03
X Cash flow hedge reserve
Opening balance - -
Additions / (deductions) during the year (108.09) -
Total (108.09) -
311
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
` in crore
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
XI Employees stock options reserve
Opening balance - -
Additions / (deductions) during the year 340.52 -
Total 340.52 -
Total 246,771.62 209,258.90
Schedule 2a - MinoRity inteReSt
` in crore
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Minority interest at the date on which parent subsidiary relationship came into existence 27.60 27.60
Subsequent increase 692.81 605.16
Total 720.41 632.76
Includes reserves of Employee Welfare Trust of ` 158.86 crore (previous year : ` 150.12 crore)
Schedule 3 - depoSitS
` in crore
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
A I Demand deposits
(i) From banks 5,550.83 3,870.19
(ii) From others 232,654.39 207,206.05
Total 238,205.22 211,076.24
II Savings bank deposits 511,737.21 403,492.47
III Term deposits
(i) From banks 9,801.89 10,645.84
(ii) From others 798,258.71 708,506.32
Total 808,060.60 719,152.16
Total 1,558,003.03 1,333,720.87
B I Deposits of branches in India 1,547,880.73 1,327,832.43
II Deposits of branches outside India 10,122.30 5,888.44
Total 1,558,003.03 1,333,720.87
312
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Schedule 4 - BoRRowingS
` in crore
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Borrowings in India
(i) Reserve Bank of India 9,020.00 9,020.00
(ii) Other banks 9,975.09 11,504.27
(iii) Other institutions and agencies 88,651.96 69,351.56
(iv) Upper and lower tier II capital and innovative perpetual debts 17,627.00 21,127.00
(v) Bonds and Debentures (excluding subordinated debt) 43,986.21 38,975.21
Total 169,260.26 149,978.04
II Borrowings outside India 57,706.24 27,718.71
Total 226,966.50 177,696.75
Secured borrowings included in I & II above:` 32,519.01 crore (previous year : ` 35,132.83 crore) except borrowings of ` 24,204.49 crore (previous year:
` 44,625.92 crore) under repurchase transactions (including tri-party repo) and transactions under Liquidity Adjustment Facility.
Schedule 5 - otheR liaBilitieS and pRoviSionS
` in crore
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Bills payable 13,093.74 12,424.19
II Interest accrued 8,241.11 8,123.58
III Others (including provisions) 61,792.07 51,572.44
IV Contingent provisions against standard assets 6,791.27 5,525.86
Total 89,918.19 77,646.07
Schedule 6 - caSh and BalanceS with ReSeRve Bank of india
` in crore
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes) 11,239.51 10,722.18
II Balances with Reserve Bank of India:
(a) In current accounts 81,777.20 59,442.17
(b) In other accounts 37,014.00 27,206.00
Total 118,791.20 86,648.17
Total 130,030.71 97,370.35
313
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 7 - BalanceS with BankS and Money at call and ShoRt notice
` in crore
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I In India
(i) Balances with banks:
(a) In current accounts 627.61 989.78
(b) In other deposit accounts 2,730.83 1,617.09
Total 3,358.44 2,606.87
(ii) Money at call and short notice:
(a) With banks - -
(b) With other institutions 491.33 -
Total 491.33 -
Total 3,849.77 2,606.87
II Outside India
(i) In current accounts 7,362.22 11,034.48
(ii) In deposit accounts 2,020.43 390.96
(iii) Money at call and short notice 12,122.60 9,869.85
Total 21,505.25 21,295.29
Total 25,355.02 23,902.16
Schedule 8 - inveStMentS
` in crore
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
A Investments in India in
(i) Government securities 367,723.10 352,015.86
(ii) Other approved securities - -
(iii) Shares 513.89 449.44
(iv) Debentures and bonds 59,628.36 58,674.72
(v) Others (Units, CDs, CPs, PTCs and security receipts) 18,776.09 25,314.97
Total 446,641.44 436,454.99
B Investments outside India in
(i) Government securities (including Local Authorities) 227.58 593.61
(ii) Other investments
(a) Shares 2.64 3.50
(b) Debentures and bonds 2,392.20 1,771.01
Total 2,622.42 2,368.12
Total 449,263.86 438,823.11
C Investments
I Investments in India
(i) Gross value of investments 447,049.34 437,300.54
(ii) Aggregate of provisions for depreciation (407.90) (845.56)
(iii) Net investment 446,641.44 436,454.98
II Investments outside India
(i) Gross value of investments 2,625.15 2,375.21
(ii) Aggregate of provisions for depreciation (2.73) (7.08)
(iii) Net investment 2,622.42 2,368.13
Total 449,263.86 438,823.11
314
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Schedule 9 - advanceS
` in crore
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
A (i) Bills purchased and discounted 29,052.42 34,542.78
(ii) Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand 433,411.25 255,977.82
(iii) Term loans 958,478.61 894,762.92
Total 1,420,942.28 1,185,283.52
B (i) Secured by tangible assets* 940,971.29 800,068.60
(ii) Covered by bank / government guarantees 48,387.03 39,375.84
(iii) Unsecured 431,583.96 345,839.08
Total 1,420,942.28 1,185,283.52
* Includes advances against stock and book debts of ` 175,547.78 crore (previous year: ` 131,211.86 crore)
C I Advances in India
(i) Priority sector 390,181.51 258,611.15
(ii) Public sector 135,693.81 119,908.27
(iii) Banks 6,886.30 8,538.39
(iv) Others 845,365.56 766,615.86
Total 1,378,127.18 1,153,673.67
C II Advances outside India
(i) Due from banks 4,909.88 5,527.65
(ii) Due from others
(a) Bills purchased and discounted 254.83 6.35
(b) Syndicated loans 541.89 834.79
(c) Others 37,108.50 25,241.06
Total 42,815.10 31,609.85
Total 1,420,942.28 1,185,283.52
(Advances are net of provisions)
315
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 10 - fixed aSSetS
` in crore
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
A Premises (including land)
Gross block
At cost on 31 March of the preceding year 2,055.77 1,891.07
Additions during the year 166.72 174.52
Deductions during the year (13.02) (9.82)
Total 2,209.47 2,055.77
Depreciation
As at 31 March of the preceding year 694.75 637.60
Charge for the year 72.07 66.48
On deductions during the year (11.31) (9.33)
Total 755.51 694.75
Net block 1,453.96 1,361.02
B Other fixed assets (including furniture and fixtures)
Gross block
At cost on 31 March of the preceding year 13,110.25 11,701.61
Additions during the year 2,721.22 1,698.51
Deductions during the year (512.42) (289.87)
Total 15,319.05 13,110.25
Depreciation
As at 31 March of the preceding year 9,371.71 8,328.23
Charge for the year 1,609.02 1,318.27
On deductions during the year (491.00) (274.79)
Total 10,489.73 9,371.71
Net block 4,829.32 3,738.54
C Assets on lease (plant and machinery)
Gross block
At cost on 31 March of the preceding year 454.69 454.69
Additions during the year - -
Total 454.69 454.69
Depreciation
As at 31 March of the preceding year 410.45 410.45
Charge for the year - -
Total 410.45 410.45
Lease adjustment account
As at 31 March of the preceding year 44.24 44.24
Charge for the year - -
Total 44.24 44.24
Unamortised cost of assets on lease - -
Total 6,283.28 5,099.56
316
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Schedule 11 - otheR aSSetS
` in crore
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Interest accrued 13,470.33 11,892.89
II Advance tax / tax deducted at source (net of provisions) 4,289.17 3,526.95
III Stationery and stamps 42.08 43.49
IV Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims 51.22 51.26
V Bond and share application money pending allotment - 22.50
VI Security deposit for commercial and residential property 592.37 568.79
VII Deferred Tax Assets 7,143.82 5,541.64
VIII Others* 65,321.37 27,231.62
Total 90,910.36 48,879.14
*Includes deposits placed with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB on account of shortfall in lending to priority sector of ` 44,738.08 crore (previous year: ` 9,320.37 crore)
Schedule 12 - contingent liaBilitieS
` in crore
As at As at
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts - taxation 1,343.95 1,272.71
II Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts - others 218.90 318.09
III Liability for partly paid investments - -
IV Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts 655,187.18 496,472.67
V Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts 593,778.58 361,579.46
VI Guarantees given on behalf of constituents - in India 83,391.03 75,119.53
- outside India 352.43 180.09
VII Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations 61,563.97 37,653.63
VIII Other items for which the bank is contingently liable 4,361.59 2,684.48
Total 1,400,197.63 975,280.66
Schedule 13 - inteReSt eaRned
` in crore
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Interest / discount on advances / bills 106,295.34 102,299.13
II Income from investments 25,907.06 23,211.62
III Interest on balance with RBI and other inter-bank funds 2,630.78 2,414.30
IV Others 1,103.23 627.35
Total 135,936.41 128,552.40
317
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 14 - otheR incoMe
` in crore
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Commission, exchange and brokerage 21,875.50 18,024.59
II Profit / (loss) on sale of investments (net) 785.20 5,389.01
III Profit / (loss) on revaluation of investments (net) 1,546.40 (1,485.32)
IV Profit / (loss) on sale of building and other assets (net) 70.76 46.57
V Profit / (loss) on exchange / derivative transactions (net) 3,907.91 2,438.41
VI Miscellaneous income 3,573.22 2,919.62
Total 31,758.99 27,332.88
Schedule 15 - inteReSt expended
` in crore
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Interest on deposits 48,901.00 50,126.03
II Interest on RBI / inter-bank borrowings 9,518.48 9,064.43
III Other interest 164.85 57.13
Total 58,584.33 59,247.59
Schedule 16 - opeRating expenSeS
(` crore)
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
I Payments to and provisions for employees 15,897.03 13,676.67
II Rent, taxes and lighting 1,760.26 1,808.88
III Printing and stationery 548.06 444.83
IV Advertisement and publicity 262.54 102.25
V Depreciation on bank's property 1,680.73 1,385.01
VI Directors' fees / remuneration, allowances and expenses 7.78 5.68
VII Auditors' fees and expenses 6.26 4.63
VIII Law charges 282.35 154.80
IX Postage, telegram, telephone etc. 636.87 540.24
X Repairs and maintenance 1,772.27 1,649.11
XI Insurance 1,910.45 1,724.91
XII Other expenditure* 15,547.83 13,504.25
Total 40,312.43 35,001.26
*Includes professional fees, commission to sales agents, card and merchant acquiring expenses and system management fees.
318
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Schedule 17 - Significant accounting policies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, in so far as they apply
appended to and forming part of the consolidated to banks.
financial statements for the year ended March 31,
use of estimates
2022
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
A BAckground conformity with GAAP requires the management to make
estimates and necessary assumptions in the reported
HDFC Bank Limited (‘HDFC Bank’ or ‘the Bank’),
amounts of assets and liabilities (including contingent
incorporated in Mumbai, India is a publicly held banking
liabilities) as of the date of the financial statements and
company engaged in providing a range of banking and
the reported income and expenses for the reporting
financial services including retail banking, wholesale
year. Management believes that the estimates used in
banking and treasury operations. The Bank is governed
the preparation of the financial statements are prudent
by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the Companies
and reasonable. Actual results could differ from these
Act, 2013. The Bank has overseas branch operations in
estimates. Any revision in the accounting estimates is
Bahrain, Hong Kong, Dubai and Offshore Banking Unit at
recognised prospectively in the current and future periods.
International Financial Service Centre (IFSC), GIFT City,
India. The financial accounting systems of the Bank are Basis of consolidation
centralised and, therefore, accounting returns are not
The consolidated financial statements present the accounts
required to be submitted by branches of the Bank.
of HDFC Bank Limited with its following subsidiaries:
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFSL) and HDFC Country of Ownership
Name Relation
Securities Limited (HSL) are subsidiaries of the Bank. incorporation interest**
HDBFSL is a non-deposit taking non-banking finance HDFC Securities Subsidiary India 95.96%
company. HSL is a financial services provider along with Limited
broking as a core product. HDB Financial Subsidiary India 94.96%
Services Limited
HDB Employee * India
B PrinciPleS of conSolidAtion
Welfare Trust
The consolidated financial statements comprise the The financial statements of HDBFSL and HSL have been
financial statements of the Bank and its subsidiaries prepared in accordance with notified Indian Accounting
constituting the ‘Group’. The Bank consolidates its Standards ('Ind-AS') with effect from April 1, 2018. The
subsidiaries in accordance with Accounting Standard (‘AS’) financial statements used for consolidation are special
21, Consolidated Financial Statements, specified under purpose financial statements prepared in accordance with
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, on a line-by-line Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (‘GAAP’)
basis by adding together the like items of assets, liabilities, specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013
income and expenditure. Capital reserve / Goodwill read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
on consolidation represent the difference between the and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021.
Bank’s share in the net worth of the subsidiary and the
* The accounts of HDB Employee Welfare Trust, a trust
cost of acquisition at the time of making the investment in
established for providing general welfare measures
the subsidiary.
such as medical relief and educational assistance to
c BASiS of PrePArAtion the employees of the Bank and their dependents has
been entirely consolidated.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared
** Denotes HDFC Bank’s direct interest.
and presented under the historical cost convention and
accrual basis of accounting, unless otherwise stated and During the year ended March 31, 2022 the Bank’s
are in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting shareholding in HDB Financial Services Limited
Principles in India (‘GAAP’), statutory requirements decreased from 95.1% to 94.9% on account of the
prescribed under the Third Schedule of the Banking stock options exercised by minority stakeholders.
Regulation Act, 1949, circulars and guidelines issued by
During the year ended March 31, 2022 the Bank’s
the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) from time to time (RBI
shareholding in HDFC Securities Limited decreased
guidelines), Accounting Standards (‘AS’) specified under
from 96.3% to 95.9% on account of the stock options
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with
exercised by minority stakeholders.
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies
319
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
The audited financial statements of the subsidiary categorised under HFT category and netted off from
companies, entity controlled by the Bank have been drawn investments. The short position is marked to market and
up to the same reporting date as that of the Bank, i.e. loss, if any, is charged to the Profit and Loss Account
March 31, 2022. while gain, if any, is ignored. Profit / Loss on short sale is
recognised on settlement date.
d PrinciPAl Accounting PolicieS
Valuation:
1 investments
Investments classified under AFS and HFT categories
Hdfc Bank limited are marked to market individually and depreciation
classification: / appreciation is aggregated for each group and net
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, investments are depreciation in each group is provided and net appreciation
classified on the date of purchase into “Held for Trading” is ignored.
(‘HFT’), “Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Held to Maturity”
Traded investments are valued based on the trades /
(‘HTM’) categories (hereinafter called “categories”).
quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or prices
Subsequent shifting amongst the categories is done
published by Financial Benchmarks India Pvt Ltd.
in accordance with the RBI guidelines. Under each of
(FBIL) with Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives
these categories, investments are further classified under
Association (FIMMDA) as the calculating agent. Investments
six groups (hereinafter called “groups”) - Government
denominated in foreign currencies are valued based on the
Securities, Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures
prices provided by market information providers such as
and Bonds, Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures
Bloomberg, Refinitiv, etc.
and Other Investments.
The market value of unquoted government of India securities,
Purchase and sale transactions in securities are accounted
state government securities and special bonds such as oil
on settlement date except in the case of equity shares
bonds, fertilizer bonds etc. issued by the government of
which are accounted on trade date.
India, is computed as per the prices published by FBIL with
FIMMDA as the calculating agent.
Basis of classification:
Investments that are held for resale within 90 days from The valuation of other unquoted fixed income securities (viz.
the date of purchase are classified under HFT category. other approved securities and bonds and debentures), and
Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity are preference shares, is done with appropriate mark-up, i.e.
classified under HTM category. Investments in the equity applicable FIMMDA published credit spread over the Yield
of subsidiaries / joint ventures are categorised as HTM. to Maturity (YTM) rates for government of India securities as
Investments which are not classified in either of the above published by FBIL with FIMMDA as the calculating agent.
categories are classified under AFS category.
Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-up
value, if the latest Balance Sheet is available or at ` 1 for
Acquisition cost:
each company.
Brokerage, commission, etc. and broken period interest
on debt instruments are recognised in the Profit and Loss Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest net asset value
Account and are not included in the cost of acquisition. declared by the respective schemes of the mutual fund.
Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of deposits
disposal of investments:
being discounted instruments, are valued at carrying cost.
Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid
three categories is recognised in the Profit and Loss Investments in Security receipts (SR) and unquoted
Account. Cost of investments is based on the weighted units of Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT) are valued
average cost method. The profit from sale of investment as per the net asset value provided by the issuing Asset
under HTM category, net of taxes and transfer to statutory Reconstruction Company and InvIT trust respectively.
reserve is appropriated from the Profit and Loss Account
Investments in unquoted Venture Capital Fund (VCF) are
to “Capital Reserve”.
categorised, at the discretion of the Bank, under HTM
category for an initial period of three years and valued at
Short sale:
cost during this period. Such investments are transferred
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central
to the AFS category after the said period of three years.
Government dated securities. The short position is
Investments in AFS category are valued at NAV shown by
320
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
the VCF in its financial statements. Units are valued based
HdB financial Services limited
on the latest audited financials of the VCF if available or at
Investments expected to mature after twelve months are
` 1 per VCF as per the RBI guidelines.
taken as long term / non-current investment and stated
Pass Through Certificates (PTC) including Priority Sector- at cost. Provision is recognised only in case of diminution,
PTCs are valued by using FIMMDA credit spread as which is other than temporary in nature. Investments
applicable for the NBFC category, based on the credit rating maturing within three months from the date of acquisition
of the respective PTC over the YTM rates for government are classified as cash equivalents if they are readily
of India securities published by FBIL with FIMMDA as the convertible into cash. All other investments are recognised
calculating agent. as short term / current investments and are valued at lower
of cost and net realisable value.
Net depreciation, if any, compared to the acquisition cost,
in any of the six groups, is charged to the Profit and Loss 2 Advances
Account. The net appreciation, if any, in any of the six groups
Hdfc Bank limited
is not recognised except to the extent of depreciation
classification:
provided earlier. The book value of individual securities is
Advances are classified as performing and non-performing
not changed on such revaluation of investments.
based on the RBI guidelines and are stated net of bills
Investments classified under HTM category are carried rediscounted, inter-bank participation with risk, specific
at their acquisition cost and not marked to market. Any provisions, interest in suspense for non-performing
premium on acquisition is amortised over the remaining advances, claims received from Credit Guarantors,
maturity period of the security on a constant yield to provisions for funded interest term loan and provision for
maturity basis. Such amortisation of premium is adjusted diminution in the fair value of restructured assets.
against interest income from investments. Any diminution,
other than temporary, in the value of investments in HTM Provisioning:
category is provided for. Specific loan loss provisions in respect of non-performing
advances are made based on management’s assessment
Non-performing investments are identified and provision
of the degree of impairment of advances, subject to the
are made thereon based on the RBI guidelines. The
minimum provisioning prescribed by the RBI.
provision on such non-performing investments are not set
off against the appreciation in respect of other performing The specific provision for retail non-performing assets are
investments. Interest on non-performing investments is not also based on the nature of product and delinquency levels.
recognised until received.
Specific loan loss provisions in respect of non-performing
advances are included under Provisions and Contingencies.
repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions:
Repurchase (Repo) and reverse repurchase (Reverse Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance
Repo) transactions are reflected as borrowing and lending with the Bank’s policy. Recoveries from bad debts written-
transactions respectively. off are included under other income.
Borrowing cost on repo transactions is accounted as In relation to derivative contracts, with non-performing
interest expense and revenue on reverse repo transactions borrowers, the Bank makes provision for the entire amount
is accounted as interest income. of overdue and future receivables relating to positive
marked to market value of the said derivative contracts.
Hdfc Securities limited
Investments that are readily realisable and are intended The Bank maintains general provision for standard assets
to be held for not more than one year from the date, on including credit exposures computed as per the current
which such investments are made, are classified as current marked to market values of interest rate and foreign
investments. All other investments are classified as long exchange derivative contracts and gold. In the case of
term investments. Current investments are carried at cost overseas branches, general provision on standard assets
or fair value, whichever is lower. Long-term investments are is maintained at the higher of the levels stipulated by the
carried at cost. However, provision for diminution is made respective overseas regulator or RBI. Provision for standard
to recognise a decline, other than temporary, in the value assets is included under other liabilities.
of the investments, such reduction being determined and
In addition to the above, the Bank on a prudent basis
made for each investment individually.
makes provisions on advances or exposures which are not
NPAs, but has reasons to believe on the basis of the extant
321
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
environment or specific information or basis regulatory and guidelines. The Company ensures provisions made
guidance / instructions, of a possible slippage of a specific are not lower than as stipulated by RBI guidelines.
advance or a group of advances or exposures or potential
The Company provides 0.40% on standard assets as
exposures. These are classified as contingent provisions
stipulated by RBI guidelines.
and included under other liabilities.
loan origination costs:
Provisions made in addition to the Bank’s policy for specific
loan loss provisions for non-performing assets, possible Brokerage, commission, incentive to employee, etc. paid at
slippage of specific exposures and regulatory general the time of acquisition of loans are charged to expenses.
provisions are categorised as floating provisions. Creation
3 Securitisation and transfer of assets
of floating provisions is considered by the Bank up to a level
approved by the Board of Directors. Floating provisions Hdfc Bank limited
are used only for contingencies under extraordinary Assets transferred through securitisation and direct
circumstances and for making specific provisions for non- assignment of cash flows are de-recognised in the Balance
performing accounts. Floating provisions are included Sheet when they are sold (true sale criteria being fully met
under other liabilities. with) and consideration is received. Sales / transfers that do
not meet true sale criteria are accounted for as borrowings.
Further to the provisions required to be held according
For a securitisation or direct assignment transaction, the
to the asset classification status, provisions are held for
Bank recognises profit upon receipt of the funds and loss
individual country exposures (other than for home country
is recognised at the time of sale.
exposure). Countries are categorised into risk categories
as per Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. On sale of stressed assets, if the sale is at a price below
(‘ECGC’) guidelines and provisioning is done in respect of the net book value (i.e., funded outstanding less specific
that country where the net funded exposure is one percent provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the Profit and
or more of the Bank’s total assets. Provision for country risk Loss Account and if the sale is for a value higher than the
is included under other liabilities. net book value, the excess provision is credited to the
Profit and Loss Account in the year when the sum of cash
In accordance with the RBI guidelines on the prudential
received by way of initial consideration and / or redemption
framework for resolution of stressed assets and the
or transfer of security receipts issued by SC / RC exceeds
resolution frameworks for COVID-19 related stress and
the net book value of the loan at the time of transfer.
its Board approved policy, the Bank has implemented
resolution plans for eligible borrowers. The asset In respect of stressed assets sold under an asset
classification and necessary provisions thereon are done securitisation, where the investment by the bank in security
in accordance with the said RBI guidelines. receipts (SRs) backed by the assets sold by it is more than
10 percent of such SRs, provisions held are higher of the
HdB financial Services limited
provisions required in terms of net asset value declared
classification:
by the Securitisation Company (‘SC’) / Reconstruction
Receivables under financing activity are classified as
Company (‘RC’) and provisions as per the extant norms
standard, sub-standard and doubtful assets as per the
applicable to the underlying loans, notionally treating the
Company policy approved by the Board and as per RBI
book value of these SRs as the corresponding stressed
guidelines. The rates applied for making provisions on non-
loans assuming the loans remained in the books of
performing assets (NPA) are higher than those required by
the Bank.
the relevant RBI guidelines. Interest on non-performing
assets is transferred to an interest suspense account and The Bank invests in Pass Through Certificates (PTCs)
not recognised in the Profit and Loss Account until received. issued by other Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs). These
Receivables under financing activity are recognised on are accounted at acquisition cost and are classified as
disbursement of loan and in case of new asset financing investments. The Bank also buys loans through the direct
on the transfer of ownership. assignment route which are classified as advances. These
are carried at acquisition cost unless it is more than the
Provisioning: face value, in which case the premium is amortised based
The Company assesses all receivables for their recoverability on effective interest rate method.
and accordingly recognises provision for non-performing
The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank
and doubtful assets as per approved Company policies
participation with and without risk. In the case of participation
322
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
with risk, the aggregate amount of the participation issued Bank, pursuant to Part C of Schedule II to the Companies
by the Bank is reduced from advances. In case where Act, 2013, taking into account changes in environment,
the Bank is assuming risk by participation, the aggregate changes in technology, the utility and efficacy of the asset
amount of the participation is classified under advances. in use, fairly reflects its estimate of useful lives of the fixed
In the case of issue of participation certificate without assets. The estimated useful lives of key fixed assets are
risk, the aggregate amount of participation issued by the given below:
Bank is classified under borrowings and where the Bank
estimated useful
is acquiring participation certificate, the aggregate amount
estimated useful life specified
of participation acquired is shown as due from banks
Asset life as assessed under Schedule ii
under advances. by the Bank of the companies
Act, 2013
HdB financial Services limited
Owned Premises 61 years 60 years
• Prior to Issuance of RBI Circular dated August 21,
Automated Teller 10 years 15 years
2012 Machines (ATMs)
a) On receivables being assigned / securtised, the Electrical equipments 6 to 10 years 10 years
assets are de-recognised as all the rights, title, and installations
future receivables & interest thereof are assigned Office equipments 3 to 6 years 5 years
to the purchaser. Computers 3 years 3 years
Modems, routers, 3 to 6 years 6 years
b) Gains arising on assignment of receivables switches, servers,
will be recognised at the end of the tenure of network and related
assignment contract as per the RBI guidelines, IT equipments
while loss, if any is recognised upfront. Motor cars 4 years 8 years
Furniture and fittings 16 years 10 years
• Post Issuance of RBI Circular dated August 21, 2012
• Improvements to lease hold premises are amortised
a) Securitised receivables are de-recognised in the over the remaining primary period of lease.
Balance Sheet when they are sold i.e. they meet
• Software and system development expenditure is
true sale criteria.
depreciated over a period of 5 years.
b) Gains arising out of securitisation of assets are
• Point of sales terminals are depreciated over a period
recognised over the tenure of the securities
of 4 years.
issued by Special Purpose Vehicle Trust (SPV).
• For assets purchased and sold during the year,
c) The excess interest spread on the securitisation
depreciation is provided on pro-rata basis.
transactions are recognised in the Profit and
Loss Account only when it is redeemed in cash • Whenever there is a revision of the estimated useful
by the SPV after adjusting for overdue receivable life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable amount
for more than 90 days. Losses, if any, are is charged over the revised remaining useful life of the
recognised upfront. said asset.
4 fixed assets and depreciation • Profit on sale of immovable property net of taxes and
transfer to statutory reserve, are transferred to capital
Hdfc Bank limited
reserve account.
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation as adjusted for impairment, if any. Cost • Assets (other than POS terminals) costing less than
includes cost of purchase and all expenditure like site ` 5,000 individually, are fully depreciated in the year
preparation, installation costs and professional fees of purchase.
incurred on the asset before it is ready to use. Subsequent
Hdfc Securities limited
expenditure incurred on assets put to use is capitalised only
Tangible fixed assets are stated at acquisition cost, net of
when it increases the future benefit / functioning capability
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment
from / of such assets.
losses, if any. Cost comprises purchase price and expenses
Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working
the fixed asset on a straight-line basis. The management condition for the intended use. Subsequent expenditure
believes that the useful life of assets assessed by the related to an item of fixed asset are added to its book value
323
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
only if it increases the future benefits from the existing asset • Intangible assets are stated at acquisition cost,
beyond its previously assessed standard of performance. net of accumulated amortisation and accumulated
impairment losses, if any.
Items of fixed assets that have been retired from active
use and are held for disposal are stated at the lower of • Cost of an intangible asset includes purchase price,
their net book value and net realisable value and are shown non-refundable taxes and duties and any other directly
separately in the financial statements. attributable expenditure on making the asset ready
for its intended use and net of any trade discounts
Gains or losses arising from disposal or retirement of tangible
and rebates. Subsequent expenditure on an intangible
fixed assets are measured as the difference between the
asset is charged to the Profit and Loss Account as an
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the
expense unless it is probable that such expenditure will
asset and are recognised net, within “Other Income” or
enable the intangible asset increase the future benefits
“Other Expenses”, as the case maybe, in the Profit and
from the existing asset beyond its previously assessed
Loss Account in the year of disposal or retirement.
standard of performance and such expenditure can
Capital work-in-progress are fixed assets which are not yet be measured and attributed to the intangible asset
ready for their intended use. Such assets are carried at cost reliably, in which case, such expenditure is capitalised.
comprising direct cost and related incidental expenses.
• Expenditure on software development eligible for
Depreciation is provided on a pro-rata basis to fully capitalisation are carried as intangible assets under
depreciate the assets using the straight-line method over development where such assets are not yet ready for
the estimated useful lives of the assets. their intended use.
For the following categories of assets, depreciation on • Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis
tangible fixed assets has been provided on the straight- over their estimated useful lives. The amortisation
line method as per the useful life prescribed in Schedule II period and the amortisation method are reviewed
to the Companies Act, 2013: at least at each reporting date. If the expected
useful life of the asset is significantly different from
Asset estimated useful life previous estimates, the amortisation period is
changed accordingly.
Computer hardware 3 years
Office equipments 5 years • Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal
Furniture and fixtures 10 years of an intangible asset are determined as the difference
Leasehold improvements Over the remaining period of the lease between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying
or estimated life, whichever is shorter amount of the asset and recognised as income or
Electricals 10 years expense in the Profit and Loss Account in the year
Office premises 60 years of disposal.
For the following categories of assets, the Company has
The estimated useful lives of intangible assets used for
assessed useful life based on technical advice, taking
amortisation are:
into account the nature of the asset, the estimates usage
of asset, the operating condition of asset, anticipated
Asset estimated useful life
technological changes and utility in the business, as below:
Computer software licenses 5 years
Asset estimated useful life Electronic trading platform (Website) 5 years
Bombay Stock Exchange card 10 years
Vehicles 4 years
HdB financial Services limited
Network & servers 4 years
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated
• All tangible and intangible assets costing less than
depreciation and impairment, if any. The cost of fixed
` 5,000 individually are fully depreciated in the year
assets comprise purchase price and any attributable cost
of purchase.
of bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended
• Useful lives are reviewed at each financial year end and use. Subsequent expenditure incurred on assets put to
adjusted if required. use is capitalised only when it increases the future benefit
/ functioning capability from / of such assets.
324
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of the of non-integral foreign operations (foreign branches and
fixed assets on a straight line basis in the manner prescribed offshore banking units) at the monthly average closing rates.
in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013. The estimated
Foreign currency monetary items of domestic and integral
lives used and differences from the lives prescribed under
foreign operations are translated at the closing exchange
Schedule II are noted in the table below:
rates notified by Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association
estimated useful of India (FEDAI) as at the Balance Sheet date and the
estimated useful
life under Schedule resulting net revaluation profit or loss arising due to a net
Asset life as assessed by
the company ii of companies open position in any foreign currency is recognised in the
Act, 2013
Profit and Loss Account.
Building 60 years 60 years
Leasehold Tenure of lease Tenure of lease Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency
improvements agreements agreements assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations
Motor cars 4 years 8 years are translated at closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI
Computers 2-5 years 3 years at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss
Furniture and 3-7 years 10 years arising from exchange differences are accumulated in the
fixtures
Foreign Currency Translation Account until disposal of the
Office equipments 3 years 5 years
non-integral foreign operations in accordance with AS - 11,
• Improvements to lease hold premises are charged The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates and the
off over the primary period of lease or its useful life, extant RBI guidelines.
whichever is lower.
Foreign currency denominated contingent liabilities on
• Items costing less than ` 5,000 are fully depreciated account of foreign exchange and derivative contracts,
in the year of purchase. guarantees, letters of credit, acceptances and
endorsements are reported at closing rates of exchange
• The Company has estimated Nil residual value at the
notified by FEDAI as at the Balance Sheet date.
end of the useful life for all block of assets.
Hdfc Securities limited
• For assets purchased and sold during the year,
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the rates
depreciation is being provided on pro-rata basis by
of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
the Company.
Exchange differences, if any arising out of transactions
Software and system development expenditure are settled during the year are recognised in the Profit and
capitalised at cost of acquisition including cost attributable Loss Account. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated
to bring the same in working condition and the useful life in foreign currencies as at the Balance Sheet date are
of the same is estimated of 3 years with zero residual translated at the closing exchange rate on that date. The
value. Any expenses on such software for support and exchange differences, if any, are recognised in the Profit
maintenance payable annually are charged to the Profit and Loss Account and related assets and liabilities are
and Loss Account. accordingly restated in the Balance Sheet.
5 impairment of assets 7 foreign exchange and derivative contracts
The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether Hdfc Bank limited
there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. Foreign exchange spot and forward contracts, both
Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent the deliverable and non-deliverable, outstanding as at the
carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are revalued
recoverable amount. at the closing spot and forward rates respectively as
notified by FEDAI and at interpolated rates for contracts of
6 translation of foreign currency items
interim maturities.
Hdfc Bank limited
The USD-INR exchange rate for valuation of contracts
Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic
having longer maturities i.e. greater than one year, is derived
operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing
using the USD-INR spot rate as well as relevant INR yield
on the date of the transaction. Income and expenditure
curve and USD yield curve. For other currency pairs, the
items of integral foreign operations (representative offices)
forward points (for rates / tenors not published by FEDAI)
are translated at the weekly average closing rates and
are obtained from Refinitiv or Bloomberg for valuation of the
325
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
forex deals. Valuation is considered on present value basis. and Loss Account in the same period as the cash flows of
For this purpose, the forward profit or loss on the deals hedged items affect the Profit and Loss Account. When a
are discounted till the valuation date using the discounting derivative contract expires or is sold or if a hedge no longer
yields. The resulting profit or loss on valuation is recognised meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative
in the Profit and Loss Account. Foreign exchange contracts profit or loss in the Cash Flow Hedge Reserve is retained
are classified as assets when the fair value is positive in equity until the hedged cash flow is recognised in the
(positive marked to market value) or as liabilities when the Profit and Loss Account. However, if hedged cash flows
fair value is negative (negative marked to market value). are no longer expected to occur, the profit or loss against
the corresponding derivative contract, accumulated in the
Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve, is immediately released through
trading, that are entered into to establish the amount of
the Profit and Loss Account. Changes in the fair values
reporting currency required or available at the settlement
of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge
date of a transaction and are outstanding at the Balance
accounting are recognised immediately in the Profit and
Sheet date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate.
Loss Account.
The premium or discount arising at the inception of such
forward exchange contract is amortised as expense or 8 revenue recognition
income over the life of the contract.
Hdfc Bank limited
The Bank recognises all derivative contracts at fair value, on • Interest income is recognised in the Profit and Loss
the date on which the derivative contracts are entered into Account on an accrual basis, except in the case of non-
and are re-measured at fair value as at the Balance Sheet performing assets and overdue interest on retail EMI
date. Derivatives are classified as assets when the fair value based performing advances, which are recognised
is positive (positive marked to market value) or as liabilities when realised. In case of domestic advances, where
when the fair value is negative (negative marked to market interest is collected on rear end basis, such interest
value). is accounted on receipt basis in accordance with the
RBI communication.
The Bank as part of its risk management strategy, makes
use of financial derivative instruments, including foreign • Interest income on investments in PTCs and loans
exchange forward contracts, for hedging the risk embedded bought out through the direct assignment route is
in some of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the recognised at their effective interest rate.
balance sheet. The Bank identifies the hedged item (asset
• Income on non-coupon bearing discounted
or liability) at the inception of the transaction itself. Hedge
instruments is recognised over the tenor of the
effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception of
instrument on a constant yield basis.
the hedge and at the reporting date thereafter.
• Loan processing fee is recognised as income when
In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of
due. Syndication / Arranger fee is recognised as
the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognised
income when a significant act / milestone is completed.
in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow
hedges, the changes in fair value of effective portion are • Gain / loss on sell down of loans is recognised in line
recognised in Reserves and Surplus under ‘Cash flow with the extant RBI guidelines.
hedge reserve’ and ineffective portion of an effective
• Dividend on equity shares, preference shares and on
hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in the Profit
mutual fund units is recognised as income when the
and Loss Account. The accumulated balance in the cash
right to receive the dividend is established.
flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging relationship, is
recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at the same time • Guarantee commission, commission on letter of credit,
that the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the annual locker rent fees and annual fees for credit cards
Profit and Loss Account. are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period
of contract. Other fees and commission income are
HdB financial Services limited
recognised when due, where the Bank is reasonably
Derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges,
certain of ultimate collection.
the hedging instrument is measured at fair value and any
gain or loss that is determined to be an effective hedge is • Fees paid / received for priority sector lending
recognised within equity i.e., Cash flow Hedge Reserve. certificates (PSLC) is recognised on straight-line basis
Amounts recognised in equity are transferred to the Profit over the period of the certificate.
326
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Hdfc Securities limited schedule and these may be exercised by the employees
• Income from services rendered as a broker is within a specified period.
recognised upon rendering of the services.
The Bank follows the intrinsic value method to account for
• Fees for subscription based services are received its stock-based employee compensation plans in respect of
periodically but are recognised as earned on a pro- options granted up to March 31, 2021. Compensation cost
rata basis over the term of the contract. is measured by the excess, if any, of the market price of
the underlying stock over the exercise price as determined
• Commissions from distribution of financial products
under the option plan. The market price is the closing
are recognised upon allotment of the securities to the
price on the stock exchange where there is highest trading
applicant or as the case may be, issue of the insurance
volume on the working day immediately preceding the date
policy to the applicant.
of grant. Compensation cost, if any is amortised over the
• Commissions and fees recognised as aforesaid vesting period.
are exclusive of goods and service tax, securities
Effective April 01, 2021, the fair value of share-linked
transaction tax, stamp duties and other levies by SEBI
instruments on the date of grant for all instruments granted
and stock exchanges.
after March 31, 2021 is recognised as an expense in
• Interest is earned on delayed payments from clients accordance with the RBI guidelines on Compensation of
and amounts funded to them as well as term deposits Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material
with banks. Risk Takers and Control Function staff. The fair value of the
stock-based employee compensation is estimated using
• Interest income is recognised on a time proportion
Black-Scholes model. The compensation cost is amortised
basis taking into account the amount outstanding
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the option
from customers or on the financial instrument and the
with a corresponding credit to Employee Stock Options
rate applicable.
Reserve. On exercise of the stock options, corresponding
• Dividend income is recognised when the right to balance in Employee Stock Options Reserve is transferred
receive the dividend is established. to Share Premium. In respect of the options which expire
unexercised, the balance standing to the credit of Employee
HdB financial Services limited
Stock Options Reserve is transferred to General Reserve.
• Interest income is recognised in the Profit and
Loss Account on an accrual basis. In case of Non-
gratuity:
Performing Assets (NPA), interest income is recognised
The Bank has an obligation towards gratuity, a defined
upon realisation as per the RBI Guidelines. Interest
benefit retirement plan covering all eligible employees.
accrued and not realised before the classification of
The plan benefit vests upon completion of five years of
the asset as an NPA is reversed and credited to the
service and is in the form of lump sum amount, without an
interest suspense account.
upper limit, equivalent to 15 days’ basic salary payable for
• Income from BPO services and other financial charges each completed year of service to all eligible employees on
are recognised on an accrual basis, except in case resignation, retirement, death while in employment or on
of cheque bouncing charges, late payment charges, termination of employment. The Bank makes contributions
foreclosure charges and application money, which are to a recognised Gratuity Trust administered by trustees and
accounted as and when received. whose funds are managed by insurance companies. In
respect of erstwhile Lord Krishna Bank (eLKB) employees,
• Upfront / processing fees are recovered and
the Bank makes contribution to a fund set up by eLKB and
recognised at the time of disbursement of loan.
administered by the Board of Trustees.
9 employee benefits
The defined gratuity benefit plans are valued by an
Hdfc Bank limited independent actuary as at the Balance Sheet date using
employee Stock option Scheme (eSoS): the projected unit credit method as per the requirement of
The Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘the Scheme’) AS-15, Employee Benefits, to determine the present value
provides for the grant of options to acquire equity shares of the defined benefit obligation and the related service
of the Bank to its employees and whole time directors. costs. The actuarial calculations entails assumptions about
The options granted to employees vest as per their vesting demographics, early retirement, salary increases and
interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is recognised in the
Profit and Loss Account.
327
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Superannuation: Pension:
The Bank has a Superannuation Plan under which In respect of pension payable to certain eLKB employees
employees of the Bank, above a prescribed grade, are under the Lord Krishna Bank (Employees) Pension
entitled to receive retirement benefits either through salary Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme, the Bank
or under a defined contribution plan. For those opting for contributes 10% of basic salary to a pension trust set up
a defined contribution plan, the Bank contributes a sum by the Bank and administered by the Board of Trustees and
equivalent to 13% of the employee’s eligible annual basic an additional amount towards the liability shortfall based on
salary (15% for the whole time directors and for certain an independent actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet
eligible employees of the erstwhile Centurion Bank of date, which includes assumptions about demographics,
Punjab (eCBoP staff) to a Trust administered by trustees early retirement, salary increases and interest rates.
and whose funds are managed by insurance companies.
In respect of certain eLKB employees who had moved to
The Bank has no liability towards future superannuation
a Cost to Company (CTC) based compensation structure
fund benefits other than its contribution, and recognises
and had completed less than 15 years of service, the
such contribution as an expense in the year incurred.
contribution which was made until then, is maintained as a
fund and will be converted into annuity on separation after a
Provident fund:
lock-in-period of two years. For this category of employees,
The Bank is covered under the Employees Provident Fund
liability stands frozen and no additional provision is required
and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and accordingly
except for interest as applicable to Provident Fund, which
all employees of the Bank are entitled to receive benefits
is provided for.
under the provident fund. The Bank contributes an amount,
on a monthly basis, at a determined rate (currently 12% In respect of certain eLKB employees who moved to a CTC
of employee’s basic salary). Of this, the Bank contributes structure and had completed service of more than 15 years,
an amount equal to 8.33% of employee’s basic salary up pension would be paid on separation based on salary
to a maximum salary level of ` 15,000/- per month, to the applicable as on the date of movement to CTC structure.
Pension Scheme administered by the Regional Provident Provision thereto is made based on an independent
Fund Office. The balance amount of the 12% employer’s actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet date.
share is contributed to an exempted Trust set up by the
Bank and administered by a Board of Trustees. The Bank national Pension Scheme (nPS):
recognises such contributions as an expense in the year in In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the
which it is incurred. Interest payable to the members of the NPS, the Bank contributes certain percentage of the basic
exempted trust shall not be lower than the statutory rate salary of employees to the aforesaid scheme, a defined
of interest declared by the Central Government under the contribution plan, which is managed and administered by
Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions pension fund management companies. The Bank has no
Act, 1952 and shortfall, if any, shall be made good by liability other than its contribution, and recognises such
the Bank. contributions as an expense in the year incurred.
The guidance note on implementing AS-15, Employee Hdfc Securities limited
Benefits, states that benefits involving employer established Short term
provident funds, which require interest shortfalls to be Short term employee benefits include salaries and
provided, are to be considered as defined benefit plans. performance incentives. A liability is recognised for the
Actuarial valuation of this Provident Fund interest shortfall amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus
is done as per the guidance note issued in this respect by or target based incentives if the Company has a present
The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI) and provision towards legal or informal obligation to pay this amount as a result of
this liability is made. past service provided by the employee, and the obligation
can be estimated reliably. These costs are recognised as an
The overseas branches of the Bank make contribution to the
expense in the Profit and Loss Account at the undiscounted
respective applicable government social security scheme
amount expected to be paid over the period of services
calculated as a percentage of the employees’ salaries.
rendered by the employees to the Company.
The Bank’s obligations are limited to these contributions,
which are expensed when due, as such contribution is in
Post-employment
the nature of defined contribution.
The Company offers its employees long term benefits by
way of defined-contribution and defined-benefit plans, of
328
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
which some have assets in special funds or securities. The b. That cost is recognised, together with a corresponding
plans are financed by the Company and in the case of increase in share-based payment reserves in equity,
some defined contribution plans by the Company along over the period in which the performance and /
with its employees. or service conditions are fulfilled. The cumulative
expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at
defined-contribution plans each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the
These are plans in which the Company pays pre-defined extent to which the vesting period has expired and
amounts to separate funds and does not have any legal the Company’s best estimate of the number of equity
or informal obligation to pay additional sums. These instruments that will ultimately vest.
comprise of contributions to the National Pension Scheme,
c. When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified,
Employees’ Provident Fund, Family Pension Fund and
the minimum expense recognised is the expense
Superannuation Fund. The Company’s payments to the
had the terms had not been modified, if the original
defined-contribution plans are reported as expenses during
terms of the award are met. An additional expense is
the period in which the employees perform the services
recognised for any modification that increases the total
that the payment covers.
fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or
is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at
defined-benefit plans
the date of modification. Where an award is cancelled
Expenses for defined-benefit gratuity plan are calculated
by the entity or by the counter-party, any remaining
as at the Balance Sheet date by an independent actuary
element of the fair value of the award is expensed
in a manner that distributes expenses over the employee’s
immediately through the Profit and Loss Account.
working life. These commitments are valued at the present
value of the expected future payments, with consideration HdB financial Services limited
for calculated future salary increases, using a discount rate gratuity
corresponding to the interest rate estimated by the actuary The Company provides for gratuity to all employees. The
having regard to the interest rate on government bonds with benefit is in the form of lump sum payments to vested
a remaining term that is almost equivalent to the average employees on resignation, retirement, or death while
balance working period of employees. The fair values of in employment or on termination of employment of an
the plan assets are deducted in determining the net liability. amount equivalent to 15 days basic salary payable for
When the fair value of plan assets exceeds the commitments each completed year of service. Vesting occurs upon
computed as aforesaid, the recognised asset is limited to completion of five years of service. The Company makes
the net total of any cumulative past service costs and the annual contributions to fund administered by trustees and
present value of any economic benefits available in the form managed by insurance companies. The defined benefit
of reductions in future contributions to the plan. plan are valued by an independent external actuary as
at the Balance Sheet date using the projected unit credit
Actuarial losses or gains are recognised in the Profit and
method to determine the present value of defined benefit
Loss Account in the year in which they arise.
obligation and the related service costs. Under this method,
the determination is based on actuarial calculations, which
other long term employee benefits
include assumptions about demographics, early retirement,
Compensated absences which accrue to employees and
salary increases and interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is
which can be carried to future periods and are expected
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
to be availed in more than twelve months immediately
following the year in which the employee has rendered
Provident fund
service are reported as expenses during the year in which
In accordance with the applicable law, all employees of
the employees perform the services that the benefit covers
the Company are entitled to receive benefits under the
and the liabilities are reported at the undiscounted amount
Provident Fund Act, 1952. The Company contributes an
of the benefits.
amount, on a monthly basis, at a determined rate to the
Pension Scheme administered by the Regional Provident
Share-based payment transactions
Fund Commissioner ('RPFC') and the Company has no
a. The cost of equity-settled instrument is determined by
liability for future provident fund benefits other than its
the fair value at the date when the grant is made using
annual contribution. Since it is a defined contribution plan,
an appropriate valuation model.
the contributions are accounted for on an accrual basis and
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
329
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
employee Stock option Plan if any. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using
The Company has adopted fair value method for options the enacted or substantively enacted tax rates as at the
granted post March 31, 2021. All the options granted if any Balance Sheet date.
prior to March 31, 2021 are valued at intrinsic value method.
Current tax assets and liabilities and deferred tax assets
Compensation cost is measured by the excess, if any, of
and liabilities are off-set when they relate to income taxes
the fair value of the underlying stock over the exercise
levied by the same taxation authority, when the entity has
price as determined under the option plan. The fair value
a legal right to off-set and when the entity intends to settle
of options have been estimated on the dates of each grant
on a net basis.
using the Black-Scholes model.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent there
10 debit and credit card reward points
is reasonable certainty that the assets can be realised
Hdfc Bank limited in future. In case of unabsorbed depreciation or carried
The Bank estimates the probable redemption of debit forward loss under taxation laws, deferred tax assets are
and credit card reward points and cost per point using an recognised only if there is virtual certainty of realisation
actuarial method by employing an independent actuary, of such assets. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each
which includes assumptions such as mortality, redemption Balance Sheet date and appropriately adjusted to reflect the
and spends. Provisions for liabilities on the outstanding amount that is reasonably / virtually certain to be realised.
reward points are made based on an independent actuarial
14 earnings per share
valuation as at the Balance Sheet date and included in
other liabilities and provisions. The Group reports basic and diluted earnings per equity
share in accordance with AS-20, Earnings per Share. Basic
11 Bullion
earnings per equity share has been computed by dividing
Hdfc Bank limited net profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders by
The Bank imports bullion including precious metal bars on the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding
a consignment basis. The imports are typically on a back- for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential
to-back basis and are priced to the customer based on dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to
the price quoted by the supplier. The difference between issue equity shares were exercised or converted to equity
the price recovered from customers and cost of bullion during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share are
is accounted at the time of sale to the customers and computed using the weighted average number of equity
reported as “Other Income’’. shares and the dilutive potential equity shares outstanding
during the period except where the results are anti-dilutive.
The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending
basis and the interest thereon is accounted as interest 15 Share issue expenses
expense / income respectively.
Hdfc Bank limited
12 lease accounting Share issue expenses are adjusted against Share Premium
Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Lease payments including cost escalation for assets taken
on operating lease are recognised in the Profit and Loss 16 Segment information
Account over the lease term on a straight-line basis in
The disclosure relating to segment information is in
accordance with the AS-19, Leases.
accordance with AS-17, Segment Reporting and as per
13 income tax guidelines issued by RBI.
Income tax expense comprises current tax provision (i.e. 17 Accounting for provisions, contingent liabilities
the amount of tax for the period determined in accordance and contingent assets
with the Income Tax Act, 1961, the rules framed there
In accordance with AS-29, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities
under and considering the material principles set out in
and Contingent Assets, the Group recognises provisions
Income Computation and Disclosure Standards) and the
when it has a present obligation as a result of a past event,
net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during the
it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying
year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation
the future tax consequences of timing differences between
and when a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation
the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their
can be made.
respective tax bases, and operating loss carried forward,
330
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Provisions are determined based on management estimate When there is a possible obligation or a present obligation
required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, in respect of which the likelihood of outflow of resources is
supplemented by experience of similar transactions. These remote, no provision or disclosure is made.
are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and adjusted to
Contingent assets, if any, are not recognised in the financial
reflect the current management estimates.
statements since this may result in the recognition of
A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is: income that may never be realised.
• a possible obligation arising from a past event, the 18 cash and cash equivalents
existence of which will be confirmed by the occurrence
Cash and cash equivalents include cash including
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future
foreign currency notes and gold in hand, balances with
events not within the control of the Group; or
RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and
• a present obligation arising from a past event which is short notice.
not recognised as it is not probable that an outflow of
19 corporate social responsibility
resources will be required to settle the obligation or a
reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation cannot Expenditure towards corporate social responsibility, in
be made. accordance with Companies Act, 2013, is recognised in
the Profit and Loss Account.
331
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Schedule 18 - Notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended
March 31, 2022
Amounts in notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2022 are denominated in
rupee crore to conform to extant RBI guidelines, except where stated otherwise.
1 dividend
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), vide its notification dated April 22, 2021 mentioned that banks may pay dividend on equity
shares from the profits for the financial year ended March 31, 2021, subject to the quantum of dividend being not more than
fifty per cent of the amount determined as per the dividend payout ratio prescribed by RBI. Accordingly, the Bank has paid
dividend of ` 6.50 per equity share of ` 1/- each aggregating to ` 3,592.40 crore, for the financial year ended March 31, 2021.
2 Proposed scheme of amalgamation
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 04, 2022, approved a composite Scheme of amalgamation ("Scheme"),
for the amalgamation of: (i) HDFC Investments Limited and HDFC Holdings Limited, into and with Housing Development
Finance Corporation Limited ("HDFC Limited"); and thereafter (ii) HDFC Limited into HDFC Bank Limited, and their respective
shareholders and creditors, under Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws including the
rules and regulations. The share exchange ratio shall be 42 equity shares of face value of ` 1/- each of the Bank for every 25
equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each of HDFC Limited. The Scheme is subject to the receipt of requisite approvals from
statutory and regulatory authorities, and the respective shareholders and creditors, under applicable law.
As per the scheme, the appointed date for the amalgamation of HDFC Limited with and into the Bank shall be the effective
date of the scheme. Upon the scheme becoming effective, the Bank will issue equity shares to the shareholders of HDFC
Limited as on the record date. The equity shares held by HDFC Limited in the Bank will be extinguished as per the scheme.
3 change in accounting policy
The RBI, vide its clarification dated August 30, 2021 on Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive
Officers / Material Risk Takers and Control Function Staff, advised Banks that the fair value of share-linked instruments on the
date of grant should be recognised as an expense for all instruments granted after the accounting period ending March 31,
2021. Accordingly, the Group has changed its accounting policy from the intrinsic value method to the fair value method for
all employee stock options granted after March 31, 2021. The fair value is estimated on the date of grant using Black-Scholes
model and is recognised as compensation expense over the vesting period. As a result, ‘Employees cost’ for the year ended
March 31, 2022 is higher by ` 341.24 crore with a consequent reduction in profit after tax by the said amount.
4 capital infusion
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has allotted 3,27,64,494 equity shares (previous year: 2,94,90,022 equity
shares) aggregating to face value of ` 3.27 crore (previous year: ` 2.95 crore) on exercise of stock options. Accordingly, the
share capital increased by ` 3.27 crore (previous year: ` 2.95 crore) and the share premium increased by ` 2,606.48 crore
(previous year: ` 1,757.15 crore).
The details of the movement in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank are given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Opening balance 551.28 548.33
Addition pursuant to stock options exercised 3.27 2.95
Closing balance 554.55 551.28
332
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
5 earnings per equity share
Basic and diluted earnings per equity share have been calculated based on the consolidated net profit after tax attributable
to the Group of ` 38,052.75 crore (previous year: ` 31,833.21 crore) and the weighted average number of equity shares
outstanding during the year of 5,53,32,03,566 (previous year: 5,49,96,68,151).
Following is the reconciliation between the basic and diluted earnings per equity share:
For the years ended
Particulars
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Nominal value per share (`) 1.00 1.00
Basic earnings per share (`) 68.77 57.88
Effect of potential equity shares (per share) (`) (0.46) (0.27)
Diluted earnings per share (`) 68.31 57.61
Basic earnings per equity share has been computed by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders
by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share has been
computed by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders by the weighted average number of
equity shares and dilutive potential equity shares outstanding during the year, except where the results are anti-dilutive. The
dilutive impact is on account of stock options granted to employees by the Bank. There is no impact of dilution on the profits
in the current year and previous year.
Following is the reconciliation of the weighted average number of equity shares used in the computation of basic and diluted
earnings per share:
For the years ended
Particulars
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing basic earnings per equity 5,53,32,03,566 5,49,96,68,151
share
Effect of potential equity shares outstanding 3,77,30,419 2,57,50,092
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing diluted earnings per equity 5,57,09,33,985 5,52,54,18,243
share
6 Reserves and Surplus
Statutory Reserve
The Bank and a subsidiary have made an appropriation of ` 9,444.38 crore (previous year: ` 7,879.70 crore) out of profits for
the year ended March 31, 2022 to the Statutory Reserve pursuant to the requirements of Section 17 of the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949 and RBI guidelines dated September 23, 2000.
General Reserve
The Bank has made an appropriation of ` 3,696.14 crore (previous year: ` 3,111.65 crore) out of profits for the year ended
March 31, 2022 to the General Reserve.
capital Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has appropriated ` 666.47 crore (previous year: ` 2,291.68 crore), being the
profit from sale of investments under HTM category and profit on sale of immovable properties, net of taxes and transfer to
statutory reserve, from the Profit and Loss Account to the Capital Reserve.
Investment Reserve Account
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has appropriated ` 233.13 crore (net) (previous year: ` 61.66 crore (net)) from
Profit and Loss Account to Investment Reserve Account as per the RBI guidelines.
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank made transfer of Nil (previous year: ` 1,712.00 crore) to Investment Fluctuation
Reserve. As per RBI guidelines, banks were required to create an Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR) equivalent to 2.00% of
333
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
their HFT and AFS investment portfolios by March 31, 2021. The balance in the IFR as at March 31, 2022 is 2.28% (previous
year: 2.00%) of the Bank’s HFT and AFS investment portfolios.
cash Flow hedge Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank and a subsidiary has recognised ` (108.09) crore (previous year: Nil) as Cash
Flow Hedge Reserve on derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedge.
employee Stock Option Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Group has recognised ` 340.52 crore (previous year: Nil) as Employee Stock
Option Reserve on account of fair valuation of share-linked instruments.
draw down from Reserves
The Bank has not undertaken any drawdown from reserves during the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021.
7 Accounting for employee share based payments
hdFc Bank limited
The shareholders of the Bank approved the grant of equity share options under Plan “C” in June 2005, Plan “D” in June 2007,
Plan “E” in June 2010, Plan “F” in June 2013 and Plan “G” in July 2016. Under the terms of each of these Plans, the Bank may
issue to its employees and Whole Time Directors, Equity Stock Options (‘ESOPs’) each of which is convertible into one equity
share. All the plans were framed in accordance with the SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme & Employee Stock Purchase
Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to time and as applicable at the time of the grant. The accounting for the
stock options has been in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and
Sweaty Equity) Regulations, 2021 and RBI guidelines to the extent applicable.
Plans C, D, E, F and G provide for the issuance of options at the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee of the Board (‘NRC’) at the closing price on the working day immediately preceding the date when options are
granted. This closing price is the closing price of the Bank’s equity share on an Indian stock exchange with the highest trading
volume as of the working day preceding the date of grant.
The vesting conditions applicable to the options are at the discretion of the NRC. These options are exercisable on vesting,
for a period as set forth by the NRC at the time of the grant. The period in which the options may be exercised cannot exceed
five years from date of expiry of vesting period. During the financial year 2021-22, certain modifications were made in the
subsisting ESOP Plans pursuant to the approval of the shareholders of the Bank as to allow any employee of the Bank moving
/ getting transferred to a subsidiary company, to be so entitled to the stock options already granted to such an employee as
continuity of service for Long Term Incentives earned during the course of his / her service with the Bank.
Activity in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans
• Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2022:
Number of Weighted average
Particulars
options exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of year 16,81,68,760 1,063.79
Granted during the year 2,56,28,600 1,427.29
Exercised during the year 3,27,64,494 796.52
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year 29,26,850 1,196.30
Options outstanding, end of year 15,81,06,016 1,175.65
Options exercisable 6,53,21,116 1,036.49
334
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
• Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2021:
Number of Weighted average
Particulars
options exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of year 14,28,65,602 899.03
Granted during the year 5,74,66,600 1,235.80
Exercised during the year 2,94,90,022 596.85
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year 26,73,420 1,107.22
Options outstanding, end of year 16,81,68,760 1,063.79
Options exercisable 6,44,53,260 834.48
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2022:
Range of exercise Number of Weighted average Weighted average
Plan price (`) shares arising life of options exercise price (`)
out of options (in years)
Plan F 417.75 to 731.08 1,75,64,766 1.07 666.77
Plan G 882.85 to 1,516.95 14,05,41,250 2.70 1,239.25
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2021:
Range of exercise Number of Weighted average Weighted average
Plan price (`) shares arising life of options exercise price (`)
out of options (in years)
Plan C 417.75 9,700 0.32 417.75
Plan F 417.75 to 731.08 3,49,74,270 1.48 610.67
Plan G 882.85 to 1,235.80 13,31,84,790 3.18 1,182.83
In accordance with the RBI clarification dated August 30, 2021, the Bank has estimated the fair value of the options granted
after March 31, 2021 using Black-Scholes model. This is recognised as compensation expense over the vesting period of the
options with effect from April 01, 2021.
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2022 are given below:
Particulars March 31, 2022
Dividend yield 0.21% to 0.52%
Expected volatility 23.86% to 38.70%
Risk - free interest rate 4.38% to 6.07%
Expected life of the options 1 to 6 Years
hdFc Securities limited
The Shareholders of the Company approved a stock option scheme (viz. ESOS - II) in February 2017 (“Company Options”).
Under the terms of the scheme, the Company issues stock options to employees, whole time director, managing director and
directors (excluding Independent Directors) of the Company, each of which is convertible into one equity share.
Scheme ESOS - II provides for the issuance of options at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors (the “Compensation Committee”) in February 2017 at a price of ` 1,136/- per share, in June 2019 at a price of ` 4,844/-
per share, in December 2020 at a price of ` 5,458/- per share, in September 2021 at a price of ` 6,098/- per share and later
in January 2022 at a price of ` 8,051/- per share, being the fair market value of the share arrived by considering the average
price of the two independent valuation reports. Method of settlement of these options are equity shares of the Company.
Such options vest at definitive dates, save for specific incidents, prescribed in the scheme as framed / approved by the
Compensation Committee. Such options are exercisable for a period following the vesting at the discretion of the
Compensation Committee.
335
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Method used for accounting for shared based payment plan
The company uses fair value to account for the compensation cost of stock options to employees of the company.
Activity in the options outstanding under the employee Stock Options Plan
• Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2022:
Company Weighted average
Particulars
options exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of the year 2,28,650 5,237
Granted during the year 1,10,500 6,858
Exercised during the year 62,400 5,017
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year 23,250 5,445
Options outstanding, end of the year 2,53,500 5,979
Options exercisable 3,500 5,344
• Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2021:
Company Weighted average
Particulars
options exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of the year 1,10,000 4,254
Granted during the year 1,67,500 5,458
Exercised during the year 36,600 3,375
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year 12,250 4,994
Options outstanding, end of the year 2,28,650 5,237
Options exercisable 3,950 2,028
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2022:
Range of exercise Number of Weighted average Weighted average
price (`) shares arising remaining contractual exercise price (`)
Plan
out of options life of options (in
years)
Company Options 1,136 - 8,051 2,53,500 6.62 5,979
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2021:
Range of exercise Number of Weighted average Weighted average
price (`) shares arising remaining contractual exercise price (`)
Plan
out of options life of options
(in years)
Company Options 1,136 - 5,458 2,28,650 6.70 5,237
Fair value methodology
The fair value of options used to compute proforma net income and earnings per equity share have been estimated on dates
of each grant using the Black-Scholes model. The shares of the Company are not listed on any stock exchange. Accordingly,
the Company has considered the volatility of the Company’s stock price as an average of the historical volatility of similar listed
enterprises for the purpose of calculating the fair value to reduce any Company specific variations. The various assumptions
considered in the pricing model for the stock options granted by the Company.
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Dividend yield 4.91% 2.28%
Expected volatility 45.00% 45.00%
Risk-free interest rate 5.22% to 6.24% 4.47% to 5.64%
Expected life of the options 3 to 6 years 3 to 6 years
hdB Financial Services limited
In accordance with resolution approved by the shareholders, the Company has reserved shares, for issue to employees
through ESOP scheme. On the approval of Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC), each ESOP scheme is issued.
The NRC has approved stock option schemes ESOP-10 on October 13, 2017, ESOP-11 on January 15, 2019, ESOP-12 on
October 5, 2020, ESOP-13 on January 14, 2021, ESOP-13A on August 31, 2021 and ESOP-14 on October 27, 2021. Under
336
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
the term of the schemes, the Company may issue stock options to employees and directors of the Company, each of which
is convertible into one equity share.
Such options vest at a definitive date, save for specific incidents, prescribed in the scheme as framed / approved by the NRC.
Such options are exercisable for a period following vesting at the discretion of the NRC, subject to a maximum of four years
from the date of vesting.
Method used for accounting for shared based payment plan
The company uses fair value to account for the compensation cost of stock options to employees of the company.
Activity in the options outstanding under the employee Stock Option Plans
• Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2022:
Options Weighted average
Particulars
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of year 31,76,650 313.22
Granted during the year 22,94,730 432.48
Exercised during the year 12,54,815 301.93
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year 1,47,250 317.09
Options outstanding, end of year 40,69,315 383.81
Options exercisable, end of year 4,13,245 300.52
• Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2021:
Options Weighted average
Particulars
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of year 21,51,580 237.62
Granted during the year 27,79,450 320.33
Exercised during the year 16,05,560 229.62
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year 1,48,820 255.07
Options outstanding, end of year 31,76,650 313.22
Options exercisable, end of year 1,19,430 249.41
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2022:
Range of exercise Number of Weighted average Weighted average
price (`) shares arising remaining contractual exercise price (`)
Plan
out of options life of options (in
years)
ESOP-10 213.00 42,000 2.53 213.00
ESOP-11 274.00 1,06,430 3.79 274.00
ESOP-12 300.00 7,02,910 4.52 300.00
ESOP-13 348.00 9,33,155 5.64 348.00
ESOP-13A 409.00 50,000 6.42 409.00
ESOP-14 433.00 22,34,820 6.58 433.00
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2021:
Range of exercise Number of Weighted average Weighted average
price (`) shares arising remaining contractual exercise price (`)
Plan
out of options life of options
(in years)
ESOP-10 213.00 48,150 3.59 213.00
ESOP-11 274.00 3,94,000 4.58 274.00
ESOP-12 300.00 15,58,900 5.07 300.00
ESOP-13 348.00 11,75,600 5.94 348.00
Fair value methodology
The fair value of options has been estimated on the dates of each grant using the Black-Scholes model. The shares of Company
are not listed on any stock exchange. Accordingly, the Company had considered the volatility of the Company’s stock price
337
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
based on historical volatility of similar listed enterprises. The various assumptions considered in the pricing model for the stock
options granted by the Company are:
Particulars ESOP-13A ESOP-14
Dividend yield 0.00% 0.00%
Expected volatility 59.89% 56.24%
Risk-free interest rate 5.35% 5.41%
Expected life of the option 4.10 years 4.10 years
8 Other liabilities
The Bank has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and
gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other liabilities as at
March 31, 2022 include unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 7,464.74 crore (previous year:
` 8,127.65 crore).
9 Investments
hdFc Bank limited
The details of securities that are kept as margin are as under:
(` crore)
Sr. Face value as at March 31,
Particulars
No. 2022 2021
I. Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards:
a) Collateral and funds management - Securities segment 5,300.00 2,120.00
b) Collateral and funds management - Tri-party Repo 59,013.79 62,361.84
c) Default fund - Forex Forward segment 235.10 150.00
d) Default fund - Forex Settlement segment 51.05 51.05
e) Default fund - Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) segment 65.65 48.00
f) Default fund - Securities segment 65.00 65.00
g) Default fund - Tri-party repo segment 55.00 50.00
II. Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards:
a) Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) 50,539.64 51,725.77
b) Repo transactions 49,971.80 49,959.91
III. Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 107.72 107.72
(NSCCIL) towards NSE Currency Derivatives segment.
IV. Securities kept as margin with Indian Clearing Corporation Limited towards BSE 161.00 161.00
Currency Derivatives segment.
V. Securities kept as margin with Metropolitan Clearing Corporation of India towards 13.00 13.00
MCX Currency Derivatives segment.
hdFc Securities limited
(` crore)
Sr. Face value as at March 31,
Particulars
No. 2022 2021
I. Mutual funds marked as lien with stock exchange for margin requirement 200.00 200.00
hdB Financial Services limited
The Company has not placed any securities as margin during the year (previous year: Nil).
338
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
10 Other fixed assets
Other fixed assets include amount capitalised relating to software, Bombay Stock Exchange card and electronic trading
platform. Details regarding the same are tabulated below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Cost
As at March 31 of the previous year 3,673.81 3,329.61
Additions during the year 829.99 344.20
Deductions during the year (0.01) -
Total (a) 4,503.79 3,673.81
Depreciation
As at March 31 of the previous year 2,905.62 2,542.30
Charge for the year 460.21 363.32
On deductions during the year (0.01) -
Total (b) 3,365.83 2,905.62
Net value (a-b) 1,137.96 768.19
11 Other assets
Other assets include deferred tax asset (net) of ` 7,143.82 crore (previous year: ` 5,541.64 crore). The break-up of the same
is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Deferred tax asset arising out of:
Loan loss and contingencies 6,611.16 5,008.70
Employee benefits 74.34 79.15
Depreciation 87.73 72.96
Others 370.59 380.83
Total (a) 7,143.82 5,541.64
Deferred tax liability (b) - -
Deferred tax asset (net) (a-b) 7,143.82 5,541.64
• The Bank has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and
gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other assets
as at March 31, 2022 include unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 7,923.90 crore
(previous year: ` 8,472.31 crore).
12 Provisions and contingent liabilities
Given below is the movement in provisions and a brief description of the nature of contingent liabilities recognised by the Bank.
a) Provision for credit card and debit card reward points
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Opening provision for reward points 638.79 734.15
Provision for reward points made during the year 465.13 375.21
Utilisation / write-back of provision for reward points (468.01) (470.57)
Closing provision for reward points 635.91 638.79
b) Provision for legal and other contingencies
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Opening provision 503.55 445.35
Movement during the year (net) 32.54 58.20
Closing provision 536.09 503.55
339
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
c) Provision pertaining to fraud accounts reported during the year
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No. of frauds reported 6,543 5,232
Amount involved in fraud (` crore) 505.86 1,640.80
Amount involved in fraud net of recoveries / write-offs as at the end of the year (` crore) 231.74 1,321.08
Provisions held as at the end of the year (` crore) 231.74 1,321.08
Amount of unamortised provision debited from “other reserves” as at the end of the - -
year (` crore)
Above table represents all frauds reported during the year.
The information on frauds for the financial year ended March 31, 2021 includes certain large value credits which were already reckoned
as NPAs in the prior years and these were fully provided for.
d) description of contingent liabilities
Sr. Contingent liability* Brief description
No.
1 Claims against the Group not The Group is a party to various taxation matters in respect of which appeals are pending.
acknowledged as debts - taxation The Group expects the outcome of the appeals to be favorable based on decisions on
similar issues in the previous years by the appellate authorities, based on the facts of
the case and taxation laws.
2 Claims against the Group not The Group is a party to various legal proceedings in the normal course of business.
acknowledged as debts - others The Group does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material
adverse effect on the Group’s financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows.
3 Partly paid investments This represents amount remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid investments.
4 Liability on account of forward The Group enters into foreign exchange contracts, currency options, forward rate
exchange and derivative contracts agreements, currency swaps and interest rate swaps with inter-bank participants on
its own account and for customers. Forward exchange contracts are commitments
to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at the contracted rate. Currency swaps
are commitments to exchange cash flows by way of interest / principal in one currency
against another, based on predetermined rates. Interest rate swaps are commitments
to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash flows. The notional amounts of financial
instruments such as foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for
comparison with instruments recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily
indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the
instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Bank’s exposure to credit or price risks.
The derivative instruments become favorable (assets) or unfavorable (liabilities) as a
result of fluctuations in market rates or prices relative to their terms.
5 Guarantees given on behalf As a part of its commercial banking activities, the Bank issues documentary credit and
of constituents, acceptances, guarantees on behalf of its customers. Documentary credits such as letters of credit
endorsements and other obligations enhance the credit standing of the Bank’s customers. Guarantees generally represent
irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of the customer
failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
6 Other items for which the Group is These include: a) Credit enhancements in respect of securitised-out loans; b) Bills
contingently liable rediscounted by the Bank; c) Capital commitments; d) Underwriting commitments; e)
Investment purchases pending settlement; f) Amount transferred to the RBI under the
Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF).
* Also refer Schedule 12 - Contingent liabilities
340
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
13 disclosure of resolution plan implemented
hdFc Bank limited
details of resolution plan implemented under the Resolution Framework for cOVId-19-related stress as per
RBI circular dated August 06, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and May 05, 2021 (Resolution Framework 2.0)
as at March 31, 2022 are given below:
(` crore)
Type of Borrower Exposure to accounts Of (A), aggregate debt Of (A), amount written Of (A), amount paid by Exposure to accounts
classified as that slipped into NPA off during the half- the borrowers during classified as
Standard consequent during the half-year year# the half-year** Standard consequent
to implementation ended March 31, 2022 to implementation
of resolution plan - of resolution plan -
Position as at the end Position as at the end
of the previous half- of this half-year i.e.
year i.e. September March 31, 2022^
30, 2021 (A)*
Personal Loans 11,588.80 1,594.28 620.09 212.96 9,781.56
Corporate persons 1,834.34 128.64 1.61 193.29 1,512.41
Of which, MSMEs 159.92 5.71 0.58 0.03 154.18
Others 2,457.43 303.17 21.97 58.19 2,096.07
Total 15,880.57 2,026.09 643.67 464.44 13,390.04
* Includes restructuring done in respect of requests received as of September 30, 2021 processed subsequently.
# Represents debt that slipped into NPA and was subsequently written-off during the half-year ended March 31, 2022.
** Amount paid by the borrower during the half-year is net of additions in the borrower account including additions due to interest capitalisation.
^ Excludes other facilities to the borrowers aggregating to ` 2,307.65 crore which have not been restructured.
details of accounts restructured under Micro, Small and Medium enterprises (MSMe) sector under RBI
guidelines issued in January 2019:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No. of accounts restructured Amount outstanding No. of accounts restructured Amount outstanding
2,87,562 6,874.39 2,82,589 3,391.35
hdB Financial Services limited
Disclosure pursuant to Reserve Bank of India Circular dated August 06, 2020 pertaining to Resolution Framework for COVID-19-
related Stress read with RBI circular dated May 05, 2021 pursuant to Resolution Framework - 2.0: Resolution of Covid-19 related
stress of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and Disclosure pursuant to Reserve Bank of India Circular dated
May 05, 2021 pertaining to Resolution Framework - 2.0: Resolution of Covid-19 related stress of Individuals and Small Businesses.
details of resolution plan implemented as at March 31, 2022 are given below:
(` crore)
Type of Borrower Exposure to accounts Of (A), aggregate Of (A), amount Of (A), amount paid by Exposure to accounts
classified as Standard debt that slipped written off during the borrowers classified as
consequent to into NPA during six six month ended during the six month Standard consequent
implementation of month period ended March 31, 2022 ended March 31, 2022 to implementation of
resolution plan - March 31, 2022 resolution plan -
Position as at the Position as at the end
end of September 30, of March 31, 2022
2021 (A)
Personal Loans 327.79 49.19 - 21.58 257.02
Corporate persons* 53.38 - - 7.57 45.81
Of which, MSMEs 53.38 - - 7.57 45.81
Others 0.33 - - 0.02 0.31
Total 381.50 49.19 - 29.17 303.14
* As defined in Section 3(7) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
341
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
disclosure pursuant to Reserve Bank of India circular Resolution Framework - 2.0: Resolution of covid-19
related stress of Micro, Small and Medium enterprises (MSMes) - Revision in the threshold for aggregate
exposure issued vide circular dated June 04, 2021 read with circular dated January 01, 2019.
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Type of borrower Year (A) (B)
Number of accounts where Exposure to accounts
resolution plan has been mentioned at (A) before
implemented under this window implementation of the plan
Current Year 49,823 3,711.08
MSMEs
Previous Year 56,950 3,619.06
14 disclosure on transfer of assets and securitisation transactions
Transfer of Assets
hdFc Bank limited
• Details of non-performing assets (NPAs) transferred during the financial year 2021-2022:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Particulars To Asset To permitted To other transferees
Reconstruction transferees
Companies (ARCs)
Number of accounts 70,921 65,704 -
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred 2,187.81 449.46 -
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in years) 3.01 2.01 -
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer) 992.38 188.86 -
Aggregate consideration 1,093.10 35.94 -
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts transferred in 2.67 - -
earlier years
No excess provisions were reversed to the Profit and Loss Account on account of sale of NPAs.
• Details of stressed loan (Non-performing asset and Special Mention Account) transferred during the
financial year 2020-2021:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Particulars To Asset To permitted To other transferees
Reconstruction transferees
Companies (ARCs)
Number of accounts 1,67,197 - -
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred 4,107.60 - -
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in years) 2.70 - -
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer)* 3,164.66 - -
Aggregate consideration 2,051.06 - -
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts transferred in - - -
earlier years
*If accounts had been classified as NPA during the period of operation of the Interim Order dated September 03, 2020, of the Hon'ble SC, specific
provision would have been made for the accounts sold. Accordingly, the net book value would have been ` 2,419.41 crore.
No excess provisions were reversed to the Profit and Loss Account on account of sale of NPAs.
• Pursuant to RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021, Banks are required to
disclose transfer of "loans not in default and Special Mention Accounts" respectively. The Bank has not transferred any
loans not in default / Special Mention Accounts during the period from September 24, 2021 to March 31, 2022.
342
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
hdB Financial Services limited
• Details of non-performing assets (NPAs) transferred during the financial year 2021-2022:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Particulars To Asset To permitted To other transferees
Reconstruction transferees
Companies (ARCs)
Number of accounts 80 - -
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred 14.41 - -
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in years) 6.73 - -
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer) 8.76 - -
Aggregate consideration 7.50 - -
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts transferred in - - -
earlier years
During the year excess provisions of ` 5.65 crore reversed to the Profit and Loss Account on account of sale of stressed loans.
• Details of stressed loans (Non-performing asset and Special Mention Account) transferred during the
financial year 2020-2021:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Particulars To Asset To permitted To other transferees
Reconstruction transferees
Companies (ARCs)
Number of accounts 28,959 - -
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred 644.23 - -
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in years) 2.23 - -
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer) 97.20 - -
Aggregate consideration 310.88 - -
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts transferred in - - -
earlier years
During the year excess provisions of ` 113.47 crore reversed to the Profit and Loss Account on account of sale of stressed loans.
• The company has not transferred any special mention account and loans not in default during the period from September
24, 2021 to March 31, 2022.
Security Receipts (SRs) Ratings
hdFc Bank limited
• Details of ratings of SRs outstanding as on March 31, 2022 are given below:
(` crore)
Rating Rating Agency Recovery rating Outstanding as at
March 31, 2022
R2 CRISIL 75% - 100% 182.87
NR2 India Ratings 100% - 150% 366.20
NR3 India Ratings 75% - 100% 614.34
NR4 India Ratings 50% - 75% 218.01
NA* 102.30
Total 1,483.72
* Pursuant to regulatory norms, the ARC has time to obtain initial rating of SRs from an approved credit rating agency within a period of six months
from the date of acquisition of assets by it.
343
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
• Details of ratings of SRs outstanding as on March 31, 2021 are given below:
(` crore)
Outstanding as at
Rating Rating Agency Recovery rating
March 31, 2021
R2 CRISIL 75% - 100% 367.20
NR2 India Ratings 100% - 150% 1,243.49
NR3 India Ratings 75% - 100% 372.77
Total 1,983.46
hdB Financial Services limited
• Details of ratings of SRs are given below:
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Particulars
Rating Agency Rating* Rating Agency Rating
EARC TRUST SC - 411 Series I Indian rating and research NR3 - (75% - 100%) NA unrated
* Rating Band awarded by SEBI approved Ratings agencies to Security Receipts issued by above mentioned trust(s) set up by Edelweiss Asset
Reconstruction Company Ltd (EARC).
Acquisition of Assets
hdFc Bank limited
• During the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, no non-performing financial assets were
acquired by the Bank.
• Pursuant to the RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021, the
details of loans acquired during the period from September 24, 2021 to March 31, 2022 are given below:
• Details of loans not in default acquired through assignment are given below:
Particulars Value
Aggregate amount of loans acquired (` in crore) 18,094.40
Weighted average residual maturity (in years) 14.99
Weighted average holding period by originator (in years) 1.57
Retention of beneficial economic interest by the originator 10%
Tangible security coverage 100%
The loans acquired are not rated as these are to non-corporate borrowers.
From the above, 58 loans aggregating to ` 11.45 crore was re-purchased by the transferor in compliance with
paragraph 48 of Master Direction - RBI (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021.
• The Bank has not acquired any Special Mention Account.
• The RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021 has mandated disclosure of
transfer of loan assets. Considering the terms ‘loans not in default’ and ‘special mention account’ under this circular
vis-a-vis loans termed as ‘standard’ as hitherto and the separate processes prescribed therein for transfer of such
assets, the Bank believes that such disclosure would be more meaningful if disclosed prospectively and therefore
transfer of loan exposures prior to September 24, 2021 including comparatives of previous year are not considered
relevant for disclosure.
hdB Financial Services limited
The company has not acquired any stressed loan and loan not in default during the period from September 24, 2021 to March
31, 2022.
details of securitisation transactions
hdFc Bank limited
• During the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, there were no standard assets securitised-out by the Bank.
• Securitised assets as per books of SPVs sponsored by the Bank
There are no SPVs sponsored by the Bank as at March 31, 2022 and as at March 31, 2021.
344
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
hdB Financial Services limited
The outstanding amount of securitised assets as per books of the Special Purpose Entities (SPEs) and
total amount of exposures retained by the originator as on the date of balance sheet to comply with the
Minimum Retention Requirement (MRR) are below:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Sr. No.Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
1. No of SPEs holding assets for securitisation transactions originated by the 5.00 8.00
originator (only the SPVs relating to outstanding securitization exposures to be
reported here)
2. Total amount of securitised assets as per books of the SPEs 1,223.15 2,078.13
3. Total amount of exposures retained by the originator to comply with MRR as on
the date of balance sheet
a) Off-balance sheet exposures
First loss 62.64 98.71
Others - -
b) On-balance sheet exposures
First loss 190.47 262.81
Others - -
4. Amount of exposures to securitisation transactions other than MRR
a) Off-balance sheet exposures NIL NIL
i) Exposure to own securitisations
First loss
Others
ii) Exposure to third party securitisations
First loss
Others
b) On-balance sheet exposures NIL NIL
i) Exposure to own securitisations
First loss
Others
ii) Exposure to third party securitisations
First loss
Others
5. Sale consideration received for the securitised assets and gain / loss on sale on NIL NIL
account of securitisation
6. Form and quantum (outstanding value) of services provided by way of liquidity NIL NIL
support, post-securitisation asset servicing, etc.
7. Performance of facility provided - Credit enhancement, liquidity support, servicing
agent, etc.
Fixed Deposit
a) Amount paid 17.12 62.85
b) Repayment received 17.12 62.85
c) Outstanding amount 172.96 221.09
Corporate Guarantee
a) Amount paid - -
b) Repayment received - -
c) Outstanding amount 62.64 98.71
` 36.07 crore corporate guarantee is released due to closure of some
securitization deals
8. Average default rate of portfolios observed in the past 1.86% 1.42%
9. Amount and number of additional / top up loan given on same underlying asset 0.09 18.86
10. Investor complaints
(a) Directly / Indirectly received and; NIL NIL
(b) Complaints outstanding NIL NIL
345
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
15 commission, exchange and brokerage income
Commission, exchange and brokerage income is net of correspondent bank charges.
16 Provisions and contingencies
The break-up of ‘Provisions and Contingencies’ included in the Profit and Loss Account is given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Provision for income tax - Current 14,324.66 12,336.79
- Deferred (1,602.18) (1,397.41)
Provision for NPAs1 12,500.86 13,574.54
Provision for diminution in value of non-performing investments 6.18 (17.32)
Provision for standard assets 1,264.03 875.22
Other provisions and contingencies2 4,154.19 4,407.85
Total 30,647.74 29,779.67
1. Includes loss on sale of NPAs / stressed assets.
2. Includes provisions for tax, legal and other contingencies ` 4,159.90 crore (previous year: ` 4,406.30 crore), provisions / (write back) for securitised-
out assets ` 0.14 crore (previous year: ` (2.21) crore) and standard restructured assets ` (5.85) crore (previous year: ` 3.77 crore).
17 employee benefits
Gratuity
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the
defined benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1 1,017.22 851.66
Interest cost 62.82 52.16
Current service cost 129.44 114.56
Benefits paid (76.95) (49.15)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:
Experience adjustment (49.72) 41.30
Assumption change 7.78 6.69
Present value of obligation as at March 31 1,090.59 1,017.22
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1 834.44 577.97
Expected return on plan assets 57.01 44.05
Contributions 163.30 138.48
Benefits paid (76.95) (49.15)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment 22.14 107.65
Assumption change 1.97 15.44
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 1,001.91 834.44
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 1,001.91 834.44
Present value of obligation as at March 31 (1,090.59) (1,017.22)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 (88.68) (182.78)
Expenses recognised in Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost 62.82 52.16
Current service cost 129.44 114.56
Expected return on plan assets (57.01) (44.05)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year (66.05) (75.10)
346
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Net cost 69.20 47.57
Actual return on plan assets 81.12 167.14
Estimated contribution for the next year 182.17 163.64
Assumptions (HDFC Bank Limited)
Discount rate 6.80% per annum 6.50% per annum
Expected return on plan assets 6.50% per annum 6.50% per annum
Salary escalation rate 7.00% per annum 7.00% per annum
Assumptions (HDFC Securities Limited)
Discount rate 6.05% per annum 6.20% per annum
Expected return on plan assets 6.05% per annum 6.20% per annum
Salary escalation rate 10.02% per annum 7.86% per annum
Assumptions (HDB Financial Services Limited)
Discount rate 4.77% per annum 3.86% per annum
Expected return on plan assets 4.77% per annum 3.86% per annum
Salary escalation rate 6.00% - 11.00% per 5.00% - 9.00% per
annum annum
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and
other relevant factors.
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Group at the beginning of the
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets are
given below:
HDFC Bank Limited HDFC Securities HDB Financial Services
Category of plan assets as at March 31, 2022
Limited Limited
Government securities 28.80% 59.00% 51.71%
Debenture and bonds 24.52% 28.00% 34.77%
Equity shares 40.40% 9.00% -
Others 6.28% 4.00% 13.52%
Total 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
HDFC Bank Limited HDFC Securities HDB Financial Services
Category of plan assets as at March 31, 2021
Limited Limited
Government securities 27.90% 57.00% 57.27%
Debenture and bonds 26.04% 30.00% 36.84%
Equity shares 41.23% 9.00% -
Others 4.83% 4.00% 5.89%
Total 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
experience adjustment
(` crore)
Years ended March 31,
Particulars
2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
Plan assets 1,001.91 834.44 577.97 547.75 457.35
Defined benefit obligation 1,090.59 1,017.22 851.66 702.86 614.06
Surplus / (deficit) (88.68) (182.78) (273.69) (155.11) (156.71)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan 22.14 107.65 (59.42) 12.04 (2.35)
assets
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan (49.72) 41.30 16.69 10.46 13.69
liabilities
347
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Pension (hdFc Bank limited)
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined
benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1 89.99 64.15
Interest cost 5.19 3.79
Current service cost 1.40 1.37
Past service cost 7.69 -
Benefits paid (20.43) (11.63)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:
Experience adjustment 6.44 31.41
Assumption change (2.26) 0.90
Present value of obligation as at March 31 88.02 89.99
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1 0.33 9.51
Expected return on plan assets 0.04 0.32
Contributions 20.70 2.30
Benefits paid (20.43) (11.63)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment 0.39 (0.20)
Assumption change (0.15) 0.03
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 0.88 0.33
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 0.88 0.33
Present value of obligation as at March 31 (88.02) (89.99)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 (87.14) (89.66)
Expenses recognised in Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost 5.19 3.79
Current service cost 1.40 1.37
Past service cost 7.69 -
Expected return on plan assets (0.04) (0.32)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year 3.95 32.48
Net cost 18.19 37.32
Actual return on plan assets 0.27 0.15
Estimated contribution for the next year 18.86 13.09
Assumptions
Discount rate 6.80% per annum 6.50% per annum
Expected return on plan assets 6.50% per annum 6.50% per annum
Salary escalation rate 7.00% per annum 7.00% per annum
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and
other relevant factors.
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Bank at the beginning of the
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets are
given below:
Category of plan assets % of fair value to total % of fair value to total
plan assets plan assets
as at March 31, 2022 as at March 31, 2021
Government securities 34.17% 42.87%
Debenture and bonds 3.58% 35.11%
Others 62.25% 22.02%
Total 100.00% 100.00%
348
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
experience adjustment
(` crore)
Years ended March 31,
Particulars
2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
Plan assets 0.88 0.33 9.51 21.95 31.30
Defined benefit obligation 88.02 89.99 64.15 69.54 73.06
Surplus / (deficit) (87.14) (89.66) (54.64) (47.59) (41.76)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan 0.39 (0.20) 0.28 0.48 0.59
assets
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan 6.44 31.41 9.06 3.32 3.95
liabilities
Amortisation of expenditure on account of enhancement in family pension of employees of banks
The Reserve Bank of India, vide its notification dated October 04, 2021 granted Banks an option to amortise the expenditure
on account of enhancement of family pension, over a period not exceeding five years beginning with the financial year ending
March 31, 2022, subject to a minimum of one-fifth of the total amount involved being expensed every year. The Bank has not
availed the said option and has recognised the entire expenditure on account of enhancement of family pension in financial
year ended March 31, 2022.
Provident fund
The guidance note on AS-15, Employee Benefits, states that employer established provident funds, where interest is guaranteed
are to be considered as defined benefit plans and the liability has to be valued. The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI) has issued
a guidance note on valuation of interest rate guarantees on exempt provident funds. The actuary has accordingly valued the
same and the Bank held a provision of Nil as at March 31, 2022 (previous year: Nil), towards the present value of the guaranteed
interest benefit obligation. The actuary has followed the deterministic approach as prescribed by the guidance note.
Assumptions:
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Discount rate (GOI security yield) 6.80% per annum 6.50% per annum
Expected guaranteed interest rate 8.10% per annum 8.50% per annum
The Group does not have any unfunded defined benefit plan. The Group contributed ` 630.61 crore (previous year: ` 542.78
crore) to the provident fund and ` 6.08 crore (previous year: ` 4.96 crore) to the National Pension Scheme (for employees who
opted). The Bank contributed ` 76.37 crore (previous year: ` 75.64 crore) to the superannuation plan.
leave encashment
hdFc Securities limited
The actuarial liability of compensated absences of accumulated privileged and sick leaves of the employees of the entity is
given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Privileged leave 6.93 6.16
Sick leave 1.14 1.00
Total actuarial liability 8.07 7.16
Assumptions
Discount rate 6.05% per annum 6.20% per annum
Salary escalation rate 10.02% per annum 7.86% per annum
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and
other relevant factors.
349
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
18 Segment reporting
Business segments
Business segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the target customer profile, the nature of products
and services, the differing risks and returns, the organisation structure, the internal business reporting system and the guidelines
prescribed by RBI. The Group operates in the following segments:
(a) Treasury
The treasury segment primarily consists of net interest earnings from the Bank’s investment portfolio, money market
borrowing and lending, gains or losses on investment operations and on account of trading in foreign exchange and
derivative contracts.
(b) Retail banking
The retail banking segment serves retail customers through the Bank’s branch network and other channels. This segment
raises deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers with the help of specialist product
groups. Exposures are classified under retail banking taking into account the status of the borrower (orientation criterion),
the nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum thereof.
Revenues of the retail banking segment are derived from interest earned on retail loans, interest earned from other
segments for surplus funds placed with those segments, subvention received from dealers and manufacturers, fees from
services rendered, foreign exchange earnings on retail products, etc. Expenses of this segment primarily comprise interest
expense on deposits, commission paid to retail assets sales agents, infrastructure and premises expenses for operating
the branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of
specialist product groups, processing units and support groups.
(c) Wholesale banking
The wholesale banking segment provides loans, non-fund facilities and transaction services to large corporates, emerging
corporates, public sector units, government bodies, financial institutions and medium scale enterprises. Revenues of the
wholesale banking segment consist of interest earned on loans made to customers, interest / fees earned on the cash
float arising from transaction services, earnings from trade services and other non-fund facilities and also earnings from
foreign exchange and derivative transactions on behalf of customers. The principal expenses of the segment consist of
interest expense on funds borrowed from external sources and other internal segments, premises expenses, personnel
costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of delivery channels, specialist product groups, processing units
and support groups.
(d) Other banking business
This segment includes income from parabanking activities such as credit cards, debit cards, third party product
distribution, primary dealership business and the associated costs. This segment also includes Bank’s subsidiaries.
(e) unallocated
All items which are reckoned at an enterprise level are classified under this segment. This includes capital and reserves,
debt classified as Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital and other unallocable assets and liabilities such as deferred tax, prepaid
expenses, etc.
Segment revenue includes earnings from external customers plus earnings from funds transferred to other segments. Segment
result includes revenue less interest expense less operating expense and provisions, if any, for that segment. Segment-wise
income and expenses include certain allocations. Interest income is charged by a segment that provides funding to another
segment, based on yields benchmarked to an internally approved yield curve or at a certain agreed transfer price rate.
Transaction charges are levied by the retail banking segment to the wholesale banking segment for the use by its customers
of the retail banking segment’s branch network or other delivery channels. Segment capital employed represents the net
assets in that segment.
Geographic segments
The geographic segments of the Bank are categorised as domestic operations and foreign operations. Domestic operations
comprise branches in India and foreign operations comprise branches outside India.
350
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2022 is given below:
Business segments:
(` crore)
Sr. Treasury Retail Wholesale Other banking Total
Particulars
No. banking banking operations
1 Segment revenue 34,385.12 115,189.91 66,482.93 31,928.60 247,986.56
2 Unallocated revenue (12.18)
3 Less: Inter-segment revenue 80,278.98
4 Income from operations (1) + 167,695.40
(2) - (3)
5 Segment results 8,939.51 9,223.24 25,053.01 9,244.42 52,460.18
6 Unallocated expenses 1,586.79
7 Income tax expense (including 12,722.49
deferred tax)
8 Net profit (5) - (6) - (7) 38,150.90
9 Segment assets 551,767.34 619,468.20 808,136.61 130,990.31 2,110,362.46
10 Unallocated assets 12,571.84
11 Total assets (9) + (10) 2,122,934.30
12 Segment liabilities 77,273.63 1,292,339.74 413,825.31 52,440.34 1,835,879.02
13 Unallocated liabilities 39,008.70
14 Total liabilities (12) + (13) 1,874,887.72
15 Capital employed (9) - (12) 474,493.71 (672,871.54) 394,311.30 78,549.97 274,483.44
(Segment assets - Segment
liabilities)
16 Unallocated (10) - (13) (26,436.86)
17 Total (15) + (16) 248,046.58
18 Capital expenditure 24.69 2,393.82 229.00 240.43 2,887.94
19 Depreciation 40.48 1,295.47 149.27 195.51 1,680.73
20 Provisions for non - performing (14.52) 9,932.56 1,954.52 6,044.29 17,916.85
assets / others*
21 Unallocated other provisions* 8.40
* Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
Geographic segments:
(` crore)
Particulars Domestic International
Revenue 166,835.31 860.09
Assets 2,064,899.77 58,034.53
Capital expenditure 2,887.52 0.42
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2021 is given below:
Business segments:
(` crore)
Sr. Treasury Retail Wholesale Other banking Total
Particulars
No. banking banking operations
1 Segment revenue 32,337.67 110,210.21 57,154.30 29,759.68 229,461.86
2 Unallocated revenue 30.82
3 Less: Inter-segment revenue 73,607.41
4 Income from operations (1) + 155,885.27
(2) - (3)
5 Segment results 9,030.50 10,574.80 17,437.54 7,344.29 44,387.13
6 Unallocated expenses 1,590.99
351
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Sr. Treasury Retail Wholesale Other banking Total
Particulars
No. banking banking operations
7 Income tax expense 10,939.37
(including deferred tax)
8 Net profit (5) - (6) - (7) 31,856.77
9 Segment assets 519,641.74 521,997.22 628,731.57 119,752.20 1,790,122.73
10 Unallocated assets 9,383.91
11 Total assets (9) + (10) 1,799,506.64
12 Segment liabilities 76,276.60 1,096,217.82 338,115.31 51,771.65 1,562,381.38
13 Unallocated liabilities 26,682.31
14 Total liabilities (12) + (13) 1,589,063.69
15 Capital employed (9) - (12) 443,365.14 (574,220.60) 290,616.26 67,980.54 227,741.34
(Segment assets - Segment
liabilities)
16 Unallocated (10) - (13) (17,298.39)
17 Total (15) + (16) 210,442.95
18 Capital expenditure 24.93 1,527.55 139.94 180.60 1,873.02
19 Depreciation 36.74 1,047.40 118.18 182.69 1,385.01
20 Provisions for non - performing (16.82) 10,157.54 2,279.02 6,389.39 18,809.13
assets / others*
21 Unallocated other provisions* 31.16
* Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
Geographic segments:
(` crore)
Particulars Domestic International
Revenue 154,953.30 931.97
Assets 1,755,919.75 43,586.89
Capital expenditure 1,872.61 0.41
19 Related party disclosures
As per AS-18, Related Party Disclosures read with RBI Master Direction on Financial Statements – Presentation and Disclosures,
the Group’s related parties are disclosed below:
Promoter
Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
Key management personnel
Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Kaizad Bharucha, Executive Director
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
Nagsri Sashidhar, Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Dhruv Sashidhar, Mythra Mahesh, Mahesh Babu Ramamurthy, Havovi
Bharucha, Huzaan Bharucha, Danesh Bharucha, Daraius Bharucha, Dilnaaz D Bharucha, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories.
A specific related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in that
category. Transactions between the Bank and Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited exceed 10% of all related
party transactions in that category.
352
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
The Group’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2022 are summarised
as follows:
(` crore)
Promoter Key Management Relatives of KMP Total
Items / Related party personnel (KMP) & their interested
entities
Deposits taken 2,741.49 4.54 1.43 2,747.46
(5,132.37) (23.02) (1.43) (5,156.82)
Deposits placed 0.32 - - 0.32
(0.32) - - (0.32)
Advances given - 0.55 # 0.55
- (0.73) (0.01) (0.74)
Fixed assets purchased from - - - -
Fixed assets sold to - - - -
Interest paid to 20.43 0.98 0.04 21.45
Interest received from - 0.02 - 0.02
Income from services rendered to 463.93 # # 463.93
Expenses for receiving services from 720.16 - - 720.16
Equity investments - - - -
- - - -
Other investments - - - -
- - - -
Dividend paid to 562.00 2.50 # 564.50
Dividend received from - - - -
Receivable from 65.33 - - 65.33
(135.56) - - (135.56)
Payable to 64.14 - - 64.14
(64.14) - - (64.14)
Guarantees given 0.39 - - 0.39
(0.40) - - (0.40)
Remuneration paid - 17.16 - 17.16
Loans purchased from 28,205.24 - - 28,205.24
# Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
• Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each
quarter-end.
• Remuneration paid excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year.
• Bonus and retiral benefits for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key managerial
personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2022, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect of earlier years
was ` 2.09 crore.
The Bank being an authorised dealer, deals in foreign exchange and derivative transactions with parties which include its
promoter. The foreign exchange and derivative transactions are undertaken in line with the RBI guidelines. The notional principal
amount of foreign exchange and derivative contracts transacted with the promoter that were outstanding as on March 31, 2022
is ` 11,178.71 crore (previous year: ` 7,757.49 crore). The contingent credit exposure pertaining to these contracts computed
in line with the extant RBI guidelines on exposure norms was ` 236.68 crore (previous year: ` 166.45 crore).
353
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
The Group’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2021 are summarised
as follows:
(` crore)
Promoter Key Management Relatives of KMP Total
Items / Related party personnel (KMP) & their interested
entities
Deposits taken 3,560.67 60.07 1.00 3,621.74
(3,560.67) (717.55 ) (18.84) (4,297.06)
Deposits placed 0.32 - - 0.32
(0.47 ) (0.76) (3.50) (4.73)
Advances given - 0.99 # 0.99
- (2.32) (0.02) (2.34)
Fixed assets purchased from - - - -
Fixed assets sold to - - - -
Interest paid to 10.80 8.22 0.59 19.61
Interest received from - 0.05 - 0.05
Income from services rendered to 324.65 # # 324.65
Expenses for receiving services from 589.87 0.14 0.38 590.39
Equity investments - - - -
- - - -
Other investments - - - -
- - - -
Dividend paid to - - - -
Dividend received from - - - -
Receivable from 138.77 - - 138.77
(138.77) - - (138.77)
Payable to 111.05 - - 111.05
(199.27) - - (199.27)
Guarantees given 0.40 - - 0.40
(0.41) - (0.05) (0.46)
Remuneration paid - 22.48 - 22.48
Loans purchased from 18,979.78 - - 18,979.78
# Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
• Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each
quarter-end.
• Remuneration paid excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year.
• Bonus and retiral benefits for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key managerial
personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2021, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect of earlier years
was ` 2.90 crore.
• Related parties are in accordance with AS-18 Related Party Disclosures.
354
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
20 Additional information pursuant to Schedule III of the companies Act, 2013
Additional information to consolidated accounts at March 31, 2022 (Pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013)
(` crore)
Profit or (loss) for the year ended
Net assets as of March 31, 2022
March 31, 2022
Name of entity As % of As % of
consolidated net Amount*** consolidated profit Amount***
assets** or loss
Parent:
HDFC Bank Limited 97.08% 240,092.94 97.13% 36,961.33
Subsidiaries*:
1. HDFC Securities Limited 0.66% 1,644.71 2.62% 995.94
2. HDB Financial Services Limited 3.97% 9,823.61 2.68% 1,020.19
Minority Interest in all subsidiaries 0.29% 720.42 0.26% 98.15
* The subsidiaries are domestic entities.
** Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities including minority interest.
*** Amounts are before inter-company adjustments.
Additional information to consolidated accounts at March 31, 2021 (Pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013)
(` crore)
Profit or (loss) for the year ended
Net assets as of March 31, 2021
March 31, 2021
Name of entity As % of As % of
consolidated net Amount*** consolidated profit Amount***
assets** or loss
Parent:
HDFC Bank Limited 97.10% 203,720.83 97.75% 31,116.53
Subsidiaries*:
1. HDFC Securities Limited 0.70% 1,477.40 2.26% 720.52
2. HDB Financial Services Limited 4.16% 8,721.96 1.58% 502.83
Minority Interest in all subsidiaries 0.30% 632.76 0.07% 23.56
* The subsidiaries are domestic entities.
** Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities including minority interest.
*** Amounts are before inter-company adjustments.
21 leases
Operating leases primarily comprise office premises, staff residences and Automated Teller Machines (‘ATM’s), which
are renewable at the option of the Group. The details of maturity profile of future operating lease payments are given
below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
Not later than one year 1,331.50 1,229.52
Later than one year and not later than five years 4,573.70 4,145.21
Later than five years 5,480.08 5,279.17
Total 11,385.28 10,653.90
The total of minimum lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the 1,425.62 1,466.00
year
Total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non- 55.84 57.18
cancellable sub-leases
Sub-lease amounts recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year 10.92 10.04
Contingent (usage based) lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for 321.96 324.07
the year
355
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
The Bank has sub-leased certain of its properties taken on lease.
The terms of renewal and escalation clauses are those normally prevalent in similar agreements. There are no undue restrictions
or onerous clauses in the agreements.
22 Penalties levied by the RBI
During the year ended March 31, 2022, RBI by an order dated May 27, 2021, levied a penalty of ` 10 crore for marketing and
sale of third-party non-financial products to the Bank’s auto loan customers, arising from a whistle blower complaint, which
revealed, inter alia, contravention of Section 6(2) and Section 8 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The Bank has discontinued
the sale of said third-party non-financial product since October 2019.
During the year ended March 31, 2021, RBI imposed a penalty of ` 0.10 crore for bouncing of Subsidiary General Ledger which
led to shortage of balance in certain securities in the Bank’s Constituent Subsidiary General Ledger account.
23 Small and micro industries
hdFc Bank limited
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from October 2, 2006, certain
disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. There have been no reported cases of
delays in payments to micro and small enterprises or of interest payments due to delays in such payments during the years
ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021. The above is based on the information available with the Bank which has been
relied upon by the auditors.
hdFc Securities limited
On the basis of the information available with the Company and the intimation received from ‘suppliers’ regarding their status
under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 the amount unpaid as at March 31, 2022 was ` 0.11
crore (previous year: ` 0.28 crore).
hdB Financial Services limited
As per the confirmation received from the suppliers covered under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act,
2006, the amount unpaid as at March 31, 2022 was Nil (previous year: ` 0.01 crore). The above is based on the information
available with the Company which has been relied upon by the auditors.
24 corporate social responsibility
hdFc Bank limited
The details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities are given below:
(` crore)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No.
1 Amount required to be spent by the Bank 733.86 627.86
during the year
2 Amount of expenditure incurred 736.87 634.90
3 Shortfall at the end of the year - -
4 Details of unspent CSR amount for the - -
preceding three financial years
5 Reason for shortfall - -
6 Nature of CSR activities - Rural Development - Rural Development
- Promotion of Education - Promotion of Education
- Skill Training & Livelihood Enhancement - Skill Training & Livelihood Enhancement
- Financial Literacy & Inclusion - Financial Literacy & Inclusion
- Healthcare & Hygiene - Healthcare & Hygiene
7 Details of related party transactions, e.g. - -
contribution to a trust controlled by the
Bank in relation to CSR expenditure as per
relevant Accounting Standard
356
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No.
8 Where a provision is made with respect - -
to a liability incurred by entering into a
contractual obligation, the movements in
the provision
hdFc Securities limited
The details of CSR activities are given below:
(` crore)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No.
1 Amount required to be spent by the 13.00 10.20
company during the year
2 Amount of expenditure incurred 13.00 10.85
3 Details of unspent CSR amount for the - -
preceding three financial years
4 Total of previous years shortfall - -
5 Reason for shortfall - -
6 Nature of CSR activities Healthcare, Education, Eradicating Hunger, Promotion of National Sports, Olympic
Sports and Paralympic sports
7 Details of related party transactions, e.g. - -
contribution to a trust controlled by the
Company in relation to CSR expenditure
as per relevant Accounting Standard
8 Where a provision is made with respect - -
to a liability incurred by entering into a
contractual obligation, the movements in
the provision
hdB Financial Services limited
The details of CSR activities are given below:
(` crore)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021
No.
1 Amount required to be spent by the 24.70 30.83
company during the year
2 Amount of expenditure incurred 25.83 23.52
3 Shortfall at the end of the year - 7.31#
4 Details of unspent CSR amount for the 2.28 -
preceding three financial years
5 Reason for shortfall - Series of lockdown owing to the pandemic
caused delays in achieving project
milestones for most CSR projects, thus
disturbing the pay-out schedule planned
for the year
6 Nature of CSR activities Healthcare services, Basic education, Livelihoods enhancement and Natural resource
management.
7 Details of related party transactions, e.g. - -
contribution to a trust controlled by the
Company in relation to CSR expenditure
as per relevant Accounting Standard
8 Where a provision is made with respect - -
to a liability incurred by entering into a
contractual obligation, the movements in
the provision
# ` 7.31 crore reported as unspent in financial year 2020-21 was transferred to Unspent CSR Account, out of which ` 5.03 crore has been disbursed
towards ongoing projects during the year.
357
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
25 cOVId-19
hdFc Bank limited
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic had led to a nation-wide lockdown in April-May 2020. This was followed by localised
lockdowns in areas with a significant number of COVID-19 cases. Following the easing of lockdown measures, there was an
improvement in economic activity in the second half of fiscal 2021. Since then India experienced two waves of the COVID-19
pandemic following the discovery of mutant coronavirus variants, leading to the reimposition of regional lockdowns which
were subsequently lifted.
The impact of COVID-19, including changes in customer behaviour and pandemic fears, as well as restrictions on business
and individual activities, led to significant volatility in global and Indian financial markets and a significant decrease in global and
local economic activities. The disruptions following the outbreak, impacted loan originations, the sale of third party products,
the use of credit and debit cards by customers and the efficiency in collection efforts resulting in increase in customer defaults
and consequent increase in provisions there against.
India is emerging from the COVID-19 pandemic. The extent to which any new wave of COVID-19 will impact the bank's results
will depend on ongoing as well as future developments, including, among other things, any new information concerning the
severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, and any action to contain its spread or mitigate its impact whether government mandated
or elected by us.
hdFc Securities limited
The COVID-19 pandemic continues to have a considerable impact on economic activities across the various parts of the
country and across the globe. The Government of India and various state governments have introduced a series of initiatives
over the past year including lockdowns in order to contain the impact of the virus.
Stock broking and depository services have been declared as essential services all through the year and accordingly, the
Company has faced no business stoppage / interruption on account of the lockdown. As of March 31, 2022, based on facts
and circumstances existing as of that date, the Company does not anticipate any material uncertainties which affects its
liquidity position and also ability to continue as a going concern.
26 Refund / Adjustment of ‘interest on interest’
In accordance with the instructions in the paragraph 5 of the RBI circular dated April 07, 2021, the Group refunded / adjusted
'interest on interest' of ` 302.45 crore to all eligible borrowers during the year ended March 31, 2022.
27 Additional disclosure
Additional statutory information disclosed in the separate financial statements of the Bank and subsidiaries have no material
bearing on the true and fair view of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the information pertaining to such items which
are not material have not been disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
28 disclosure under Rule 11 (e) of the companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances to its constituents including foreign entities with
permission to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like in other entities identified by such constituents. Similarly,
the Bank accepts deposits from its constituents, who may instruct the Bank to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security
or the like against such deposit in other entities identified by such constituents. These transactions are part of Bank’s normal
banking business, which is conducted after exercising proper due diligence including adherence to “Know Your Customer”
guidelines as applicable in respective jurisdiction.
358
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Other than the nature of transactions described above, the Bank has not advanced / lent / invested / provided guarantee or
security to or in any other person with an understanding to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to or in any
other person. Similarly, other than the nature of transactions described above, the Bank has not received any funds from any
other person with an understanding that the Bank shall lend or invest or provide guarantee or security or the like to or in any
other person.
29 comparative figures
Figures for the previous year have been regrouped and reclassified wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s
presentation. The previous year comparative numbers were audited by MSKA & Associates, Chartered Accountants.
As per our report of even date For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates For M M Nissim & Co LLP Atanu Chakraborty Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part Time Chairman of the Board Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: ICAI Firm Registration Number:
105047W 107122W/W100672 M. D. Ranganath Malay Patel
Independent Director Independent Director
Swapnil Kale Sanjay Khemani Lily Vadera Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner Partner Independent Director Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812 Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022 Company Secretary
359
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Basel III - Pillar 3 Disclosures
As at March 31, 2022
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide its circular under reference DBR.No.BP.BC.1/21.06.201/2015-16 dated July 1, 2015 on 'Basel
III Capital Regulations' (‘Basel III circular’), as amended from time to time, read together with the circular under reference DBR.
No.BP.BC.80/21.06.201/2014-15 dated March 31, 2015 on 'Prudential Guidelines on Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards
- Amendments', circular under reference DBR.BP.BC.No.106/21.04.098/2017-18 dated May 17, 2018 on ‘Standards - Net Stable
Funding Ratio (NSFR) - Final Guidelines’ and subsequent amendments thereof, requires banks to make Pillar 3 disclosures including
leverage ratio, liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding ratio under the Basel III Framework. These disclosures are available
on HDFC Bank's website under the ‘Regulatory Disclosures’ section. The link to this section is given below:
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/resources/regulatory-disclosures
The Regulatory Disclosures section contains the following disclosures:
• Qualitative and quantitative Pillar 3 disclosures:
 Scope of application
 Capital adequacy
 Credit risk
 Credit risk: Portfolios subject to the standardised approach
 Credit risk mitigation: Disclosures for standardised approach
 Securitisation exposures
 Market risk in trading book
 Operational risk
 Asset Liability Management (‘ALM’) risk management
 General disclosures for exposures related to counterparty credit risk
 Equities: Disclosure for banking book positions
• Composition of capital and reconciliation requirements.
• Main features and full terms and conditions of regulatory capital instruments.
• Leverage ratio disclosures.
• Liquidity coverage ratio disclosure.
• Net stable funding ratio disclosure.
360
Statement Pursuant to section 129
of the Companies Act, 2013
Form AOC - 1: Pursuant to the first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with
rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
Statement containing salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries, associate companies and joint ventures
Part A: Subsidiaries
(` in crore)
Sr. No. Name of the subsidiary HDFC Securities Limited HDB Financial Services Limited
1. The date since when subsidiary was acquired September 28, 2005 August 31, 2007
2. Reporting period for the subsidiary Reporting period of the subsidiary is the Reporting period of the subsidiary is the
concerned, if different from the holding same as that of the holding company i.e. same as that of the holding company i.e.
company’s reporting period April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022 April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022
3. Reporting currency and exchange rate as on Not applicable as this is a domestic Not applicable as this is a domestic
the last date of the relevant financial year in subsidiary subsidiary
the case of foreign subsidiaries
4. Share capital 15.83 790.44
5. Reserves & surplus 1,628.88 9,033.16
6. Total assets 7,873.02 64,394.07
7. Total liabilities 6,228.31 54,570.47
8. Investments 216.35 2,299.38
9. Turnover 1,974.34 11,491.43
10. Profit before taxation 1,327.40 1,352.64
11. Provision for taxation 331.46 332.46
12. Profit after taxation 995.94 1,020.18
13. Proposed dividend Nil* Nil
14. Extent of shareholding (in percentage) 95.96% 94.96%
* The Company paid interim dividend of ` 864.62 crore during the year.
Notes:
1. There are no subsidiaries that are yet to commence operations.
2. No subsidiaries were liquidated or sold during the year.
Part B: Associate Companies and Joint Ventures
Not Applicable
For and on behalf of the Board
Atanu Chakraborty Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Part Time Chairman of the Board Independent Director
M. D. Ranganath Malay Patel
Independent Director Independent Director
Lily Vadera Sashidhar Jagdishan
Independent Director Managing Director & CEO
Kaizad Bharucha Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022 Company Secretary
361
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Certificate on Corporate Governance
To
The Members of HDFC Bank Limited (“the Bank”)
We have examined the compliance of conditions of corporate governance by the Bank for the year ended March 31, 2022, as
prescribed in Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 and Para C, D and E of Schedule V
to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 ('SEBI Listing
Regulations').
We state that the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management, and our examination
was limited to procedures and implementation thereof adopted by the Bank for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of the
Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Bank.
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Bank has complied
with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the aforesaid provisions of SEBI Listing Regulations.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor the efficiency or effectiveness
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
[Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
Avinash Bagul
Partner
FCS No.: 5578
CP No.: 19862
UDIN: F005578D000459121
Place: Mumbai
Date: June 3, 2022
362
Certificate under SEBI Listing Regulations
To,
The Members,
HDFC Bank Limited,
HDFC Bank House,
Senapati Bapat Marg,
Lower Parel (West),
Mumbai – 400013.
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of HDFC Bank Limited
[CIN.: L65920MH1994PLC080618] (hereinafter called the ‘Bank’) having its Registered Office at HDFC Bank House, Senapati
Bapat Marg, Lower Parel (West), Mumbai – 400013 and also the information provided by the Bank, its officers and the authorised
representatives for the purpose of issuance of the Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34 (3) read with Schedule V Para-C
Sub clause 10 (i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 2015 (LODR), as
amended vide notification no SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2018/10 dated May 9, 2018 issued by SEBI.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications [including Directors Identification Number (DIN)
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in] as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Bank and its officers, we
hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Bank as stated below for the Financial Year ended on March 31, 2022
have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of the Bank by Securities and Exchange Board
of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.
S. No. Name of the Director DIN Date of Appointment in the Bank*
1. Mr. Atanu Chakraborty 01469375 May 5, 2021
2. Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad 00008064 March 3, 2020
3. Mr. Sanjiv Sachar 02013812 July 21, 2018
4. Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi 02040436 March 1, 2016
5. Mrs. Lily Vadera 09400410 November 26, 2021
6. Mr. Kaizad Bharucha 02490648 December 24, 2013
7. Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni# 02551389 September 20, 2016
8. Mr. Sandeep Pravin Parekh 03268043 January 19, 2019
9. Mr. Malay Yogendra Patel 06876386 March 31, 2015
10. Mr. Dwarakanath Ranganath Mavinakere 07565125 January 31, 2019
11. Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 01641411 March 30, 2021
12 Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 08614396 October 27, 2020
*Date of appointment is taken from MCA.
#Ceased to be the Director of the Bank with effect from February 18, 2022
363
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Certificate under SEBI Listing Regulations
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the
Bank. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to the
future viability of the Bank nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
[Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
Avinash Bagul
Partner
FCS No.: 5578
CP No.: 19862
UDIN:F005578D000459218
Place: Mumbai
Date: June 3, 2022
364
Report on Corporate Governance
[Report on Corporate Governance pursuant to the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 {“the SEBI Listing Regulations”} and forming a part of the report of the Board of Directors]
Corporate Governance Framework
Shareholders  Regulators
Board of Directors

    
Audit Stakeholders’ Nomination & Risk Policy & Other
Committee Relationship Remuneration Monitoring Committees
Committee Committee Committee
 
External and Managing Director
Internal Auditors 
Executive Director
• The Board of Directors of the Bank are the ultimate Philosophy on Code of Corporate Governance
custodians of governance.
The Bank believes in adopting and adhering to the best
• The Board of Directors are accountable to various recognized corporate governance practices and continuously
stakeholders such as shareholders, regulatory authorities benchmarking itself against each such practice. The Bank
including Reserve Bank of India, Securities and Exchange understands and respects its role and responsibility towards its
Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, etc. shareholders and strives hard to meet their expectations.
• The Bank has an engaged, experienced, diverse and a The Bank believes that best board governance practices,
well-informed Board. Through the governance framework transparent disclosures and shareholder empowerment are
in the Bank, the Board along with its Committees, each necessary for creating shareholder value. The Bank has infused
with defined roles, undertakes its responsibilities towards the philosophy of corporate governance into all its activities.
all its stakeholders. The philosophy on corporate governance is an important tool
for shareholder protection and maximization of their long-
• The joint Statutory Auditors have a reporting responsibility
term values. The cardinal principles such as independence,
to the Audit Committee.
accountability, responsibility, transparency, fair and timely
• The Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer is disclosures, credibility, sustainability, etc. serve as the means
responsible for the overall affairs of the Bank, under the for implementing the philosophy of corporate governance in
superintendence, guidance and control of the Board letter and in spirit.
of Directors.
• The Executive Director, under the guidance of the Managing
Director, has over-sight over various business functions.
365
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Report on Corporate Governance
Board of Directors Directorships
Memberships of
on the Board
Name of Director committees of other
of other
The composition of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“Board”) companies*
companies*
is governed by the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty 2 -
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, SEBI Listing Regulations and
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha - -
other applicable laws.
Mrs. Lily Vadera - -
As on the date of this report, the Board consists of eleven (11) Mr. Malay Patel 2 1
Directors as follows: Mr. M. D. Ranganath - -
Mrs. Renu Karnad 11 (1)** 5 (3)
Sr.
Category Name of Director Mr. Sandeep Parekh 1 -
No.
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar 1 -
1 Executive i. Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (Managing Director &
Directors Chief Executive Officer) Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan - -
ii. Mr. Kaizad Bharucha Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 6 -
2 Non-Executive Mrs. Renu Karnad (Nominee of Housing Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi 1 -
Directors Development Finance Corporation Limited, * The figures in brackets indicate chairpersonships.
Promoter of the Bank) **Mrs. Karnad tendered her resignation from Unitech Limited with effect
3 Independent i. Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (Part-time Chairman & from March 24, 2022, and completion of necessary formalities is awaited,
Directors Independent Director) including placing the same before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, for
ii. Mr. Sanjiv Sachar its kind consideration.
iii. Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Note: For the purpose of considering the limit of the directorships
iv. Mr. Sandeep Parekh
v. Mr. Malay Patel and limits of committees on which the directors are members /
vi. Mr. M. D. Ranganath chairpersons, all public limited companies (whether listed or not),
vii. Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari private limited companies, foreign companies and companies
viii.Mrs. Lily Vadera
under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 have been
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, was appointed as the Part-time Chairman included. Further, chairpersonships / memberships of only the
& Independent Director of the Bank with effect from May 5, 2021, Audit Committee and the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
pursuant to the approval granted by the Reserve Bank of India, in these companies have been considered.
and by the shareholders of the Bank at the 27th Annual General
Meeting held on July 17, 2021. Profile of Board of Directors
Mrs. Lily Vadera was appointed as an Independent Director of The profile of the Directors of the Bank as on the date of this
the Bank for a period of five (5) years from November 26, 2021 report are as under:
to November 25, 2026 (both days inclusive), not liable to retire
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (DIN 01469375)
by rotation and the same was approved by the shareholders of
[Part-time Chairman and Independent Director]
the Bank through Postal Ballot on March 27, 2022.
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, aged sixty-two (62) years, served the
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as Non-
Government of India, for a period of thirty-five (35) years, as
Executive (Non-Independent) Director of Bank with effect from
a member of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) in Gujarat
February 18, 2022.
cadre. He has mainly worked in areas of Finance & Economic
Further, at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on April Policy, Infrastructure, Petroleum & Natural Gas. In the Union
16, 2022, Mrs. Renu Karnad has been re-appointed as the Non- Government, he held various posts such as Secretary to
Executive Director (Nominee of Housing Development Finance Government of India in the Ministry of Finance- Department of
Corporation Limited, Promoter of the Bank) on the Board of the Economic Affairs (DEA) during FY 2019-20. As Secretary (DEA),
Bank, for a period of five (5) years with effect from September 3, he co-ordinated economic policy making for all ministries/
2022, subject to the approval of the shareholders at the ensuing departments and managed entire process of formulation
Annual General Meeting. of budget making for Union of India, including its passage in
Parliament. He was responsible for fiscal management policies,
All the Directors have made necessary disclosures regarding
policies for public debt management and development &
their directorship and committee positions occupied by them in
management of financial markets.
other companies. None of the directors are related to each other.
Mr. Chakraborty also handled financial stability and currency,
Details of directorships, memberships and chairpersonships of
domestic & foreign related issues as well. He managed flow of
the committees of other companies for the current Directors of
funds with multilateral and bilateral financial institutions and had
the Bank are as follows:
multiple interfaces with them. He also headed a multi-disciplinary
366
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
task force that produced the National Infrastructure Pipeline 2008. He played a critical role in supporting the growth trajectory
(NIP). He has also served as Secretary to the Union Government of the Bank, and led the finance function with a pivotal role in
for Disinvestment (Department of Investment and Public Asset aligning the organization in achieving the strategic objectives
Management) wherein he was responsible for both policy as well over the years.
as execution of the process of disinvestment of Government of
Prior to his appointment as Managing Director & Chief Executive
India’s stake in state owned enterprises.
Officer of the Bank, he was the Group Head of the Bank in
During the period 2002-07, Mr. Chakraborty served as Director addition to overseeing the functions of Finance, Human
and subsequently as Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance Resources, Legal & Secretarial, Administration, Infrastructure,
(Department of Expenditure). During this period, he appraised Corporate Communications and Corporate Social Responsibility.
projects in the Infrastructure sector as well as looked after
Mr. Jagdishan is not a director in any other company.
subsidies of Government of India. He had also updated and
modernized the Government’s Financial & Procurement rules. Mr. Jagdishan along with his relatives, holds 16,79,943 equity
Mr. Chakraborty has also discharged varied roles in the Gujarat shares in the Bank as on March 31, 2022.
State Government including heading the Finance Department
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha (DIN: 02490648)
as its Secretary. He had been responsible for piloting the private
[Executive Director]
sector investment legislation in the State. In the State Govt.,
he has worked on the ground in both public governance and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, aged fifty-seven (57) years, holds a
development areas. Bachelor of Commerce degree from University of Mumbai and
is a career banker with over thirty five (35) years of experience.
Mr. Chakraborty has also served on the Board of World Bank as
He has been associated with the Bank since 1995. In his current
alternate Governor as well as on the Central Board of Directors of
position as Executive Director, he is responsible for Wholesale
the Reserve Bank of India. He was also the Chairman of National
Banking covering areas of Corporate Banking, PSUs, Capital &
Infrastructure Investment Fund (NIIF) as also on the Board of
Commodities Markets, Financial Institutions, Custody, Mutual
many listed companies. Mr. Chakraborty was the CEO/MD
Funds, Global Capability Centre & Financial Sponsors coverage,
of the Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited group of
and Banks coverage.
companies as well as Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals
Limited. Mr. Chakraborty had published articles in reputed As Executive Director, in his earlier position, he was responsible
journals in the areas of public finance, risk sharing in Infrastructure for Corporate Banking, Emerging Corporate Group, Business
projects and gas infrastructure. Mr. Chakraborty graduated as Banking, Healthcare Finance, Agri Lending, Tractor Financing,
a Bachelor in Engineering (Electronics & Communication) from Commercial Vehicle Finance, Commercial Equipment Finance,
NIT Kurukshetra. He holds a Diploma in Business Finance (ICFAI, Infrastructure Finance, Department for Special operations and
Hyderabad) and a Master’s degree in Business Administration inclusive banking initiatives group.
from the University of Hull, UK.
In his previous position as Group Head - Credit & Market Risk,
Mr. Chakraborty is an Independent Director in BAE Systems he was responsible for the Risk Management activities in the
India (Services) Private Limited and Association of City Gas Bank viz., Credit Risk, Market Risk, Debt Management, Risk
Distribution Entities. Intelligence and Control functions.
Mr. Chakraborty does not hold any shares in the Bank as on Prior to joining the Bank, he worked in SBI Commercial and
March 31, 2022. International Bank in various areas including Trade Finance and
Corporate Banking.
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (DIN: 08614396)
[Managing Director & CEO] He has represented HDFC Bank as a member of the working
group on banking related committees.
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, aged fifty-seven (57) years, has an
overall experience of thirty (30) years. He has completed his Mr. Bharucha is not a director in any other company.
graduation in Science with specialization in Physics, is a
Mr. Bharucha, along with his relatives, holds 26,02,695 equity
Chartered Accountant by profession and holds a Master’s
shares in the Bank as on March 31, 2022.
degree in Economics of Money, Banking & Finance from the
University of Sheffield, United Kingdom. Mr. Malay Patel (DIN: 06876386)
[Independent Director]
Mr. Jagdishan joined the Bank in the year 1996 as a Manager
in the Finance function. He became Business Head - Finance Mr. Malay Patel, aged forty-five (45) years, is a Major in
in 1999 and was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in the year Engineering (Mechanical) from Rutgers University, Livingston,
367
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Report on Corporate Governance
NJ, USA, and an A.A.B.A. in business from Bergen County executive search space across various country segments. Over
College, Fairlawn, NJ, USA. He is a director on the Board of Eewa the course of his two decades at Egon Zehnder, Mr. Sachar has
Engineering Company Private Limited, a company in the plastics mentored senior executives across industry sectors that today
/ packaging industry with exports to more than 50 countries. are either Board members, CEOs or CFOs of large corporates
He has been involved in varied roles such as export / import, in India and overseas. Mr. Sachar has also been the co-founder
procurement, sales and marketing, etc. in Eewa Engineering of the chartered accountancy and management consulting
Company Private Limited. firm, Sachar Vasudeva & Associates and co-founded executive
search firm, Direct Impact.
Mr. Malay Patel has special knowledge and practical experience
in matters relating to small scale industries in terms of Section Mr. Sachar is also on the Board of the following public
10-A (2 a) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. company(ies):
Mr. Patel is also on the Board of the following public limited Listed Public Limited Companies Other Public Limited Companies
company(ies): KDDL Limited -
(Independent Director)
Listed Public Limited Companies Other Public Limited Companies
- HDFC Securities Limited Mr. Sachar does not hold any shares in the Bank as on March
(Independent Director) 31, 2022.
Mr. Patel does not hold any shares in the Bank as on March Mr. Sandeep Parekh (DIN: 03268043)
31, 2022. [Independent Director]
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi (DIN: 02040436) Mr. Sandeep Parekh, aged fifty (50) years, holds an LL.M.
[Independent Director] (Securities and Financial Regulations) degree from Georgetown
University and an LL.B. degree from Delhi University. He is the
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi, aged seventy (70) years, holds a
managing partner of Finsec Law Advisors, a financial sector
Master’s degree in Science (Botany) from Utkal University (gold
law firm based in Mumbai. He was an Executive Director at
medalist).
the Securities & Exchange Board of India during 2006-08,
Mr. Sarangi has over three decades of experience in Indian heading the Enforcement and Legal Affairs departments. He
Administrative Service and brought in significant reforms in is a faculty at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.
modernizing of agriculture, focus on agro processing and export. He has worked for law firms in Delhi, Mumbai and Washington,
As the erstwhile Chairman of National Bank for Agricultural D.C. Mr. Parekh focuses on securities regulations, investment
and Rural Development (NABARD) from December 2007 to regulations, private equity, corporate governance and financial
December 2010, Mr. Sarangi focused on rural infrastructure, regulations. He is admitted to practice law in New York. He was
accelerated initiatives such as microfinance, financial inclusion, recognized by the World Economic Forum as a “Young Global
watershed development and tribal development. Leader” in 2008. He was Chairman and member of various SEBI
and RBI Committees and sub-Committees and is presently a
Mr. Sarangi has specialized knowledge and experience in
member of SEBI’s Mutual Fund Advisory Committee.
agriculture and rural economy pursuant to Section 10-A (2)(a) of
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Mr. Parekh is not a director in any other listed or public
limited company.
Mr. Sarangi is not a director in any other listed or public
limited company. Mr. Parekh does not hold any shares in the Bank as on
March 31, 2022.
Mr. Sarangi does not hold any shares in the Bank as on March
31, 2022. Mr. M. D. Ranganath (DIN: 07565125)
[Independent Director]
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar (DIN: 02013812)
Mr. M.D. Ranganath, aged sixty (60) years, holds Master’s
[Independent Director]
degree in technology from IIT, Madras and a Bachelor’s degree
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, aged sixty-four (64) years, is a Fellow Associate in Engineering from the University of Mysore. He is a PGDM from
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and former IIM, Ahmedabad and a member of CPA, Australia.
Senior Partner of Egon Zehnder, the world’s largest privately
Mr. Ranganath has over twenty eight (28) years of experience
held executive search firm.
in the Global IT services and financial services industry. He
Mr. Sachar set up the Egon Zehnder practice in India in 1995 and is currently President of Catamaran Ventures. He was Chief
played a key role in establishing the firm as a market leader in the Financial Officer of Infosys Limited, a globally listed IT services
368
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
*(Mrs. Karnad tendered her resignation from Unitech Limited with effect
company, till November, 2018. During his tenure of 18 years at
from March 24, 2022 and completion of necessary formalities is awaited,
Infosys, he was an integral part of the growth and transformation including placing the same before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, for
of Infosys into a globally respected IT services company and its kind consideration.)
effectively played leadership roles in a wide spectrum of areas- Mrs. Karnad, along with her relatives, holds 5,95,320 equity
Strategy, Finance, Merger & Acquisition (M&A), Consulting, Risk shares in the Bank as on March 31, 2022.
Management, and Corporate planning- culminating in the role
of Chief Financial Officer. Prior to Infosys, he worked at ICICI Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari (DIN 01641411)
Limited for 8 years and executed responsibilities in credit, [Independent Director]
treasury, equity portfolio management and corporate planning.
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari aged fifty-six (56) years is a US
In the years 2017 and 2018, Mr. Ranganath was the recipient of Board certified Pediatric Cardiologist, and completed her MBBS
the Best CFO Asia award in the technology sector, by Institutional at Osmania Medical College followed by post-graduation at
Investor publication, based on poll of buy-side and sell-side AIIMS, Delhi and Yale University in the US. With over thirty (30)
investor community. years of experience, she has lived and worked in the US and
India. In addition to being a clinician, Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari is a
Mr. Ranganath is not a director in any other company.
medical entrepreneur and co-founder at:
Mr. Ranganath does not hold any shares in the Bank as on
(a) Teleradiology Solutions (India’s first and largest teleradiology
March 31, 2022.
company that has provided over 5 million diagnostic reports
Mrs. Renu Karnad (DIN: 00008064) to patients and hospitals globally including for the Tripura
[Non-Executive Non-Independent Director] state government),
(b) Telrad Tech which builds AI enabled tele health software and
Mrs. Renu Karnad, aged sixty-nine (69) years, is the Managing
(c) RXDX healthcare - a chain of multi-specialty neighbourhood
Director of Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
clinics in Bangalore.
since 2010. She holds a Master’s degree in Economics from
the University of Delhi and a Bachelor’s degree in Law from She has also incubated other start-up companies in the tele-
the University of Mumbai. She is also a Parvin Fellow-Woodrow health space such as Healtheminds - a tele-counselling
Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Princeton platform. She is active in the social arena in India where she
University, USA. Mrs. Karnad brings with her rich experience and runs 2 trust funds. ‘People4people’ has put up over 450
knowledge of the mortgage sector, having been associated with playgrounds in government schools and Telrad Foundation
real estate and mortgage industry in India for over 40 years. Over provides teleradiology and telemedicine services to poor areas
the years, she has been the recipient of numerous awards and in Asia that do not have access to high quality medical care. Her
accolades, such as the ‘Outstanding Woman Business Leader’ other interests include teaching - she has been running India’s
award granted by CBNC-TV18 India Business Leader Awards e-teaching program for postgraduates in Pediatric Cardiology for
2012, induction in the Hall of Fame, Fortune India magazine’s over a decade. In 2019, she helped the Kerala National health
most powerful women from 2011 to 2019, ‘Top Ten Powerful mission Hridayam launch e-classes in pediatric cardiology for
Women to watch out for in Asia’ by Wall Street Journal Asia in pediatricians in the state.
2006, etc.
She has over 200 academic presentations and publications to
Mrs. Karnad is on the Board of the following public companies: her credit and is an inspirational speaker having given over 200
Listed Public Limited Companies Other Public Limited Companies lectures, including several TEDx talks. Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari is
Housing Development Finance HDFC ERGO General Insurance the recipient of several prestigious awards and honours including:
Corporation Limited Company Limited WOW (Woman of Worth) 2019 award, Outlook Business; 50
(Managing Director) (Non-Executive Director)
most powerful women of India, March 2016; Amazing Indian
HDFC Asset Management Bangalore International Airport
award- Times Now 2014; Top 20 women Health care achievers
Company Limited Limited
(Non-Executive Director) (Independent Director) in India, Modern Medicare 2009; Yale University- Outstanding
HDFC Life Insurance Company Fellow Teacher of the Year Award, 1995, amongst others.
Limited
Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari is on the Board of the following public
(Non-Executive Director)
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals company(ies):
Limited
(Non-Executive Director) Listed Public Limited Companies Other Public Limited Companies
Unitech Limited Glaxosmithkline Pharmaceuticals -
(Nominee of the Central Limited
Government)* (Independent Director)
369
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Report on Corporate Governance
Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari does not hold any shares in the Bank as story post 2nd wave of COVID-19 pandemic and operational and
on March 31, 2022. business continuity measures of the Bank, customer grievances
and customer services framework, credit portfolio quality, IT
Mrs. Lily Vadera (DIN: 09400410) Strategic Initiatives, Board awareness session on cyber security,
[Independent Director] Sustainable Livelihood (SLI), Compliance and Risk Management
strategy, rewards strategy, Enterprise-Wide Risk Management
Mrs. Lily Vadera, aged sixty-one (61) years, is a M.A in International
(ERM) Framework, Global Economic Crisis including Russia
Relations. With over 33 years of experience in Central banking,
Ukraine conflict, etc.
she retired as Executive Director from the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI) in October 2020. As the Executive Director of the RBI, she Directors are also encouraged to attend relevant programs and
was in-charge of the Department of Regulation (DoR) where seminars conducted by reputed external organizations. There
she dealt with the regulatory framework for various entities have been no instances wherein the Board had not accepted
in financial sector, covering all categories of banks and non- the recommendations of any Committee.
banking finance companies.
During the financial year under review, fourteen (14) Board
She was instrumental in putting in place a framework for a meetings were held. The meetings were held on April 17, 2021,
regulatory sandbox to provide an enabling environment for April 29, 2021, May 20, 2021, May 22, 2021, June 18, 2021, July
fintech players to foster innovation in financial services and 17, 2021, August 14, 2021, September 17, 2021, October 16,
played a significant role in the amalgamation of banks in stress. 2021, November 26, 2021, January 15, 2022, February 18, 2022,
She represented the Reserve Bank of India and played an March 16, 2022, and March 28, 2022.
important role as a member of the Insolvency Law Committee
Details of attendance at the Board meetings held during the
set up by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA).
financial year under review and attendance at the last virtual
Mrs. Lily Vadera is not a director in any other company. AGM are as follows:
Mrs. Lily Vadera does not hold any shares in the Bank as on Board Attendance
March 31, 2022. Name of the Director Meetings at last virtual
attended AGM (July 17,
during the year 2021)
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS & LAST
Independent Directors
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM)
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty# 12 Present
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar 14 Present
The Board / Committee Meetings are convened by giving
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi 14 Present
appropriate notice well in advance of the meetings. The Directors
Mr. Sandeep Parekh 14 Present
/ Committee Members are provided with appropriate information
Mr. Malay Patel 14 Present
in the form of agenda items in a timely manner, to enable them
Mr. M. D. Ranganath 14 Present
to deliberate on each agenda item and make informed decisions
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 13 Present
and provide appropriate directions to the Management. While
Mrs. Lily Vadera* 4 NA
the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws do not
Non-executive Directors
prescribe a minimum number of meetings to be attended by
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni** 12 Present
directors, the Board/ Committee Members endeavor to attend
Mrs. Renu Karnad 14 Present
and participate in all Board meetings, unless he/she is unable
Executive Directors
to attend the meeting on account of reasonable cause for which
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha 14 Present
leave of absence is requested, which is considered by the Board
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 14 Present
/ respective Committee for approval.
# Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was appointed as Part-time Non-Executive
Video-conferencing facility is also provided at the Board / Chairman and Independent Director of the Bank with effect from
Committee meetings in case any director is unable to attend the May 5, 2021.
* Mrs. Lily Vadera was appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank for
meeting physically but wishes to participate through electronic
a period of five (5) years from November 26, 2021 to November 25, 2026
mode in the meetings. (both days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation.
** Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as Non-Executive
At the Board / Committee meetings, presentations and deep dive (Non-Independent) Director of the Bank with effect from February 18, 2022.
sessions are made covering important areas of the Bank such
as annual plans and strategies, cyber security and information
technology, COVID-19 - impact on the economy, India’s growth
370
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS financial year 2020 - 2021 which was approved by the RBI
vide their letter dated March 23, 2022.
Managing Director and other Executive Directors
3. Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was paid cash variable pay of
The details of the remuneration paid to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan,
` 3,52,00,000 for the performance period April 01, 2020
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Kaizad
to March 31, 2021. The same was approved by RBI vide
Bharucha, Executive Director, during the financial year 2021-22
its letter dated March 23, 2022. Basis RBI approval, 50%
are as under:
of the above mentioned cash variable pay was paid in the
(Amount in `) financial year 2021 - 2022 and the balance 50% of the cash
Particulars Mr. Sashidhar Mr. Kaizad variable pay will be deferred over a period of three years
Jagdishan Bharucha
and will be paid in three equal instalments.
Basic 2,52,45,000 2,63,55,572
Allowances and Perquisites 3,31,20,966 2,83,16,961 Also, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was paid cash variable pay of
Provident Fund 30,29,400 31,62,666 ` 2,08,40,895 for the performance period April 01, 2019
Superannuation 37,86,756 39,53,328 to March 31, 2020. The same was approved by RBI vide
Performance Bonus - 4,46,25,564 their letter dated April 29, 2021. Since the cash variable
Number of stock options - - pay approved by RBI was less than 50% of his fixed pay
granted (Number of ESOPs)
the entire amount was credited to him in the financial year
Notes: 2021 - 2022.
1. Mr. Aditya Puri retired as the Managing Director of the Accordingly, the total cash variable payment made to
Bank at the end of business hours on October 26, 2020. Mr. Kaizad Bharucha in financial year 2021 - 2022 is
Mr. Aditya Puri was paid cash variable pay of ` 7,11,00,000 as follows:
for the performance period April 01, 2020 to October 26,
A. 50% of the cash variable pay for the Performance Year
2020. The same was approved by Reserve Bank of India
2020 – 2021 : ` 1,76,00,000
(“RBI”) vide its letter dated March 23, 2022. Basis RBI
B. 100% of the cash variable pay for the Performance
approval, 40% of the above-mentioned cash variable pay
Year 2019 - 2020 : ` 2,08,40,895
was paid in the financial year 2021 – 2022 and the balance
C. Tranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
60% of the cash variable pay will be deferred over a period
Performance Year 2018-19 : ` 33,08,079
of three years and will be paid in three equal instalments.
D. Tranche 3 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
Also Mr. Aditya Puri, was paid cash variable pay of Performance Year 2017-18: ` 28,76,590
` 4,33,69,066 for the performance period April 01, 2019
Total Payout (A+B+C+D): ` 4,46,25,564
to March 31, 2020. The same was approved by RBI vide
their letter dated April 29, 2021. Since the cash variable Employee Stock Options:
pay approved by RBI was less than 50% of his fixed pay
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was granted a total quantum of 1,20,730
the entire amount was credited to him in the financial year
employee stock options for the performance year 2020-21 on
2021 – 2022.
April 12, 2022 basis approval received from the Reserve Bank
Accordingly, the total cash variable pay, paid to Mr. Aditya of India vide its letter dated March 23, 2022.
Puri in financial year 2021 - 2022 is as follows.
The employee stock options have not been issued at discount
A. 40% of the cash variable pay for the Performance Year and the same have been granted at the closing market price
2020 - 2021 : ` 2,84,40,000 prevailing on the day prior to the date of grant on the National
B. 100% of the cash variable pay for the Performance Stock Exchange of India Limited. The vesting schedule for the
Year 2019 - 2020 : ` 4,33,69,066 stock options is
C. Tranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
a. 25% of options after expiry of twelve months from date
Performance Year 2018-19: ` 68,83,979
of grant,
D. Tranche 3 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
b. 25% options after expiry of twenty-four months from the
Performance Year 2017-18: ` 57,36,649
date of grant,
Total Payout in the financial year 2021 - 2022 c. 25% of options after expiry of thirty-six months from the
(A+B+C+D): ` 8,44,29,694 date of grant and
d. the balance options after expiry of forty-eight months from
2. The Annual remuneration paid to the Executive Director,
date of grant.
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha includes the payment of arrears for
371
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Report on Corporate Governance
The options so vested are to be exercised within 2 years from per meeting for attending Committee & Board meetings
the respective dates of vesting. respectively. The Board of Directors increased the sitting fees of
certain key Committee meetings to ` 100,000 per meeting with
The criteria for evaluation of performance of Whole-Time
effect from April 1, 2021, namely, Audit Committee, Risk Policy &
Directors include Business Performance, Stakeholder
Monitoring Committee, Nomination & Remuneration Committee,
Relationship, Audit and Compliance, Digital Transformation and
Credit Approval Committee and IT Strategy Committee.
Organization Excellence.
Subsequently, sitting fees payable for attending Independent
Pursuant to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the appointment
Directors Meeting and Customer Service Committee meeting
and tenure of Whole-Time Directors is subject to the approval
was increased to ` 1,00,000 with effect from August 14, 2021
of RBI.
and November 26, 2021 respectively.
The Bank provides for gratuity in the form of lump-sum payment
The details of sitting fees and remuneration paid to Non-Executive
on retirement or on death while in employment or on termination
Directors during the financial year 2021-22 are as under:
of employment of an amount equivalent to 15 (fifteen) days basic
salary payable for each completed year of service. (Amount in `)
Remuneration to
Director Sitting Fees
The Bank makes annual contributions to funds administered by NEDs
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty1 36,50,000 31,70,698.96
trustees and managed by insurance companies for amounts
Mr. Malay Patel 55,50,000 20,00,000
notified by the said insurance companies. The Bank accounts for
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi 51,00,000 20,00,000
the liability for future gratuity benefits based on an independent
Mrs. Renu Karnad 56,50,000 20,00,000
external actuarial valuation carried out annually.
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar 58,00,000 20,00,000
Mr. Sandeep Parekh 43,50,000 20,00,000
Perquisites (evaluated as per Income Tax Rules, 1962 wherever
Mr. M. D. Ranganath 64,50,000 20,00,000
applicable and at actual cost to the Bank otherwise) such as the
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 21,00,000 20,00,000
benefit of the Bank’s furnished accommodation, gas, electricity,
Mrs. Lily Vadera2 6,00,000 6,90,217
water and furnishings, club fees, personal accident insurance,
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni3 55,00,000 17,72,222
use of car and telephone at residence, medical reimbursement, Total 4,47,50,000 1,96,33,137.96
leave and leave travel concession and other benefits like 1 During the year, Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was paid remuneration of
Provident Fund, Superannuation and Gratuity are provided in ` 31,70,698.96, (i.e. ` 35,00,000 per annum) on proportionate basis for
the period from May 5, 2021 to March 31, 2022 as he was appointed as
accordance with the rules of the Bank in this regard.
the Part-time Chairman and Independent Director of the Bank with effect
from May 5, 2021. The remuneration of the Chairman has been approved
Service Contracts and the notice period are as per the terms of
by the Reserve Bank of India.
agreement entered into by the Bank with Chairman and Whole- 2 Mrs. Lily Vadera was appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank
Time Directors. No severance fee is payable by the Bank on with effect from November 26, 2021
3 Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as Non-Executive (Non-
termination of these contracts.
Independent) Director of the Bank with effect from February 18, 2022
No sitting fees were paid to Mr. Jagdishan and Mr. Bharucha for Note: Pursuant to the guidelines issued by RBI on Corporate
attending meetings of the Board and / or its Committees. Governance in Banks - Appointment of Directors and Constitution
of Committees of the Board (“RBI Guidelines”) dated April 26,
DETAILS OF REMUNERATION / SITTING FEES
2021 and read with the relevant shareholders’ resolution passed
PAID TO NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
at the 27th Annual General Meeting of the Bank held on July 17,
Criteria for remuneration/sitting fees paid to Non- 2021, the Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) of the Bank, other
Executive Director than the Part-time Chairman, were paid compensation in the
form of fixed remuneration of ` 20,00,000 (Rupees Twenty Lakhs
All the non-executive directors including the independent directors
Only) each for F.Y. 2021-22. This is in addition to the sitting fees
and the Chairman receive sitting fees and reimbursement of out
and reimbursement of out of pocket expenses for given to them
of pocket expenses for attending each meeting of the Board and
for attending Committee & Board meetings.
its various Committees. No stock options are granted to any of
the non- executive directors. There were no other pecuniary relationships or transactions
of Non-Executive Directors vis-a-vis the Bank (except banking
Pursuant to the provisions of Companies Act, 2013, the Non-
transactions in the ordinary course of business and on arm’s
Executive Directors are paid sitting fees of ` 50,000 or ` 100,000
length basis) during FY 2021-22.
372
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
COMPOSITION OF COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS, TERMS OF REFERENCE AND ATTENDANCE AT
THE MEETINGS
The Board has constituted various Committees of Directors to take informed decisions in the best interest of the Bank. These
Committees monitor the activities as per the scope defined in their Charter and terms of reference.
The Board’s Committees are as follows as on the date of this Report:
Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors
Umesh
Atanu Sanjiv Sandeep Malay M. D. Sunita Lily Renu Sashidhar Kaizad
Chandra
Chakraborty Sachar Parekh Patel Ranganath Maheshwari Vadera Karnad Jagdishan Bharucha
Sarangi
Audit
Nomination and
Remuneration
Stakeholders’
Relationship
Corporate Social
Responsibility &
ESG
Risk Policy and
Monitoring
Fraud Monitoring
Customer Service
Credit Approval
Digital
Transactions
Monitoring
IT Strategy*
Wilful Defaulters’
Identification
Review
Non-Cooperative
Borrowers Review
Premises
* Includes external IT consultant in addition to the above members. Chairperson of the Committee Member of the Committee
373
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Report on Corporate Governance
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of a) Overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process and disclosure of financial information to ensure that the financial
Reference / Roles and statement is correct, sufficient and credible;
Responsibilities:
b) Recommending appointment and removal of external auditors and fixing of their fees;
c) Reviewing with management the annual financial statements and auditor’s report before submission to the Board
with special emphasis on accounting policies and practices, compliance with accounting standards, disclosure of
related party transactions and other legal requirements relating to financial statements;
d) Reviewing the adequacy of the Audit and Compliance functions, including their policies, procedures, techniques and
other regulatory requirements; and
e) Any other terms of reference as may be included from time to time in the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI Listing
Regulations, including any amendments / re-enactments thereof from time to time.
The Charter of the Audit Committee has been formulated in accordance with certain United States regulatory standards
as the Bank’s American Depository Receipts are also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Composition: Mr. M. D. Ranganath (Chairman), Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi and Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, all of whom are independent
directors. Mr. M. D. Ranganath and Mr. Sanjiv Sachar are the members of Audit Committee having financial expertise.
Mr. Santosh Haldankar, Company Secretary of the Bank, acts as the Secretary of the Committee.
Meetings: The Committee met sixteen (16) times during the year on:
April 6, 2021, April 16, 2021, May 19, 2021, June 1, 2021, June 17, 2021, June 18, 2021, July 16, 2021, August 12,
2021, September 16, 2021, October 16, 2021, November 25, 2021, December 7, 2021, January 14, 2022, February
17, 2022, March 15, 2022 and March 28, 2022.
NOMINATION & REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of a) Scrutinizing the nominations of the directors with reference to their qualifications and experience, for identifying
Reference / Roles and
‘Fit and Proper’ persons, assessing competency of the persons and reviewing compensation levels of the Bank’s
Responsibilities:
employees vis-à-vis other banks and the banking industry in general.
The NRC has formulated a Policy for Appointment and Fit and Proper Criteria of Directors, which inter-alia provides
for criteria to assess the competency of the persons nominated, which includes:
• Academic qualifications,
• Previous experience,
• track record, and
• integrity of the candidates.
For assessing the integrity and suitability, features like criminal records, financial position, civil actions undertaken
to pursue personal debts, refusal of admission to and expulsion from professional bodies, sanctions applied by
regulators or similar bodies and previous questionable business practices are considered.
b) The Committee also formulates criteria for evaluation of performance of individual directors including independent
directors, the Board of Directors and its Committees.
The criteria for evaluation of performance of directors (including independent directors) include personal attributes
such as attendance at meetings, communication skills, leadership skills and adaptability and professional attributes
such as understanding of the Bank’s core business and strategic objectives, industry knowledge, independent
judgment, adherence to the Bank’s Code of Conduct, Ethics and Values etc.
c) To carry out any other function as is mandated by the Board from time to time and / or enforced by any statutory
notification, amendment or modification, as may be applicable.
Composition: Mr. Sanjiv Sachar (Chairman), Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi and Mr. Atanu
Chakraborty.
All the members of the Committee are independent directors.
Details of re-constitution:
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was inducted as member on the Committee with effect from June 9, 2021.
Meetings: The Committee met thirteen (13) times during the year on:
April 16, 2021, April 22, 2021, May 19, 2021, June 1, 2021, June 15, 2021, June 28, 2021, July 16, 2021,
July 27, 2021, August 24, 2021, October 20, 2021, November 25, 2021, January 13, 2022 and February 15, 2022.
374
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
STAKEHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of The Committee approves and monitors transfer, transmission, splitting and consolidation of shares and considers
Reference / Roles and requests for dematerialization of shares. Allotment of shares to the employees on exercise of stock options granted
Responsibilities: under the various Employees Stock Option Schemes which are made in terms of the powers delegated by the Board
in this regard, are placed before the Committee for ratification. The Committee also monitors redressal of grievances
from shareholders relating to transfer of shares, non-receipt of Annual Report, dividends, etc.
The Committee shall oversee the various aspects of interests of all stakeholders including shareholders and other
security holders.
The powers to approve share transfers and dematerialization requests have been delegated to executives of the
Bank to avoid delays that may arise due to non-availability of the members of the Committee. Mr. Santosh Haldankar,
Company Secretary of the Bank is the Compliance Officer responsible for expediting the share transfer/transmission/
deletion formalities.
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank received 82 complaints from the shareholders. The Bank had
attended to all the complaints except 1 complaint which was pending as was received during the end of quarter. This
complaint was responded and was closed subsequently, all other complaints were closed to the satisfaction of the
shareholder as on March 31, 2022.
Besides, 2,308 letters were received from the shareholders relating to change of address, nomination requests,
updation of email IDs and PAN No(s), updation of complete bank account details viz. Core Banking account no.,
IFSC and / MICR code, Mandate for crediting dividend by National Automated Clearing House (NACH) and National
Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT), Issuance of Duplicate Share Certificate and claim of shares from Unclaimed Suspense
account queries relating to the annual reports, non-receipt of share certificate upon sub-division of Bank’s shares from
the face value of ` 2/- each to the face value of ` 1/- each, amalgamation, request for re-validation of dividend warrants
and various other investor related matters. These letters have also been responded to.
Composition: Mr. Malay Patel (Chairman), Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi, Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mrs. Renu Karnad, Mr. Kaizad
Bharucha and Mrs. Lily Vadera
Details of re-constitution:
• Mr. Malay Patel was appointed as the Chairman and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was inducted as a member of the
Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
• Mrs. Lily Vadera was inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from June 10, 2022.
Meetings: The Committee met four (4) times during the year on:
April 9, 2021, July 13, 2021, October 18, 2021 and January 12, 2022.
RISK POLICY & MONITORING COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of The Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee (RPMC) has been formed as per the guidelines of Reserve Bank of India on
Reference / Roles and Asset Liability Management / Risk Management Systems. The RPMC is a Board level committee, which supports the
Responsibilities: Board by supervising the implementation of the risk strategy. It guides the development of policies, procedures and
systems for managing risk. It ensures that these are adequate and appropriate to changing business conditions, the
structure and needs of the Bank and the risk appetite of the Bank.
The RPMC monitors the compliance of risk parameters/aggregate exposures with the appetite set by the Board. It
ensures that frameworks are established for assessing and managing various risks faced by the Bank, systems are
developed to relate risk to the Bank‘s capital level and methods are in place for monitoring compliance with internal
risk management policies and processes. The Committee ensures that the Bank has a suitable framework for Risk
Management and oversees the implementation of the risk management policy.
Further, the functions of the Committee also include review of the enterprise-wide risk frameworks viz. Risk
Appetite framework (RAF), Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), stress testing framework, etc.
The Committee also reviews the cyber security framework in the Bank from time to time.
Further, as per RBI guidelines, the Chief Risk Officer of the Bank regularly interacts with the members of the Committee
without the presence of management at the meetings of the Committee.
Composition: Mrs. Lily Vadera (Chairperson), Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mrs. Renu Karnad, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan,
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty.
Details of re-constitution:
• Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was inducted as member on the Committee with effect from June 9, 2021.
• Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni ceased to be a Chairman and member of the Committee with effect from September 17,
2021.
• Mr. Sandeep Parekh was inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
• Mrs. Lily Vadera was inducted as Chairperson and member of the Committee with effect from January 15, 2022.
375
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Report on Corporate Governance
Meetings: The Committee met nine (9) times during the year on:
April 15, 2021, May 18, 2021, June 17, 2021, July 15, 2021, September 15, 2021, October 18, 2021,
January 13, 2022, February 16, 2022 and March 14, 2022.
CREDIT APPROVAL COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of The Committee considers credit appetite proposals on the customers of the Bank within such authority as delegated to
Reference / Roles and it by the Board from time to time. This facilitates quick response to the needs of the customers and timely disbursement
Responsibilities: of loans.
Composition: Mr. Malay Patel, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Mrs. Renu Karnad and Mr. Sandeep Parekh
Details of re-constitution:
• Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni ceased to be a member of the Committee pursuant to his resignation as director of the
Bank with effect from February 18, 2022.
• Mr. Sandeep Parekh was inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from June 10, 2022.
Meetings: The Committee met thirty (30) times during the year on:
April 26, 2021, April 28, 2021, May 18, 2021, June 7, 2021, June 16, 2021, June 23, 2021, July 6, 2021,
July 15, 2021, August 11, 2021, August 12, 2021, August 31, 2021, September 16, 2021, September 22,
2021, September 27, 2021, October 19, 2021, November 24, 2021, November 27, 2021, December 8, 2021,
December 11, 2021, December 20, 2021, December 28, 2021, January 13, 2022, January 24, 2022,
February 16, 2022, February 19, 2022, February 28, 2022, March 19, 2022, March 23, 2022, March 24, 2022 and
March 29, 2022.
PREMISES COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of The Committee approves purchases and leasing of land parcel for proposed buildings & premises for the use of Bank’s
Reference / Roles and branches, back offices, ATMs, residential training centre(s), currency chests, guest house etc., (including relocation
Responsibilities: and renewals) and of residential premises for Bank employees in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the
Board from time to time.
Composition: Mrs. Renu Karnad (Chairperson), Mr. Sandeep Parekh and Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
Details of re-constitution:
Mrs. Renu Karnad was designated as the Chairperson, Mr. Malay Patel ceased to be the member and Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita
Maheshwari was inducted as the member of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021
Meetings: The Committee met four (4) times during the year on:
April 9, 2021, July 14, 2021, October 18, 2021, and January 12, 2022.
FRAUD MONITORING COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of Pursuant to the directions of the RBI, the Bank has constituted a Fraud Monitoring Committee, exclusively dedicated
Reference / Roles and to the monitoring and following up of cases of fraud involving amounts of ` 1 crore and above.
Responsibilities:
The objectives of this Committee are the effective detection of frauds and immediate reporting of the frauds and
actions taken against the perpetrators of frauds with the concerned regulatory and enforcement agencies. The terms
of reference of the Committee are as under:
a) Identify the systemic lacunae, if any, that facilitated perpetration of the fraud and put in place measures to plug the
same;
b) Identify the reasons for delay in detection, if any and report to top management of the Bank and RBI;
c) Monitor progress of Central Bureau of Investigation / Police Investigation and recovery position;
d) Ensure that staff accountability is examined at all levels in all the cases of frauds and staff side action, if required, is
completed quickly without loss of time;
e) Review the efficacy of the remedial action taken to prevent recurrence of frauds, such as strengthening of internal
controls; and
f) Put in place other measures as may be considered relevant to strengthen preventive measures against frauds.
376
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Composition: Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi (Chairman), Mrs. Renu Karnad, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan and Mr.
Sanjiv Sachar
Details of re-constitution:
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi was designated as the Chairman, Mr. Malay Patel and Mr. Sandeep Parekh ceased to
be the members, Mrs. Renu Karnad and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha were inducted as the members of the Committee with
effect from September 17, 2021.
Meetings: The Committee met four (4) times during the year on:
April 9, 2021, July 13, 2021, October 19, 2021 and January 12, 2022
CUSTOMER SERVICE COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of The Committee has been constituted to monitor and bring about continuous improvements in the quality of services
Reference / Roles and rendered to the customers and also to ensure implementation of directives received from the Reserve Bank of
Responsibilities: India (RBI) in this regard. The terms of reference of the Committee are to formulate comprehensive deposit policy
incorporating the issues arising out of the demise of a depositor for operation of his account, the product approval
process, annual survey of depositor satisfaction and the triennial audit of such services. The Committee is constituted
to bring about continuous improvements in the quality of customer services provided by the Bank. The Committee
would also oversee the functioning of the Standing Committee on Customer Service, and also bring out innovative
measures for enhancing the customer experience and quality of customer service thereby enhancing the customer
satisfaction level across all categories of clientele, at all times.
Composition: Mr Umesh Chandra Sarangi (Chairman), Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari,
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty.
Details of re-constitution:
• Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni ceased to be a member of the Committee pursuant to his resignation as director of the
Bank with effect from February 18, 2022.
• Mr. Malay Patel ceased to be the member of the Committee and Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi was designated as
the Chairman, Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty were inducted as
the members of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
Meetings: The Committee met five (5) times during the year on:
April 9, 2021, June 17, 2021, July 14, 2021, October 19, 2021 and January 12, 2022
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & ESG (CSR & ESG) COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of The CSR & ESG Committee of the Board has been constituted to identify, execute and monitor CSR projects and
Reference / Roles and assist the Board and the Bank in fulfilling its corporate social responsibility objectives and achieving the desired results.
Responsibilities: The Committee shall also ensure legal and regulatory compliance from a CSR perspective and reporting as well as
communication to all the stakeholders on the Bank’s CSR initiatives.
The terms of reference of the Committee are:
• To formulate the Bank’s CSR Strategy, Policy and Goals
• To monitor the Bank’s CSR policy and performance
• To review the CSR projects / initiatives from time to time
• To ensure legal and regulatory compliance from a CSR viewpoint
• To ensure reporting and communication to the Bank’s stakeholders on the Bank’s CSR
• To monitor the Bank’s ESG Framework, strategy, goals and disclosures
Composition: Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari (Chairperson), Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, Mr. Malay Patel, Mrs. Renu Karnad and Mr. Kaizad
Bharucha.
Details of re-constitution:
• Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari was inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from June 9, 2021.
• Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi ceased to be the Chairman and member of the Committee and Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita
Maheshwari was elected as the Chairperson of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
377
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Report on Corporate Governance
Meetings: The Committee met five (5) times during the year on:
April 15, 2021, July 15, 2021, October 19, 2021, January 13, 2022 and February 16, 2022
IT STRATEGY COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of The Bank has in place an IT Strategy Committee to look into various technology related aspects. The functions of the
Reference / Roles and Committee are to formulate IT strategy and related policy documents, ensure that IT strategy is aligned with business
Responsibilities: strategy, review IT risks, etc.
The terms of reference of the Committee are:
• Approving IT strategy and related policy documents and reviewing the same from time to time.
• Ensuring that the management has put an effective strategic planning process in place.
• Approving the Bank’s IT strategy and budget to ensure it aligns with the business needs.
• Approving re-allocation of resources within IT to facilitate meeting priorities and business needs.
• Reviewing and approving IT implementation plans.
Composition: This Committee consists of an external IT consultant, Prof. H. Krishmurthy in addition to the Board members viz.
Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Mr. Atanu Chakraborty and Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
Details of re-constitution:
• Mr. Atanu Chakraborty and Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan were inducted as members of the Committee with effect from
June 9, 2021.
• Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari was inducted as member on the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
• Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni ceased to be a member of the Committee pursuant to his resignation as director of the
Bank with effect from February 18, 2022.
Meetings: The Committee met nine (9) times during the year on:
April 8, 2021, May 7, 2021, May 18, 2021, July 14, 2021, August 11, 2021, October 20, 2021, November 24, 2021,
January 14, 2022 and February 15, 2022.
DIGITAL TRANSACTION MONITORING COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of In order to promote digital transactions of the Bank and to provide directions in terms of strategy and action plans
Reference / Roles and including monitoring the progress of achievement in the digital transactions space, the Bank has constituted the Digital
Responsibilities: Transaction Monitoring Committee.
The terms of reference to the Committee, inter-alia include the following:
a) Framing of the Bank-level strategy and action plans for achieving the target of digital transactions in an organized
manner, as may be set by the Government, regulatory authorities, Indian Banks’ Association, etc. from time to time.
b) Monitoring the progress of achievement in digital transactions in line with the Bank’s strategy and action plans.
c) To review and explore new opportunities for increasing the digital transactions of the Bank from time to time and give
the necessary directions in implementing and improving high level of digitalization in Bank.
d) Reviewing the Digital Banking strategy of the Bank as and when required thereby providing direction on focus areas.
e) Reviewing the progress made on the initiatives relating to Digital Banking covering performance initiatives as
determined by the Board of Directors and Government of India from time to time.
f) To review the customer services rendered on digital platform from time to time.
g) Any other terms of reference as may be specified by the Government, regulatory authorities, Indian Banks’
Association, etc. from time to time.
378
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Composition: Mr. Malay Patel, Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mr. M.D. Ranganath and Mrs. Lily Vadera.
Details of re-constitution:
• Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni ceased to be a member of the Committee pursuant to his resignation as director of the
Bank with effect from February 18, 2022.
• Mrs. Lily Vadera was inducted as member of the Committee with effect from
June 10, 2022.
Meetings: The Committee met four (4) times during the year on:
April 15, 2021, July 14, 2021, October 18, 2021, and January 14, 2022.
REVIEW COMMITTEE FOR WILFUL DEFAULTERS’ IDENTIFICATION
Brief Terms of The Board has constituted a Review Committee for Wilful Defaulters’ Identification to review the orders passed by the
Reference / Roles and Committee of Executives for Identification of Wilful Defaulters and provide the final decision with regard to identified
Responsibilities: Wilful defaulters and any other matters as may be decided by the Board from time to time.
Composition: Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (Chairman), Mr Umesh Chandra Sarangi, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Parekh,
Mr. Malay Patel and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
Details of re-constitution:
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar ceased to be a member and Mr. Malay Patel, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha were inducted as the members
of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
Meetings: No meetings of the Committee were held during the year.
REVIEW COMMITTEE FOR NON-COOPERATIVE BORROWERS
Brief Terms of The Board has constituted a Review Committee to review matters related to Non-Co-Operative Borrowers which are
Reference / Roles and handled by the Internal Committee of Executives appointed for this purpose and any other related matters as may be
Responsibilities: decided by the Board from time to time.
Composition: Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (Chairman), Mr Umesh Chandra Sarangi, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Parekh,
Mr. Malay Patel, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
Details of re-constitution:
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar ceased to be a member and Mr. Malay Patel, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha were inducted as the members
of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
Meetings: No meetings of the Committee were held during the year.
Meeting of the Independent Directors
The Independent Directors of the Bank held two (2) meetings. All Independent Directors as on the date of the meeting were present
at the meeting held on April 29, 2021. In the meeting held on September 9, 2021, leave of absence was granted to Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita
Maheshwari and all other Independent Directors as on the date of the meeting were present.
379
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Report on Corporate Governance
ATTENDANCE AT THE COMMITTEE MEETINGS HELD DURING FINANCIAL YEAR 2021-22
Audit Committee Fraud Monitoring Committee
[Total Sixteen meetings held] [Total four meetings held]
Name No. of m at e te e n ti d n e g d s Name No. of m at e te e n ti d n e g d s
Mr. M.D. Ranganath 16
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi 4
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi 16
Mrs. Renu Karnad (from September 17, 2021) 2
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar 16
Mr. Malay Patel (upto September 17, 2021) 2
Mr. Sandeep Parekh (upto September 17, 2021) 2
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha (from September 17, 2021) 2
[Total thirteen meetings held]
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 4
No. of meetings
Name attended Mr. Sanjiv Sachar 4
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar 13
Mr. Sandeep Parekh 13
Customer Service Committee
Mr. M.D. Ranganath 13
[Total five meetings held]
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi 13
No. of meetings
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (from June 9, 2021) 9 Name attended
Mr Umesh Chandra Sarangi (from September 17, 2021) 2
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee Mr. Sandeep Parekh 5
[Total Four meetings held] Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 5
Name No. of meetings Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari (from September 17, 2021) 2
attended
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha (from September 17, 2021) 2
Mr. Malay Patel 4
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (from September 17, 2021) 2
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi 4
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni (upto February 18, 2022) 5
Mr. Sandeep Parekh 4
Mr. Malay Patel (upto September 17, 2021) 3
Mrs. Renu Karnad 4
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha (from September 17, 2021) 2
Credit Approval Committee
Corporate Social Responsibility and ESG Committee [Total Thirty meetings held]
[Total five meetings held]
No. of meetings
Name
No. of meetings attended
Name
attended
Mr. Malay Patel 30
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari (from June 9, 2021) 4
Mrs. Renu Karnad 26
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi (upto September 17, 2021) 2
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha 27
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar 5
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni (upto February 18, 2022) 24
Mr. Malay Patel 5
Mrs. Renu Karnad 5
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha 5 Digital Transactions Monitoring Committee
[Total four Meeting Held]
Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee Name No. of meetings
attended
[Total nine meetings held]
Mr. Malay Patel 4
No. of meetings
Name
attended Mr. Sandeep Parekh 4
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni (upto September 17, 2021) 5 Mr. M.D. Ranganath 4
Mr. M. D. Ranganath 9 Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni (upto February 18, 2022) 4
Mrs. Renu Karnad 9
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar 9
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 9
Mrs. Lily Vadera (from January 15, 2022) 2
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (from June 9, 2021) 7
Mr. Sandeep Parekh (from September 17, 2021) 4
380
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Premises Committee IT Strategy Committee
[Total Four meetings held] [Total Nine meetings held]
No. of meetings No. of meetings
Name Name
attended attended
Mrs. Renu Karnad 4 Mr. M.D. Ranganath 9
Mr. Sandeep Parekh 4 Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni (upto February 18, 2022) 9
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari (from September 17, 2021) 2 Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (from June 9, 2021) 6
Mr. Malay Patel (upto September 17, 2021) 2 Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (from June 9, 2021) 6
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 3
(from September 17, 2021)
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
Following are the details of general body meetings for the previous three (3) financial years:
Number
Sr. Particulars Day, Date & of Special
Venue Nature of Special Resolutions
No. of meeting Time Resolutions
passed, if any
1 25th Annual Birla Matushri Friday, 1 (One) Issue of Unsecured Perpetual Debt Instruments (part of Additional
General Sabhagar, July 12, 2019 Tier I capital), Tier II Capital Bonds and Long Term Bonds (financing of
Meeting 19, New Marine at 2:30 p.m. infrastructure and affordable housing) on a private placement basis.*
Lines, Mumbai –
400020
2 26th Annual Held through Video- Saturday, 2 (Two) 1. Re-appointment of Mr. Malay Patel (DIN 06876386) as an Independent
General Conferencing July 18, 2020 Director.
Meeting or Other Audio- at 2:30 p.m. 2. Issue Unsecured Perpetual Debt Instruments (part of Additional Tier
Visual Means I capital), Tier II Capital Bonds and Long Term Bonds (financing of
infrastructure and affordable housing) on a private placement basis.*
3 27th Annual Held through Video- Saturday, 6 (six) 1. Re-appointment of Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi (DIN 02040436) as an
General Conferencing July 17, 2021 independent Director.
Meeting or Other Audio- at 2:30 p.m. 2. Issue Unsecured Perpetual Debt Instruments (part of Additional Tier
Visual Means I capital), Tier II Capital Bonds and Long Term Bonds (financing of
infrastructure and affordable housing) on a private placement basis*
3. Amendment to the ESOS-Plan D-2007 as approved by the Members
4. Amendment to the ESOS-Plan E-2010 as approved by the Members
5. Amendment to the ESOS-Plan F-2013 as approved by the Members
6. Amendment to the ESOS-Plan G-2016 as approved by the Members
* The Registrar and Transfer Agent of the Bank, for all such issues, was Datamatics Business Solutions Limited.
POSTAL BALLOT (the “MCA”), Government of India, for holding general meetings
/ conducting postal ballot process through electronic voting
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 110 and all other applicable
(remote e-voting) vide General Circular Nos. 14/2020 dated
provisions, if any, of the Act read with Rule 22 of the Companies
April 8, 2020, 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, 22/2020 dated
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, Regulation 44 of
June 15, 2020, 33/2020 dated September 28, 2020, 39/2020
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
dated December 31, 2020, 10/2021 dated June 23, 2021
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the “SEBI
and 20/2021 dated December 8, 2021 (the “MCA Circulars”)
Listing Regulations”), Secretarial Standard on General Meetings
in view of COVID-19 pandemic and any other applicable laws
(“SS-2”) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of
and regulations, the approval of the Members of the Bank for
India, including any statutory modification(s), clarification(s),
below mentioned resolutions were obtained through Postal
substitution(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in
Ballot Notices dated February 18, 2022 and March 28, 2022
force, guidelines prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs
via. remote e-voting.
381
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Report on Corporate Governance
Postal Ballot Notice Postal Ballot Notice For all resolutions as specified in the Postal Ballot Notice
Particulars Dated February 18,
2022 Dated March 28, 2022 dated February 18, 2022:
Resolution(s) 1. Appointment of Mrs. 1. Approval and adoption There were a total of 20,49,142 shareholders of the Bank as on the
Lily Vadera (DIN: of Employee Stock record date i.e. February 21, 2022, out of which 78,888 Members
09400410) as an Incentive Plan 2022 - comprising of 3,76,83,99,916 equity shares representing 67.98 %
Independent Director Special Resolution
of the share capital participated in the e-voting process. A
of the Bank - Special
Resolution snapshot of the voting results of the postal ballot is as follows:
2. Approval of Related
% of votes
Party Transactions with % of votes in % of votes
polled on
Housing Development Resolutions favour on votes against on votes
outstanding
Finance Corporation shares polled polled
Limited- Ordinary
Resolution No. 1 67.820 99.969 0.031
Resolution
Resolution No. 2 46.504 99.999 0.001
3. Approval of Related
Resolution No. 3 46.505 99.998 0.002
Party Transactions with
HDB Financial Services Resolution No. 4 46.503 99.998 0.002
Limited - Ordinary Resolution No. 5 46.505 99.998 0.002
Resolution
Resolution No. 6 46.505 99.998 0.002
4. Approval of Related
Party Transactions Note: Invalid votes, inter alia, were caused by Members not
with HDFC Securities voting on any resolution before submitting their votes, corporate
Limited - Ordinary
voters not submitting requisite documents, etc.
Resolution
5. Approval of Related Accordingly, the Resolutions as set out in the Postal Ballot Notice
Party Transactions with dated February 18, 2022 was passed with requisite majority on
HDFC Life Insurance
March 27, 2022.
Company Limited-
Ordinary Resolution
For resolution(s) as specified in the Postal Ballot Notice
6. Approval of Related
dated March 28, 2022:
Party Transactions
with HDFC ERGO There were total of 22,34,937 shareholders of the Bank as on
General Insurance
the record date i.e. April 08, 2022, out of which 12,412 Members
Company Limited -
Ordinary Resolution comprising of 3,74,20,95,251 equity shares representing 64.48%
Remote e-voting Central Depository National Securities of the share capital participated in the e-voting process.
Services (India) Limited Depository Limited A snapshot of the voting results of the postal ballot is as follows:
Scrutinizer The Board of Directors had appointed Mr. B.
% of votes
Narasimhan of M/s. B.N. & Associates, Practising % of votes in % of votes
polled on
Company Secretaries and in his absence, Mr. Resolutions favour on votes against on votes
outstanding
V. V. Chakradeo of M/s. V. V. Chakradeo & shares polled polled
Co., Practicing Company Secretaries, as the
Resolution No. 1 67.248 88.838 11.162
Scrutinizer, for conducting the Postal Ballot
process in a fair and transparent manner.
Accordingly, the Resolution as set out in the Postal Ballot Notice
Cut-off Date Monday, February 21, Friday, April 08, 2022
dated March 28, 2022 was passed with requisite majority on
2022
May 14, 2022.
Dispatch Date of Wednesday, February Monday, April 11,
Notice 23, 2022 2022 DISCLOSURES
Remote e-voting Commenced on Commenced on
period Saturday, February 26, Friday, April 15, 2022 Material Subsidiary
2022 at 9:00 A.M. IST at 9:00 A.M. IST and
and ended on Sunday, ended on Saturday, The Bank has two (2) subsidiaries viz: HDB Financial Services
March 27, 2022 at May 14, 2022 at 5:00 Limited and HDFC Securities Limited, neither of which qualifies
5:00 P.M. IST. P.M. IST. to be a material subsidiary within the meaning of the SEBI
Accordingly, the Postal Ballots were conducted by the scrutinizer Listing Regulations. However, as a good corporate governance
and a report was submitted to the Authorized Officer, Mr. Santosh practice, the Bank has formulated a policy for determining
Haldankar, Sr. Vice President (Legal) & Company Secretary of material subsidiary. The policy is available on the Bank’s website
the Bank. The results of the voting conducted through Postal at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-
Ballots are as under: governance/codes-and-policies.
382
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Related Party Transactions USD swap curves. For other pairs, where the rates / tenors
are not published by FEDAI, the spot and forward points are
During the year, the Bank has entered into transactions with the
obtained from Refinitiv or Bloomberg for valuation of the foreign
related parties in the ordinary course of business. The Bank has
exchange deals. The foreign exchange profit or loss is arrived on
not entered into any materially significant transactions with the
present value basis thereafter, as directed by FEDAI, whereby the
related parties, which could lead to a potential conflict of interest
forward profits or losses on the deals, as computed above, are
between the Bank and these parties. Transactions with related
discounted till the valuation date using the applicable discounting
parties were placed before the Audit Committee for approval.
yields. The resulting profit or loss on valuation is recognized in
There were no material transactions with related parties, which
the Statement of Profit and Loss.
were not in the ordinary course of business, nor were there any
material transactions, which were not at an arm’s length basis. Given below are the exposure details of the Bank under the Gold
Monetisation Scheme deposits as of March 31, 2022.
The Shareholders of the Bank have approved the material related
party transactions to be entered into by the Bank in the F.Y. Total open exposure of the Bank to commodities i.e. Gold (in
2022-23 through Postal Ballot on March 27, 2022 as per SEBI INR) as on March 31, 2022: Nil
Listing Regulations.
Note: As part of trading position in Gold, the Treasury Gold Desk
Details of related party transactions entered into during the year has open position in Gold of 219.74 ounce, which is equivalent
ended March 31, 2022 are given in, Note No. 28 in Schedule to ` 32,112,061.92 as on March 31, 2022, and was within the
18, forming part of ‘Notes to Accounts’ in accordance with NOOP limit prescribed for XAU.
Accounting Standard (AS) – 18.
Accounting Treatment
The Bank has put in place a policy to deal with related party
transactions and the same has been uploaded on the Bank’s The financial statements have been prepared and presented
web-site at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/ under the historical cost convention and accrual basis of
corporate-governance/codes-and-policies accounting, unless otherwise stated and are in accordance
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (‘GAAP’),
Commodity Price Risks and Foreign Exchange statutory requirements prescribed under the Third Schedule
Risks and Hedging activities of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, circulars and guidelines
issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) from time to time
Being in the business of banking, as per the extant regulations,
(RBI guidelines), Accounting Standards (‘AS’) specified under
the Bank does not deal in any commodity, though, it can be
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with
exposed to the commodity price risks in its capacity as lender /
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies
banker to its customers. Currently, the Bank has open exposure
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, in so far as they apply
in Precious Metals i.e, Gold / Silver and such open exposures in
to banks.
Gold / Silver are primarily on account of positions created from
short term deposits under the Gold Monetisation Scheme (GMS)
Credit Ratings
raised from Customers and trading positions in Gold / Silver.
These positions are managed similar to other foreign exchange The details of all credit ratings obtained by the Bank for all debt
exposures using spot, outright forwards and swap transactions instruments are furnished in the Directors’ Report which may
in Gold/Silver and monitored as part of the trading portfolio within be referred to.
the stipulated trading risk limits viz. Net overnight open position
limit, Intraday open position limit, Value-at-Risk limit, Stop Loss Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism
Trigger Level etc. that are defined in the Treasury Limits Package.
The details of establishment of whistle blower policy / vigil
In addition, Bank is authorized by Reserve Bank of India to
mechanism are furnished in the Directors’ Report which may
import gold and silver and the exposure arising out of import
be referred to. None of the Bank’s personnel have been denied
of gold and silver on consignment basis is covered on back to
access to the Audit Committee.
back basis. The spot, forward and swap contracts, outstanding
as on the Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are revalued
Appointment / Resignation of Director
at the closing spot and forward rates respectively as notified by
FEDAI (Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India) and at Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari was appointed as an Independent
interpolated rates for contracts of interim maturities. The USD/ Director of the Bank for a period of five (5) consecutive years with
INR rate for valuation of contracts having longer maturities i.e. effect from March 30, 2021 and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was also
greater than one (1) year is implied from the applicable INR and appointed as the Part-time Chairman and Independent Director
383
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Report on Corporate Governance
of the Bank for a period of three (3) consecutive years with effect Bank has since enhanced its review mechanism so
from May 5, 2021. The said appointments were approved by the as to ensure that such incidents do not recur.
shareholders of the Bank at the 27th Annual General Meeting
• SEBI issued final order on January 21, 2021, levying
held on July 17, 2021.
a penalty of `1 crore on the Bank, in the matter of
Subsequently, Mrs. Lily Vadera was appointed as an Independent invocation of securities pledged by BMA Wealth
Director of the Bank for a period of five (5) consecutive years with Creators (BRH Wealth Kreators) for availing credit
effect from November 26, 2021 and the said appointment was facilities. SEBI has also directed the Bank to transfer
approved by the shareholders of the Bank through Postal Ballot sale proceeds of ` 158.68 crores on invocation of
on March 27, 2022. securities, along with interest to escrow account with
a nationalised bank by marking lien in favour of SEBI.
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as Non-
The Bank had challenged SEBI's order before SAT
Executive (Non-Independent) Director of the Bank with effect
and SAT, vide its interim order, have stayed operation
from February 18, 2022.
of SEBI’s order. SAT, vide its final order dated February
Further, Mrs. Renu Karnad is proposed to be re-appointed as 18, 2022, allowed the Bank’s appeal and quashed
Non-Executive Director (Nominee of Housing Development SEBI’s Order.
Finance Corporation Limited, promoter of the Bank) on the
B. Restrictions imposed:
Board of the Bank for a period of five (5) consecutive years with
RBI has issued an Order dated December 02, 2020
effect from September 3, 2022, subject to the approval of the
(“Order”) to HDFC Bank Limited (the “Bank”) with regard
shareholders at the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
to certain incidents of outages in the internet banking/
mobile banking/ payment utilities of the Bank over the
Familiarization of Independent Directors
past 2 years, including the outages in the Bank’s internet
The details of familiarization programmes imparted to banking and payment system on November 21, 2020
Independent Directors are available on the website of the Bank due to a power failure in the primary data centre. RBI,
at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate- vide above order, advised the Bank (a) to stop all digital
governance/familiarization-of-independent-directors business generating activities planned under its ‘Digital
2.0’ and proposed Business generating applications digital
Strictures and Penalties for last three financial also imposed restrictions and (b) to stop sourcing of new
years: credit card customers. The Bank has initiated remedial
activities including fixing of staff accountability and the
During the last three financial years, the Reserve Bank of India
same were communicated to the RBI. Basis the Bank’s
and other regulatory / statutory authorities have imposed the
submission, RBI vide its letter dated August 17, 2021, has
following penalties / strictures / prohibitions / restrictions on
relaxed the restriction placed on sourcing of new credit
the Bank:
cards customers and further vide its letter dated March 11,
FY 2021-22 2022 has lifted the restrictions on the business generating
activities planned under the Bank’s Digital 2.0 program.
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) by an order dated May 27, 2021,
levied a penalty of `10 crores (Rupees ten crores only) for FY 2019-20
marketing and sale of third-party non-financial products to
RBI has, vide its order dated June 13, 2019, imposed a monetary
the Bank’s auto loan customers, arising from a whistle blower
penalty of ` 10 million on the Bank for non-compliance with
complaint, which revealed, inter alia, contravention of Section
directions issued by RBI on Know Your Customer (KYC)/ Anti-
6(2) and Section 8 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The
Money Laundering (AML) Norms and on reporting of frauds. The
Bank has discontinued the sale of said third-party non-financial
penalty has been imposed in exercise of powers vested in RBI
product since October 2019. The penalty was paid by the Bank.
under the provisions of Section 47A(1)(c) read with Section 46(4)(i)
FY 2020-21 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. In the instant case, the Bank
had made a reference to the Custom Authorities for verification of
A. Penalties:
Bill of Entry submitted by certain importers. Examination of these
• Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has vide its letter dated
customers revealed violations of RBI directions on ‘KYC/AML
December 04, 2020 imposed a monetary penalty
norms’ and on reporting of frauds. The penalty was paid by the
of `10 lacs on the Bank for bouncing of SGL, which
Bank. The Bank has taken necessary measures to strengthen its
lead to shortage of balance in certain securities in the
internal control mechanisms so as to ensure that such incidents
Bank’s CSGL account on November 19, 2020. The
do not recur.
384
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has also, vide its order dated Sr. Name Designation Expertise / Competence
No.
January 29, 2020, imposed a monetary penalty of ` 10 million
5 Mr. M. D. Independent Finance, Accountancy, Information
on the Bank for failure to undertake on-going due diligence in
Ranganath Director Technology, Risk Management,
case of 39 current accounts opened for bidding in Initial Public Business Management
Offer (IPO). The penalty has been imposed by RBI in exercise 6 Mrs. Renu Non-Executive Risk Management, Housing & Real
of the powers conferred under the provisions of Section 47A(1) Karnad Director Estate, Financial, Accounting &
Audit, Consumer Behaviour, Sales
(c) read with Section 46(4)(i) of the Banking Regulation Act,
& Marketing, Legal and Strategy
1949. The penalty was paid by the Bank. The Bank has since
Management, Economics, Business
strengthened its internal control mechanisms so as to ensure Management
that such incidents do not recur. 7 Mr. Independent Law (with focus on securities market
Sandeep Director and financial regulations), Payment
A chart or a matrix setting out the skills /expertise Parekh & Settlement system, Business
Management
/ competence of the Board of Directors:
8 Mr. Sanjiv Independent Human Resource Management,
The Board of Directors have identified the following core skills Sachar Director Economics, Finance, Accountancy,
Business Management
/ expertise / competencies / special knowledge or practical
9 Mr. Managing Economics of Money, Banking and
experience, as required in the context of the Bank’s business
Sashidhar Director & Finance, Accountancy, Business
and sector(s) for it to function effectively. The same are in line Jagdishan Chief Management
with the relevant provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 Executive
Officer
and relevant circulars issued by the Reserve Bank of India from
10 Dr. (Mrs.) Independent Medicine, Healthcare, Entrepreneurship,
time to time:
Sunita Director General Administration, Small Scale
(i) Accountancy, Maheshwari Industries, Business Management
(ii) Agriculture and Rural Economy, 11 Mr. Umesh Independent Agriculture and Rural Economy, Co-
Chandra Director operation, Business Management
(iii) Banking,
Sarangi
(iv) Co-operation,
(v) Economics
Details of utilization of funds raised through
(vi) Finance,
preferential allotment or qualified institutions
(vii) Law,
placement as specified under Regulation 32 (7A)
(viii) Small-Scale Industry,
(ix) Information Technology, During the year under review, the Bank has not raised any
(x) Payment & Settlement Systems, funds through Preferential Allotment or Qualified Institutions
(xi) Human Resources, Placement as specified under Regulation 32(7A) of the SEBI
(xii) Risk Management, Listing Regulations.
(xiii) Business Management,
(xiv) Any other matter the special knowledge of, and practical Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment
experience in, which would, in the opinion of the Reserve of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
Bank, be useful to the Bank’s business / sectors. and Redressal) Act, 2013
Sr. Details of the number of complaints received, disposed, and
Name Designation Expertise / Competence
No.
pending during the year 2021-22 pertaining to the Sexual
1 Mr. Atanu Part-time Finance, Economy, Public Policy,
Harassment of Women at Workplace are as under:
Chakraborty Chairman and Administration and Infrastructure,
Independent Banking, Risk management, Payment Number of complaints received during the year 2021-2022 51
Director & Settlement system, Business
Number of complaints disposed during the year 2021-2022 48
Management
Number of cases pending as on March 31, 2022 3*
2 Mr. Kaizad Executive Banking Business, Credit & Risk
Bharucha Director Management, Business Management
*The three pending cases as on March 31, 2022 were reported to the Internal
3 Mrs. Lily Independent Banking Committee in March 2022. Two of these cases have already been closed
Vadera Director in Q1 of F.Y. 2022 – 2023. For the remaining one case, case inquiry has
4 Mr. Malay Independent Small Scale Industries, Business concluded and the final inquiry report is expected shortly.
Patel Director Management
385
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Report on Corporate Governance
COMPLIANCE WITH MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS A half-yearly declaration of financial performance including
summary of the significant events is presently not being sent
The Bank has complied with all the applicable mandatory
separately to each shareholder. The Bank’s results for each
requirements of the Code of Corporate Governance as
quarter are published in an English newspaper having a nation-
prescribed under the SEBI Listing Regulations
wide circulation and in a Marathi newspaper having a nation-
Reg. Status of wide circulation in Maharashtra. Hence, half-yearly results are
Particulars
No. compliance not sent to the shareholders individually.
17 Requirements pertaining to the Board of Directors Compliant
c) Audit Qualifications
17A Maximum number of Directorships Compliant
18 Requirements pertaining to the Audit Committee Compliant During the period under review, there is no audit qualification in
19 Requirements pertaining to Nomination and Compliant the Bank’s financial statements. The Bank continues to adopt
Remuneration Committee
best practices to ensure regime of unmodified audit opinion.
20 Requirements pertaining to Stakeholders Compliant
Relationship Committee d) Separate posts of Chairperson and Managing
21 Requirements pertaining to Risk Management Compliant Director/ Chief Executive Officer
Committee
22 Requirements pertaining to Vigil Mechanism Compliant Mr. Atanu Chakraborty is the Part-time Chairman and
23 Requirements pertaining to Related Party Compliant Independent Director of the Bank and Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan
Transactions is the Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer of the Bank.
24 Corporate governance requirements with respect Compliant
to subsidiary of listed entity e) Reporting of Internal Auditor
24A Requirements pertaining to Secretarial Audit and Compliant
The Internal Auditor of the Bank reports to the Audit Committee
Secretarial Compliance Report
of the Bank.
25 Obligations with respect to independent Directors Compliant
26 Obligations with respect to employees including Compliant
OWNERSHIP RIGHTS
senior management, key managerial persons,
directors and promoters
The Bank seeks to protect and facilitate the exercise of the rights
27 Other corporate governance requirements Compliant
of its shareholders including the following:
46 Requirements pertaining to the dissemination of Compliant
certain information under a separate section on
• To carry out transmission / transposition and deletion
the website
of name on the share certificates(s) and receive the duly
endorsed share certificates within the period prescribed in
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The Bank has put in place a mechanism for performance
• To receive notice of general meetings, annual report,
evaluation of the Directors. The details of the same have been
the balance sheet and profit and loss account and the
included in the Directors’ Report.
auditor’s report.
COMPLIANCE WITH NON-MANDATORY • To attend and speak in person, at general meetings.
REQUIREMENTS
• To appoint proxy to attend and vote at the general meetings.
a) Board of Directors In case the member is a body corporate, to appoint a
representative to attend and vote at the general meetings
The Bank maintains the expenses relating to the office of the
of the company on its behalf.
Part-time Chairman and reimburses all the expenses incurred
in performance of his duties. • Proxy can vote on a poll. In case of vote on poll, the number
of votes of a shareholder is proportionate to the number
b) Shareholder’s Rights
of equity shares held by him. In case of the 28th Annual
The Bank publishes its results on its website at www.hdfcbank.com General Meeting of the Bank which will be conducted by
which is accessible to the public at large. The same are also Video-Conferencing /Other Audio-Visual Means pursuant
available on the websites of the Stock Exchanges on which the to the relevant MCA circulars, physical attendance of the
Bank’s shares are listed. shareholders has been dispensed with and accordingly, the
386
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
facility for appointment of proxies for attending and voting • To have adequate mechanism to address the grievances
on behalf of shareholders will not be available at the 28th of the shareholders.
Annual General Meeting of the Bank.
• To ensure protection of minority shareholders from abusive
• In terms of Section 12 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 actions by, or in the interest of, controlling shareholders
as amended with effect from January 18, 2013 vide the acting either directly or indirectly, and effective means
Banking Laws Amendment Act, 2012, no person holding of redress.
shares in a banking company shall, in respect of any shares
The rights mentioned above are prescribed in the Companies
held by him, exercise voting rights on poll in excess of ten
Act, 2013, the SEBI Listing Regulations and Banking Regulation
(10) per cent of the total voting rights of all the shareholders
Act, 1949, wherever applicable, and should be followed only
of the banking company, provided that RBI may increase, in
after careful reading of the relevant sections. These rights are
a phased manner, such ceiling on voting rights from ten (10)
not necessarily absolute.
percent to twenty-six (26) per cent. The notification dated
July 21, 2016 issued by RBI and notified in the Gazette of
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION:
India dated September 17, 2016 states that the current level
of ceiling on voting rights is at twenty-six (26) per cent. The Bank’s share capital consists of one class of equity shares
having face value of ` 1 each and the Bank has not issued any
• To requisition an extraordinary general meeting of the
other class of shares.
company by shareholders who collectively hold not less
than 1/10th of the total paid-up capital of the company. SHAREHOLDERS HOLDING MORE THAN 1% OF THE
SHARE CAPITAL OF THE BANK AS AT MARCH 31, 2022
• To move amendments to resolutions proposed at
general meetings. Sr. No. of Shares % to share
Name of the Shareholder
No. held capital
• To receive dividend and other corporate benefits like rights,
1 JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA* 1,02,81,15,525 18.54
bonus shares, etc. as and when declared / announced.
2 Housing Development Finance 86,46,15,834 15.59
Corporation Limited
• To inspect various registers of the company, minutes books
3 HDFC Investments Limited 30,00,00,000 5.41
of general meetings and to receive copies thereof after
4 LICI ASM NON PAR 16,01,17,638 2.89
complying with the procedure prescribed in the Companies
5 Europacific Growth Fund 9,68,86,630 1.75
Act, 2013 as amended from time to time.
6 ICICI Prudential Bluechip Fund 7,66,17,637 1.38
• To make nomination in respect of shares held by 7 UTI-NIFTY Exchange Traded Fund 6,32,56,598 1.14
the shareholder. 8 HDFC Trustee Company Ltd. A/c. 5,89,74,568 1.06
HDFC Top 100 Fund
• To participate in and be sufficiently informed of the decisions
* One (1) American Depository Share (ADS) represents three (3) underlying
concerning fundamental corporate changes. equity shares of the Bank.
• To be informed of the rules, including voting procedures
that govern general shareholder meetings.
387
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Report on Corporate Governance
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS AT MARCH 31, 2022
Share Range From Share Range To No. of Shares % To Capital No. of Holders % Tot No. of Holders
1 2,500 21,35,12,859 3.85 22,27,914 98.75
2,501 5,000 5,42,34,088 0.98 14,836 0.66
5,001 10,000 4,34,04,892 0.78 6,148 0.27
10,001 15,000 2,16,13,580 0.39 1,757 0.08
15,001 20,000 1,58,90,590 0.29 908 0.04
20,001 25,000 1,28,87,626 0.23 572 0.02
25,001 50,000 4,84,14,689 0.87 1,348 0.06
50,001 1,00,000 6,08,76,031 1.10 862 0.04
1,00,001 9,99,99,99,999 5,07,47,06,621 91.51 1,816 0.08
TOTAL 5,54,55,40,976 100.00 22,56,161 100.00
22,33,831 Folios comprising of 5,53,38,32,585 equity shares forming 99.79% of the share capital are in demat form.
22,330 Folios comprising of 1,17,08,391 equity shares forming 0.21 % of the share capital are in physical form.
Note: Other than the stock options granted to the employees of the Bank which will result in an addition to the equity share capital
of the Bank on the exercise of the stock options and subsequent allotment of equity shares, the Bank has no outstanding warrants
or other convertible instruments as on March 31, 2022 which could have an impact on the equity share capital of the Bank.
SHARE PRICE / CHART
The National Stock Exchange of India
BSE Limited New York Stock Exchange
Limited
Monthly Monthly HIGHEST LOWEST Monthly
Month High (`) Low (`) High (`) Low (`)
Volumes Volumes (US$) (US$) Volumes
April- 21 1,503.45 1,353.10 67,40,055 1,503.65 1,353.00 23,57,70,297 78.14 67.73 4,00,44,800
May- 21 1,520.65 1,377.55 66,08,154 1,520.45 1,377.30 15,84,12,762 77.17 68.36 2,72,91,100
June- 21 1,526.35 1,451.00 44,16,797 1,527.00 1,455.00 10,91,33,234 77.62 73.00 2,49,47,400
July- 21 1,545.10 1,404.15 47,97,455 1,545.35 1,404.00 15,03,89,347 75.24 68.50 2,68,43,000
August- 21 1,583.00 1,413.40 50,16,079 1,583.35 1,410.00 13,47,11,410 79.39 70.63 2,74,12,900
September- 21 1,635.60 1,528.70 65,05,770 1,635.50 1,528.95 12,86,05,303 79.17 71.80 3,82,19,600
October- 21 1,724.30 1,560.05 52,39,421 1,725.00 1,560.00 12,52,13,820 78.43 71.61 3,54,14,800
November- 21 1,622.20 1,461.50 60,97,597 1,622.00 1,462.00 12,99,24,758 73.98 65.34 3,25,98,925
December- 21 1,555.60 1,414.00 67,42,415 1,555.05 1,414.10 11,28,38,990 68.40 61.35 3,01,70,500
January - 22 1,576.00 1,435.25 51,72,458 1,576.65 1,435.00 15,64,01,807 72.20 64.00 3,37,59,500
February- 22 1,539.40 1,408.10 67,54,893 1,539.95 1,407.15 12,96,36,002 70.16 61.86 2,86,76,200
March- 22 1,517.80 1,292.00 78,83,941 1,518.80 1,292.00 21,45,62,417 63.56 54.25 5,52,01,000
388
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Share price versus BSE - Sensex
HDFC Bank Share price versus NSE - Nifty
Nifty
389
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Report on Corporate Governance
HDFC Bank's Share price versus NYSE - Composite
CATEGORIES OF SHAREHOLDERS AS AT MARCH 31, 2022
No of shares % to Capital
Promoters (*) 1,16,46,25,834 21.00
ADS (#) 1,02,81,15,525 18.54
Foreign Institutional Investors 1,60,88,81,315 29.01
Overseas Corporate Bodies, Foreign Bodies, Foreign National and Non Resident Indians 74,60,686 0.14
Financial Institutions, Banks, Mutual Funds and Central Government 93,19,65,879 16.81
Life Insurance Corporation of India 1,46,19,904 0.26
Subsidiaries of Life Insurance Corporation of India 14,54,97,734 2.62
Other Insurance Corporations 1,18,57,498 0.21
Indian Companies 9,41,01,444 1.70
Others 53,84,15,157 9.71
TOTAL 5,54,55,40,976 100.00
Categories of shareholders as at March 31, 2022
1.70% Details of Shareholding
0.21%
9.71% Promoters (*)
2.62%
0.26% 21% ADS (#)
Foreign Institutional Investors
Overseas Corporate Bodies, Foreign Bodies, Foreign
National and Non Resident Indians
16.81%
Financial Institutions, Banks, Mutual Funds and Central
Government
18.54%
Life Insurance Corporation of India
0.14% Subsidiaries of Life Insurance Corporation of India
Other Insurance Corporations
29.01% Indian Companies
Others
(*) None of the equity shares held by the Promoters are under pledge.
(#) JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA is the Depository for the ADS (1,028,115,525 underlying equity shares)
390
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
FINANCIAL CALENDER Note: Annual listing fees of the New York Stock Exchange has
been duly paid.
[April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023]
Board Meeting for consideration April 16, 2022
CODE OF CONDUCT
of accounts
Dispatch of Annual Reports by around June 22, 2022 The Bank has framed and adopted a Code of Conduct, which is
electronic mode
approved by the Board. The Code is applicable to all directors
Date, Time and Venue of the AGM will be held on July 16,
and senior management personnel of the Bank. This Code has
28th AGM 2022 at 2:30 P.M. through video
been posted on the Bank’s website at https://www.hdfcbank.
conferencing
com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and-
Record date for purpose of May 13, 2022
determining eligibility of dividend policies. All the Directors and senior management personnel
Dividend declaration date July 16, 2022 have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct / Ethics as
Expected date of payment of July 18, 2022 onwards (both approved and adopted by the Board.
dividend physical and electronic mode)
Board Meeting for considering Within 25 days from the end of each CODE FOR PREVENTION OF INSIDER TRADING
unaudited results for first three quarter
quarters of FY 2022-23 The Bank has adopted a share dealing code for the prevention of
insider trading in the shares of the Bank as well as in other listed
LISTING
and proposed to be listed companies. The share dealing code,
Listing on Indian Stock Exchanges: inter-alia, prohibits dealing in securities of the Bank by insiders
while in possession of unpublished price sensitive information.
The equity shares of the Bank are listed at the following Stock
Exchanges and the annual fees for 2021-22 have been paid:
SHARE TRANSFER PROCESS AND SYSTEM
Sr. Name and Address of The Stock
Stock Code The Bank’s shares which are in compulsory dematerialized
No. Exchange
(Demat) list are transferable through the depository system.
1 BSE Limited, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy 500180
Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, Requests for transmission / transposition or for deletion of
Mumbai 400 023 name in case of physical share certificates are processed by
2 The National Stock Exchange of HDFCBANK the Registrar and Transfer Agent, Datamatics Business Solutions
India Limited, Exchange Plaza,
Limited and are approved by the Stakeholders’ Relationship
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra
Committee of the Bank or authorized officials of the Bank.
(East), Mumbai 400051
The service requests of such nature are generally processed
Names of Depositories in India for dematerialization of
within a period of fifteen (15) days from the date of receipt of the
equity shares (ISIN No. INE040A01034)
relevant documents by Datamatics Business Solutions Limited.
• National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL)
Please note that as per the amended SEBI Listing Regulations,
• Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL) with effect from April 1, 2019, any requests for transfer of
securities shall not be processed unless the securities are held
International Listing: in dematerialized form.
Name and address
Sr. Security Name & address of FEES FOR STATUTORY AUDITORS
of the stock
No. Description depository
exchange
For the details of total fees for all services paid by the Bank and
1. The American The New York J.P. Morgan Chase
its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the joint Statutory
Depository Shares Stock Exchange Bank, N.A. J.P.
(ADS) (CUSIP No. (Ticker - HDB) 11, Morgan Depositary Auditors and all entities in the network firm / network entity of
40415F101) Wall Street, New Receipts, 383 which the joint Statutory Auditors is a part, kindly refer to the
York, NY Madison Ave, Floor
Directors’ Report.
10005 11, New York, NY,
10179
The Depository for ADS is represented in India by: JP Morgan
Chase Bank N.A., India Sub Custody, JP Morgan Chase Bank
NA, 6th Floor, Paradigm “B” Wing, Behind Toyota Showroom,
Mindspace, Malad (West), Mumbai - 400 064.
391
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Report on Corporate Governance
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION Tel : +91-022 - 66712213-14
E-mail : hdinvestors@datamaticsbpm.com
The quarterly and half-yearly unaudited / audited financial results
Timings : 10:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (Monday to Friday except
are normally published in the newspapers, viz., the Business
public holidays)
Standard in English and Mumbai Sakal / Navshakti in Marathi
(regional language). The results are also displayed on the Bank’s Shareholders’ Helpdesk Timings : 10:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
website at www.hdfcbank.com. Between Monday to Friday (except on Bank holidays)
Telephone : +91-022-3976 0012
The shareholders can visit the Bank’s website for financial
Email : shareholder.grievances@hdfcbank.com
information, shareholding information, dividend policy, key
shareholders’ agreements, if any, Memorandum and Articles For IEPF Related matters : Mr. Santosh Haldankar (Nodal
of Association of the Bank, etc. The website also gives a link Officer), Mr. Dhanjit Thaivalappil and Mr. Sushant Date (Deputy
to www.sec.gov where the investors can view statutory filings Nodal Officers):
of the Bank with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Tel : +91-022-3976 0012
USA. The information relating to the Bank’s financial results E-mail : shareholder.grievances@hdfcbank.com
and shareholding pattern are displayed on the websites of the
Queries relating to the Bank’s financial performance may be
Stock Exchanges on which the Bank’s shares are listed. Other
addressed to: shareholder.grievances@hdfcbank.com
information such as official news/press releases, stock exchange
disclosures and presentations made to investors and analysts, Name of the Compliance Officer of the Bank: Mr. Santosh
etc. are regularly displayed on the Bank’s website. Haldankar, Senior Vice President-Legal & Company Secretary
Telephone: +91-022-3976 0000
DEBENTURE TRUSTEES
BANKING CUSTOMER HELPDESK
The SEBI Listing Regulations require companies, which have
listed their debt securities, to disclose the names of their In the event of any queries / complaints, banking customers can
debenture trustees with contact details in their Annual Report. directly approach the Branch Manager or can call / write to the
The following are the debenture trustees for the privately placed Bank using the following contact details:
bonds of the Bank:
Call at: Our customer care (PhoneBanking) numbers
1. IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited, Asian Building, 17 R 18002026161 / 18602676161
Kamani Marg, Ballard Estate, Mumbai 400001. Tel: 022
In the event of any queries / complaints, banking customers can
4080 7000
directly approach the Branch Manager or can call / write to the
2. Axis Trustee Services Limited, The Ruby, 2nd Floor, SW, 29, Bank using the following contact details:
Senapati Bapat Marg, Dadar West, Mumbai- 400 028. Tel:
Write to:
022 6230 0451
For Credit Cards:
3. Vistra ITCL (India) Limited (Formerly known as IL&FS
Trust Company Limited), The IL&FS Financial Centre, Plot For Regular Post:
C-22/G Block, 7th Floor, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra Manager, HDFC Bank Cards Division,PO BOX # 8654
(East), Mumbai 400051. Tel: 022 6930 0000 Thiruvanmiyur PO Chennai - 600 041
For Courier:
SHAREHOLDERS’ HELPDESK
Manager, HDFC Bank Cards Division,# 8, Lattice Bridge Road,
Dividend payments and all other investor related activities Thiruvanmiyur,
are attended to and processed at the office of Registrar and Chennai - 600 041
Transfer Agent.
For products (other than Credit Cards ) :
For any documents or for any grievances / complaints,
HDFC Bank Limited
shareholders / investors may contact at the following address:
Empire Plaza I, 1st Floor,
Mr. Sunny Abraham / Ms. Manisha Parkar / LBS Marg, Chandan Nagar,
Mr. Tukaram Thore Vikhroli West, Mumbai - 400 083,
Datamatics Business Solutions Limited Email: support@hdfcbank.com
Plot No. B 5, Part B Crosslane, MIDC, Marol, Andheri (East),
Mumbai 400 093
392
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Contact us online: DECLARATION
Fill up the “Complaint Form” available at the following website
link: https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-
I confirm that for the year under review, all directors and
governance/codes-and-policies
senior management have affirmed their adherence to the
For grievances other than shareholder grievances please send provisions of the Code of Conduct of Directors and senior
your communication to the following email addresses: management personnel.
1) Depository Services: dphelp@hdfcbank.com
2) Retail Banking / ATM / Debit Cards / Mutual Fund: Sashidhar Jagdishan
support@hdfcbank.com
Managing Director and CEO
3) Loans, Advances / Advance against shares:
loansupport@hdfcbank.com
June 10, 2022
4) Credit Cards: customerservices.cards@hdfcbank.com
Visit us at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/need-help/
customer-care for more information
PLANT LOCATIONS
Being in the banking business, the Bank does not have plants.
However, the Bank has 6,342 branches in 3,188 cities / towns
as on March 31, 2022. The locations of the branches are also
displayed on the Bank’s website.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Atanu Chakraborty
Part-time Chairman and Independent Director
June 10, 2022
393
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. Details of the listed entity
1. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
 L65920MH1994PLC080618
2. Name of the Listed Entity
 HDFC Bank Limited
3. Year of incorporation
 1994
4. Registered office address
 HDFC Bank House, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013
5. Corporate address
 HDFC Bank House, Shiv Sagar Estate, Dr Annie Besant Road, Worli, Mumbai - 400018
6. E-mail
 investors.helpdesk@hdfcbank.com
7. Telephone
 022 66521000
8. Website
 www.hdfcbank.com
9. Financial year for which reporting is being done
 FY 2021-22
10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
 BSE Limited; National Stock Exchange of India Limited, American Depository Shares (ADS) listed on The New York
Stock Exchange (Depository for ADS is represented in India by J P Morgan Chase Bank N.A.).
11. Paid-up Capital
 Please refer the Director’s Report (Section: Issuance of Equity Shares and Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOP))
appended to the Integrated Report for FY 22.
12. Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person who may be contacted in case of any
queries on the BRSR report
 Name: Nusrat Pathan
Telephone number: 022 39227260
e-mail ID: nusrat.pathan@hdfcbank.com
13. Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the
entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its consolidated
financial statements, taken together).
 Please refer ‘About the Report’ section of this report.
394
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
II. Products/services
14. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. Description of Main Activity Description of Business Activity % of Turnover of the entity
No.
1. Financial and Insurance Service Banking activities by Central, 100%
Commercial and Saving banks
15. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
S. Product/Service NIC Code % of total Turnover contributed
No.
1 HDFC Bank operates in three business verticals -Wholesale, Retail 64191 100
and Treasury. All the products and services are offered under these
segments. For details, please refer to the 'Business Segments'
section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
III. Operations
16. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location Number of plants Number of offices Total
National N.A. 6,342 branches and 18,130 ATMs / Cash Deposit & Withdrawal Machines -
(CDMs) across 3,188 cities / towns. In addition, we have 15,341 business
correspondents, which are primarily manned by Common Service Centres
(CSC).
International N.A. Branches and Representative Offices in Manama (Bahrain), Hong Kong, -
Dubai, DIFC, Abu Dhabi and Nairobi (Kenya).
17. Markets served by the entity:
a. Number of locations
Location Number
National (No. of States) All states and UTs in India
International (No. of Countries) 5
b. What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
 N.A.
c. A brief on types of customers
 The Bank caters to a diverse customer base - including individuals, government, MSMEs, large corporates,
farmers, start-ups etc.
395
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
IV. Employees
18. Details as at the end of Financial Year:
a. Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S. Particulars Total Male Female
No. (A)
No. (B) % (B / A) No. (C) % (C / A)
EMPLOYEES
1. Permanent (D) Please refer Our Culture Please refer Our Culture 81% Please refer Our 19%*
details on the ‘Social- details on the ‘Social- Culture details on the
People’ section of the People’ section of the ‘Social-People’ section
Integrated Report for Integrated Report for of the Integrated
FY 22 FY 22 Report for FY 22
2. Other than Please refer Our Culture Please refer Our Culture 81% Please refer Our 19%
Permanent (E) details on the ‘Social- details on the ‘Social- Culture details on the
People’ section of the People’ section of the ‘Social-People’ section
Integrated Report for Integrated Report for of the Integrated
FY 22 FY 22 Report for FY 22
3. Total Please refer Our Culture Please refer Our Culture 81% Please refer Our 19%*
employees details on the ‘Social- details on the ‘Social- Culture details on the
(D + E) People’ section of the People’ section of the ‘Social-People’ section
Integrated Report for Integrated Report for of the Integrated
FY 22 FY 22 Report for FY 22
WORKERS
4. Permanent (F) N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
5. Other than N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Permanent (G)
6. Total workers N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
(F + G)
b. Differently abled Employees and workers:
S. Particulars Total Male Female
No. (A)
No. (B) % (B / A) No. (C) % (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1. Permanent (D) Not available
2. Other than Not available
Permanent (E)
3. Total differently Please refer Diversity Not available
abled and Inclusion details
employees on the ‘Social-
(D + E) People’ section of the
Integrated Report for
FY 22 for a qualitative
response
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4. Permanent (F) N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
5. Other than N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Permanent (G)
6. Total workers N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
(F + G)
*Includes sales officers and other non-supervisory staff
396
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
19. Participation / Inclusion / Representation of women
Total No. and percentage of Females
(A)
No. (B) % (B / A)
Board of Directors 11 3 27.27%
Key Management Personnel 4 0 0
20. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20
(Turnover rate in current FY) (Turnover rate in previous FY) (Turnover rate in the year prior to
the previous FY)
Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total
Permanent Please refer "Our Culture" details in Please refer Social - People section of Please refer ‘Our People’ section of
Employees the ‘Social-People’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 21. Sustainability Report for FY 20.
Integrated Report for FY 22
Permanent N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Workers
V. Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
21. (a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
S. Name of the holding / Indicate whether % of shares held by Does the entity indicated at column A,
No. subsidiary / associate holding/ Subsidiary/ listed entity participate in the Business Responsibility
companies / joint ventures (A) Associate/ Joint initiatives of the listed entity? (Yes/No)
Venture
1. HDFC Securities Limited Subsidiary As on March 31, 2022, No
(HSL) the Bank held 95.96%
stake in HSL.
2. HDB Financial Services Subsidiary As on March 31, 2022, No
Limited (HDBFSL) the Bank held 94.96%
stake in HDBFSL.
VI. CSR Details
22. (i) Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: Yes
(ii) Turnover (in `) 1,57,26,301 Lakh (Turnover represents Total Income)
(iii) Net worth (in `): 2,33,61,381 Lakh
397
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
23. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on
Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder Grievance Redressal FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
group from Mechanism in Place Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
whom (Yes/No)
complaint is
(If Yes, then provide web- Number of Number of Remarks Number of Number of Remarks
received
link for grievance redress complaints complaints complaints complaints
policy) filed pending filed pending
during the resolution during the resolution
year at close of year at close of
the year the year
Communities Yes, Our whistleblower 0 0 - 0 0 -
policy: https://www.
hdfcbank.com/content/
bbp/repositories/723fb80a-
2dde-42a3-9793-
7ae1be57c87f/?path=/
Footer/About%20Us/
Corporate%20Governance/
Codes%20and%20
Policie/pdf/Whistleblower-
Policy-2019.pdf
Investors Yes, Our whistleblower 0 0 - 0 0 -
(other than policy: https://www.
shareholders) hdfcbank.com/content/
bbp/repositories/723fb80a-
2dde-42a3-9793-
7ae1be57c87f/?path=/
Footer/About%20Us/
Corporate%20Governance/
Codes%20and%20
Policie/pdf/Whistleblower-
Policy-2019.pdf
Shareholders Whistleblower policy (same 2 Fraudulent
as above) Loans, Improper
business
practices
Employees and Whistleblower policy (same 101 28 Major categories 68 2 Major categories
workers as above) of complaints of complaints
include include
behavioural, behavioural
corruption/ issue, corruption,
bribery, false claim,
fraudulent fraudulent
loans, improper loans,improper
business business
practices, practices,
improper working misappropriation
conditions, of Bank's assets
misappropriation and funds, Posh
of customer Related and
funds and other unethical
POSH related HR practices
complaints
398
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Stakeholder Grievance Redressal FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
group from Mechanism in Place Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
whom (Yes/No)
complaint is
(If Yes, then provide web- Number of Number of Remarks Number of Number of Remarks
received
link for grievance redress complaints complaints complaints complaints
policy) filed pending filed pending
during the resolution during the resolution
year at close of year at close of
the year the year
Customers Whistleblower policy (Same 15 5 Broad categories 2 Account status
as above) of complaints related, Improper
include business
behaviorial practices
issue, fraudulent
loans, improper
business
practices and
others
Value Chain Whistleblower policy (same 5 1 Behavioural 2 Improper
Partners as above) issue, Improper business
business practices,
practices Pending Bills
Related
Other (Ex- 24 6 Broadly 14 0 Broadly
Employee, comprised of comprised of
Off Role Staff, behavioural behavioural
Third Party, issue, corruption/ issue, corruption/
Ex-Employee bribery, fraudulent bribery, improper
of Customer) loans, improper business
business practices and
practices and others"
others
Total 147 40 86 2
24. Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental
and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same,
approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format
S. Material issue Indicate Rationale for In case of risk, Financial implications of the risk
No. identified whether risk or identifying the risk / approach to adapt or opportunity (Indicate positive
opportunity (R/O) opportunity or mitigate or negative
implications)
Please refer section on ‘Materiality Assessment’, ‘External Environment’, ‘Risk Management’ and ‘Business Continuity Plan’ Section
of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
399
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the
NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure P P P P P P P P P
Questions 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
Policy and management processes
1. a. Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
b. Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No) Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
c. Web Link of the Policies, if available Note Note Note Note Note Note Note Note Note
5 4 4, 5 4 4, 5 4 1 3 2, 5
2. Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
(Yes / No)
3. Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
(Yes/No)
4. Name of the national and international codes/certifications/ Note Note
labels/ standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, 7 6
Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS,
ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped to each
principle.
5. Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with Y Y Y
defined timelines, if any.
6. Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, Please Please Please
goals and targets along-with reasons in case the same are refer # refer ** refer @
not met.
400
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Disclosure P P P P P P P P P
Questions 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
Governance, leadership and oversight
7. Statement by director responsible for the business Please refer to 'Message from the MD & CEO' section of the Integrated
responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, Report for FY 22.
targets and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding
the placement of this disclosure)
8. Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer,
and oversight of the Business Responsibility policy(ies) HDFC Bank
9. Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Yes. Please refer ‘Governance’ section of this report
Director responsible for decision making on sustainability
related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Performance against above policies and follow up action
Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director / Committee Committees of the Board
of the Board / Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually / Half yearly / Quarterly / Any other - please Annually
specify)
Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to the principles, and, rectification of any non-compliances
Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director / Committee Commi-
of the Board / Any other Committee ttee
of the
Board
Frequency (Annually / Half yearly / Quarterly / Any other - please Annually
specify)
11. Has the entity carried out independent assessment / Y***
evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency?
(Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
business (Yes/No)
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No) N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Any other reason (please specify) N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
** ‘Environment’ section of this report
# ‘Social -People’ and ‘Governance’ section of this report.
@ Communities’ section of this report.
*** All policies of the Bank are evaluated internally
All policies have been developed as a result of detailed consultations and research on the best practices adopted by banks and organisations across
the industry and as per the requirements of HDFC Bank
401
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Web-link for the policy
Note 1: These policies of the Bank are internal documents/guidelines and are not accessible to the public
Note 2: https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/useful-links/our-corporate-commit (Corporate Commitment)
Note 3: https://www.hdfcbank.com/csr/pdf/CSR_Policy.pdf
Note 4: https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/api/contentstream-id/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/1cb20550-41e0-4320-9a30-
94e763d31392? (Environment Policy)
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/api/contentstream-id/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/f0ac1d94-7b3f-4b7a-ad10-
d84cd154eaed? (ESG Policy Framework)
Note 5: https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/api/contentstream-id/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/0ae5b219-aac3-4f26-976c-
0a27797d548d? (Conduct Philosophy- Code of Conduct)
Note 6: Our information security system is based on ISO 27001: 13 and NIST 800-53, Information security risk management as per ISO
31000. ISO 22301: 2019 certified BCP.
Note 7: Some of our large office buildings and branches are IGBC certified
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key
processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are
expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed
by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally and ethically responsible.
PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is
Ethical, Transparent and Accountable
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Segment Total number Topic/Principles covered under the training and its impact % age of persons
of trainings in respective
and awareness category covered
programmes held by the awareness
programmes
Board of Directors Not available Please refer Culture of Transparency and Accountability details in the Not available
‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Key Managerial 5 Please refer Culture of Transparency and Accountability details in the 50%
Personnel ‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22
Employees other 4171 Please refer Culture of Transparency and Accountability details in the 90%
than BoD and KMPs ‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22
Workers N.A. N.A. N.A.
2. Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by
the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial
year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in
Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on
the entity’s website):
402
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
NGRBC Principle Name of the regulatory/ Amount (In INR) Brief of the Case Has an appeal
enforcement agencies/ been preferred?
judicial institutions (Yes/No)
Monetary
Penalty/Fine 1 RBI `10 Crore Please refer to the Strictures No, the penalty
and Penalties section as part was paid by the
of the Corporate Governance Bank
section of the Integrated
Annual Report for FY 22
Settlement N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Compounding N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
fee
Non-Monetary
Imprisonment N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Punishment N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
3. Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal / Revision preferred in cases where
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details Name of the regulatory / enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
Not Applicable
4. Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available,
provide a web-link to the policy.
 Yes. Please refer ‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
5. Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Directors
KMPs
None None
Employees
Workers
6. Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2021-22 FY 2020-2021
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Number Remarks Number Remarks
Number of complaints received in Nil N.A. Nil N.A.
relation to issues of Conflict of Interest
of the Directors
Number of complaints received in Nil N.A. Nil N.A.
relation to issues of Conflict of Interest
of the KMPs
7. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest. NA
403
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
1. Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
 None
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Total number of awareness Topics / principles covered %age of value chain partners covered (by value
programmes held under the training of business done with such partners) under the
awareness programmes
None N.A. N.A.
2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No)
If Yes, provide details of the same.
 Yes. Please refer section on ‘Corporate Governance’ appended to this report (sub-section: Related Party Transactions).
PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the
entity, respectively.
Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year Details of improvements in
environmental and social impacts
R&D Not applicable given the sector N.A. N.A.
Capex Not Applicable being a financial N.A. N.A.
services sector
1. a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing?
 No, Being in the Financial Services sector, material purchase for operations is not significant except for paper. For
procurement of equipment, the Bank ensures that energy efficiency standards are considered during the purchase
of electronic equipment such as computers, laptops, lighting devices, AC’s etc.
b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? N.A.
2. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end
of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
 Please refer ‘Environment’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
3. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether
the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution
Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
 Not applicable
Leadership Indicators
1. Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
 Not applicable
404
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
2. If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of
your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other
means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
 Not applicable
3. Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
N.A. N.A. N.A.
4. Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled,
and safely disposed, as per the following format:
FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
Re-Used Recycled Safely Re-Used Recycled Safely
Disposed Disposed
Plastics N.A. N.A.
(including
packaging)
E-waste Please refer 'Environment section' of the Integrated Please refer 'Environment section' of the Integrated
Report for FY 22 Report for FY 21
Hazardous N.A. N.A.
waste
Other waste N.A. N.A.
5. Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
 Not applicable
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those
in their value chains
Essential Indicators
1. a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category % of employees covered by
Total (A) Health insurance Accident insurance Maternity benefits Paternity Benefits Day Care facilities
Number % (B / A) Number % (C / A) Number % (D / A) Number % (E / A) Number % (F / A)
(B) (C) (D) (E) (F)
Permanent employees
Male 114,582 114,582 100% 114,582 100% Please refer to the note at the bottom of this table
Female 26,997 26,997 100% 26,997 100% Please refer to the note at the bottom of this table
Other than Permanent employees
Male Please refer Our Nil
Culture details
on the ‘Social-
People’ section
of the Integrated
Report for FY 22
405
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Category % of employees covered by
Total (A) Health insurance Accident insurance Maternity benefits Paternity Benefits Day Care facilities
Number % (B / A) Number % (C / A) Number % (D / A) Number % (E / A) Number % (F / A)
(B) (C) (D) (E) (F)
Female Please refer Our Nil
Culture details
on the ‘Social-
People’ section
of the Integrated
Report for FY 22
Total Please refer Our Nil
Culture details
on the ‘Social-
People’ section
of the Integrated
Report for FY 22
*All employees are covered under Health and accident insurance (within India). Medical expenses and Insurance related to Maternity claims are covered
under Health Insurance coverage
b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Cate % of workers covered by
gory
Total (A) Health insurance Accident insurance Maternity benefits Paternity Benefits Day Care facilities
Number % (B / A) Number % (C / A) Number % (D / A) Number % (E / A) Number % (F / A)
(B) (C) (D) (E) (F)
Permanent employees
Male N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Female N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Total N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Other than Permanent Workers
Male N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Female N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Total N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
2. Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
Benefits FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
No. of employees No. of workers Deducted and No. of employees No. of workers Deducted and
covered as a % of covered as a % of deposited with covered as a % of covered as a % of deposited with
total employees total workers the authority total employees total workers the authority
(Y/N/N.A.) (Y/N/N.A.)
PF 141,579 0 Y 120,093 0 Y
Gratuity 141,579 0 Y 120,093 0 Y
3. Accessibility of workplaces
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by
the entity in this regard.
406
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
 Please refer Diversity and Inclusion details on the ‘Social-People’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22. We assess
all our premises and install ramps wherever feasible.
4. Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so,
provide a web-link to the policy.
No
5. Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave:
Please refer Diversity and Inclusion details on the ‘Social-People’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22
Permanent employees Permanent workers
Gender Return to work rate Retention rate Return to work rate Retention rate
Male Please refer Diversity and Please refer Diversity and N.A. N.A.
Inclusion details on the Inclusion details on the
Female N.A. N.A.
‘Social-People’ section of ‘Social-People’ section of
Total the Integrated Report for the Integrated Report for N.A. N.A.
FY 22 FY 22
6. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and worker?
If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
 Please refer ‘Governance’ section of this report
Yes/No
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers Not applicable
Other than Permanent Workers Not applicable
Permanent Employees Yes. Details of the grievance mechanism can be found in the Governance
section of the Integrated Report
Other than Permanent Employees Yes, covered under whistleblower policy
7. Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
Total employees No. of employees % (B / A) Total employees No. of employees % (D / C)
/ workers in / workers in / workers in / workers in
respective respective respective respective
category (A) category, who category (C) category, who
are part of are part of
association(s) or association(s) or
Union (B) Union (D)
Total Permanent 1,41,576 252 0.18% 1,20,093 262 0.22%
Employees
Male 1,14,582 177 0.15% 98,347 187 0.19%
Female 26,997 75 0.28% 21,746 75 0.34%
Total Permanent N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Workers
407
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Male N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Female N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
8. Details of training given to employees and workers:
Please refer Learning and development details in the ‘Social-People’ section of the of the Integrated Report FY 2022 for details
on training given to our employees.
Cate FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
gory Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
Total (A) On Health and safety On Skill upgradation Total (D) On Health and safety On Skill upgradation
measures measures
No. (B) % (B / A) No. (C) % (C / A) No. (E) % (E / D) No. (F) % (F / D)
Employees:
Male N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Female N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Total N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Workers:
Male N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Female N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Total N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Please refer Learning and development details in the ‘Social-People’ section of the Integrated Report for FY22
Employees FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
Total (A) No. (B) % (B / A) Total (C) No. (D) % (D /C)
Male Please refer Please refer 100% Please refer Please refer 100%
Learning and Learning and ‘Social - People' ‘Social - People'
development development section of section of
details in the details in the Integrated Report Integrated Report
‘Social-People’ ‘Social-People’ for FY 21 for FY 21.
section of the section of the
Integrated Report Integrated Report
for FY22 for FY22
Female Please refer Please refer 100% Please refer Please refer 100%
Learning and Learning and ‘Social - People' ‘Social - People'
development development section of section of
details in the details in the Integrated Report Integrated Report
‘Social-People’ ‘Social-People’ for FY 21. for FY 21.
section of the section of the
Integrated Report Integrated Report
for FY22 for FY22
Workers
Male N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Female N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Total N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
9. Health and safety management system:
a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/
No). If yes, the coverage such system?
 No
408
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine
basis by the entity?
 Not applicable
c. Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves
from such risks. (Y/N)
 Not applicable
d. Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services?
(Yes/ No)
 Yes
10. Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number Category FY 2021-22 FY 2021-20
Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million- Employees N.A. N.A.
person hours worked)
Workers N.A. N.A.
Total recordable work-related injuries Employees N.A. N.A.
Workers N.A. N.A.
No. of fatalities Employees N.A. N.A.
Workers N.A. N.A.
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health Employees N.A. N.A.
(excluding fatalities)
Workers N.A. N.A.
11. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
Please refer to Employee Well Being section on ‘Social-People’ in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
12. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
Filed during the Pending Remarks Filed during the Pending Remarks
year resolution at the year resolution at the
end of year end of year
Working N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Conditions
Health & Safety N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
13. Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory
authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices Not applicable
Working Conditions Not applicable
14. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on
significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
 Please refer to Employee Well Being section on ‘Social-People’ in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
409
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of
 Employees (Y/N) - Yes
 Workers (Y/N) - Not applicable
2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited
by the value chain partners.
 The Bank works towards greater integration of environmental & social considerations in its procurement practices. The
Bank also sets clear expectations with vendors and suppliers to abide by labour laws, human rights and regulations in
their regions of business.
3. Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill-health
/ fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in
suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
 Not applicable
4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management
of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
 Yes. Please refer ‘Social-People’ section of the Integrated Report of FY 22.
5. Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such
partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices Not applicable
Working Conditions Not applicable
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
 Not applicable
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
 Please refer to our response in the next question.
2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each
stakeholder group.
Stakeholder group Whether identified Channels of Communication Frequency of Purpose and scope of
as Vulnerable & (Email, SMS, Newspaper, engagement of engagement including
Marginalized Group Pamphlets, Advertisement, (Annually/ Half yearly/ key topics and
(Yes/No) Community, Meetings, Notice Quarterly others - concerns raised during
Board, Website), Other please specify such engagement
410
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Communities The Bank has identified Please refer Modes of Engagement details on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ section
women, people with in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
disabilities, children,
youth, farmer
communities, as
its disadvantaged,
vulnerable and
marginalized
stakeholders.
Investors (other than No Please refer Modes of Engagement details on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ section
shareholders) in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Shareholders No Please refer Modes of Engagement details on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ section
in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Employees and workers No Please refer Modes of Engagement details on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ section
in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Customers No Please refer Modes of Engagement details on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ section
in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Value Chain Partners No Please refer Modes of Engagement details on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ section
in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Other (Ex-Employee, Off No Please refer Modes of Engagement details on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ section
Role Staff, Third Party, Ex- in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Employee of Customer)
Leadership Indicators
1. Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
 Please refer section on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
2. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and
social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on
these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
 Please refer section on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ and ‘Materiality’ in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
3. Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/
marginalized stakeholder groups.
 Please refer section on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ and ‘Social – Communities’ the Integrated Report for FY 22, and
Director’s Report (sub-section on Semi-Urban and Rural) appended to this report.
PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1. Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity,
in the following format:
Category FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
Total (A) No. of employees % (B / A) Total (C) No. of employees % (D / C)
/ workers / workers
covered (B) covered (D)
Employees
411
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Permanent 31,459 22% Please refer to N.A. N.A.
‘Social-People’
Section of the
Integrated Report
for FY21.
Other Not available Please refer Not available Not available
permanent Please refer Employee Count
Employee Count Information in
Information in ‘Social-People’
‘Social-People’ Section of the
Section of the Integrated Report
Integrated Report for FY22.
for FY22.
Total 31,459 22% Please refer Not available Not available
Employees Employee Count
Information in
‘Social-People’
Section of the
Integrated Report
for FY21.
Workers
Permanent N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Other than N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
permanent
Total Workers N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
2. Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
 Not applicable
3. Details of remuneration / salary / wages, in the following format:
Male Female
Number Median remuneration/ Number Median remuneration/
salary/ wages of salary/ wages of
respective category respective category
Board of Directors (BoD)
Please refer to Section Please refer to Section
Key Managerial Personnel
1 of Annexure 5 to the 1 of Annexure 5 to the
Employees other than BoD and Director's Report Director's Report
KMP
Workers N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
4. Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
 Yes, Please refer ‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
5. Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
 Please refer ‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
6. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
412
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
Filed during the Pending Remarks Filed during the Pending Remarks
year resolution at the year resolution at the
end of year end of year
Sexual Please refer Please refer - Please refer Please refer -
Harassment Culture of Culture of ‘Corporate ‘Corporate
Transparency and Transparency and Governance’ Governance’
Accountability Accountability section of section of
details in the details in the Integrated Report Integrated Report
‘Governance’ ‘Governance’ for FY 21. for FY 21.
section of the section of the
Integrated Report Integrated Report
for FY 22 for FY 22
Discrimination Please refer Please refer - Please refer Please refer -
at workplace Culture of Culture of ‘Social-People’ ‘Social-People’
Transparency and Transparency and section of section of
Accountability Accountability Integrated Report Integrated Report
details in the details in the for FY 21. for FY 21.
‘Governance’ ‘Governance’
section of the section of the
Integrated Report Integrated Report
for FY 22 for FY 22
Child Labour Please refer Please refer - -
Culture of Culture of
Forced Labour/ - -
Transparency and Transparency and Please refer Please refer
Involuntary
Accountability Accountability ‘Social-People’ ‘Social-People’
Labour
details in the details in the section of section of
‘Governance’ ‘Governance’ Integrated Report Integrated Report
section of the section of the for FY 21. for FY 21.
Integrated Report Integrated Report
for FY 22 for FY 22
Wages - Not applicable Not applicable -
Other human Please refer Please refer - Please refer Please refer -
rights related Culture of Culture of ‘Social-People’ ‘Social-People’
issues Transparency and Transparency and section of section of
Accountability Accountability Integrated Report Integrated Report
details in the details in the for FY 21. for FY 21.
‘Governance’ ‘Governance’
section of the section of the
Integrated Report Integrated Report
for FY 22 for FY 22
7. Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
 Please refer ‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
8. Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
 Yes, some of our large projects incorporate human rights due diligence (including child, forced labour) as part of the SEMS
(Social & Environmental Management System) annexure. Please refer to more details on this within the ‘Responsible
financing’ section of the Environment section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
9. Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities
or third parties)
Child labour N.A.
413
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Forced/involuntary labour N.A.
Sexual harassment None
Discrimination at workplace None
Wages N.A.
Others - please specify N.A.
10. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from
the assessments at Question 9 above.
 Not applicable
Leadership Indicators
1. Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints.
 No human rights grievances/complaints received during FY22.
2. Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.
 Please refer our ESG policy framework and SEMS Section at https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/api/contentstream-
id/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/f0ac1d94-7b3f-4b7a-ad10-d84cd154eaed?
3. Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Please refer the section on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
4. Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that
were assessed
Sexual Harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Assessment has not yet been conducted
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others - please specify
5. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from
the assessments at Question 4 above.
 Not applicable.
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
1. Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
414
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Parameter FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Total electricity consumption (A) Please refer GHG Emissions Please refer GHG Emissions and
and Climate Change details in Climate Change details in the
Total fuel consumption (B)
the Environment section of the Environment section of the Integrated
Integrated Report for FY22 Report for FY22
Energy consumption through other sources (C) NA NA
Total energy consumption (A+B+C) Please refer GHG Emissions Please refer GHG Emissions and
and Climate Change details in Climate Change details in the
the Environment section of the Environment section of the Integrated
Integrated Report for FY22 Report for FY22
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover 1,015.17 Joules/INR income 957.80 Joules/INR income
(Total energy consumption / turnover in INR)
Energy intensity (optional) - the Please refer GHG Emissions Please refer GHG Emissions and
relevant metric may be selected by the entity and Climate Change details in Climate Change details in the
the Environment section of the Environment section of the Integrated
Integrated Report for FY22for energy Report for FY22for energy consumed
consumed per Full Time Employee. per Full Time Employee.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
 Yes. Please refer ‘About the Report’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
2. Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance,
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under
the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken,
if any.
 No.
3. Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
While we have not measured our water consumption so far, we have initiated discussions internally on tracking water
consumption at some of our large offices.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
 No.
4. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage
and implementation.
 Not applicable.
5. Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
 We report on GHG emissions; given our sector, details of air emissions other than GHG is not material to us
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
 Not applicable.
6. Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:
415
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Parameter Unit FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
Total Scope 1 emissions Metric tonnes of CO2 CH4 N2O CO2 CH4 N2O
(Break-up of the GHG CO2 equivalent Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions
into CO2, CH4, N2O, (Tonnes) (Tonnes) (Tonnes) (Tonnes) (Tonnes) (Tonnes)
HFCs, PFCs,
SF6, NF3, if available)
20,771.60 46.46 58.92 5796.92 0.15 0.08
Total 20,876.97 tCO2e Total 5825.68 tCO2e
Total Scope 2 Metric tonnes of
emissions (Break-up CO2 equivalent
of the GHG into CO2,
287,667 300,141
CH4, N2O, HFCs,
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if
available)
Total Scope 1 and Gram of CO2
Scope 2 emissions per equivalent per
0.20 0.20
rupee of turnover unit income in
rupee
Total Scope 1 and tCO2e per Full
Scope 2 emission Time Employee
intensity (optional) Please refer GHG Emissions and Climate Change details in the Environment section
- the relevant metric of the Integrated Report for FY 22 for emissions per FTE.
may be selected by the
entity
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes. Please refer the ‘About the Report’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
7. Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
Yes. Please refer to details of our initiatives in the Environment section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
8. Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A) N.A. N.A.
E-waste (B) Please refer Waste Management Please refer the Environment section
details in the Environment section of FY 2020-21 IR.
the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Bio-medical waste (C) N.A. N.A.
Construction and demolition waste (D) N.A. N.A.
Battery waste (E) N.A. N.A.
Radioactive waste (F) N.A. N.A.
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G) N.A. N.A.
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). N.A. N.A.
Please specify, if any. (Break-up by composition
i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H) Please refer Waste Management Please refer the Environment section
details in the Environment section of of the Integrated Report for FY 21 for
the Integrated Report for FY 22. e-waste recycled.
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or
other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
416
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Parameter FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Category of waste
(i) Recycled Please refer Waste Management Please refer the Environment section
details in the Environment section of of the Integrated Report for FY 21 for
the Integrated Report for FY 22. e-waste recycled.
(ii) Re-used Not available Not available
(iii) Other recovery operations Not available Not available
Total
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Incineration Not available Not available
(ii) Landfilling Not available Not available
(iii) Other disposal operations Please refer the Environment section Please refer the Environment section
of the Integrated Report for FY 22 of the Integrated Report for FY 21 for
for e-waste recycled e-waste recycled
Total Not available Not available
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
 Yes. Please refer the ‘About the Report’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
9. Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted
by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the
practices adopted to manage such wastes.
 Please refer to the Waste Management section as part of the Environment section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
10. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where
environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
 Not applicable.
11. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in
the current financial year:
 Not applicable.
12. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection
act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
 Not applicable.
417
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
1. Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable
sources, in the following format:
Parameter FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A) N.A. N.A.
Total fuel consumption (B) N.A. N.A.
Energy consumption through other sources (C) N.A. N.A.
Total energy consumed from renewable sources N.A. N.A.
(A+B+C)
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D) Please refer GHG Emissions and Please refer GHG Emissions and
Climate Change details in the Climate Change details in the
Environment section of the Integrated Environment section of the Integrated
Report for FY22 Report for FY22
Total fuel consumption (E) Please refer GHG Emissions and Please refer GHG Emissions and
Climate Change details in the Climate Change details in the
Environment section of the Integrated Environment section of the Integrated
Report for FY22 Report for FY22
Energy consumption through other sources (F) N.A. N.A.
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources Please refer GHG Emissions Please refer GHG Emissions and
(D+E+F) and Climate Change details in Climate Change details in the
the Environment section of the Environment section of the Integrated
Integrated Report for FY22 Report for FY22
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
 Please refer ‘About the Report’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
2. Provide the following details related to water discharged:
 Not applicable.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
 Not applicable
3. Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
 Not applicable
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
 Not applicable
418
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
4. Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter Unit FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
(Current Financial (Previous Financial
Year) Year)
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent 42,697 9,174.35
into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if
available)
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of Gram per CO2 per rupee 0.03 0.01
turnover income
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) - the tCO2/FTE 0.3 0.08
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
 Please refer ‘About the Report’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
5. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention
and remediation activities.
 Given the nature of our business, we do not have significant direct impacts on biodiversity. However we do ensure that
the large industrial, infrastructure projects we lend to, are compliant to all environmental regulations, including those linked
to biodiversity. Please refer to ‘Responsible Lending in the section on ‘Environment’ in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
6. If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of
the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Sr. No Initiative undertaken Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be provided Outcome of the initiative
along-with summary)
Please refer Managing waste
details in the ‘Environment’
section in the Integrated Report
for FY22.
7. Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
 Yes, please refer to the ‘Business Continuity Plan’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
8. Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
 Please refer to the Responsible lending details of the ‘Environment’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
9. Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for
environmental impacts.
 Please refer to the Responsible lending details of the ‘Environment’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a
manner that is responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
1. a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations: 1
419
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such
body) the entity is a member of / affiliated to:
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ Reach of trade and industry chambers/ associations (State/National)
associations
Indian Banks’ Association National
2. Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti- competitive conduct by the
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities
 Not applicable
Name of authority Brief of the case Corrective action taken
N.A. N.A.
Leadership Indicators
1. Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
S. No. Public policy advocated Method resorted Whether Frequency of Web Link, if
for such advocacy information Review by Board available
available in public (Annually / Half
domain? (Yes/No) yearly / Quarterly
/ Others - please
specify)
Not applicable. The Bank does not engage in policy advocacy.
PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1. Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the
current financial year.
Name and brief details of project SIA Date of Whether conducted Results Relevant
Notification notification by independent communicated Web link
No. external agency in public domain
(Yes / No) (Yes / No)
Holistic Rural Development Program (HRDP) Yes (Basic Paradigm) No
in district Samastipur, Bihar implemented by
Integrated Development Foundation
Holistic Rural Development Program (HRDP) Yes (Basic Paradigm) No
in district Pune, Maharashtra implemented by
Krushi Vikas Va Gramin Prashikshan Sanstha
Holistic Rural Development Program (HRDP) Yes (N R Management No
in district Jirang, Meghalaya implemented Consultants India Ltd.)
by Society for Action in Community Health
(SACH)
Holistic Rural Development Program (HRDP) Yes (N R Management No
in districts Ludhiana and Moga, Punjab Consultants India Ltd.)
implemented by Society for Action in
Community Health (SACH)
Focused Development Program (FDP) in Yes (N R Management No
dsitricts Angul and Dhenkanal, Odisha Consultants India Ltd.)
implemented by Access Development
Services
Holistic Rural Development Program (HRDP) in Yes (TRIOs No
district Katni, Madhya Pradesh implemented Development Services
by Haritika (P) Ltd.)
420
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Name and brief details of project SIA Date of Whether conducted Results Relevant
Notification notification by independent communicated Web link
No. external agency in public domain
(Yes / No) (Yes / No)
Sustainable Livelihood Initiative (SLI) program Yes (Centre for Digital No
implemented by HDFC Bank Finance and Inclusion,
IFMR)
2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken
by your entity, in the following format:
 Not applicable
3. Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
 Please refer to our initiatives in the ‘Social - Communities’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
4. Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers The only material input for our N.A.
sector is paper. Hence this question
is not applicable/ material to us
Sourced directly from within the district and neighbouring N.A. N.A.
districts
Leadership Indicators
1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified Corrective action taken
N.A. N.A.
2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts
as identified by government bodies:
S. State Aspirational District Amount spent (In INR)
No.
1 Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, N.A.
Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha,
Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu
3.
(a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase No.
from suppliers comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
(b) From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure? N.A.
(c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? N.A.
4. Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in
the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
 Not applicable
5. Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
 Not applicable
421
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
6. Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S. CSR Project No. of persons benefitted % of beneficiaries from
No. from CSR Projects vulnerable and marginalized
groups
Please refer ‘Social- Communities’ section of the Integrated Please refer ‘Social- N.A.
Report. Communities ‘section of
the Integrated Report.
PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible
manner
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
 Please refer Customer Satisfaction details in ‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
2. Turnover of products and services as a percentage of turnover from all products/services that carry information about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product N.A.
Safe and responsible usage N.A.
Recycling and/or safe disposal N.A.
3. Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2021-22 Remarks FY 2020-21 Remarks
Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
Received Pending Received Pending
during the resolution at during the resolution at
year end of year year end of year
Data privacy 46 0
Cyber-security 0 0
4. Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls N.A. N.A.
Forced recalls N.A. N.A.
5. Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available,
provide a web-link of the policy.
 Yes. Please refer to the ‘Cybersecurity’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls;
penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
There continues to be one IPR-related civil suit filed by an actress / model i.e. Surbhi Puranik Vs. MASH Audio Visuals Pvt. Ltd.,
Delhi High Court CS(COMM) 205/2017, for using her images, without her consent, to promote the Bank’s gold loan product
in FY 2017-18. This case is still ongoing and is now listed on September 15, 2022.
422
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Leadership Indicators
1. Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web
link, if available).
2. Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
Please refer to the Corporate Commitment and Citizens Charter in the webpage https://v1.hdfcbank.com/assets/pdf/citizens_
charter/English.pdf for steps taken on informing and educating our customers.
3. Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
 Please refer to the Business Continuity Plan in our website: https://v1.hdfcbank.com/assets/pdf/Business_Continuity_
Plan.pdf
4. Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws?
(Yes/No/Not Applicable)
 No
If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating
to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a
whole? (Yes/No)
 Yes. Please refer to Customer centricity section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
5. Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a. Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact
 None
b. Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
 None
423
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Shareholder Information
A) DIVIDENDS In case dividend paid by electronic mode is returned or rejected
by the corresponding bank due to any reason then the Bank
Receipt of Dividends through Electronic mode will issue a dividend warrant and print the bank account details
available in its records on the said dividend warrant to avoid
The SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
fraudulent encashment of the warrants. The dividend warrant
Regulations, 2015 have directed that listed companies shall
will be dispatched by the R&T agent at the registered address
mandatorily make all payments to investors including dividend
of the shareholder.
to shareholders, by using any RBI approved electronic mode of
payment viz., National Automated Clearing House (NACH), Direct
Transfer of Equity Shares to Investor Education
Credit, Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS), National Electronic
and Protection Fund (IEPF) Authority
Fund Transfer (NEFT), etc.
Pursuant to the applicable provisions of Section 124(6) of
In order to receive the dividend without loss of time (as and
the Companies Act, 2013, all equity shares in respect of
when declared by the Bank), all the eligible shareholders holding
which dividend has / have remained unpaid or unclaimed for
shares in demat mode are requested to update with their
consecutive seven (7) years, the corresponding equity shares
respective Depository Participants, their correct core banking
have been transferred in the name of IEPF Authority as notified
account number, including 9 digit MICR Code and 11 digit
by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), Government of
IFSC Code, e-mail ID and Mobile No(s). This will facilitate the
India. The MCA has also notified the applicability of Section
remittance of the dividend amount as directed by SEBI directly
124(6) along with the Investor Education and Protection Fund
in the bank account electronically. Updation of e-mail IDs and
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016
Mobile No(s) will also enable sending communication relating to
with effect from September 7, 2016, as amended from time
credit of dividend, unencashed dividend etc.
to time (collectively the “IEPF Rules”). As per said IEPF Rules,
Shareholders holding shares in physical form may communicate companies are required to transfer the equity shares to IEPF
details relating to their core banking account, viz., core banking Authority where seven (7) years as provided under Section 124(5)
account number, including 9 digit MICR Code and 11 digit IFSC of the Companies Act, 2013 have been completed and upon
Code, e-mail ID and Mobile No(s) to the Registrars & Transfer completion of three (3) months from the date of the notification
Agents (R&T agent) viz., Datamatics Business Solutions Limited of the IEPF Rules, as stated hereinabove.
having address at Plot No. B 5, Part B Crosslane, MIDC, Marol,
In compliance with the aforesaid provision on November 30,
Andheri (E), Mumbai-400 093, by quoting the reference folio
2017, your Bank has transferred 5,524,448 equity shares to the
number and attaching a photocopy of the Cheque leaf of their
IEPF Authority, MCA account (IEPF) bearing demat account no
active core banking account along with a self-attested copy
12047200 13676780 which is opened with SBI CAP Securities
of their PAN card and a self-attested copy of any one of the
Ltd as Depository Participant under the Central Depository
documents mentioned hereafter: utility payment bills (not more
Services (India) Limited (CDSL). As required under the said
than three months old) / bank pass book / passport / driving
provisions, all subsequent corporate benefits that may accrue
license to validate their present address.
in relation to the above shares will also be credited to the IEPF
Various modes for making payment of dividend under Authority. Your Bank has further transferred 828,846 equity
electronic mode: shares, 710,122 equity shares and 144,206 equity shares to the
IEPF account on April 12, 2019, August 30, 2019 and August 25,
In case, the shareholder has updated core banking account
2020, respectively. During the year ended March 31, 2022, your
details (including 9 digit MICR Code and 11 digit IFSC code) for
Bank has further transferred 348,171 equity shares to the IEPF
the purpose of payment of dividend (as and when declared by
account on September 15, 2021. The IEPF Authority, till March
the Bank), then the Bank shall make the payment of dividend to
31, 2022, transferred 687,330 equity shares against the claims
such shareholder under any one of the following modes:
received by them from the shareholders. (Share figures reported
1. National Automated Clearing House (NACH) are of the face value of ` 1.00 each).
2. Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) As per the terms of Section 124(6) of the Companies Act,
2013 and Rule 7 of the IEPF Rules, the shareholders whose
3. National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT)
corresponding equity shares of the face value of ` 1.00 each
4. Direct credit in case the shareholders have an active Bank stand transferred to IEPF account can claim those shares from
account with HDFC Bank Limited (Direct Credit). IEPF Authority by making an online application in Form IEPF-5
which is available at https://www.iepf.gov.in.
424
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
Guidelines to file your claim Dividend for the year Date of Declaration of Last date for claiming
ended dividend dividend
• For claiming the shares and dividend from the IEPF Authority, March 31, 2015 July 21, 2015 July 20, 2022
shareholders can make an online web based application March 31, 2016 July 21, 2016 July 20, 2023
through MCA portal. Shareholders need to register March 31, 2017 July 24, 2017 July 23, 2024
themselves on MCA portal by creating Login ID credentials. March 31, 2018 June 29, 2018 June 28, 2025
After successful login into MCA portal, shareholders have March 31, 2019 July 12, 2019 July 11, 2026
to click on "MCA Services" tab and choose "IEPF-5" option Special Interim July 20, 2019 July 19, 2026
Dividend 2019-2020
under “Investor Services” and follow the due process for
March 31, 2021 July 17, 2021 July 16, 2028
filing the form.
• Printout of the duly filled Form IEPF-5 with claimant B) SHARES LYING IN UNCLAIMED SUSPENSE
and joint holders’ (if any) signature and along with the ACCOUNT
acknowledgment issued after uploading the form will
Records / No. Equity Shares (Face
have to be submitted together with an indemnity bond Particulars
of shareholders value of ` 1.00 each)
in original, cancelled Cheque leaf of active bank account
Opening Balance as on 4,009 1,669,878
(details of which are mentioned by the claimant at the time April 1, 2021
of uploading the web-based form), and other documents Less: Claims received and 143 81320
as mentioned in Form IEPF-5 to the Nodal Officer (IEPF) shares transferred *
of the Bank in an envelope marked “Claim for refund from Less: Shares transferred to 663 211760
IEPF account
IEPF Authority”. Certain information about the Bank which
Closing Balance as on 3203 1,376,798
will have to be submitted are as under:
March 31, 2022 **
(a) Corporate Identification Number (CIN) of the
* Number of shareholders who approached the Bank for the transfer of
Bank: L65920MH1994PLC080618 shares from the suspense account.
** Voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owners
(b) Name of the Bank: HDFC Bank Limited of such shares claim these shares.
(c) Address of registered office of the Bank: HDFC Bank
House, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel (West), Deduction of tax at source on dividend
Mumbai 400013
In terms of the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961, (“the Act”),
(d) Email ID of the Bank: shareholder.grievances@ dividend paid or distributed by a company on or after April 1,
hdfcbank.com 2020 is taxable in the hands of the shareholders. The company
shall therefore be required to deduct tax at source at the time
Unclaimed Dividends of payment of dividend. The deduction of tax at source will be
based on the category of shareholders and subject to fulfilment
As per the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013
of conditions as provided herein below:
read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF
• For Resident shareholders
Rules”), the Bank is statutorily required to transfer to the Investor
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF), all dividends remaining Tax will be deducted at source (“TDS”) under Section 194 of the
unclaimed for a period of seven (7) years from the date they Act @ 10% on the amount of dividend payable unless exempt
became due for payment. Dividends for and up to the financial under any of the provisions of the Act. However, in case of
year ended March 31, 2014 have already been transferred to resident shareholders, TDS would not apply if the aggregate of
the IEPF and the dividend for the financial year ended March total dividend distributed/paid to them by the company during a
31, 2015 will be transferred to the IEPF around August 31, 2022. financial year does not exceed ` 5,000.
The details of unclaimed dividends for the financial year ended
Tax will not be deducted at source in cases where a shareholder
2015 onwards and the last date for claiming such dividends are
provides Form 15G (applicable to all individuals) / Form 15H
given hereinafter:
(applicable to an individual above the age of 60 years), provided
425
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Shareholder Information
that the eligibility conditions are satisfied. Please note that all • For non-resident shareholders (including
fields mentioned in the aforesaid forms are mandatory Foreign Portfolio Investors)
and the Bank may reject the forms submitted, if they do
Tax is required to be withheld in accordance with the provisions
not fulfil the requirement of the law.
of Sections 195 and 196D of the Act at applicable rates in
Needless to mention, valid Permanent Account Number (“PAN”) force. As per the relevant provisions of the Act, the tax shall be
will be mandatorily required. Shareholders who are required withheld @ 20% (plus applicable surcharge and cess) on the
to link Aadhaar number with PAN as required under Section amount of dividend payable. However, as per Section 90 of the
139AA(2) read with Rule 114AAA, should compulsorily link the Act, a non-resident shareholder has the option to be governed
same. If, as required under the law, any PAN is found to have not by the provisions of the Double Tax Avoidance Agreement
been linked with Aadhaar, then such PAN will be inoperative and (“DTAA”) between India and the country of tax residence of the
tax would be deducted at a higher rate under Section 206AA shareholder, if they are more beneficial to the shareholder. For
of the Act. The Bank reserves its right to recover any demand this purpose, i.e. to avail the DTAA benefits, the non-resident
raised subsequently on the Bank for not informing the Bank shareholder will have to provide the following:
or providing wrong information about applicability of Section
i. Self-attested copy of PAN card, if any, allotted by the Indian
206AA in your case.
Income Tax Authorities
Nil / lower tax shall be deducted on the dividend payable to
ii. Self-attested copy of Tax Residency Certificate (“TRC”)
following resident shareholders on submission of self-declaration
obtained from the tax authorities of the country of which
as listed below:
the shareholder is resident
i. Insurance companies: Declaration that the provisions of
iii. Self-declaration in Form 10F
Section 194 of the Act are not applicable to them along with
self-attested copy of registration certificate and PAN card. iv. Self-declaration by the non-resident shareholder of meeting
DTAA eligibility requirement and satisfying beneficial
ii. Mutual Funds: Declaration by Mutual Fund shareholder
ownership requirement (Non-resident having PE in India
eligible for exemption under section 10(23D) of the Act
would need to comply with provisions of section 206AB of
along with self-attested copy of registration documents
the IT Act)
and PAN card.
v. In case of Foreign Portfolio Investors, self-attested copy of
iii. Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) established in
SEBI registration certificate.
India: Declaration that the shareholder is eligible for
exemption under section 10(23FBA) of the Act and they vi. In case of shareholder being tax resident of Singapore,
are established as Category I or Category II AIF under please furnish the letter issued by the competent authority
the applicable SEBI regulations, along with copy of self- or any other evidences demonstrating the non-applicability
attested registration documents and PAN card. of Article 24 - Limitation of Relief under India-Singapore
Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA)
iv. New Pension System Trust: Declaration along with self-
attested copy of documentary evidence supporting the Application of beneficial DTAA rate shall depend upon the
exemption and self-attested copy of PAN card. completeness and satisfactory review by the Bank, of the
documents submitted by non-resident shareholders and
v. Other shareholders: Declaration along with self-attested
meeting requirements of the Act read with applicable DTAA. It
copy of documentary evidence supporting the exemption
must be ensured that self-declaration should be addressed to
and self-attested copy of PAN card.
HDFC Bank and should be in the prescribed format. In absence
vi. Shareholders who have provided a valid certificate issued of the same, the Bank will not be obligated to apply the beneficial
under section 197 of the Act for lower / nil rate of deduction DTAA rate at the time of tax deduction on dividend.
or an exemption certificate issued by the Income Tax
authorities along with declaration.
426
Introduction to Our How We Our Responsible Statutory Reports and
Overview HDFC Bank Performance Create Value Strategy Business Financial Statements
• Section 206AB of the Act Aforesaid rates will be subject to applicability of section 206AB
of the Act.
Rate of TDS @10% under Section 194 of the Act is subject to
provisions of Section 206AB of the Act which provides for TDS In terms of Rule 37BA of the Income Tax Rules, 1962, if dividend
in respect of non-filers of income-tax return. As provided in income on which tax has been deducted at source is assessable
Section 206AB, tax is required to be deducted at the highest of in the hands of a person other than the deductee, then such
following rates in case of payments to specified persons: deductee should file declaration with the Bank in the manner
prescribed by the said rules.
- at twice the rate specified in the relevant provision of
the Act; or In case tax on dividend is deducted at a higher rate in the
absence of receipt or defect in any of the aforementioned details
- at twice the rate or rates in force; or
/ documents, you will be able to claim refund of the excess
- at the rate of 5%. tax deducted by filing your income tax return. No claim shall lie
against the Bank for such taxes deducted.
As per Central Board of Direct Taxes vide Circular No. 11 of 2021
dated June 21, 2021, for determining TDS rate on dividend, the
Updation of Bank account details
Bank will be using functionality of the Income-tax department to
determine the applicability of Section 206AB of the Act. While on the subject, we request you to submit / update your
bank account details with your Depository Participant, in case
To summarise, dividend will be paid after deducting the tax at
you are holding shares in the electronic form. In case your
source as under:
shareholding is in the physical form, you will have to submit a
i. Nil for resident shareholders receiving dividend upto scanned copy of a covering letter mentioning the folio number,
` 5,000/- or in case Form 15G / Form 15H (as applicable) duly signed by you, along with a cancelled cheque leaf with your
along with self-attested copy of the PAN card is submitted. name and bank account details and a self-attested copy of your
PAN. This will facilitate receipt of dividend directly into your bank
ii. 10% for other resident shareholders in case copy of PAN
account. In case the cancelled cheque leaf does not bear your
card is provided / available.
name, please attach a copy of the bank pass-book statement,
iii. 20% for resident shareholders if copy of PAN card is not duly self-attested.
provided / not available / not linked with Aadhaar Number.
Disclaimer: The information set out herein above is included for
iv. Tax will be assessed on the basis of documents submitted general information purposes only and does not constitute legal
by the non-resident shareholders. or tax advice. Since the tax consequences are dependent on
facts and circumstances of each case, the investors are advised
v. 20% plus applicable surcharge and cess for non-
to consult their own tax consultant with respect to specific tax
resident shareholders in case the relevant documents are
implications arising out of receipt of dividend.
not submitted.
vi. Lower / Nil TDS on submission of self-attested copy of the
valid certificate issued under Section 197 of the Act.
427
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Registered Office
HDFC Bank House, Senapati Bapat Marg,
Lower Parel (W), Mumbai – 400 013
Tel: + 91 22 6652 1000
Fax: + 91 22 2496 0737
Corporate Identification Number
L65920MH1994PLC080618
Joint Statutory Auditors (FY22)
MSKA & Associates, Chartered Accountants
M.M. Nissim & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants
Registrars & Transfer Agents
Datamatics Business Solutions Limited
Plot No. B 5, Part B Crosslane, MIDC, Marol,
Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 093
Tel: + 91 22 6671 2213/14
Fax: + 91 22 6671 2011
E-mail: hdinvestors@datamaticsbpm.com
www.hdfcbank.com

Integrated Annual Report 2021-22

What’s Inside
Integrated Report
Financial Statements and Statutory Reports
Key highlights
CSR BENEFICIARIES*
9.6 Cr+
STATES BENEFITTED*
24+
TOTAL BANKING OUTLETS*
21,683
Non-financial
GROSS NON-PERFORMING 
ASSETS (NPAs)
1.17%
Financial
BALANCE SHEET SIZE
`20,68,535 Cr
18.4%
NET PROFIT
`36,961.3 Cr
18.8%
*As on March 31, 2022
HDFC Bank is India's largest private 
sector bank (by Balance Sheet 
size). Our sound fundamentals, 
extensive distribution network, and 
agile operations have enabled us to 
seamlessly transition into the ‘new 
normal’ of a post-pandemic world. 
We are consistently innovating 
our products and processes to 
cater to the evolving needs of our 
customers. 
Overview
Leading Responsibly
1
About the Report
2
Highlights
4
Introduction to HDFC Bank
Our Presence
6
Our Journey
8
Our Performance
Message from the MD & CEO
10
Financial Performance
16
Business Segments
18
Emerging Growth Engine
20
How We Create Value
Our Value Creation Model
22
Stakeholder Engagement
24
Materiality Assessment
28
Directors’ Report
132
Independent Auditor’s Report 
for Standalone Financials 
211
Balance Sheet
220
Profit and Loss Account
221
Cash Flow Statement
222
Schedules to the 
Financial Statements
223
Independent Auditor’s Report 
for Consolidated Financials 
298
Consolidated Balance Sheet
308
Consolidated Profit and 
Loss Account
309
Consolidated Cash 
Flow Statement
310
Schedules to the 
Consolidated Statements
311
Basel III - Pillar 3 Disclosures
360
Statement Pursuant to 
section 129
361
Certificate on 
Corporate Governance
362
Corporate Governance
365
Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
394
Shareholder information
424
Our Strategy
Strategy in Action
32
External Environment
42
Risk Management
46
Business Continuity 
Management, Information  
& Cyber Security Practices
52
Responsible Business
Environment
56
Customer Centricity
74
Digitisation
78
Social - People
80
Social - Communities
94
Nation Building
106
Governance
112
Board of Directors
116
Senior Management Team
118
10 year Financial Highlights
120
Awards
122
Assurance Statement
123
GRI Index
126
Online version of the report 
can be accessed here

Leading 
Leadership is as much about responsibility 
as it is about scale and size. It goes much 
beyond offering world-class banking 
products and services and is also about 
creating value for all our stakeholders. This 
means we are embedding ESG aspects 
into our business strategy. As a domestic 
systemically important bank, we feel this 
responsibility even more. 
We have pledged to become carbon neutral by 
FY32. Lending decisions are being increasingly 
put through the Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) lens and greater emphasis is 
being laid on green financing solutions.
At the same time, we are undertaking focused 
interventions that are making meaningful 
contributions to global sustainable development 
goals around reducing poverty, achieving zero 
hunger, providing clean water and sanitation, 
quality education, and building sustainable 
communities. 
Leveraging our unmatched physical network and 
robust digital capabilities, we are expanding our 
Responsibly
stakeholder universe where the real and virtual 
worlds converge seamlessly, and more people 
are brought into the economic mainstream. The 
unprecedented challenges of the past two years 
notwithstanding, we have made steady progress 
on our sustainability targets. 
We believe in leading by example. Responsibility, 
thus, begins with us. We are deploying technology 
as a force multiplier and anchoring all our actions 
to the highest possible standards of Corporate 
Governance. Together with our stakeholders, we 
are building the bank of the future that can stand 
the test of time. 

About the Report
This Integrated Annual Report for 2021-
22 provides insight into the process 
followed by the Bank as it endeavours to 
deliver on its purpose. It provides a holistic 
assessment of the Bank’s financial and 
non-financial performance. It also outlines 
relevant information on the Bank’s strategy, 
governance, risks and prospects to offer 
better insights into its activities and progress.
Reporting principles and framework
The financial information presented in this 
report is in line with the requirements of
	·
The Companies Act, 2013 (including the 
rules made thereunder)
	·
The Companies (Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2006
	·
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015
	·
The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and 
other relevant RBI regulations
The report has been prepared in accordance 
with the <IR> framework prescribed by 
the International Integrated Reporting 
Council (IIRC) and also contains disclosures 
as per the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Standards: Comprehensive option, 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD), Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report (BRSR) and United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN 
SDGs).
There are no restatements of information 
provided in the integrated report during the 
reporting year. However the changes in the 
GHG accounting methodology from FY21 are 
documented on pages 59-61.
Materiality and scope
This report includes information which is 
material to all stakeholders of the Bank 
and provides an overview of its business 
and related activities. The report discloses 
matters that substantially impact or affect 
the Bank’s ability to create value and could 
influence decisions of providers of financial 
capital. In FY19 we conducted a materiality 
assessment in line with GRI requirements 
through consultations with internal and 
external stakeholders. Subsequently, in FY21, 
we have refreshed our materiality study to 
consider emerging topics of interest within 
the ESG domain. The GRI Content Index, 
which specifies the GRI Standards and 
disclosures made under them in the Report, 
has been provided in this report.
Reporting boundary
The non-financial information in this report 
covers the activities and progress of the Bank 
on a standalone basis. It covers information 
pertaining to the period from April 1, 2021 to 
March 31, 2022.
Assurance statement
The report has also been externally assured 
by an independent third party, based on ISAE 
3000 (Revised).
Responsibility statement
The content of this report has been reviewed 
by the senior management of the Bank, and 
reviewed and approved by the Board of 
Directors to ensure accuracy, completeness 
and relevance of the information presented 
in line with the principles and requirements 
of the International Integrated Reporting 
Framework.
Governance over integrated 
reporting process
The 2022 Integrated Report is prepared 
through the joint effort of a cross-functional 
team, led by the Bank’s Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO), representing various 
departments as well as subject matter 
experts. The information is collated from 
Senior Management and Board discussions 
and decisions as well as inputs taken from 
internal stakeholders. Several drafts of the 
report are produced with oversight from the 
department heads and the CFO. Members 
of Bank’s Senior Management team and the 
Board are involved in the various approval 
processes, which are also supported by 
the oversight provided by independent 
assurance providers.
Our purpose
Integrated thinking and delivery 
on our purpose 
Our integrated reporting process 
Vision
Values
Short- , medium- and 
long-term outlook 
Financial 
and non-
financial targets 
Risks 
Opportunities
Board 
committees 
Leadership 
team and Senior 
Management 
We exist to help 
every Indian make 
better money 
choices, today 
and tomorrow
Identifying 
material 
matters 
Devising 
our strategic 
priorities 
Delivering 
on strategy 
Integrated 
Reporting (IR) 
framework
Reporting 
standards 
Report  
compilation 
Assurance  
model 
Board and Senior 
Management review 
Validating  
integrity of 
the report 
Senior 
Management 
sign-off
Board 
approval 
Integrated  
report  
approval 
2

Financial  
Capital
Our disciplined and 
researched approach 
towards raising, lending 
and managing our financial 
capital forms the backbone 
of our strong capital base 
and consistent shareholder 
returns. Our financial capital 
includes customer deposits, 
shareholder equity, retained 
earnings and external 
borrowings, among others.
 PG 16 
Human  
Capital
Our people and culture are 
fundamental to our success. 
Their collective knowledge, 
diverse skill sets and deep 
experience constitute 
our human capital. Our 
people enable us to stay 
agile, adapt to changing 
times, innovate and deliver 
competitive solutions. 
 PG 80 
Social &  
Relationship Capital
We take a holistic approach 
to sustainable value creation 
by nurturing our long-
standing relationships with 
our stakeholders. We are 
cognisant of the role we 
play as a Bank in nation-
building and contribute 
responsibly to the economy. 
The way we manage our 
stakeholder expectations 
constitutes our social and 
relationship capital.
 PG 94 
Manufactured  
Capital
Our pan-India distribution 
network of banking 
outlets, corporate offices, 
ATMs and other customer 
touch points, facilitates 
our engagement with 
customers, people, 
the society and other 
stakeholders and forms the 
core of our manufactured 
capital. It also covers our 
robust IT infrastructure and 
data centres.
 PG 6 
Natural  
Capital
The use of natural resources 
in our operations and the 
delivery of our products 
and services constitute 
our natural capital. Natural 
resources include energy 
and water consumed, waste 
generated and the impact 
of our business activities 
on the climate and the 
environment.
 PG 56 
Intellectual  
Capital
Our Digital and Enterprise 
Factory along with our 
hybrid cloud strategy 
enables us to serve our 
customers and other 
stakeholders efficiently. The 
knowledge and expertise 
incorporated within our 
systems, processes and 
procedures and the equity 
built in the HDFC Bank 
brand, constitute our 
intellectual capital.
 PG 78 
Our Capitals
Our stakeholders
How to navigate the report
We have used the icons below to aid navigation and cross-referencing across the report.
Customers
Investors
Community
Government/ 
Regulatory 
Bodies
Suppliers
Employees
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
3

Highlights
Creating value
for our stakeholders
Customers are key to our business. 
Our decisions revolve around meeting 
the financial needs and aspirations 
of our diverse customer base. Our 
customers include individuals, 
MSMEs, large and mid-corporates, 
financial institutions, Governments, 
PSUs, farmers, wholesalers, 
merchants and traders.
6,342^
BRANCHES**
7.1 Cr+
CUSTOMERS**
H13,68,821 Cr
TOTAL ADVANCES**
20.8%*
Customers
1,41,579
TOTAL EMPLOYEES**    
H1,262.23 Lakh
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT 
EXPENDITURE
144 Lakh+
PERSON HOURS -  
TRAINING IN FY22
Our people are our key assets and 
enablers of growth. We strive to create 
an inclusive, meritocratic culture that 
ensures progress, development and 
well-being of our people. 
Employees 
We pursue long-term value creation for all our 
stakeholders. We are continuously adapting to a 
changing environment and are geared to provide 
relevant solutions that address the evolving needs 
and expectations of our stakeholders. 
*Y-o-Y
**As on March 31, 2022
^Including 4 overseas Branches
4

We pursue sustained growth and 
stable shareholder returns to create 
investor value. We provide holistic, 
transparent and regular disclosures 
to enable informed decision-making. 
We also regularly engage with 
our investors to provide detailed 
information on our performance.
H36,961.3 Cr
NET PROFIT 
16.9%
RETURN ON CAPITAL (%)
18.9%
CAPITAL ADEQUACY 
RATIO
AA#
MSCI ESG RATINGS 
ASSESSMENT    
Investors 
We are committed to sustainability of 
the communities we operate in. Our 
CSR initiatives under HDFC Bank 
Parivartan aim to contribute towards 
the socio-economic development of 
the country by benefitting lives and 
livelihoods.
H736.01 Cr
SPENT ON CSR IN FY22   
9.6 Cr+ 
CSR BENEFICIARIES**
24 
STATES COVERED 
THROUGH PARIVARTAN
Community
15,341
TOTAL NO. OF BUSINESS 
CORRESPONDENTS (BCs), PRIMARILY 
MANNED BY COMMON SERVICE CENTRES 
(CSC)**
We continue to lead responsibly by 
partnering and collaborating with the 
Central and State Governments, to 
implement their schemes for the less 
privileged sections of the society. We 
are a responsible taxpayer and comply 
with applicable regulations.
Government/ 
Regulatory Bodies 
#As of August 2021
H6,33,582.37 Cr 
TOTAL DIRECT (CBDT) AND INDIRECT 
TAXES (GST & CBIC) COLLECTED FOR THE 
GOVERNMENT 
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
5

Our Presence
Unparalleled reach
HDFC Bank has a distribution network 
spanning the length and breadth of 
India. Our presence across the country, 
not only enables us to serve customers 
better, but also facilitates active 
participation in the Nation’s inclusive 
development agenda. The Bank’s 
overseas branches and representative 
offices help us serve NRI customers. 
The Bank's network includes Banking Outlets comprising 
Branches and Business Correspondents (BCs), ATMs/
Cash Deposit and Withdrawal Machines (CDMs). We are 
leveraging the power of our 6,342 branches to not only serve 
the customers better, but also exponentially increase our 
sourcing of loans and deposits from deeper geographies. 
As the financial services industry rapidly adopts and 
implements digitisation, our innovative mindset is helping 
us develop new capabilities. We have introduced products, 
increased capabilities and competencies through Digital 
Factory, Enterprise Factory and Enterprise IT, and continue 
to enhance the anywhere banking experience for our 
customers.
TOTAL BANKING OUTLETS*
21,683
TOTAL BUSINESS 
CORRESPONDENTS (BCs)*
15,341
TOTAL ATMs + CASH DEPOSIT 
AND WITHDRAWAL MACHINES*
18,130
TOTAL BRANCHES*
6,342^
Manufactured Capital
*As on March 31, 2022
^Including 4 overseas branches
6

Pan-India presence
Banking Outlets
Branches
CSC BCs
Other BCs
ATMs + cash 
deposit 
and withdrawal 
machines
Rural
12,099
1,147
10,748
204
1,307
Semi-urban
5,033
2,036
2,909
88
4,529
Urban
2,248
1,312
933
3
4,824
Metro
2,299
1,843
456
-
7,470
 LIVES IMPACTED 
9.6 Cr+ 
NO. OF HOUSEHOLDS REACHED
9.88 Lakh+
WATER CONSERVATION 
STRUCTURES
10,500+
VILLAGES COVERED UNDER OUR 
HOLISTIC RURAL DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAMME (HRDP)*
3,335+
Enabler for CSR initiatives under HDFC Bank 
Parivartan
Our nation-wide presence deepens our knowledge and 
understanding of regions including semi-urban and 
rural regions. We leverage this to drive our sustainable 
development agenda and empower communities across the 
country, including the less-privileged sections of the society.
International presence
The Bank has global footprints by way of representative 
offices and branches in countries like Bahrain, Hong Kong, 
UAE and Kenya. We offer NRI clients Offshore Deposits, 
Bonds, Equity, Mutual Funds, Treasury and Structured 
products offered by third parties from Bahrain Branch. We 
also cater to Corporate clients by offering products such as 
trade credits, foreign currency term loans including external 
commercial borrowings (ECBs) and derivatives for hedging 
purposes. As on March 31, 2022, the Balance Sheet size 
of International Business was US$7.66 Billion. Advances 
constituted 3.12% of the Bank’s gross advances. 
Nairobi 
(Kenya)
Abu 
Dhabi
Hong Kong
India
Manama
*As on March 31, 2022
CONTRIBUTION OF OVERSEAS BRANCHES  
TO THE BANK’S TOTAL INCOME IN FY22
0.55%
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
7

Our Journey
Major milestones
1994
Housing Development Finance 
Corporation (HDFC) received an  
in-principle approval from the RBI 
to set up a private sector bank
Incorporated in August 1994 as 
HDFC Bank Limited
1995
Banking license received in  
January 1995
First corporate office and  
branch opened
IPO oversubscribed 55 times 
Listed on BSE and NSE
1997
Maiden dividend announced
1997-98
New logo launched
1999
Launched first international Debit 
Card in India in association with 
Visa International
Began its digital journey by  
launching online real-time 
NetBanking.
First ever mega merger in Indian 
banking industry – Times Bank 
merged with HDFC Bank
2000
A Bank with many firsts
First Bank to launch Mobile Banking 
in India
Launched first SMS–based Mobile 
Banking
2001
Overseas listing
Listed on New York Stock Exchange 
(NYSE)
Became the first private bank 
authorised to collect income tax
2002
ISO 9001 certification for 
depository and custodial services
2003-04
First bank in India to offer Credit 
Card in 100+ cities
Touched 10 Lakh users
2006
Two new cards launched 
exclusively for women on 
International Women’s Day
2008
Launched first overseas 
commercial branch in Bahrain
Merged with Centurion Bank 
of Punjab in one of the largest 
mergers in the Indian banking 
industry
2010
Launched 40% faster ATMs – first 
of its kind in Asia
2011
Growing market leadership
Expanded customer base to 
become market leaders in Auto 
Loans, Personal Loans and Credit 
Cards
2012
Launched MobileBanking App 
in Hindi
Launched premium Credit Cards 
for doctors
Launched a nation-wide sports 
initiative – Josh Unlimited, for 
employees
2013
The Bank’s Sustainable 
Livelihood Initiative (SLI) crosses 
a milestone, impacting 20 Lakh 
households
2014
Sustainability established as a 
core value of the Bank
Created a new Guinness World 
Record for organising the largest 
single-day blood donation drive
Became market leader in issuing 
Credit Cards in 2013-14 with 55 
Lakh+ Cards
2015
Launched its sonic branding i.e. 
Musical Logo (MOGO) to be used 
across multiple touch points
Launched PayZapp, India’s first 
1-click mobile-pay solution
Launched 10-second personal loan 
disbursement in the retail lending 
space
Concurrent QIP issue and 
Follow-on offering
`9,723 Cr
2016
Launched Missed Call mobile  
recharge for prepaid mobiles
ATMs turned to LDMs (Loan  
Dispensing Machines)
Launched SmartUp  
programme for start-ups
2017
Introduced AI
Launched IRA (Interactive Robotic 
Assistant) and became the first bank 
in India to introduce a humanoid for 
customer service
Introduced EVA chatbot - India’s 
first AI-based chatbot to provide 
customer service
Launched SmartUp  
Zones for start-ups
Launched EasyEMI on  
Debit Cards
Launched an all-in-one  
DigiPOS machine
2018
Next-gen MobileBanking  
App launched
Driving rural empowerment
Signed MoU with government to 
financially empower 2 Lakh rural 
Indian villages through CSCs
2019
Voted no.1 in India by customers in 
Forbes World's Best Banks Survey
BSE inks pact with the Bank to give 
a boost to the start-up platform
1 Million+ units of blood collected 
via HDFC Bank Parivartan’s Blood 
Donation Drive over a period of  
12 years, primarily from employees 
Opened 5,000th branch
Marked the start of its 25th year
2020
Ranked India’s most valuable 
brand (for the seventh consecutive 
year) by BrandZ Report
Launch of HDFC Bank Millennia 
range of cards 
First ever leadership change 
(new MD & CEO takes over)
First-of-its-kind product launch: 
KGC-Shaurya card for armed forces
Launch of contactless, consent-
based customer on-boarding via 
video KYC facility
Deploying mobile ATMs during the 
lockdown
Launched ‘The HealthyLife’ 
programme with Apollo Hospitals 
for customers and employees
2021
Embarked on Project  
‘Future Ready’
Pledged to become carbon neutral 
by 2031-32
2022
HDFC Bank and HDFC Ltd. 
announce transformational 
merger
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
8
9

Reimagining the future with 
technology and a service first culture
Message from the MD & CEO
Dear Stakeholders,
Let me start by wishing all of you a happy and healthy future. 
The pandemic has clearly reinforced the message that 
Health is Wealth.
If FY21 saw the darkest period of the pandemic, then 
the last financial year was the year of hope. Though the 
pandemic did not disappear, the nationwide roll out of the 
vaccine programme meant that lives were more secure, and 
coupled with precautions, people could get back to some 
degree of normalcy.
With the period of uncertainty mostly behind us, I believe 
a more positive macroeconomic outlook dominates the 
executive agenda, across industries. While there are 
headwinds in the form of rising inflation and the Ukraine 
crisis, among several others, India is expected to grow 7.3% 
and is likely to be the fastest-growing major economy in the 
world in FY23 with the strength to absorb external shocks.
Our Performance
Our Balance Sheet has been resilient during the pandemic 
and has grown further. Our asset quality continues to remain 
healthy and amongst the best in the industry. Our Balance 
Sheet increased by 18.4% to `20,68,535 Cr and Net Profit 
increased by 18.8% to `36,961.3 Cr. GNPA decreased 
to 1.17% from 1.32%. ROA (average) was at a healthy 
2.03% and ROE at a healthy 16.9%. Our commitment to 
shareholders remained high with a proposed dividend pay-
out of `15.50 (Fifteen Rupees Fifty Paise only) per equity 
share of `1 (Rupee 1 only), which translates to a dividend 
pay-out ratio of 23.28% for the financial year ended  
March 31, 2022.
I would like to say a heartfelt ‘Thank You’ to all my 
colleagues for this performance. Each one of the one lakh 
forty-one thousand plus members of the HDFC Bank family 
gave their best in truly challenging times, so we could serve 
you as we have for decades. Words cannot adequately 
convey my gratitude to them.
In my letter to you all last year, I had highlighted my key 
focus areas. Improving technology resilience, a clear focus 
on three Cs — Culture, Conscience and Customer and 
building for the future.
Let me now focus on these.
Technology Resilience
Last year I had said that technology continues to remain 
both a strength as well as an area of improvement. Strength, 
as without this, we could not have grown to be a bank of this 
scale and increased our market share consistently. However, 
our customers faced some technology-related issues in 
accessing the Bank’s products and services during the 
previous year, which had led to some regulatory action, 
last fiscal.
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer,  
HDFC Bank Limited
10

I am happy to inform you that thanks to the progress we 
have made on our technology investments, processes and 
governance, the regulatory actions have been fully lifted. We 
converted the challenge into an opportunity and have made 
substantial strides in the way we evaluate, manage and 
operationalise our technology. To enable the infusion of a 
modern technology platform one needs to lay a very strong 
foundation and we have done that over the last one year, 
through a series of technology-led initiatives that include 
i) changes at the foundational level ii) creating new digital 
solutions iii) modernising the core.
i)	
At the foundational level, we have
A. 	 Shifted our primary data centres to state-of-the-
art brand-new facilities in Mumbai and Bengaluru, 
to support higher uptimes and create a robust IT 
backbone for our operations.
B. 	 A clearly defined capacity monitoring programme to 
proactively manage capacity upgrades across all key 
applications.
C. 	 A technology obsolescence programme management 
office to plan and replace obsolescent components.
D. 	 Started putting in place next-gen disaster recovery (DR) 
set up for key applications.
E. 	 Implemented landing zone architecture to leverage the 
cloud resilience, with elastic scalability, and at the same 
time have control over ecosystem on cloud. 
F. 	
Implemented a new Application Programming Interface 
(API) gateway and a new API development framework.
G. 	 Kick-started modernisation of our data warehouse 
with a cloud-enabled data lake platform, that would 
enable us to leverage AI/ML models and new age deep 
learning capabilities on the rich data set that we have.
ii) 	 Creating new age solutions through Digital 
Factory
A. 	 Rebuilding of our acquisition journeys in partnership 
with a global technology leader in user experience. We 
have already built 10 new journeys and will be rapidly 
rolling out new journeys every 3 weeks. This includes 
journeys across account opening, loans and cards, 
covering both individual/MSME customers and both 
existing and new-to-bank customers.
B. 	 We have launched ‘Xpress Car Loans’ – an end-to-end 
digital car loan journey for existing customers as well as 
non-customers, that allows them to avail disbursement 
in 30 mins, with credit decisions based on speedy 
data analysis. This is a first in the Indian industry and 
the Bank has integrated its lending application with 
automobile dealers across the country.
C. 	 In the next few quarters, we will launch more of our 
products and services under Digital 2.0 including 
a new payments platform for our customers, 
payments platform for our merchants and a 
wealth platform — all in partnerships with new age 
tech companies.
iii) 	 Modernising the core
The digital partnership strategy will help us to modernise 
existing experiences quickly without changing the legacy 
core. It is imperative that the Bank has a long-term vision on 
revamping its core banking and mobile channel experiences. 
Toward this we have created our ‘Enterprise Factory’ 
wherein the Bank’s tech and digital teams work in a new 
age start-up like environment and co-create deep tech IP 
capabilities. This is a departure from the past where our 
technology IP was largely partner-owned and enabled. We 
believe that as banks become more digital, they also need 
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
11

Message from the MD & CEO
to have in-house foundational technology capabilities to 
compete with neo-techs. Toward this, the Bank has started 
two very strategic initiatives:
A. 	 'Hollow the Core' Strategy — The Bank, in partnership 
with a new age start-up (with deep experience in 
core banking technology), is co-creating new core 
banking modules. This project will enable the moving 
out of payments module from existing core banking 
platform and help in creating a fully resilient active-
active payments architecture that will ensure minimal 
payments downtime, even if core banking is not 
available. This 15-month project will be followed by 
hollowing the customer master modules from its 
existing core systems and will ensure a single system of 
record for customers across various products.
B. 	 Rewrite Mobile and NetBanking Applications — The 
Bank has set up a new centre in Bengaluru and the 
team here is re-writing the Mobile and NetBanking 
platforms. The entire project will be completed in a 
2-year time frame and will allow the Bank to own a 
modern cloud enabled Mobile/NetBanking platform. 
Enabling a new age experience for customers, we will 
roll out new features every 3 to 4 weeks, in line with 
digital fintech companies.
To summarise, our entire technology and digital strategy 
adopts a 360-degree approach that ensures resilience and 
modernisation of existing legacy systems and enables new 
age consumer experiences by partnering with modern neo-
techs. We have made rapid strides in creating the foundation 
and enabling new digital assets over the last one year. 
Needless to say, the pace will only pick up from here. Firmly 
committed to this transformation, the Bank will continue to 
invest in modern technology and talent.
Customer Centricity
Customer focus has been a core value for years and 
maintaining the highest possible standards in customer 
service has been the key to our success.
We are institutionalising a Service First culture at the Bank. 
Service First for us means respecting every customer and 
addressing their enquiries or complaints on time/every 
time, and working on the issues raised for a permanent fix. 
Service First for us is a commitment right from me and my 
colleagues to put a smile on our customers’ faces.
We have a two-pronged approach to achieve this. First, a 
culture of evangelisation right from the top and sensitising 
all our colleagues to be at the forefront of solving customer 
issues. Second, a strong measurement metric to be in place 
to continuously know that we are progressing in the right 
direction.
We have invested in tools and technology to ensure that 
some of the issues that customers face do not arise at all. 
For example, our MobileBanking app has been upgraded 
with wrapper technology that prevents fraudsters from 
reading OTPs, thereby preventing frauds and related 
complaints.
A strong bottom-up Net Promoter System (NPS) programme 
(‘Infinite Smiles’) covers customer interactions across all 
products/services and delivery channels. We actively poll 
our customers after their interactions with the Bank (>63 
Million customers polled during the financial year), listen 
to their feedback, and engage with them if we have not 
been up to the mark. I am happy to state that we lead the 
overall NPS ranking among 20+ competitors in the banking 
category, based on a competitive benchmarking study 
of NPS, which was done by an industry-leading 
consultancy firm.
Our performance on complaints resolution has also 
improved markedly during the year with significantly reduced 
customer complaints in the Credit Cards, Debit Cards, 
Operations and Collections front (complaints reduced by 
21%). We are not complacent about the progress and are 
being conscious and mindful of much more that needs 
to improve. We are working on several strategic initiatives 
(like the wrapper technology I mentioned earlier) to tackle 
complaints pertaining to ‘Disputed Transactions’ (where the 
customer succumbs to phishing attacks by fraudsters).
As part of our technology transformation agenda, we are 
also investing in an omni-channel customer experience 
platform. This will enable our customers to reach out to us 
through their preferred channel for service i.e., social, email, 
texts, voice, etc. It would also provide us a single source of 
customer truth across channels and would enable our front-
line staff to solve customer queries and act on customer 
instructions in a straight through manner. This capability 
will improve our customer responsiveness and NPS. We 
are already live with our social media and email interactions 
on this platform and will add other channels of customer 
interactions during the course of this year.
Customer delight is a non-negotiable goal towards which we 
will continue to work.
12

Culture
For me, creating a good culture is as much a priority as 
driving growth. I am committed, along with my senior 
management colleagues, to walk the talk on culture.
An organisation is made of people, and it is the people that 
deliver the organisation to all the stakeholders. We have a 
talent pool of 1,41,000+ colleagues who are the Bank to our 
customers. We are ensuring that the supervisory pool of 
12,000 odd colleagues including the senior management, is 
responsible for nurturing the vastly talented front line, hand 
hold them in their personal and professional growth and 
create a great working environment.
You could well accuse us of being on an overdrive on our 
culture agenda. We continue to work towards creating an 
organisation where diversity and inclusion becomes a part 
of the DNA, where differences are valued and respected, 
where conversations are friendly and warm and where 
the emotional needs of our colleagues and customers are 
fulfilled.
To enhance our employee capabilities, we are fostering 
a culture of Nurture, Care and Collaborate (NCC) in the 
organisation. Customers experience the organisation 
through the employees and employees experience the 
organisation through their managers.
At HDFC Bank, we continuously measure our employee 
performance engagement scores. While our engagement 
scores are healthy at 83%, we still believe we have a long 
road to travel. Through our NCC intervention, 12,000+ 
people managers are certified on the elements of our 
culture pillars and the role they play as culture custodians. 
Our people managers are also continuously provided 
with various trainings and tools to improve themselves 
professionally. We will keep listening to our colleagues’ 
feedback and keep evolving our people management 
practices – it’s a continuing investment that we will 
keep making.
Building for the Future
Last year I had spoken about Project Future Ready, to 
catalyse, create and capture the next wave of growth. We 
had clearly spelt out the following as growth engines — 
Retail Assets, Commercial (MSME) and Rural Banking, 
Corporate Banking, Government and Institutional Banking, 
Wealth Management, and Payments. to be driven by our 
delivery channels of Branch Banking, Tele-Sales/Service/
Relationship and Digital Marketing. These growth engines 
can be broadly classified as Business Verticals and Delivery 
Channels. They will be powered by our robust technology 
and digital platforms and will account for the bulk of our 
future investments.
We have seen progress across our growth engines. 
Our focus on the MSME sector is paying off, with our 
Commercial and Rural Banking Group emerging as a strong 
growth driver (up 30.4%). We leveraged the opportunity 
available in the Corporate Banking sector (up 17.4%) without 
any compromise on our ROA. We are expanding our wealth 
management services to more cities and towns (now 700+ 
towns). Our Retail Loans continue to grow in the same 
pristine way (up 15.2%). Our Payments business is starting 
to recover well, post the lifting of the embargo and with the 
slew of new launches completed.
Branch Banking is the fulcrum of our customer relationships. 
We believe both physical proximity to and emotional connect 
with our customers are equally important. Our addition of 
734 branches even during the tough pandemic year has 
served us well and we are closely tracking the success 
metrics of per branch profitability and productivity. Our 
relationship management has been further strengthened by 
the tele sales-service-relationship vertical with enhanced 
investments in both people and technology capabilities (29% 
increase in customers managed with 40% plus increase in 
business). Digital Marketing continues to make strides as 
a new delivery channel, creating and harnessing the traffic 
(up 15%) on our digital properties and contributing to direct 
business generation.
Our core enabling functions of Internal Audit, Credit 
and Underwriting, Risk Management and Compliance/
Governance are being strengthened even further to support 
our growth.
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
13

Message from the MD & CEO
Why the Merger?
Quite simply, this is an opportunity we cannot afford to 
miss. Home loans are an emotional product and bring with 
them a host of accelerated benefits for the Bank. Today 
the environment for buying a home has changed. RERA 
has ensured greater transparency in the process. Price 
corrections in the property market have seen inventories 
come down. Also, rising incomes mean that home loan EMIs 
have come down as a percentage of a person’s income. 
Thanks to the penetration of telecom, internet and television 
services, the desire to own better homes has increased 
across the country. All this means that housing is going to 
be a huge growth opportunity and one of the key drivers of 
India’s GDP over the next decade.
Further, only 2% of our customers source their home loans 
through us, while 5% do it from other institutions. The 
latter is equivalent to the size of our retail book. Home loan 
customers typically keep deposits that are 5 to 7 times that 
of other retail customers. And about 70% of HDFC Ltd.’s 
customers do not bank with us. All these give us an idea 
about the size of the opportunity. The long tenor nature of 
home loans provides resiliency to the balance sheet. The 
Bank is one of the largest consumer durable financiers in 
the country. We can easily bundle this with a home loan, as 
with every home loan, there is a propensity of a customer to 
take new consumer durables. It is this kind of bundling that 
will increase margins. With the advantage of a lower cost of 
funds and the phenomenal distribution muscle that we have 
built, it is imperative that we seize this opportunity.
Why now?
There have been other favourable factors too. In the last few 
years, the regulatory arbitrage between banks and NBFCs 
has come down substantially. Today reserve requirements 
have come down to about 22% from 26%. Both institutions 
are well capitalised and have surplus liquidity and a strong 
portfolio of investments in Government securities. The 
increase in priority sector lending that we need to do, due 
to the merger, is possible now with our own increased focus 
on MSMEs, the affordable housing loans that we can do and 
the well-developed PSL certificate market. All this means 
that on the day of the merger there may not be any need 
to raise further funds to meet reserve requirements. The 
addition of the home mortgages portfolio on our Balance 
Sheet makes it more diversified and robust.
The enhanced capital position of the Bank post the merger 
also means that we can take bigger exposures in leading 
corporates and power the country’s infrastructure build out.
The key focus area for the Bank to absorb this growth 
opportunity is to secure enhanced liabilities to fund future 
growth. The branch network has been a key deposit 
mobilisation engine during its 27 years of growth, leading 
in customer acquisition, customer retention and advertising 
the solidity of the Bank and hence garnering liabilities by 
becoming the primary banking partner for our customers. 
India continues to be under-penetrated and underserved 
from a banking perspective. The density of branches for 
the population of this country is way below that of OECD 
countries. This is where our branch banking strategy comes 
in. Today we have 6,000+ branches across India, and we 
plan to nearly double our network in the next three to five 
years by opening 1,500 to 2,000 branches every year. 
The branch will be digital from a customer on-boarding 
and transaction/servicing perspective. It will provide the 
emotional connect and relationship management necessary 
for offering financial solutions to our customers. These 
branches will be small in size and will be phygital relationship 
centres. This will enable us to go after the catchment more 
aggressively and build the required liability franchise that 
we are known for, and we are confident that we would 
execute well.
Merger - The Power of One
Now, let me come to the proposed merger with HDFC Ltd. 
We look forward to the phenomenal set of talent, deep 
product knowledge and expertise, the processes, and 
systems that HDFC Ltd will add to the Bank’s existing ones.
On April 4, 2022, the two institutions had announced a 
transformational merger that is subject to various regulatory 
approvals and will take effect in about 15 to 18 months. The 
questions that have been asked are —  
why? and why now?
14

Environment, Social and Governance Strategy
The last two years has reminded all of us that our destinies 
are interconnected. Our ESG strategy is based on this 
interconnectedness, especially in the Environment and 
Social spheres. Climate change can disrupt both lives and 
livelihoods. Also, none of us should forget that the world 
belongs to the coming generations as much as to us.
We have already committed to becoming carbon neutral 
by FY32. ESG is being made an integral part of our credit 
assessment process. While assessment of environment and 
social factors has been a part of credit diligence, particularly 
in project financing above a certain threshold, we have 
recently introduced a comprehensive ESG assessment 
framework in corporate lending and with a wider target 
coverage. The objective at this stage is to create more 
awareness among our corporate borrowers, assess their 
position and understand their initiatives on ESG. Over the 
next 2 to 3 years, we would be looking to make it one of the 
key criteria in credit decisioning.
Our commitment to social good remains unwavering. 
Through our CSR initiatives under Parivartan we have 
already potentially impacted 9.6 Crore+ lives. That is an 
addition of about 1 Crore lives since last year. We are driving 
inclusivity and diversity within our organisation, with a 
special focus on further enhancing gender diversity.
We believe that good corporate governance is a product of 
culture and conscience and for us, profitability and growth 
cannot come at the cost of these. Our focus on compliance 
and assurance functions is unwavering and every aspect of 
compliance is adhered to with all sincerity, completeness 
and within requisite timelines. We ensure that every 
commitment given to our regulators is done on time, in its 
full form and substance.
Customers are the very reason for our existence and are at 
the heart of everything we do. To reiterate what I said last 
year, all individuals must ask themselves — am I doing the 
right thing for the customer? Am I doing the right thing for 
the organisation? Does my conscience permit this? As a 
Bank we have always taken pride in our integrity. I had also 
said last year that at an organisational level there is a greater 
focus on the role of Credit, Risk, Compliance, Audit and 
other enabling functions, and that focus continues.
Compassion
I would end by thanking my colleagues, who have given 
their utmost to the Bank in two of the most trying years 
in human history, and all our stakeholders who have kept 
their faith in us. Yes, business and professional goals are 
essential. However, it is even more essential to not lose the 
human touch at the workplace and in our personal lives. 
Compassion, care and understanding enrich both the giver 
and the receiver. Thank you all once again.
Conclusion
HDFC Bank already had a huge opportunity with the 
under-penetration of banking services in the country. The 
proposed merger adds an entirely different dimension to 
the future. We believe that the runway is huge, and we 
can potentially add an HDFC Bank every five years. We 
are excited about the future and are confident that we will 
continue to have all our stakeholders’ support and trust, as 
we embark on this exciting new journey.
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer,  
HDFC Bank Limited
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
15

Financial Performance
Setting new  
growth benchmarks
The hallmark of the Bank's financial 
performance has been consistent growth 
across all key metrics, which has helped 
consolidate its leadership position. Its 
Balance Sheet continues to be healthy 
and strong which is evident by a growth of 
18.4% in the current year. 
The endeavour to reach all customers across India has 
contributed to an increase in branches to 6,342 as at the 
year end. This together with our ability to understand and 
fulfil customers' financial needs along with management 
of customer relationships has led to an overall increase of 
16.8% in Deposits and 20.8% in Advances. The continuous 
monitoring of costs and building of operational efficiencies 
has resulted in only a marginal increase of 0.60% in the Cost 
to Income Ratio to 36.9%. 
The asset mix of the Bank has shifted to high rated but low 
yielding segments.
Consequently, the Net Interest Margin has reduced 
marginally to 4.0%. It is pertinent to note that the change 
in asset mix has a positive impact on the net credit margin 
which has increased to 3.3% in the current year.
The impact of our effective risk management system along 
with robust credit policy and underwriting skills can be seen 
in the quality of our assets and low GNPA ratio of 1.17%. 
Even with a low GNPA, as a responsible banker, specific 
provision coverage has been increased to 72.7% and the 
coverage of total provisions comprised of specific, floating, 
contingent and general provisions, has been increased to 
182% as at the year end.
We continue to deliver double-digit growth both in earnings 
and return on equity. The Profit After Tax has grown by 
18.8% and return on equity has increased to 16.9%.
Financial Capital
PROFIT AFTER TAX
H36,961.3 Cr 
FY22
18.8%
TOTAL BALANCE SHEET SIZE
H20,68,535 Cr 
As on March 31, 2022
18.4%
16

RUPEE EARNED (%)
FY22
62.6
12.4
2.0
2.5
18.5
1.9
	 Commission, Exchange, 
Brokerage 
	 Other Interest Income
	 FX & Derivative Income
	 Income from Investments 
	 Others
	 Interest from Advances
RUPEE SPENT  (%)
FY22
40.5
8.8
10.9
2.6
10.1
27.2
	  Tax
	  Provisions
	  Dividend & Tax theron
	  Trans to Reserve
	  Operating Expense
	  Interest Expense 
*Proposed
**Basis RBI notification dated April 22, 2021
***Basis RBI notifications dated April 17, 2020 and December 4, 2020.
 36,961 
 31,117 
 26,257 
FY20
FY22
FY21
PROFIT AFTER TAX
(C CR)
 13,68,821 
 11,32,837 
 9,93,703 
FY20
FY22
FY21
ADVANCES 
(C CR)
2.03
1.97
2.01
FY20
FY22
FY21
RETURN ON ASSETS
(AVERAGE)
15.5*
6.5**
Nil***
FY20
FY22
FY21
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
(C)
36.9
36.3
38.6
FY20
FY22
FY21
COST TO INCOME RATIO
 66.8 
 56.6 
 48.0 
FY20
FY22
FY21
EARNINGS PER SHARE 
(C)
16.9
16.6
16.8
FY20
FY22
FY21
RETURN ON EQUITY 
(%)
 15,59,217 
 13,35,060 
 11,47,502 
FY20
FY22
FY21
DEPOSITS 
(C CR)
1.17
1.32
1.26
FY20
FY22
FY21
GROSS NPA RATIO
20,68,535
17,46,871
15,30,511
FY20
FY22
FY21
BALANCE SHEET SIZE
(C CR)
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
17

Business Segments
Delivering world-class  
banking experience
Loans and Deposits
Working Capital facilities, Term Lending, Project 
Finance, Supply Chain Financing, Export Finance, 
Trade Credit and Wholesale Deposits
Other Banking products and services
Forex & Derivatives, Custodial Services, Cash 
Management Services, Letters of Credit, 
Guarantees and Correspondent Banking
Investment Banking services
Capital Finance through Debt/Equity Capital 
Markets, Mergers & Acquisitions, IPOs, Private 
Equity, VC Fund Raise, Loan Syndication and 
Customised Solutions 
Various types of loans
Mortgages, Personal, Auto, Home, Gold, Two-
wheeler, Small-ticket Working Capital, Offshore 
Loans to NRIs, Agri and Tractor, Healthcare 
Finance, Commercial Vehicle & Equipment 
Finance, Infrastructure Finance and Loan against 
Securities
Accounts/Deposits
Savings, Current, Corporate Salary Accounts, NRI 
deposit, Fixed and Recurring Deposits
Other products and services
Credit, Debit and Prepaid Cards, Wealth 
Management Solutions, Kisan Gold Card; acts as 
a distributor of Mutual funds; Life, General and 
Health Insurance
The Wholesale business focuses on serving 
Large Corporates, MNCs, Public Sector 
Enterprises, Emerging Corporates and Business 
Banking/SMEs.
The Bank offers a wide range of financial 
products and services from loans, deposits, 
payments, collections, tax solutions, trade 
finance, cash management solutions and 
even Corporate Cards. Through its products 
and services, the Bank aims to act as a one-
stop shop for various business needs of the 
customers in this segment.
Wholesale Banking
Offerings
Offerings
The Retail business focuses on serving the 
individuals, salaried and professional customers, 
micro and small-sized businesses, extremely 
small businesses like kirana stores, Self Help 
Groups (SHGs) and Non-resident Indians (NRIs). 
Our aim is to create and customise products and 
services to serve this segment as per its unique 
needs. We offer the following key products and 
services under this segment.
Retail Banking
18

We are the Preferred Banker of Choice 
across segments and this is enabled by:
	· Delivery of best in class services 
through customised solutions, products 
and through optimum use of technology
	· Strong product proposition for NRIs 
through branches in India and overseas
	· Market leader in almost every asset 
category with best-in-class portfolio 
quality
	· Pioneer and strong player in the digital 
loan marketplace
	· Providing customers with a product 
suite across all asset classes for 
'optimal asset allocation' depending on 
clients’ risk profiles and goals
	· Dominant presence in Payments 
Business 
	· Being a market leader in Cash 
Management Services
	· Open architecture, best-in-class 
portfolio quality and regular portfolio 
rebalancing
	· Robust Risk Management practices 
across all businesses and activities
	· Solutions for non-residents, hedging 
needs in Indian markets
	· Integrated trade and treasury solution 
for customers
	· Primary dealer for Government 
securities
Our edge
Services offered to customers
Foreign exchange and derivatives transactions, 
Solutions on hedging strategies, Trade solutions 
– domestic and cross border, Bullion demands 
and others
Key functions performed
Asset liability management, maintaining portfolio 
of Government securities in line with regulatory 
norms of RBI and others
Offerings
The Treasury is the custodian of the Bank’s 
cash/liquid assets and manages its investments 
in securities and other market instruments. 
It manages the liquidity and interest rate risks 
on the balance sheet and is also responsible for 
meeting statutory reserve requirements. 
It manages the treasury needs of customers 
and earns a fee income generated from 
transactions customers undertake with your 
Bank, while managing their foreign exchange 
and interest rate risks.
Treasury
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
19

Emerging Growth Engine
Commercial and Rural Banking
The Bank's Commercial and Rural Banking (CRB) group 
was set up in the last financial year to cater to the needs 
of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) 
emerging corporates, commercial agriculture, small and 
marginal farmers, healthcare finance, equipment finance 
and commercial transport companies. While these are 
different businesses, the common thread binding them 
is that they all have a huge footprint in Semi Urban and 
Rural (SURU) India. As has the Bank with about half 
its branches in SURU locations. This vertical is also 
important as its disbursals help the Bank in meeting a 
large part of the Priority Sector Lending requirements. 
CRB has been identified as a growth engine and was 
the fastest growing vertical for the bank in the year 
under review. A wide reach across geographies of the 
country – district by district and understanding of local 
level business dynamics has helped it in achieving growth 
rates that exceed the industry average. The Bank at 
present has 6,300+ branches of which over 5,300+ have 
loans outstanding to MSME customers. The sourcing 
model through branch channels allied to traditional 
prudence is one of the key reasons for containing 
NPAs. A well trained relationship team does frequent 
interaction with MSME customers for their overall 
banking requirements including the personal banking of 
promoters and family members. 
In the rural segment, the Bank is planning to expand 
its services to 2 Lakh villages in the next two years. It 
funds not only traditional agriculture but also allied 
activities. It is totally committed to furthering the 
Government’s agenda by supporting its various 
schemes be it AIF/FPO/PMFME and lending to  
small and marginal farmers. 
HDFC Bank is the leading player in the commercial 
vehicle financing business with its share increasing 
considerably in the year ended March 31, 2022. It will be 
focusing on increasing market share further by expanding 
into deeper geographies and hiring more feet on street. 
The Bank has also established a robust healthcare 
ecosystem to capture high potential offered by hospitals, 
nursing homes, pathologies, laboratories, chemists, 
doctors and patient finance.  
The CRB vertical shall continue contributing to the bank’s 
growth as well as the nation’s growth through its bouquet 
of products. 
20

Product Suite
Working Capital and  
Term Loan Assets
	· Working Capital Loans
	· Term Loans
	· Supply Chain Management
	· Project Finance
	· Export Finance
Transportation Finance 
Group
	· Commercial Vehicle/Equipment 
Finance
	· Tractor Finance 
	· Infrastructure Finance
Investment Banking
	· IPOs, Private Equity, VC Fund 
Raise, Loan Syndication 
	· Mergers & Acquisitions
Agriculture Finance
	· Crop Loan/Farmer Finance 
- KCC 
	· Dairy/Cattle Finance
Liabilities
	· CASA Accounts 
	· Fixed Deposits 
	· Salary Account
Trade Finance
	· Bank Guarantee/LCs 
	· International Trade
FX Advisory
Trade Flows & Derivatives
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
21

R
ET
AI
L
W
H
O
L
E
S
A
L
E
T
R
E
A
S
U
R
Y
B
u
si
n
es
s 
se
g
m
e
nt
s
Outcomes
Our Purpose
We exist to help every Indian make better 
money choices, today and tomorrow
Our Resources
Stakeholder Value Creation
Government and  
Regulatory environment
Data privacy and  
cyber security
Digital innovation in  
financial services
Economic Environment
Climate Change 
and ESG
Human Capital
	· Employee base: 1,41,579
	· Learning and Development initiatives
	· Employee engagement initiatives
	· Talent Management
	· Culture Ecosystem
Social & Relationship Capital
	· Customers: 7.1 Cr+
	· CSR expenditure: H736 Cr
	· Aligning stakeholders with ESG
	· Partnership with Government
Manufactured Capital
	· Banking outlets - Branches + Business 
Correspondents (managed by CSCs and 
other BCs), ATMs.
	· Corporate office, data warehouse and others
	· IGBC certification of building and branch 
interiors
Intellectual Capital
	· Digital Factory, Enterprise Factory and 
Enterprise IT
	· Credit policy and underwriting skills
	· Risk management framework
	· Collaboration with fin-techs and start-ups
	· Implementation framework on carbon 
neutrality
Natural Capital
	· Grid Electricity consumed: 364,135 MWh 
	· Fossil Energy Consumed: 285,612 GJ
	· Paper consumed: 2,660.13 MT
	· Natural resource conservation initiatives
	· E waste handled through authorised 
recyclers: 212 MT
Financial Capital
	· Total Deposits: H15,59,217 Cr
	· Stockholder's Equity: H2,40,093 Cr
	· Borrowings: H1,84,817 Cr
Governance  
Beyond  
Compliance
Customer  
Service and  
Experience
People 
& Culture
Commitment 
to ESG
Effective Risk  
Management
Technology  
Robustness
Customer 
Focus
Operational 
Excellence
Product 
Leadership
People
Sustainability
Our Values
Strategic pillars
	· Re-Imagining the branch channel
	· Virtual Relationship Management (VRM)
	· Government & Institutions (G&I)
	· Leadership in payments business
	· Technology & Digital
	· Commercial and Rural
	· Retail Assets
	· Corporate Cluster
	· Wealth
	· Digital Marketing
Long term objectives
	· Increase customer base
	· Operational efficiency
	· Expand footprint
	· Omnichannel experience
	· Healthy asset quality
	· Access low cost funds
Financial capital
	· Net Revenue: `1,01,519 Cr
	· Net Profit after tax:  
`36,961 Cr
	· Return on Asset: 2.03%
	· Return on Equity: 16.9% 
	· Cost-to-income ratio: 36.9%
	· Capital Adequacy Ratio: 
18.9%
	· GNPA: 1.17%
	· Net NPA: 0.32%
Human capital
	· Net Additions: 21,486
	· Women in workforce: 21.7% 
(Excludes sales officers and 
other non-supervisory staff)
	· Employee engagement  
score: 83%
	· Profit per employee:  
~H28 Lakh 
	· Employee Cost: H12,032 Cr
Social & relationship capital
	· BU Net Promoter Score:** 60
	· Customer Additions:  
92 Lakh+
	· MSCI ESG Ratings 
Assessment: AA*
	· CSR Beneficiaries:  
9.6 Cr+
	· Shareholder base: ~21 lakh
	· Certified as a Great Place to 
Work® Organisation. 
Manufactured capital
	· Total Banking Outlets and 
branches: 21,683 and  
6,342 respectively 
	· Cities/towns covered: 3,188
	· ATM + cash withdrawal/
deposit machine: 18,130
	· Total Business 
Correspondents: 15,341
Intellectual capital
	· Brand Value: $ 35.60 Billion^
	· Strengthening of core and 
creation of digital stack
	· Attracted market-leading 
skills in areas such as data 
analytics, IT, equities and 
advisory solutions
	· 1,400 Number of internal 
APIs published increased by 
50% plus over last 2 years
	· Average Customer uptime at 
99.94%
Natural capital
	· Loan proposals screened 
and approved through the 
SEMS framework: 861
	· Trees planted so far:  
17.69 Lakh+ 
	· Water Conservation 
structures developed 
10,500+
	· Cumulative Underwritten 
Wind & Solar (cumulative 
capacity 5,860 MW) 
underwritten amount: 
`14,839 Cr
	· Solar lights installed 41,810+
# 	 For a complete list of SDGs impacted 
through our social & relationship capital, 
please refer Page 95
^	 As per Kantar BrandZ Most Valuable 
Global Brands 2022 Ranking
*	 As of August 2021
**	Bottom Up Net Promoter Score
Outputs
Products
Total Deposits 
`15,59,217 Cr
 16.8%
Net Interest Income  
`72,010 Cr
 11%
Total Advances 
`13,68,821 Cr
 20.8%
Total Income 
`1,57,263 Cr
 7.7%
Total Direct (CBDT) 
and Indirect taxes 
(GST & CBIC) 
collected for the Govt. 
`6,33,582.37 Cr
Share of Digital in 
total transactions 
~93%
UN SDGs#
Our Value Creation Model
Credit Risk
Market Risk
Compliance Risk
Operational Risk
Climate Risk
Liquidity Risk
Reputation Risk
Information 
technology Risk
Cyber security 
and data Risks
Future-ready 
Bank for the 
Digital Age
Branch
operations
Underwriting and 
risk management
Investment 
management
Asset-liability 
management
Deposits
Customer 
services
Current and 
Saving Accounts
Collections
Lending
Key enablers
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
22
23

Stakeholder Engagement
Understanding 
stakeholder 
expectations
At HDFC Bank, we engage with our 
stakeholders to understand and 
respond to their expectations and 
concerns. This provides valuable 
insights that help us shape our 
priorities and strategy. We have a 
well-defined process to identify and 
prioritise our major stakeholders, 
based on their involvement with 
and value to the organisation.
Customers
Through our 6,342 branches and 18,130 ATMs/
CDMs, we serve over 7.1 Crore customers. 
Further, we are enhancing our disability-inclusive 
infrastructure and services. All our ATMs are 
equipped with a voice-guided system and a Braille 
keypad for the visually challenged. We are also 
increasingly setting them up in locations with ramps 
to enable access to wheelchair-bound customers. 
At present, 850 of our locations, including branches 
and ATMs, are equipped with ramps. We assess all 
our premises and install ramps wherever feasible.
Modes of engagement
	· Online and postal communication
	· Customer satisfaction surveys
	· Feedback from customers
	· Regular interactions with customers 
Frequency 
Continuous
Key concerns and expectations
	· Ease of transacting across channels
	· Innovative technology applications
	· Data security
	· Advanced analytics
Response and mitigation
	· New products enabled by our digitisation 
strategy
	· Making personalised recommendations with a 
Virtual Relationship Manager (VRM)
	· IEC activities on data security and privacy
TOTAL CUSTOMERS
7.10 Cr+
BRANCHES
6,342
ATMs/CASH DEPOSIT & 
WITHDRAWAL MACHINES (CDMs)
18,130
24

Employees
Our 1.4 Lakh+ employees come from a wide range 
of socioeconomic and educational backgrounds, 
allowing us to provide highly personalised 
experiences to our consumers. We are committed 
to building a culture of inclusiveness, diversity, 
growth, progression, and well-being.
Modes of engagement
	· Employee on-ground and virtual connect by 
Human Resources 
	· Leadership and manager connect
	· Feedback surveys
	· Employee connect initiatives like talent hunt, 
wellness initiatives etc. some of which also 
include their families
Frequency 
On-going/ periodic
Key concerns and expectations
	· Employee engagement
	· Employee wellness and safety
	· Learning and development
Response and mitigation
	· Maintain high-level of ongoing employee 
connect and periodically obtain feedback 
through dipsticks and surveys
	· Focus on various aspects of employee wellness 
through the HDFC Bank Cares’ initiative 
	· Strengthen focus on L&D (Learning & 
Development) by offering best-in-class learning 
resources and leveraging technology for 
enabling learner-led anytime, anywhere learning
We collaborate closely with our suppliers to 
encourage them to add value beyond the economic 
bottom line, in order to integrate environmental 
and social concerns more effectively. Through our 
ESG policy framework, we strive to ensure that our 
vendors and suppliers abide by labour laws and 
human rights.
Modes of engagement
	· Regular meetings
	· Phone calls and surveys
Frequency 
Continuous/annual performance review
Key concerns and expectations
	· Partnership
	· Governance and ethical practices
Response and mitigation
	· Ensure timely payment for services
	· Whistle Blower Policy to ensure good practices
TOTAL EMPLOYEES
1.4 Lakh+
EMPLOYEES BELOW 30 
YEARS OF AGE
38.8%
Suppliers
WASTE 
REDUCTION
HUMAN RIGHTS 
AND LABOUR 
PRACTICES
IMPROVEMENT IN 
EFFICIENCY & GHG 
REDUCTION
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
25

We ensure adherence to compliance standards 
set by the regulatory bodies. We also place great 
emphasis on Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) to 
ensure beneficiary coverage under government 
programmes such as MGNREGA, PMAY and 
PMKSY, among others.
Modes of Engagement
	· Regular meetings
	· Policy updates and ministry directives
	· Mandatory filings with key regulators  
Frequency 
Continuous
Key concerns and expectations
	· Compliance
	· Social security schemes
	· Relevant national mandates
Response and mitigation
	· Compliance and ethics oriented culture 
including formulation of relevant policy 
frameworks and enforcement thereof
	· Awareness generation on the mandates by the 
Government of India
We continued to generate value for our 21 Lakh+ 
shareholders. In FY22, our basic earnings per share 
stood at `66.8.
Modes of engagement
	· Quarterly reports and press releases
	· Investor meets, earnings calls and Annual 
General Meetings (AGMs)
Frequency 
Quarterly, annual
Key concerns and expectations
	· Compliance 
	· Governance and ethical practices 
	· Economic performance
Response and mitigation
	· Policies and demonstration of responsible 
business conduct
TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS
~21 Lakh+*
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
H66.8
NET PROFIT
H36,961.3 Cr
Stakeholder Engagement
Investors/Shareholders
Regulatory Bodies
*As on March 31, 2022
TOTAL DIRECT (CBDT) AND INDIRECT TAXES (GST & CBIC) 
COLLECTED FOR THE GOVERNMENT
H6,33,582.37 Cr
26

We continue to fine-tune our community 
development strategy and have set goals and 
sub-goals within the identified thematic areas. 
HDFC Bank Parivartan, our umbrella CSR brand, 
seeks to bring about sustainable change in the 
lives of the less privileged sections of the society, 
by empowering them and bringing them into the 
national mainstream. It has so far potentially made 
a difference to over 9.6 Crore+ lives.
Modes of engagement
	· Regular meetings
	· Focus group discussions
	· Project monitoring and reviews
Frequency 
Continuous/annual performance review
Key concerns and expectations
	· Training and inclusive growth
	· Financial literacy
Response and mitigation
	· Holistic rural development programme
	· Sustainable livelihood initiative
	· Financial literacy camps
BENEFICIARIES OF  
CSR PROJECTS
9.6 Cr+
INDIVIDUALS IMPACTED 
THROUGH FINANCIAL 
LITERACY AND INCLUSION
1.71 Cr+
VILLAGES COVERED UNDER HOLISTIC RURAL 
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
3,335+
Community
^ Potential
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
27

Materiality Assessment
Prioritising issues that matter
We conducted a materiality 
assessment exercise, in 
accordance with GRI standards, in 
FY19 to identify the most important 
topics that could significantly 
impact our value creation. Inputs 
gathered from key stakeholders 
were factored into our strategy 
planning. Taking a step further in 
FY21, we modified our materiality 
study to align our ESG strategy 
with business goals, by including 
emerging topics such as climate 
change risks and opportunities.    
New topics 
included
Five-step stakeholder 
engagement process
Identify potential topics
Define stakeholder groups
Stakeholder engagement  
and prioritisation
Revisit of material issues  
by the internal stakeholders  
in FY21
Revised materiality map
	· Physical risks due to 
climate change 
	· Transition risks due to 
climate change
	· Climate change impacting 
company’s cost of debt
	· Employee welfare
	· Customer privacy
	· Data security
	· Selling practices and 
product labeling 
	· Transparency and 
disclosure
Outcome
The aggregated inputs from all the relevant stakeholders were consolidated and combined to arrive at our materiality map. Emerging 
ESG risks were added, including climate change risks.
16
8
7
12
9
10
15
17
13
11
14
5
6
2
4
3
1
Hygiene Factors
Monitoring issues
Top priorities
Hidden Value Creators
HDFC Bank’s Materiality Map (Internal Stakeholders)
Importance to  
external stakeholders
Potential Impact on 
HDFC Bank’s business
Low
Low
High
High
The effective management of material issues is critical to our business sustainability as it directs our strategic planning and 
management priorities towards achieving long-term sustainable value for our stakeholders.
16
Compliance
8
Data Security
12
Corporate Governance and Ethics
7
Customer Privacy
9
Customer Satisfaction
10
Selling Practices and Product Labelling
17
Transparency and Disclosure
15
Economic Performance
13
Systemic Risk Management
11
Financial Inclusion
14
Responisible Finance
6
Employee Welfare
5
Community Wellbeing
2
Physical risk of Climate Change
3
Transition risk of Dimate Change
4
Climate Change Impact on Company's 
Cost of Debt
1
Emissions and Climate Change
28

Priority 
Rank
S. 
No .
Sustainability topics
Description
1. 
16.
Compliance
GRI aspects: Environmental compliance; 
Socio-economic compliance
Capitals impacted: 
We operate in a highly regulated industry where compliance is non-negotiable. Our operations comply 
with all applicable legal, environmental, and social regulations. We abide by the Companies Act, 
2013, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, and the applicable RBI and SEBI regulations, among others. 
The Bank's equity shares are traded on the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd., BSE Ltd., and its 
American Depository Shares (ADS) are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). 
 
2.
12.
Corporate  
governance 
& ethics
GRI aspects: Ethics and integrity; 
Governance
Capitals impacted: 
Our Corporate Governance philosophy, articulated in our ESG framework, is anchored to the cardinal 
principles of independence, accountability, transparency, fair disclosures, responsibility and credibility. 
Our policies and guidelines demonstrate that good governance is ingrained in our culture. The Anti-
Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy as well as the Code of Conduct, help us perform our operations in an 
ethical manner.
3.
8.
Data security
GRI aspects: Customer privacy; Security 
practices
Capitals impacted: 
We work in a highly automated environment and use cutting-edge technology to support a variety of 
operations. We are guided by the Information Security Policy and the Cyber Security Policy. Further, an 
independent assurance team within Internal Audit provides assurance on the management of information 
technology-related risks. To mitigate information technology-related risks, we have implemented a 
governance framework, information security practises, and a business continuity plan. 
4.
7.
Customer privacy
GRI aspects: Customer privacy
Capitals impacted: 
Being in the service sector, Information Security and Data Protection are of utmost importance to us. 
To ensure customer privacy, we also follow the Banking Codes and Standards Board of India's (BCSBI) 
'Code of Bank's Commitment to Customers' and Employee and Customer Awareness Procedures.
5.
9.
Customer 
satisfaction 
GRI aspects: Stakeholder engagement; 
Marketing and labelling
Capitals impacted: 
Our customer-centric approach caters to our customers’ financial goals while providing insightful, 
relevant, contextualised, and hyper-personalised experiences. We conduct satisfaction surveys on a 
regular basis to gather feedback on our products and services.
6.
10.
Selling practice and 
product labelling
GRI aspects: Marketing and labelling
Capitals impacted: 
We strictly adhere to market conduct regulations to provide transparent, accurate, and comprehensive 
marketing statements, advertising and product/service labelling to our customers and clients. We have 
established frameworks, strategies, policies, and procedures, as well as systems, to ensure and maintain 
transparency in communication, allowing them to make informed decisions.
Prioritising sustainability topics, mapping with GRI elements and capitals
Financial 
Capital
Human  
Capital
Intellectual 
Capital
Social &  
Relationship 
Capital
Manufactured 
Capital
Natural  
Capital
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
29

Priority 
Rank
S. 
No .
Sustainability topics
Description
7.
17.
Transparency 
and disclosure
GRI aspects: General disclosure - 
Reporting practice
Capitals impacted: 
With the increased demand for ESG disclosures among stakeholders, it is critical to ensure that such 
reporting is accurate and reliable. We have a sustainability strategy and reporting programme in place 
that clearly articulates our sustainability strategy, risks, and opportunities, as well as performance on 
material ESG topics.
We also place high value on report assurance, so our Sustainability Report and Green House Gas (GHG) 
emissions are verified by third-party auditors in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised) Standards.
8.
15.
Economic 
performance
GRI aspects: Economic performance
Capitals impacted: 
Economic performance is critical to maintain stability and positive momentum. We strive to provide our 
stakeholders with increased long-term value. Even during challenging times, we have performed well, 
aided by our prudent management and capital allocation strategies.
9.
13.
Systematic 
risk management
GRI aspects: General Disclosure - 
Governance
Capitals impacted: 
Through the effective use of processes, information and technology, we have deployed a multi-layered 
risk management strategy that identifies, assesses, monitors and manages risks (credit, market, 
liquidity, interest rate, and operational). A Board-approved Stress Testing Policy & System, which is 
an integral aspect of our ICAAP, is part of our overall risk management framework (Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process). Stress testing is done by employing a variety of ways to determine 
our vulnerability to excessive yet realistically stressful scenarios. Additionally, we use a SEMS (Social & 
Environmental Management System) framework to analyse social and environmental credit risks. Risk 
exposures are actively identified and reported to the appropriate levels of management, so that risk 
mitigation actions can be implemented. The risk management function is independent of business and 
reports directly to the Managing Director.  
10.
11.
Financial 
inclusion
GRI aspects: Economic performance; Local 
communities
Capitals impacted: 
Financial inclusion is key to India’s inclusive development agenda. The banking sector has a pivotal 
role to play in serving the underbanked, especially in rural and semi-urban areas. We see this as an 
opportunity to broaden our reach and make our products and services more accessible. While we 
continue to focus on the Corporate Cluster and Government Business to increase penetration, we see 
Commercial (MSME) and Rural Banking driving the next wave of growth. 
11.
14.
Responsible 
financing
GRI aspects: Environmental compliance; 
Socioeconomic compliance
Capitals impacted: 
Evaluation of environmental and social risk is an integral part of our overall credit appraisal and approval 
process. Large industrial/infrastructure projects where the extension of long-term financing (greater than 
`100 Million and longer than 5 years) are covered under the Bank’s Social & Environment Monitoring 
System (SEMS) which necessitates an assessment of Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety risks in 
addition to other risks, as part of the overall credit appraisal process.  
As a rule, we do not fund projects that have a negative impact on the environment, health, or safety. We 
want to make funding available for environmentally viable projects that help mitigate climate change risks. 
To reduce our carbon footprint, we continue to invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. 
Customers are also encouraged to make ‘green banking’ decisions.
12.
6.
Employee 
welfare
GRI aspects: Employment
Capitals impacted: 
W We engage with employees and their families through a variety of initatives through our Employee 
Connect program. Over the years and especially during the pandemic, we saw a significant increase in 
the employee participation. Many of these initiatives were virtually run during the last two years to ensure 
employee safety. We also run  an Employee Welfare Trust  which is primarily set up to support employees 
in case of emergencies where the expenses extend beyond the mediclaim cover that we provide to all 
employees and their families. During the pandemic, support from the trust was generously extended to 
all employees who needed it.
Materiality Assessment
30

Material topic
Upstream 
(suppliers, 
investors)
HDFC Bank
Downstream 
(customers, 
communities)
Compliance


Corporate Governance & Ethics



Data Security



Customer Privacy  


Customer Satisfaction 


Selling Practice and Product Labelling


Transparency and Disclosure



Economic Performance



Systematic Risk Management

Financial Inclusion

Responsible Finance


Employee Welfare

Community Well-being

Physical Risk for Climate Change



Transition Risk for Climate Change



Climate Change Impact on Company’s Cost of Debt 



Emission and Climate Change



Priority 
Rank
S. 
No .
Sustainability topics
Description
13.
5.
Community wellbeing GRI aspects: Local communities
Capitals impacted: 
We believe in giving back to the community. Through our CSR brand ‘Parivartan’, we work towards 
empowering the most disadvantaged sections of the society around our area of operations, to be self-
reliant. The Board-level CSR & ESG Committee oversees the initiatives and tracks progress on a regular 
basis. To secure the nation's growth and development, as well as the well-being of its residents, we have 
aligned our actions with government missions and programmes.
14.
2.
Physical risk for 
climate change
GRI aspects: General Disclosure - 
Governance
Capitals impacted: 
We have a diversified lending portfolio that covers a wide range of industries including power, heavy 
industries and real estate. In compliance with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures' 
recommendations, we are exploring the process of analysing the Bank's resilience to physical and 
transition risks of climate change and continue our endeavour to acquire granular data and test tools for 
climate risk assessment and conducting scenario analysis. 
15.
3.
Transition risk for 
climate change
16
4.
Climate change 
impact on 
Company’s cost 
of debt
GRI aspects: General disclosure - 
Governance
Capitals impacted:
We regularly review and monitor climate change impact on the Bank’s cost of debt. At present, we view 
the impact as relatively less significant.
17.
1.
Emission and 
climate change
GRI aspects: Emissions
Capitals impacted: 
We recognise our role in the transition to a low-carbon economy. At HDFC Bank, we have been 
recording our GHG emissions and will continue to track and report our carbon footprint. Recently, we 
pledged to become carbon neutral by FY32. We continue to scale up the use of renewable energy and 
energy management measures at our operations. 
Climate change may have a substantial impact on our activities, and thus, we have initiated steps 
towards the implementation of TCFD recommendations.
Mapping sustainability topics to our value chain
Financial 
Capital
Human  
Capital
Intellectual 
Capital
Social &  
Relationship 
Capital
Manufactured 
Capital
Natural  
Capital
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
31

Strategy in Action
Our future-ready strategy
India is one of the fastest growing major 
economies and as one of the largest 
private sector banks in India, we are 
well-positioned to capitalise on this 
opportunity. At HDFC Bank, we continue to 
focus on executing our ten-pillar strategy 
across various products and segments 
to create, catalyse and capture the next 
wave of growth. The focus on our straregic 
pillars drives our consistent performance.
We continue to enhance our compliance culture and exhibit 
highest compliance standards. Our risk management and 
compliance framework is embedded in the systems and 
processes across operations and functions and is overseen 
by a diverse, experienced, and competent Board. As we 
take strides forward, the customer remains at the core of 
our strategy. Armed with robust technology and capitalising 
on digitalisation, we are providing seamless digital customer 
on-boarding and service management journeys. Our 
investment in our people and adherence to our culture ‘The 
HDFC Bank Way’ enables us in our onward journey.
Customer Service 
and Experience
Strengthening 
Compliance
Effective Risk 
Management
Zero Paper, Zero 
Touch Operations
Culture
People: Learning 
and Development
Customer acquisition
Delivery of products  
and services
Relationship management
Retail 
Assets
Expanding 
Wealth 
Management
Leadership in 
the Payments 
Business
Technology and 
Digital
Reimagining the 
branch channel
Virtual  
Relationship 
Management (VRM)
Government 
and Institutions 
Business
HDFC Bank 
edge for 
Corporate 
Cluster
Digital 
Marketing
Heartland: 
Commercial and 
Rural Banking 
Group
Through 10 Pillars of growth
Key enablers
Customer lifecycle management
32

Re-imagining Retail Branch 
Banking
Our growing phygital reimagined 
branch channel is pivotal to our 
strategic intent of being India’s best 
customer-centric brand across 
industries, within the next three years. 
Retail Branch banking is the key 
enabler for retail deposits, retail trade 
and forex business, unsecured and 
secured asset business and third-party 
distribution business. We continue to 
reimagine our branch channel backed 
by micro market focused multiformat 
distribution science, phygital 
transformation, analytics and Artificial 
Intelligence (AI). This is backed by an 
institutionalised approach to customer 
life cycle management and a ‘Service 
First culture’.
The levers that bring to life our 
reimagining branch channel 
strategy are:
Holistic customer life cycle 
management
It starts from our ability to map and 
source the right set of customers using 
a differentiated go-to-market approach 
and results in having need-based 
conversations and offering the right 
product proposition. It also entails 
continually nourishing the relationship 
through our relationship management 
architecture and recommending next 
best actions and implementing them. 
Our 'service first culture' is embedded 
throughout the customer life cycle 
management journey.
Analytics led customer 
conversations and distribution 
planning tool
Our approach is based on ‘Need-
based Selling’ and is empowered by 
robust analytical tools and AI. 'Next 
Best Actions', are suggested based 
on a study of customer transactions/
digital behavior across the Bank's 
digital assets. Further, relationship 
managers are equipped with 
suggestive 'Immediate Next Best 
Actions', based on real time digital 
transactions/customers interactions.
Our micro market focused multiformat 
scientific study of data drives decisions 
on meeting customer needs through 
retail phygital branch/Digital Banking 
Units/‘Smart Banking Lobby’ or 
Business Correspondents. An 
optimum mix of digitisation along with 
relevant human interactions, enables 
us to deliver superior services.
Digitisation of sales, service and 
Branch operations
We continue to embed and enhance 
customer digital journeys, be it sales, 
service or operations. It also entails 
enhancing phygital through digital 
delivery in physical branches.
Mobile-first approach leveraging 
Aadhaar and ‘Walk Out Working’ 
(WOW) straight through journeys, are 
some of the initiatives that are helping 
us achieve significant benefits, in terms 
of improved customer experience 
along with cost reduction. WOW 
customer service journeys have scaled 
up customer adoption by ~45% 
(cumulative) and is expected to grow 
further.
Customer Experience 
Excellence
The cornerstone of Customer 
Experience Excellence is to delight 
customers at every touch point. In 
this endeavour, our initiatives include 
process simplification through 
digitisation, reimagining the customer 
journeys and making them user-
friendly. We are enhancing self-service 
avenues and thus empowering 
customers in completing paperless 
journeys on their own. Our Net 
Promoter Score, a metric of measuring 
customer satisfaction and loyalty, has 
shown 22% improvement over FY21.
Micro market 
focused multiformat 
distribution science
Customer life 
centric insight-led 
proposition
Service First 
culture 
AI analytics-
driven customer 
conversations 
(Next Best Action) 
Instutitionalised 
approach to customer 
life cycle 
Enabling phygital 
transformation 
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
33

People capability
Our people are the face of the Bank. 
Our aim is to strengthen our teams 
to better understand the ‘Voice of 
Customer’ to enable us to create 
newer propositions, simpler processes 
and seamless customer experiences. 
We have equipped our teams with AI 
and analytics-driven pinpointed regular 
customer level analysis to enable 
enhanced engagement. Further, we 
continue to train our teams through 
interactive learning interventions that 
equip them to enhance customer 
delight in all their interactions. The 
learning interventions are customised  
based on analytics.
Virtual Relationship 
Management
As a future-ready Bank, we have 
further strengthened our Virtual 
Relationship Management (VRM) 
channel to enhance customer 
engagement and provide seamless 
customer service experience. A 
banking experience with digital 
ease and personalised need based 
conversations, is at the core of our 
VRM strategy. The Virtual Relationship 
Management practice is an integrated 
customer-centric approach consisting 
of three pillars:
	· Virtual Relationship
	· Virtual Sales
	· Virtual Care
The Virtual Relationship Managers 
serve the customer life cycle across – 
a) Save b) Invest c) Borrow d) Transact 
e) Engage. We believe that we have a 
head start with our Virtual Relationship 
Management practice, leveraging an 
Omnichannel Engagement framework, 
seamless digital journeys, data 
science-led customer interactions 
and a robust talent pool of well-
trained Virtual Relationship Managers. 
Your Bank has made significant 
investments in technology upgradation 
of the customer facing solutions 
around Interactive Voice Response 
Systems, Data Management and 
digital engagement platforms like 
Video KYC, to offer a world-class 
virtual engagement framework 
for its customers. Our systems 
are structured, secure, compliant, 
automated and avoid any data 
leakages. Our VRM framework 
provides seamless 24/7 access to 
customers and experiences, in line 
with global service standards.
We provide automated interactive voice 
response solution in 12 languages with 
20+ services. We offer world-class 
service interaction, with an analytics-
led need-based product distribution 
approach, aimed at making us the 
preferred banker of choice for the 
customer.
Our Virtual Care approach is an 
extension of our customer-centric 
programme — ‘Infinite Smiles' and 
we aim for customer satisfaction in 
every interaction. We have progressed 
further on our conscious journey 
of a culture transformation, which 
is enshrined along with the critical 
leadership tenets of ‘Nurture, Care and 
Collaborate’. This has also contributed 
to better complaints management and 
reduced customer wait time.
Government and  
Institutions Business
Growing focus on digitisation of 
transactions and Government 
push towards transparency offers 
an enormous opportunity in this 
segment. We aim to capitalise on 
this opportunity by focusing on the 
following key areas:
Strategy in Action
Start-ups
Education, 
healthcare, religious 
institutions, NGOs, 
trusts, and housing 
societies 
Central, State and 
local Governments 
and associated 
entities
Alternate 
Channels & 
Partnerships
Financial 
inclusion
Government 
and 
Institutions 
Business
34

The Government of India has unlocked 
a large revenue pool by allowing private 
sector banks to participate across all 
areas of Government business. We are 
a leading bank in managing Government 
fund flows, with ~26% of total flows routed 
through the Bank. The single nodal agency 
construct introduced in September 2021 
by GOI will further augment these flows. 
We are leveraging our extensive reach, 
intuitive technological solutions, our 
deep network, and sustainable livelihood 
initiatives to maximise this opportunity. 
We facilitate digitisation of agricultural 
procurements, 
e-governance 
for 
tendering and auction, amongst others, 
and offer a differentiated and seamless 
experience for Government bodies. In 
FY22, the Bank was recognised as one of 
the top 5 Banks in the country processing 
pay-outs, including direct benefit transfer 
under the single nodal agency construct 
by the Ministry of Finance to enable this. 
The Bank has facilitated and/or developed 
the necessary technological solutions to 
provide customers with a high quality user 
experience.     
Our comprehensive digital suite also 
acts as a catalyst driving growth in the 
institutional business. We have adopted 
an ecosystem-based approach to harness 
the growing opportunities in educational 
institutions, religious institutions, and 
housing societies. We enable collections 
of society payments, donations, fees, as 
well as manage payments to vendors, 
employees, etc. We have also forged 
partnerships with tech players to adopt 
an API-based approach to cater to the 
needs of this segment. 
Parallelly, we are making continuous 
investments to expand our distribution 
network in the deep geographies of the 
country. Rapid adoption of technology 
coupled with deep penetration of mobile 
and internet provides fertile ground to tap 
into opportunities, by digitally connecting 
the last mile. Till date we have on-boarded 
4 Lakh+ Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLE) 
as Business Facilitators and Business 
Correspondents to help source business 
for us. With the help of the VLEs, we have 
been able to create a large distribution 
network to capture the opportunities 
in the semi-urban and rural areas. Our 
octopus model of distribution puts existing 
branches at the core, supported by 
agents empanelled through marquee tie-
ups and partnerships. These agents are 
capacitated by the Bank through digital 
infrastructure, branding and visibility 
to function as a mini branch. Digitally-
assisted and unassisted journeys are in 
play, with a combination of fintech and 
APIs that deliver a seamless experience 
securely. These alternate channels not 
only create value for the Bank but also 
have a larger societal impact supporting 
nation-building and the Government’s 
financial inclusion agenda.
Leadership in Payments 
Business
Payments business is an integrated 
business with key wheels of Issuance, 
Acquiring and Consumer Finance 
fulfiling the needs of every customer 
segment. We continue to be a leading 
player in the payments ecosystem with 
a leading presence and market share 
in issuing, acceptance and consumer 
finance businesses. We also bring 
throughput value to other businesses 
of the Bank through our frequency of 
transactions which is a source of core 
data for deeper understanding of our 
customers and drives data analytics 
for the Bank.
Issuance business provides extensive 
range of payment solutions to the 
customers in every segment. We 
have grown significantly across Credit 
Cards, Debit Cards, Prepaid cards, 
Consumer
	· Credit Cards
	· Debit Cards
	· UPI
	· EPI
	· Wallets
	· Prepaid
	· NEFT/RTGS
Commercial
	· Credit cards
	· Debits cards
	· Prepaid/Virtual
During Purchase
	· Card EMI
	· BNPL
	· EMI Cards
Offline
	· POS/mPOS
	· QR Code
	· Scan n Pay
	· Merchant App
Online
	· Payment 
Gateway
	· UPI
	· EPI
	· SmartHub 
Platform
	· Digital Loans
Post Purchase
	· Smart EMI – Credit
	· Smart EMI – Debit
	· Inventory Finance
A
c
c
e
p
t
a
n
c
e
C
o
n
s
u
m
e
r
 
F
i
n
a
n
c
e
 
I
s
s
u
a
n
c
e
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
35

Strategy in Action
PayZapp Wallet, EMI and EPI/Direct 
Pay. Customer spends have crossed  
8 Lakh Crore in FY 22 with 63 Million+ 
cards (Credit Cards, Debit Cards 
and prepaid cards) addressing every 
market segment. Every third rupee 
spent on cards in India, happens 
on HDFC Bank cards. Adapting to 
the changing customer behaviours, 
we have expanded our customer 
offerings. We are a leading player in 
credit cards with a strong growth and 
market share on both booksize/ENR 
and spends. We have the best suite 
of cards curated for the needs of both 
young professionals and ultra premium 
customers. Digitally enhancing 
customer experience and services for 
our customers is a key strategy and 
we launched ‘MyCards’ application 
to help card customers to self service 
digitally. Our future plan is to fortify the 
MyCards offering to a comprehensive 
Cards servicing solution for the Credit 
Card and Debit Card customers. 
PayZapp is a key strategy to drive 
customer engagement across all 
payment forms. It will be providing 
a strong, unified experience across 
contactless payments, QR-based 
payments, UPI payments, and BNPL, 
and will be digitising all payment form 
factors with rich features on a unified 
platform. The revamped PayZapp 
2 is around the corner and will be 
providing a unified experience across 
contactless payments. Smartbuy 
continues to play a key role in 
providing a strong loyalty framework 
and has gained popularity among 
customers for providing accelerated 
reward points and reward redemptions 
on a single platform. To complete our 
suite of products and payment suite to 
the retail consumers, we are scaling 
BNPL with multiple variants that we are 
building to make customer purchases 
convenient. Between Credit Card EMI, 
Debit Card EMI and paper financing, 
we are riding the wave of innovation 
and have become No.1 among all 
banks in BNPL. 
Acceptance business is all about 
building the core network connecting 
the entire payment ecosystem and 
receipts business. Our full suite of 
online and offline payment solutions 
consists of Payment gateway, UPI, 
EPI, Smart Hub platform, POS/M 
POS, QR Code and Scan & Pay, 
among others. Within acceptance 
business, Merchant Acquiring 
business provides the railroad for 
banking solutions and payment 
offerings to the largest customer 
segment – MSMEs. As a Bank, 
this business gets us entry into the 
large and thriving MSME ecosystem 
that forms the backbone of our 
economy. We have been leading this 
business and despite the disruptive 
competition in this space, we have 
about 47% market share in cards, 
1 Million+ POS terminals deployed 
and 14.5 Lakh Crore+ volume 
acquired across cards, NetBanking 
and UPI. We are strengthening our 
Partnership pillar by forging alliances 
with large fintech players to corner 
large opportunity segments with 
targeted value propositions like EMI, 
pay later and digital storefronts. 
Smart Hub continues to be a pioneer 
comprehensive payment and banking 
solution for all merchants, and we will 
be launching the enhanced Smart 
Hub App Platform soon. We have 
been continuously transforming the 
experience on SmartHub Vyapar 
App platform to instantly become a 
merchant with the widest range of  
payment acceptance, easy access 
to loans and banking solutions with a 
single view of all transactions. Further, 
the platform will allow merchants to 
instantly open current account and 
start accepting payments on the go.
Consumer Financing consists of 
lending at the point of sale i.e. the 
EMI business, and this business 
feeds off the acceptance and 
issuance business. We fund both 
during purchase and post purchase 
transactions through cutting-edge 
offerings such as Cards EMI, Buy 
now Pay later (BNPL), digital loans, 
Smart EMI – Credit, Smart EMI – 
Debit and inventory finance, among 
others. We are reaching out to New to 
Credit (NTC) customers and new age 
customers, extensively in this space.
Technology and digital
As a future-ready bank, we are 
technology and digital led in most of 
our operations. Today, 93% of the 
Bank’s transactions are processed 
digitally. As a part of our technology 
transformation agenda, we have taken 
great strides under the three legs of 
Digital Factory, Enterprise Factory 
and Enterprise IT. While Enterprise 
Factory and Enterprise IT focus on 
strengthening the core technologies 
and networks, Digital factory is aimed 
at enhancing customer experience 
through differentiated products and 
services. This approach is further 
illustrated through our 5-pillar strategy 
for bringing in key shifts in the banking 
experience.
We aim to make day-to-day banking 
simple for our retail customers through 
easy and unified payment experiences 
and seamless assisted and unassisted 
journeys. Our ecosystem-based 
offerings for MSMEs cover the entire 
supply chain with native journeys 
in local languages providing a 
transformational commercial banking 
experience. With APIfication and deep 
ERP embedding, we offer frictionless 
36

Differentiated 
customer experience 
	· Design frictionless 
journeys for straight 
through processing 
	· Digitisation of 
branches with 
paperless journeys 
	· Create Neo 
customer digital 
experiences 
Rapid innovation 
at scale 
	· New products and 
journeys designed at 
pace and scale 
	· Plug & play 
integration with new 
age Fintech partners 
	· Best-in-class 
products and 
services powered by 
innovation, agility-at-
scale 
Data and platform  
orchestration 
	· Embedded AI/
ML capabilities 
spanning products 
and processes 
	· Deeper analytical 
capabilities 
and synergised 
operational 
efficiencies 
	· APIfication of data to 
enable sophisticated 
customer journeys 
Resilient and secure 
core systems
	· Zero-trust 
architecture, 
advanced platforms 
and analytics 
for best-in-class 
security posture 
	· Next level disaster 
recovery with 
automation and ‘Hot 
DR’ setup 
	· Multi-cloud 
strategy, data 
centre consolidation 
augmented with 
scalability through 
containerisation 
Nurturing 
tech talents 
	· Transforming people 
practices to adopt 
new ways of working 
	· Fostering a culture 
of innovation, agility 
and growth 
	· Gen X to Gen Z: 
leveraging diverse 
skill sets as a key 
enabler 
Key tenets of technology and digital
banking services for large corporates, 
mimicking retail experiences. We are 
leveraging advanced AI and deep 
analytics to simplify investments for 
our wealth customers. We contribute 
to the Digital Bharat growth story 
with a local touch through assisted 
journeys, multilingual capabilities, and 
deep digital distribution points. The 
objective is not just to develop new 
products but to innovate rapidly and at 
scale, so as to serve the entire gamut 
of our 7.1 Crore strong customer base. 
In order to achieve this, we also forge 
strategic partnerships with new-age 
fintech players to offer plug and play 
solutions.
Powering these initiatives is our strong 
technological backbone. We have 
fortified our infrastructure security and 
resilience through scalable, state-of-
the-art data centers, AI/ML based 
security and monitoring systems and 
deep automation in DR resiliency. We 
are also strengthening the foundation 
by re-architecting the core technology. 
We are ‘hollowing out the core’ by 
moving away from legacy systems into 
a cloud native, agile system, and a 
neo-technology stack.
Our people are the most important 
enablers as we transform into a 
future-ready, digital-first bank. We 
are refreshing our people practices 
adapting to new ways of working. Our 
hiring strategies leverage Gen X to Gen 
Z talent offering diverse skillsets to 
build in-house deep-tech capabilities. 
Our focus is on fostering a culture of 
innovation, agility and growth.
The Bank has lined up exciting 
launches in the coming quarters 
with offerings that not only make 
banking simpler but also augment 
the experience through value added 
services. Our MobileBanking app is 
undergoing a massive re-write with a 
refreshed UI/UX focusing on journey 
simplification for the customer. The 
end goal is simple, customer delight 
across all segments on the back of a 
resilient infrastructure and seamless 
digital experiences.
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
37

Strategy in Action
Commercial & Rural Banking 
Commercial and Rural Banking 
(CRB) primarily caters to entities in 
manufacturing, exports, employment, 
retail and trade, supply chain network 
and infrastructure. CRB lending 
constitutes a large part of our PSL 
lending book. CRB serves Micro, Small 
and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), 
emerging corporates, commercial 
agriculture, farmer finance, healthcare 
finance, equipment finance and 
commercial transport companies. 
We are committed to helping resolve 
the challenges faced by this market 
segment, like lack of easy or timely 
access to credit, high cost of credit 
and collateral constraints.
This group enables acquisition of 
customer at an early stage. For 
instance today’s SME and MSME 
will transition to tomorrow’s mid-
corporates and large corporates. The 
Bank aims to support the journeys 
of these companies as they mature 
through the lifecycle.
The rise of the digitally-enabled 
customers presents a unique 
opportunity to scale business 
and increase wallet share through 
augmented end-to-end digital journeys 
and increasingly personalised offerings 
and services. With products and 
platforms such as the SME portal, 
the Bank caters to the needs of 
the new-age customer. The Bank 
intends to grow its agriculture and 
allied book by diversifying its portfolio 
from staple crops to agri allied and 
high value horticulture crops. It also 
plans to augment as well as facilitate 
the growth of individual ecosystems 
that exist within the group, (such 
as the rural ecosystem, healthcare 
ecosystem, transportation ecosystem 
or the supply chain network) with 
products and services tailored to 
add value and financial strength. 
The market potential in the segment 
that the CRB group caters to is 
immense and the Bank is well-poised 
to capitalise on this opportunity 
by leveraging its reach, innovation 
capabilities, digital prowess and 
ecosystem offerings.
Retail Assets
Our Retail assets strategy is to 
deliver best-in-class algorithm-driven 
Digital lending. We continue to be 
a responsible, agile and innovative 
retail services provider. Our portfolio 
consists of secured/unsecured lending 
products such as auto loans, home 
loans, personal loans, gold loans, etc. 
to cater to various classes of retail 
customers. We aim to expand across 
newer geographies and deepen our 
presence in existing geographies 
through a customer centric approach, 
prudent pricing, introducing indigenous 
digital products while maintaining the 
quality of our portfolio. Our increased 
end-to-end digital lending journey 
across most of our products, backed 
by robust credit research, analytics 
and strong IT infrastructure, is enabling 
our consistent growth.
Emerging 
Corporate 
Group (ECG)
Business 
Banking 
Group (BBG)
Rural Banking 
Group (RBG)
	· Agri KGC
Healthcare  
Finance (HCF)
Emerging  
Enterprise 
Group (EEG)
  
Transportation 
Group
	· CV CE
	· IFG
	· Tractor
Commercial and Rural Banking Group
38

corporate ecosystem which includes 
providing payroll management and 
personal banking services to their 
employees and key officials.
The Bank provides value-added 
and industry-specific solutions by 
leveraging its detailed processes 
and on-ground intelligence about 
corporates’ processes, distribution 
networks and geographies.
As a Digital Bank, we have host 
to host connectivity with the large 
corporates using APIs and we are 
working towards digitising end-to-
end transaction processing within 
their ecosystems. We are leveraging 
cutting-edge technologies such as 
Artificial Intelligence and Machine 
Learning for deep analytics to derive 
actionable insights for increase in 
share of wallet. The quality service 
offering that is provided to our 
corporate customers can be extended 
to customers and suppliers of the 
corporate using ‘ecosystem banking’. 
The idea is to bring the corporates' 
entire financial world under one 
Over the years, we have simplified and 
digitised processes, thus reducing 
turnaround time across products, 
by digital integration coupled with 
algorithm-based usage experience. 
Our key indigenous digital products 
such as Xpress Car loans, 10 Second 
Personal loans, Digital loan against 
shares, and Digital loan against Mutual 
funds, among others, enable not only 
our existing customers but also new 
to bank customers to avail loans in a 
seamless manner. These initiatives 
address the needs of the growing 
population of digital savvy customers 
including the millennials.
One of the key focus areas is 
strengthening our position in 
unsecured product by further 
penetrating in Government segment 
supported by our increasing 
geographical presence and nimble-
footed lending solutions. We have 
built in processes and controls and 
invested in our branch network to 
manage the risks, to ensure our Gold 
Loan portfolio grows significantly. We 
are offering seamless loans across 
geographies, expanding our reach 
in semi-urban and rural markets for 
deeper penetration
Corporate Cluster
Corporate Banking continues 
to consistently contribute to our 
growth. Our holistic suite of products 
and services gives us an edge 
over competitors. Our customer 
base extends from large business 
houses, MNCs, Companies in the 
manufacturing and service sectors to 
public sector enterprises, and financial 
institutions, among others.
While lending is the mainstay of 
Corporate Bank, our strategy has 
been to strengthen relationships by 
providing banking products, solutions 
to corporates, to manage their 
receivables, payables, taxes and trade. 
Our product suite covers the entire 
Corporate  
ecosystem
Working capital term lending 
Channels 
Supply chain finance 
Suppliers/dealers  
Cash management 
Cross-border vendors 
	· Trade 
	· Cross-border transactions 
Employees  
Salary empanelment 
Customers 
	· Digital integrations 
	· API integrations
	· H2H (Host-to-Host) solutions
Government 
Statutory payments 
Shareholders 
Dividend distribution 
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
39

Strategy in Action
umbrella. We aim to continue to add 
value to the corporate ecosystem by 
focusing on:
	· Use of technology, processes, and 
products to cater to the corporate 
journeys
	· Offering financing solutions to the 
eco system partners – vendors, 
suppliers/dealers, channel, and 
customers – of the corporates 
through digital platforms
	· Identifying white spaces and co-
creating financial products by 
benchmarking with the best-in-class
	· Innovating Trade Products to cater to 
specific needs of the Corporates
	· Being the Banker of choice to MNCs 
with the goal of becoming the largest 
bank to multinationals in India
Wealth
Wealth is one of the key focus areas 
for the Bank. We are focused on the 
Affluent and Mass Affluent segment 
of customers to drive growth. A 
large proportion of wealth in India is 
distributed even beyond the top 20 
cities of the country. The Bank aims to 
increase the Wealth Relationship team 
and expand its reach in B30 (beyond 
top 30) cities, to tap into this segment 
through a hub and spoke model. 
The Bank’s Wealth team is currently 
serving customers across 216 cities 
and is on track to reach 800+ locations 
by the end of this financial year. We are 
also investing in our people through 
intensive training to develop the right 
knowledge capital and service skillsets 
to provide consistent quality of service 
across these locations.
Our dedicated service team for Wealth 
Clients ensures delivery of our 'Service 
First' philosophy. The bank has 
adopted Annual Recurring Revenue 
(ARR) as a key metric to ensure 
transition from transactional approach 
to portfolio management approach 
and minimise churn. We have an open 
architecture for insurance where we 
have multiple partners across life, 
health, and general insurance to offer 
the right product to the right customer. 
Our non-proprietary framework across 
investment products which makes 
recommendations based on robust 
quantitative and qualitative evaluation 
model, re-accentuate our customer 
centricity.
We are developing a mobile-first 
Wealth Platform that will leverage 
advanced analytics and AI-driven 
recommendations to provide 
differentiated wealth solutions across 
all customer segments. The digital 
platform will focus on agile, unassisted 
journeys and mass personalisation 
to cater to customers across the 
country. The goal is to deliver a 
highly personalised experience that 
democratises wealth management 
and makes it accessible for all our 
customers.
Technology  
leverage
New Wealth App 
with advanced 
analytics and 
robust execution 
platform
Customer  
centricity
Open Architecture 
for all Investment 
Products & 
Robust Processes 
to safeguard 
customer’s interests
Knowledge 
capital
Expansion to 
B30 locations 
through hiring 
and relationship 
team skill 
building through 
training
Service first  
culture
Dedicated 
Service Team 
and Robust 
Review Process 
to fulfill all client 
needs
Wealth strategy
40

	· Omni-channel: We are using our 
Omni-channel forte consisting of 
website, Net and MobileBanking, 
notifications, SMS, Email, WhatsApp 
and social media to deliver the 
business portfolio objectives. We 
are developing segmented and 
personalised communication based 
on highly advanced AI/ML models.
	· Advanced analytics and data 
science: Investments in Cloud-
related advanced analytics tools 
enable deep understanding of 
customer behaviour, and their 
preferences to curate personalised 
interventions, at scale and to create 
relevant customer engagement. 
Through technology and digitisation, 
we are executing digital marketing 
plans at scale and in tandem with 
the traditional marketing channels 
to provide our customers quick 
and easy access to all our financial 
solutions. We have revamped our 
digital journeys for loans, deposits 
and payment solutions which allow 
our customers to purchase products 
in a few clicks in a frictionless 
manner.
	· Our investment in advanced analytics 
engine ‘Spark Beyond’ tests millions 
of hypotheses and builds multiple 
models in minutes with the aim to 
understand customer needs, have 
meaningful customer interactions and 
build customer relationships. 'Spark 
Beyond' impacts all channels of the 
Bank, bringing higher productivity for 
manned channels and increase of 
business in unassisted channels.
	· PODs: To support end-to-end 
outcomes like un-assisted business 
generation digitally, we work in multi-
disciplinary and cross-functional 
teams called PODs. These PODs 
solve business problems through 
a lens of data-backed root-cause 
analyses and hypotheses.
	· Stimulating customer advocacy: 
We identify and address grievances 
across customer digital journeys and 
products to earn customer trust and 
create brand advocates using online 
reputation management, ratings, 
reviews, and testimonials.
Digital Marketing
Our digital marketing strategy is to 
create awareness about our brand, 
build brand loyalty for our financial 
solutions and services through a deep 
understanding of customer behaviour 
and preferences. Digital marketing 
for us entails providing frictionless 
customer journeys and addressing 
customer requirements with the right 
product, at the right time, in their most 
preferred channel of communication 
and with high levels of personalisation. 
One of the key outcomes expected 
from this strategy is contribution 
to direct business generation. Our 
website has seen growth in customer 
visits in both tier and non-tier cites 
evidencing increase in our reach and 
recall.
We are executing our strategy through 
our omni-channel presence, advanced 
analytics, data science, working in 
cross functional teams and through 
customer advocacy.
Internal and 
external channels
Multidisciplinary cross 
functional teams (PODs) 
Advanced analytics 
and data science
Stimulating 
customer advocacy
Digital 
Marketing 
execution
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
41

External Environment
Key external drivers and 
our response
Just as the global economy prepared to 
leave behind the pangs of the pandemic 
(despite uncertainties associated with 
subsequent waves and rising inflationary 
pressures), the Russia-Ukraine conflict 
escalated. The consequent imposition 
of sanctions on Russia kept the global 
economy and financial system on 
tenterhooks. Further, China’s slowdown, 
Sri Lanka’s crisis and other geopolitical 
issues continue to weigh on the economic 
recovery, clouding India’s near-term 
growth outlook as well.
The Indian banking sector, supported by regulatory and 
Government interventions, has remained resilient and 
sufficiently capitalised. Measures such as moratorium on 
payment of loan instalments and restructuring of loans, 
among others, alleviated the stress while helping banks 
to continue lending to productive sectors. The pandemic 
has accelerated the technology-led transformation in the 
financial services space, with new customised products and 
services being delivered using digital technologies. However, 
it has also elevated the risks related to data privacy and 
cyber security which need to be mitigated on an ongoing 
basis.
42

Global economic growth 
set to moderate 
The protracted Russia-Ukraine 
conflict, Sri Lanka’s sovereign default 
and structural slowdown in China 
are weighing heavily on the global 
economic recovery. Inflationary 
pressures have increased, as supply 
chains remain in disarray and trade 
sanctions on Russia push up energy 
prices. While Brent crude oil is 
hovering above $120/bbl, natural gas 
price has risen by more than 50% 
since March 2022. In response, many 
central banks including the US Federal 
Reserve, have tightened their monetary 
policy. Against such a backdrop, the 
IMF expects global GDP growth to 
moderate to 3.6% in 2022 from 6.1% 
in 2021. Among advanced economies, 
the US is expected to grow at 3.7% 
(vs. 5.7% in 2021), while Euro area 
growth is estimated to halve from 
5.3% in 2021 and the UK economy is 
estimated to grow at 3.7% in 2022 vs. 
7.4% in 2021. While Russia is expected 
to record a negative output growth, 
China is expected to grow at 4.4% vs. 
8.1% in 2021.
In India, export growth may see a 
moderation post a good performance 
last year. Inflation is expected to remain 
high due to rising input costs, lingering 
supply disruptions and elevated energy 
prices. The recent rate hikes by the 
RBI may put upward pressure on 
interest cost and weigh on investments 
and consumption. Additionally, global 
liquidity withdrawal presents a risk for 
foreign capital flows. In India, GDP 
growth is estimated at 7.3% in FY23 
vs. 8.7% in FY22, with risks tilted to 
the downside. Encouragingly, despite 
the slowdown, in FY23, India is likely 
to perform better than its Emerging 
Market peers. While zero COVID-19 
policy and related lock downs are 
likely to drag down China's economy, 
developing European countries (like 
Poland) are likely to suffer due to the 
ongoing war.
  Our response
We undertake topical stress testing 
based on prevailing geopolitical/
macroeconomic/sectoral and other 
trends. One such topical stress 
analysis was conducted to estimate 
the impact – direct and indirect – 
of the Russia-Ukraine conflict on 
our portfolio. We do not see any 
significant risk, based on the current 
information available. We, as part of 
our continuous and robust country 
risk monitoring, have proactively 
taken steps to limit our exposure 
to Sri Lanka. Nonetheless, we are 
closely monitoring the overall situation 
both at the global and India level and 
are modifying our course of action 
accordingly.
3.7% 
EXPECTED GLOBAL GROWTH IN 2022 
Government and 
regulatory interventions 
During the two waves of COVID-19, 
the RBI announced Resolution 
Frameworks (RF) 1.0 and 2.0 to 
provide relief to borrowers and lending 
institutions. While the restructuring 
of large borrower accounts under RF 
1.0 could be invoked by December 
31, 2020 and implemented within 180 
days from the date of invocation, they 
have time till September 30, 2022 to 
achieve the operational parameters. 
On the other hand, resolutions under 
RF 2.0 for individuals, small businesses 
and MSMEs could be invoked before 
September 30, 2021 and the resolution 
plan had to be implemented within 90 
days from the date of invocation. 
H3,13,919.49 Cr
ASSETS IN THE MSMEs SEGMENT  
AS ON MARCH 31, 2022
MSMEs are considered an important 
economic growth engine and are 
one of the largest employers in the 
country. The Bank’s Assets in the 
MSMEs segment stood at H3,13,919.49 
Crore as on March 31, 2022. Its Micro 
Enterprises Assets alone stood at 
H1,12,564.77 Crore. We continued 
to extend support to our customers 
through ECLGS and ECLGS extension 
schemes and also provided ad-hoc 
enhancements as needed. Your Bank 
emerged as a star performer under 
the ECLGS 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 and ECLGS 
extension schemes. We disbursed 
loans amounting to H17,100.89 Crore 
Our response
to over 0.78 Lakh customers under 
various ECLGS schemes. This swift 
support enabled our customers to run 
their operations smoothly while fulfilling 
their financial obligations.
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
43

External Environment
Data privacy and 
cyber security 
The exponential growth of digitisation 
and technological transformation 
in financial services has escalated 
cyber security risk and data privacy 
concerns. There is a growing 
regulatory focus on safe practices and 
stringent polices within organisations 
to ensure that customer interest is 
safeguarded. With the advent of open 
banking, ecosystem banking, digital 
payments and lending, the importance 
of having a robust IT infrastructure with 
resilient systems and stringent policies 
cannot be over-emphasised.
Climate change 
and ESG
Climate change has emerged as an 
overarching concern, enveloping all 
aspects of humanity.
Naturally, this concerns the financial 
sector too. With the disruptive impact of 
climate-related events already evident, 
there is a worldwide movement to embed 
sustainability practices in business 
operations across Environmental, Social 
and Governance (ESG) aspects. The 
financial services industry is expected to 
factor ESG and climate-related physical 
and transition risks in decision-making. 
Further, India reiterated its commitment 
to climate action at the United Climate 
Change Conference (COP26) in 
November 2021 at Glasgow. In line with 
this, the RBI published a statement to 
support the greening of India’s financial 
system. This may significantly impact the 
policies and processes of the financial 
services industry.
Information 
Security Group 
FORMED TO ADDRESS ISSUES RELATED TO DATA 
PRIVACY AND CYBER SECURITY 
We have a comprehensive ESG 
framework to address and mitigate 
climate-related and other ESG risks. 
It consists of a robust governance 
structure that ensures oversight 
over ESG matters at the highest 
level. We have made progress on 
energy consumption, emissions 
and tree plantation initiatives 
and aim to stay the course in 
the coming years. In FY22, we 
pledged to become carbon neutral 
by FY32 and are putting in place 
an implementation framework to 
achieve carbon neutrality. We are 
also in the process of adopting 
a broad range of technological 
solutions and operational measures 
to reduce energy consumption at 
our operating locations.
Our response
Evaluation of environmental and social 
risks is an integral part of our overall 
credit appraisal and approval process. 
Large industrial/infrastructure projects 
that require long-term financing 
(greater than H100 Million and longer 
than 5 years) are covered under our 
Social & Environment Monitoring 
System (SEMS). SEMS necessitates an 
assessment of Environmental, Health, 
Social and Safety risks in addition 
to other risks as part of the overall 
credit appraisal process. Further, 
we continue to invest in renewable 
energy and energy efficiency projects 
to lower our carbon footprint. We also 
encourage customers to make ‘green 
banking’ choices.
We have a dedicated Information 
Security Group headed by the Chief 
Information Security Officer and 
an Information Security Committee 
chaired by the Chief Risk Officer for 
exercising governance over these 
matters. We have devised and 
implemented data privacy policies 
with respect to customer data which 
includes usage of the Bank’s digital 
platforms. We are committed towards 
protecting privacy of our customer’s 
personal data. Our Data Privacy 
program provides a common set of 
requirements for processing personal 
data within Bank. Through our Privacy 
Notices, we attempt to explain in a 
transparent way how and why we 
collect, store and use personal data; 
how it might be shared, and legal 
grounds for processing personal data. 
Our response
We have stringent policies and 
processes in place to ensure 
information and cyber security. 
We undertake routine vulnerability 
assessments that include patch 
management, penetration testing and 
network security processes to ensure 
a robust system and IT infrastructure.  
We have implemented 24x7 
defacement monitoring and 
vulnerability management of the 
Bank’s internet properties. This 
minimises the surface area for cyber 
security attacks. Further Security 
Orchestration, Automation & Response 
(SOAR) is being used to reduce the 
incident response time by connecting 
security solutions with each other and 
automating the incident lifecycle.
44

Digital innovation in 
financial services 
The pandemic has brought about a 
shift in digital technology adoption, 
opening up many opportunities in 
the financial sector. Digital lending is 
one such opportunity, where many 
platforms have emerged to offer 
hassle-free loans to retail individuals, 
small traders and other borrowers. 
Many large multinational corporations 
whose primary business is technology 
(e-commerce, social media, payments 
enablers, etc.), popularly known as 
BigTechs, have started lending either 
directly or in partnership with regulated 
financial entities. 
~6,000
FINTECH PLAYERS OFFERING SERVICES ACROSS 
INVESTMENTS, INSURANCE, PAYMENTS, LENDING 
AND BANKING INFRASTRUCTURE
Further, the Indian fintech market is 
slated to grow significantly due to 
large unpenetrated geographies and 
rapid digitisation of the economy. With 
~6,000 fintech players, the services 
offered are spread across investment, 
insurance, payments, lending, 
and banking infrastructure. With 
cutting-edge technology and niche 
target markets, these fintechs offer 
customised and user-friendly services 
that appeal to the growing tech-
savvy customer base. The regulatory 
environment is providing the necessary 
impetus with initiatives such as the 
e-RUPI, a person and purpose-specific 
digital payment solution launched in 
August 2021. In the Union budget of 
2022-23, India has announced plans 
for a Central Bank Digital Currency 
(CBDC). Additionally, open banking 
trends and a spurt in the number of 
off-the-shelf APIs available for banks 
and third-party apps to build upon is 
changing the dynamics of financial 
services industry. 
We are focusing on building new 
competencies under Digital Factory, 
Enterprise Factory and Enterprise IT. 
We are fully geared up to launch the 
next phase of our strategic initiatives to 
provide seamless customer journeys. We 
are continuously innovating to provide 
differentiated customer offerings. Through 
digitisation we are offering solutions 
to enable ease of business across our 
diverse customer base. We are focusing 
on end to end digital journeys with 
omni channel touchpoints designed 
around the needs of our customers. We 
launched ‘Xpress Car Loans’ – our new 
car loan journey for existing customers 
as well as non-customers, resulting in 
loan initiation to disbursal in less than 
30 mins. We are fostering innovation 
with strategic partnerships with multiple 
cutting edge startups, Fintechs and 
BigTechs to increase the breadth of such 
holistic offerings. Benefits such as an 
enhanced digital customer experience, 
more intuitive user interfaces and neo 
tech stacks are pivotal enablers in our 
partnership journeys. This has recently 
been demonstrated through the roll out 
of our Smart Hub Vyapar offering for 
merchant ecosystems and our revamped 
Customer Experience Hub, an AI/ML 
Powered Omni Customer Experience 
Transformation program. Our core 
technology transformation program is 
continually strengthened with new age 
technology advancements being built into 
our roadmap including our Cloudification, 
API, Automation and App modernization 
journeys.
Our response
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
45

Risk Management
Robust and stress-
tested framework   
Our robust Risk Management framework and the independence of 
our risk management function set us apart as a responsible banker. 
It enables the execution of our strategic priorities without taking on 
undue financial and non-financial risks. Our risk policies and processes 
and their effective implementation through technology and governance 
enabled us to endure and even grow in these highly uncertain and 
disruptive times. Stress testing is one of the key risk management tools 
we use to mitigate and manage the existing as well as emerging risks. 
HDFC Bank’s Risk Management Framework
Governance
Board of Directors
Board Committees
Management Committees
Assessment
Risk Identification
Measurement
Approval as 
applicable
Control
Risk Limits
Monitoring
Mitigation
Reporting
Risk MIS & 
Actions
Frameworks
Risk Appetite
Risk Policies, Procedures and Systems
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process and Stress Testing
Compliance
Internal Audit
46

Risk Governance
Our Board of Directors is responsible 
for managing comprehensive 
risks. The Risk Policy & Monitoring 
Committee (RPMC), constituted by the 
Board, oversees the implementation 
of our risk strategy. The RPMC guides 
the development of our policies, 
procedures and systems and evaluates 
their adequacy and appropriateness to 
the changing business conditions, as 
well as our risk appetite. 
The Chief Risk Officer (CRO) heads the 
independent Risk Management Group 
(RMG). The CRO interacts regularly 
with the members of the RPMC. 
The RMG is primarily responsible 
for implementing the risk strategy 
approved by the Board, and 
developing policies, procedures and 
systems for identifying, measuring, 
monitoring, assessing and managing 
risks.
Risk frameworks and their 
implementation
The nature of our business and 
business activities, along with the 
regulatory environment and external 
environment at large, exposes us 
to several types of risks. For us, the 
keys risks are credit risk, market risk, 
liquidity risk, operational risk, cyber 
security and data risk. Our operations 
expose us to compliance and 
reputation risk. We are also exposed 
to ESG risks. We have put in place an 
aggregate risk appetite framework. In 
addition, the appetites for individual 
risk types are operationalised through 
risk-specific policies, limits and 
triggers.  
We also have a structured 
management framework in the Internal 
Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP) to identify, assess 
and manage all risks that may have 
a material adverse impact on our 
business/financial position/capital 
adequacy.
Risk exposures are regularly captured 
and reported to the relevant levels 
of management for initiation of 
appropriate mitigation measures. We 
also continuously evaluate the efficacy 
of existing risk model assumptions and 
parameters and refine the models to 
keep up with the changing times.
We have an Internal Audit Department 
which is responsible for independently 
evaluating the adequacy and 
effectiveness of all internal controls, 
risk management, governance systems 
and processes.
We have separated the Risk, Audit 
and Compliance functions from the 
Business functions to create a strong 
culture of checks and balances and 
to eliminate any possible conflict of 
interest between revenue generation, 
and risk management and control.
Key risk management 
initiatives 
Evolving stress testing scenarios 
In addition to the existing suite of 
standard stress scenarios, we are 
conducting stress testing based on 
topical themes driven by prevailing 
trends such as geopolitical/
macroeconomic/sectoral, among 
others. These stress tests are 
conducted focusing on specific areas 
of portfolio and the results act as 
early warning alerts/signals for taking 
actions, if any. Some of the topical 
themes relevant for the present times 
include the evolving geopolitical turmoil 
in Europe due to the Russia-Ukraine 
conflict, commodity price shocks, and 
possible shift in key macroeconomic 
variables in the medium term. 
Russia-Ukraine conflict
We analysed both direct and indirect 
impact of the conflict on our portfolio. 
The situation remains fluid globally, and 
there is uncertainty regarding the final 
outcome from a geopolitical as well as 
a financial market standpoint. Stress 
testing of our portfolio considering the 
current information did not indicate any 
significant risk. We continue to closely 
monitor the situation, to pre-empt and 
manage the risk and its outcomes.
Sri Lanka’s sovereign default
With continuous and robust monitoring 
of country risk exposures and stress 
testing, we have proactively taken 
steps to limit our exposure to Sri 
Lanka. Although the impact of the 
default is unlikely to be material for the 
Bank, we are keeping a close eye on 
the situation.
Increasing focus on non-
financial risks
We believe a lot more can be done 
in the area of researching, analysing, 
monitoring and mitigating non-
financial risks such as operational, 
technology and reputation, among 
others. Accordingly, we are elevating 
deliberations of non-financial risks 
in the RPMC/Board. We are also in 
the process of enhancing policies, 
procedures and risk assessment 
framework for such non-financial risks. 
Leveraging technology
In line with our technology 
transformation agenda, we are also 
automating our risk management 
processes. We believe it will increase 
efficiencies, enhance accuracy of 
information, and enable maintenance 
of adequate audit trail for reviews.
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
47

Risk Management
The risk which arises from default by borrowers in their 
terms of contract with the Bank, especially failure to make 
payments or repayments.
Mitigation
An independent Credit Group headed by Chief Credit 
officer oversees the underwriting functions and approvals 
across retail and wholesale credit functions. It ensures that 
the credit underwriting and portfolio management policies 
are aligned with the Board approved credit appetite. There 
are robust policies and processes for managing credit risk 
in both retail and wholesale businesses, mainly through 
our target defined market, credit approval process, post-
disbursement monitoring and remedial management 
procedures.
Strategies
Maintaining healthy asset quality with optimal risk-reward 
considerations.
Capitals Impacted
 
 
 
The risk of potential loss on account of adverse changes 
in market variables which affect the value of financial 
instruments held by the Bank.
These instruments are primarily held for trading or for 
management of statutory reserves.
Examples of such market instruments are debt securities, 
equities, foreign exchange and derivative instruments.  
Mitigation
A well-defined Board approved Market Risk Policy, 
Investment Policy, Foreign Exchange Trading Policy and 
Derivatives Policy along with robust control activities 
caps the risk at trading desk level and also at securities 
level, through trading risk limits in line with the Bank’s risk 
appetite.
The market risk is also evaluated at portfolio level and 
controls are implemented to mitigate the risk.
Strategies
Optimising profitability of mark-to-market products within the 
constraints of liquidity and market risk appetite of the Bank.
Capitals Impacted
 
The risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, as a result of 
failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and 
standards.
Mitigation
Comprehensive Board-approved Compliance policy in 
place which is reviewed on an annual basis.
The Compliance function tracks and reviews 
compliance with regulatory guidelines.
Enhancing the compliance culture within the 
organisation through an intricate and comprehensive 
internal control framework along with other measures.
Strategies
Strengthening our Compliance checks and balances 
and ensuring businesses work within the contours of 
regulation.
Capitals Impacted
 
Credit Risk
Market Risk
Compliance Risk
48

Operational risk arises from inadequate or failed internal 
processes, people and systems or from external events. 
It includes risk of loss due to legal risk.
Mitigation
A Board-approved governance structure is in place with 
detailed framework and processes for managing operational 
risk. Under the framework, the Bank has three lines of 
defence namely business line (including support and 
operations), An independent Operational Risk Management 
Department (ORMD) and Internal Audit to manage, monitor 
and mitigate Operational risks.
Strategies
Minimising operational losses through risk mitigation 
mechanisms.
Capitals Impacted
 
 
At a broader level, risks from climate change are 
typically divided into:
	· Physical risks 
Economic losses (physical damage to property and 
assets) from extreme weather events (flood, cyclone, 
etc). due to climate change.
	· Transition risks 
– The possible process of adjustment to a low carbon 
economy and its possible effects on the value of 
financial assets and liabilities. 
Mitigation
An ESG policy framework has been formulated to 
address this risk.
Evaluation of environmental and social risk is an 
integral part of our overall credit appraisal and approval 
process. Long-term financing proposals for large 
industrial/infrastructure projects (greater than `100 
million and tenor above 5 years) are evaluated through 
the SEMS framework, which requires an assessment 
of Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety risks 
in addition to other risks as part of the overall credit 
appraisal process. We also track and externally verify 
our carbon emissions to effectively manage and 
reduce our footprint.
Strategies
We are exploring frameworks to model and assess 
climate risk. We also continue our endeavour to 
acquire granular data, further corroborated by BRSR 
data (from FY23 onwards), and test tools for climate 
risk assessment and conducting scenario analysis. We 
are also exploring options to tie-up with data providers.
On the emissions front, we have set ourselves specific 
targets towards reduction of our GHG emissions.
Capitals Impacted
 
 
 
Financial 
Capital
Human  
Capital
Intellectual 
Capital
Social &  
Relationship 
Capital
Manufactured 
Capital
Natural  
Capital
Operational Risk
Climate Risk
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
49

Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank may not be able 
to meet its financial obligations as they fall due, without 
incurring unacceptable losses.
Mitigation
The Bank's framework for liquidity and interest rate 
risk management is spelled out in our Asset Liability-
Management policy. Further, a robust mechanism to 
comprehensively track cash flow mismatches under 
normal as well as stressed conditions and critical ratios 
including Basel III ratios has also been implemented. 
The Bank has an extensive intraday liquidity risk 
management framework for monitoring intraday 
positions during the day.
Strategies
	· To maintain healthy liquidity as evidenced in Liquidity 
Coverage Ratio (LCR)/Net Stability Funding Ratio 
(NSFR) in line with our Balance sheet size to tide over 
any unforeseen stress scenarios.
	· Maintaining competitive cost of funds.
Capitals Impacted
 
Any adverse stakeholder and public perception about our 
Bank may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain 
customers and may expose us to litigation and regulatory 
actions.
Mitigation
We communicate with our stakeholders regularly through 
appropriate engagement mechanisms to address 
stakeholder expectations and assuage their concerns, if any.
The Bank has identified reputation risk to be a material risk 
in its ICAAP Policy and an assessment framework has been 
established to monitor the level of reputation risk.
Strategies
	· Delivering superior and seamless customer experience.
	· Wide range of products and services.
Capitals Impacted
 
Risk Management
Liquidity Risk
Reputation Risk
50

Risk of cyber-attacks on the Bank’s systems through 
hacking, phishing, ransomware and other means, resulting 
in disruption of our services or theft or leak of sensitive 
internal data or customer information.
Mitigation
Each cyber security threat including data privacy issue is 
assessed basis the framework - Identify, Prevent/Protect, 
Detect, Respond and Recover. Further controls such as 
firewalls, anti-malware, anti-advance persistent threats, 
data loss prevention, Red Teaming, Intrusion prevention/
detection, digital rights management, 24*7 security 
operation centre, and forensics solutions, have been put in 
place.
The international ‘General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR)’ has also been implemented across relevant 
operations. The Bank is compliant with ISO 27001 and PCI 
DSS standards.
Strategies
Facilitating bank’s growth via secure Digital 2.0 – 
implemented through Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud 
technology.
Adapting and updating Cyber Defence framework, using AI/
ML to further augment cyber defence capabilities to counter 
new-age threats.
Increase information security awareness among employees 
and customers through specific programmes and 
communications.
Sustaining operational effectiveness and efficiency through 
secure Work from Home.
Capitals Impacted
 
 
Financial 
Capital
Human  
Capital
Intellectual 
Capital
Social &  
Relationship 
Capital
Manufactured 
Capital
Natural  
Capital
Risks associated with the use, ownership, operation, 
involvement, influence, and adoption of IT within an 
enterprise, as well as business disruption due to 
technological failures.
Mitigation
There are well defined policies, frameworks, 
procedures, templates, and risk assessment 
methodology for IT risk management. 
The framework enables risk assessment of IT 
solutions, entities providing IT and related services and 
new technology and digital implementation.
Strategies
Ensure alignment of Business and IT Strategies to 
provide services and superior customer experience.
Making extensive progress on some of the key 
initiatives that are part of our technology transformation 
agenda. The key initiatives are Infrastructure stability, 
Disaster Recovery Resiliency, Security enhancements 
and monitoring mechanisms.
Capitals Impacted
 
 
Information Technology Risk
Cyber Security and Data Risk
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
51

Business Continuity Management,  
Information & Cyber Security Practices
Ensuring uninterrupted 
operations amid rapid change
The world is rapidly evolving. The pandemic demonstrated the 
need for complex operations involving multiple stakeholders to be 
managed remotely and digitally. At HDFC Bank, we have a well-
defined Business Continuity Plan (BCP) in place, to ensure the 
reliability and continuity of operations.
52

Our BCP is based on regulatory guidelines, ISO22301:2019 certified, and is subject to regular reviews. We have a 
Business Continuity Policy and Procedure with clearly defined roles and responsibility.
Business Continuity – Scope & Governance Framework
Retail Branch Banking
PhoneBanking
Payments Business & 
DBC Risk Control
Retail Portfolio 
Management - 
Credit Cards
Wholesale 
Banking Operations
Retail 
Banking Operations
Treasury Operations
Business continuity
Manage continuity of critical business operations and 
accelerated resumption of services after a disaster
Emergency response
Deal with site-level emergency at an office or a branch  
involving life safety issues like fire, bomb threats, and so on
IT disaster recovery
Recover critical business applications during hardware/ 
network/power failure
Pandemic response
Facilitate an organised and speedy response to any pandemic 
situation that threatens the safety of the Bank’s employees 
and/or disrupts the Bank’s critical business functions
Crisis management
Tackle bank-wide disasters such as pandemic, terrorist 
attacks, ransomware attacks, fire, cyclone, earthquake, city-
level floods, cyber-attacks and data centre outages, among 
others
Our central Business 
Continuity Office works 
towards strengthening 
the business 
continuity preparedness
BCP is managed by the 
Information Security 
Group and governed by 
the Business Continuity 
Steering Committee
The committee’s other 
representatives are 
selected from the senior 
management team
This committee is 
chaired by the Chief Risk 
Officer (CRO)
Approach towards emergency, disaster & crisis 
management
BCP: Governance 
and management
Scope of BCP
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
53

Robust information and cyber security practices for an uninterrupted 
march towards rapid digitisation
Governance over Data
As a responsible banker cyber security, 
and data privacy are of paramount 
importance to us. To manage these 
risks, we have constituted an IT 
Strategy Committee, Information 
Security Committee in addition to 
the Information Security Group with 
specific roles and responsibilities. We 
also have in place a cybersecurity 
framework and an information security 
programme. We undertake stringent 
processes and measures such as 
vulnerability management processes 
that actively scan for security threats, 
logging and monitoring procedures 
to deal with network intrusions and 
incidents. There were no incidents of 
data breaches In FY22.
We adhere to the ‘Code of Bank’s 
Commitment to Customers’ as 
prescribed by the Banking Codes 
and Standards Board of India 
(BCSBI) and Employee and Customer 
Awareness Procedures, to ensure 
customer privacy and are guided by 
our Information Security Policy and 
Cyber Security Policy, which is at par 
with global standards in information 
security.
Further we have an independent 
assurance team within Internal 
Audit which provides assurance 
on the management of information 
technology-related risks.
IT Strategy Committee
This committee looks into various 
technology related aspects. The 
functions of the Committee are to 
formulate IT strategy and related policy 
documents, ensure that IT strategy 
is aligned with business strategy. 
The committee comprises majorly of 
independent directors and includes an 
external information technology expert.
Information Security Committee
This Committee is chaired by the CRO 
(Chief Risk Officer) and is responsible 
to assess, accept and sponsor 
company-wide security investments. 
It provides a forum to discuss 
information security risks and acts as 
a custodian for the enterprise security 
programme. The committee meets 
on a quarterly basis with participation 
from IT, Business Operations, Audit, 
and the Information Security Group.
Information Security Programme
This programme is based on regulatory 
requirements (RBI Gopalakrishnan 
committee report) and industry 
standards (ISO 27001:2013 and NIST 
800-53). Our cybersecurity framework 
consists of components such as 
Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, 
and Recover which remind us of how 
important it is to balance proactive 
safeguards while preparing for worst-
case scenarios.
Key objectives of the programme include:
	· Documenting, disseminating, 
operating, and reviewing information 
security policies, and procedures
	· Monitoring cyber security threats 
and reviewing the risk profile across 
all critical assets, infrastructure 
components and business units/
departments
	· Providing transparency into the 
information security programme 
and associated controls to senior 
management including board
	· Responding promptly to information 
security incidents and policy 
violations/exceptions in accordance 
with organisational policy
	· Determining whether the actions 
taken to resolve an incident were 
effective and whether corrective 
actions are required, and 
documenting lessons learnt
Key measures undertaken by 
us, to mitigate information 
security related risks are:
Antivirus/Malware Programme
We have implemented a programme 
to prevent, detect and react to 
the introduction of malicious code 
through sources such as computer 
viruses, worms, and Trojans. We use a 
combination of commercially available 
and proprietary tools and monitoring 
systems to mitigate the risks 
associated with malware. The antivirus 
signatures are updated more than 
once per day to stay current and cover 
workstations, servers, email gateways, 
web gateways.
Network Security
The Bank uses a combination of 
firewalls and proxy servers to separate 
and control traffic between networks 
with different security requirements 
and levels of trust. The Bank has 
intrusion detection/prevention 
capabilities in place to detect and react 
to known attacks in real time. IDS/IPS 
signatures are updated periodically to 
update detections for specific threats, 
intruder profiles, and attack patterns. 
These tools are configured to generate 
alerts when predefined thresholds are 
exceeded.
Business Continuity Management, Information 
& Cyber Security Practices
54

Vulnerability management
The Bank administrates a vulnerability 
management process that actively 
scans for security threats. The 
vulnerability management team 
is responsible for tracking and 
following up on vulnerabilities. Once a 
vulnerability requiring remediation has 
been identified, it is logged, prioritised 
according to severity, and assigned an 
owner. The vulnerability management 
team tracks such issues and follows 
up frequently until they can verify that 
the issues have been remediated.
Patch management
The Bank has patch management 
processes and tools to assess 
and deploy operating system and 
application specific patches and 
updates. This process includes steps 
to evaluate vendor supplied patches to 
determine servers that require patches 
and updates, to document procedures 
for patching and updating servers, 
and to deploy patches and updates in 
a timely manner to protect the Bank’s 
infrastructure.
Penetration testing
To test for potential vulnerabilities, 
penetration tests are conducted for all 
critical networks and systems within 
the Bank’s internal environment and 
for external applications. Penetration 
tests are triggered based on several 
events, including new releases, 
updates, or enhancements. The types 
of penetration tests that are conducted 
include Network/Host Penetration 
Testing and Application Penetration 
Testing.
Logging and monitoring
The Bank has a logging and monitoring 
procedure in place to deal with 
network intrusions and incidents. User 
actions, system activity and changes 
to the infrastructure are logged. Logs 
are stored securely and are protected 
against modification, deletion, and 
inappropriate access. The relative 
risk level of the asset and alerts are 
generated in the event of audit log 
failures. Monitoring tools aggregate the 
log files and suspicious activity events 
are automatically reported to the SOC 
(Security Operations Centre) team. 
The SOC team performs the following 
steps:
	· Analysis and Incident Detection – 
The SOC team collects information 
from the system generated event as 
well as other information sources to 
identify a potential incident
	· Event Tracking and Escalation – 
Events are assessed based on the 
level of risk and escalated based 
on guidance from the Incident 
Management policy; escalations 
include referral to the CIRT for in-
depth analysis and forensics and 
management for situation awareness
	· Reporting – The CSOC team 
periodically reports on events and 
incidents to management
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
55

Environment
Greening the value chain
Our three-pronged 
environmental 
response
Strengthening GHG 
data collection and 
management
Reducing  
emissions within 
our operations
Responsible 
Financing
Natural Capital
Climate change is one of the 
most pertinent issues of our 
times. At HDFC Bank, we are 
continuously transforming our 
operations to achieve low-
carbon growth. We have set 
a target to achieve carbon 
neutrality for our Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions by FY32 
and are formalising a roadmap 
covering phased emission and 
energy reduction targets.
56

Governance 
Our Board-governed environmental policy serves 
as a framework to understand and manage our 
environmental risks, impacts and opportunities. 
Our Board of Directors sets courses and evaluates 
our performance on social and environmental 
responsibility. We are continuously working to 
incorporate environmentally responsible practices 
in our own operations, through our vendors, as well 
as through responsible financing. No cases of non-
compliance with environmental laws and regulations 
were identified during the year. We track our GHG 
emissions and transparently report our environmental 
performance annually.
Metrics and targets 
We monitor KPIs for all major environmental 
indicators and initiatives covering energy, GHG 
emissions, water and waste for all our operations and 
aim to minimise the environmental impact thereof. 
We report on climate-related disclosures through the 
Carbon Disclosure Project and our TCFD disclosures, 
which are included in this report. Towards this end, 
the Bank is formalising a roadmap to guide its journey 
towards carbon neutrality. The roadmap consists of 
phased emission and energy reduction targets. More 
details on this can be found in subsequent chapters. 
Notes:
#Base year for targets for energy and emissions: FY22.
*‘Carbon Neutral’ targets include the use of offsets and reflect 
neutrality over projected emissions in the corresponding year.
**Including both demand & supply measures
Our Scope 1 emissions includes emissions from fuel consumption 
in own vehicles and DG sets. Scope 2 emissions include emissions 
due to purchased electricity.
Energy consumption as discussed in this report includes energy 
consumed by the Bank within its operations – including electricity, 
and fuel consumed in DG sets at locations where it has operational 
control as well as its co-located data centres and company vehicles.
All targets are based on accelerated emission reduction scenario 
used in our integrated carbon neutrality roadmap.
32%
CARBON NEUTRAL* BY FY25
100%
CARBON NEUTRAL* BY FY32
34%
REDUCTION IN SCOPE 1 + 2 
EMISSIONS INTENSITY (tCO2/ 
FTE) (EXCLUDING OFFSETS) 
BY FY25
50%
CARBON NEUTRAL* BY FY28
9%
REDUCTION IN ABSOLUTE SCOPE 
1 AND SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS BY 
FY25#** (EXCLUDING OFFSETS)
Develop a 
roadmap 
FOR ENHANCING THE QUALITY OF DATA  
FOR CALCULATION OF EMISSIONS.
23%
REDUCTION IN ENERGY 
INTENSITY (GJ/FTE) BY FY25#
Our neutrality, absolute emission  
and intensity targets
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
57

Initiatives to reduce environmental footprint  
We are working to align our business operations with socially and environmentally responsible practices.  
We are incorporating both technological as well as process solutions in our day to day operations in 
order to add value to the quality of environment. 
GHG emissions and climate change  
Environment
At HDFC Bank, we have put in place an integrated strategy 
for managing our scope 1 and scope 2 emissions (refer 
page 69 and 70). As we had surpassed our previously set 
targets, we have taken on new targets with FY22 as base 
year. Our emission sources included in our base year GHG 
inventory demonstrates an enhancement of our ambitions 
and transparency goals. Not only have we ensured the 
completeness of our Scope 2 emissions from already 
identified source categories, but also included our co-
located data centres as a source category for our scope 2 
emissions. Similarly, we have added a new source category 
for our Scope 3 emissions – emissions on account of 
electricity consumption at our other facilities.    
Saved about 2.1 Million square feet of 
paper through our ‘green event’ initiative
Implementation of digital banking 
initiatives like Phone banking, Mobile 
banking, Net Banking, ATM banking, 
Mobile wallet
Committed to have 
only LED lights in all 
our buildings
Installation of inverter ACs 
and use of LED lights
Several changes within our 
infrastructure assets have 
been incorporated to improve 
energy efficiency
IGBC certification of 
buildings and interiors 
of branches
Our Bangalore data 
centre “NetMagic DC38” 
is certified green data 
centre under the IGBC
Implemented energy 
management system 
(EnMs) across 600 
branches. EnMs to 
be scaled to 1,500 
additional branches
Install solar panels in our upcoming 
office buildings wherever feasible
Use offsite renewable energy and 
green tariff from utility
Transparent disclosures 
of GHG emissions (third-party 
assured)
17.69 Lakh+ trees planted so far
Target to plant 25 Lakh+ trees  
by FY25
Digital Banking Initiatives
GHG Sequestration
Energy Reduction Initiatives
Renewable Energy Initiatives
Our internal 
initiatives to 
reduce our 
climate change 
and ESG risks
58

Enhancements to our emissions boundary and scope
As a result of the enhanced boundary and scope, our total 
GHG emissions for FY22 increased 11% y-o-y by 36,100 
tCO2e, of which 92% (33,136 tCO2e) is attributed to the 
addition of a new source category. Another  
12,728 tCO2e was added to the inventory on account of 
electricity consumption from our co-located data centres. 
Ensuring completeness 
of Scope 2 emissions 
boundary 
Realignment of Scope 
categories for diesel use 
emissions in gensets
Enhancing the boundary 
of Scope 3 emissions 
Enhancing the boundary 
of Scope 2 emissions
Co-located data centres included in the boundary for Scope 2 emissions
Captive and Offsite ATMs (previously excluded due to non-availability 
of monitored activity data) are now included on the basis of emission 
estimation methodologies
Emissions on account of diesel consumption in diesel generator sets are now 
accounted for under Scope 1, instead of Scope 2
We are now including facilities other than those owned & operated by the 
Bank as a separate category in our scope 3 emissions
	 Scope 1 
	 Scope 2
	 Scope 3
GHG EMISSIONS FY22
(351,241 tCO2e)
6%
12%
82%
TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2e)
	 Scope 1 
	 Scope 2
	 Scope 3
351,241
315,141
414,250
FY20
FY22
FY21
Thus, overall, there is a net reduction in GHG emissions in 
FY22 considering only the sources that were included in 
FY21 reporting. As a result, the share of Scope 1 and Scope 
3 in our total emissions profile increased to 6% and 12%, 
respectively. Scope 2 emissions maintained 82% share in 
our total emissions. 
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
59

Our Scope 1 emission increased 
from 5,826 tCO2e in FY21 to 20,877 
tCO2e in FY22, primarily on account 
of inclusion of emissions from 
diesel consumption in generators – 
which were previously included in 
Scope 2. This is because we have 
actual/ perceived control on the fuel 
consumed at a significant number of 
our branches and office locations. 
Fuel consumption in company-owned 
vehicles account for about 41% of 
our Scope 1 emissions while diesel 
consumption in diesel generators 
account for the remaining 59%. 
Our Scope 2 emissions decreased by 
12,474 tCO2e in FY22 over FY21, of this 
9,570 tCO2e was on account of shifting 
emissions from diesel generators to 
Scope 1. Emissions on account of 
purchased electricity decreased by 
2,904 tCO2e, despite the inclusion 
of our co-located data centres and 
an increase in the number of other 
locations in Scope 2 inventory. 
We are committed to collaborating with 
our data centre service providers to 
reduce the GHG footprint of our owned 
and co-located data centres. Currently, 
data centres contribute 7% of our 
Scope 2 emissions. This year, we 
also enhanced our approach towards 
calculation of Scope 2 emissions. 
We have stepped up our efforts to 
collect actual electricity consumption 
data for estimating corresponding 
GHG emissions. In doing so, we 
are prioritising high-consumption 
locations. In FY22, we collected actual 
kWh data on electricity consumed 
from 46% of our locations – which 
collectively consumed about 50% of 
electrical energy. 
For remaining locations, we track the 
cost of electricity consumed through 
our robust financial management 
system and use the same to derive 
estimates of electricity consumed 
using the most conservative tariff 
for commercial slabs at the state 
level. There are some of our smaller 
locations like ATMs for which we 
are in the process of establishing 
systems to collect activity data. For 
such locations, we are estimating 
electrical energy consumption based 
on a methodology that takes into 
account the climatic zone in which 
such locations are based, and energy 
consumption benchmarks derived 
from data on actual electrical energy 
consumption collected by us in similar 
locations. Although electrical energy 
consumption at such ATMs is only 
about 4% of our total electrical energy 
consumption, we are progressively 
enhancing our systems to capture 
actual activity data on electrical energy 
consumption for all locations.
In FY22, our Scope 3 emissions 
increased significantly over FY21, 
primarily on account of inclusion 
of emissions due to electricity 
consumption at other facilities. 
These emissions now account for 
78% of our total Scope 3 emissions. 
The remaining 22% of our Scope 3 
emissions are split between emissions 
due to hired cabs (13%), air and rail 
travel (2%), paper waste (7%), and 
e-waste (<1%).
Environment
We have expanded the 
reporting boundary for 
our Scope 2 emissions. 
This year onwards, 
we will be including 
emissions relating to use 
of purchased electricity 
at our co-located data 
centres in our Scope 2 
emissions.
ELECTRICITY EMISSIONS
(287,667 tCO2e)
7%
93%
	 Data Centres
	 Other locations (offices, 
branches, ATMs etc.)
SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS (tCO2e)
12,343
8,534
5,826
7,649
FY20
FY22
FY21
	 Company-owned Vehicles
	 Diesel
SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS (tCO2)
287,667
9,570
290,571
15,884
374,292
FY20
FY22
FY21
	 Diesel
	 Electricity
60

Emission Scope
Emission Source
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
Scope 1
Company-owned Vehicles
8,534
Diesel consumption in DG sets
12,343
Scope 2
Purchased electricity
287,667
Scope 3
Purchased electricity in other facilities
33,136
Cab Hire
5,600
Air Travel
950
Rail Travel
2
Paper Waste
3,006
E-waste
4
Notes:
Scope 1 emissions includes CO2, N2O and CH4 emissions from the combustion of diesel purchased 
by the Bank for its various facilities, as well as combustion of various fossil fuels in Bank-owned 
vehicles. For the former, diesel purchase data is extracted from the Bank’s financial management 
system and the cost of diesel purchased is converted into liters of diesel using conservative 
estimates of diesel prices in various states. For the latter source, activity data in terms of quantity 
of fuel has been extracted from the financial management system. Emission factors and GWP from 
GHG Protocol’s Cross sector tool and IPCC’s AR5 respectively have been used. 
Scope 2 emissions include GHG emissions from electricity consumed in the facilities that can be 
reasonably considered to be under the operational control of the Bank, as well as its co-located data 
centres. A hierarchical approach has been followed for estimation of emissions from this category 
(i.e. (i) monitored data on electrical energy consumption, (ii) estimates of electricity consumed based 
on procurement costs and state-level tariff; and (iii) estimated electricity consumption based on 
climatic-zone specific, internally derived electricity consumption benchmarks; in that order). In all 
cases, Grid emission factor from version 17 of the CEA’s (Central Electrical Authority) CO2 database 
has been used. 
Scope 3 emission estimation: Emission on account of purchased electricity at our other locations 
have been estimated using the same approach as in Scope 2 but includes other facilities not 
included in Scope 2 emissions. Emissions from hired cabs have been estimated based on expense 
report for hired cabs from the Bank’s financial management system – which has been used to derive 
the distance travelled. Average of emission factor for various categories of cars from the India GHG 
programme has been used. For domestic air and rail travel, information on trip characteristics has 
been extracted from the Bank’s financial management system, and the distance travelled is derived 
from publicly available sources. The emissions have been calculated in accordance with the India 
GHG programme. For international travel through air, the source of data remains the same, but 
emission factors for different class of travel and haul categories have been derived from the GHG 
protocol.
Emissions from paper and e-waste have been estimated based on emission factors provided by 
the latest version of the USEPA’s WARM tool on the extracted data for paper used and e-waste 
disposed.
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS
(42,697 tCO2e)
78%
13%
2%
7%
	 Other facilities 
	 Cab Hire
	 Air & Rail Transport
	 Paper Waste
	 E-waste
6,020
2,960
193
FY20
FY22
FY21
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS (tCO2e)
3,548
6,374
6,497
	 Cab Hire 	
	Air Travel
	 Paper Waste 	
	E-waste
	 Other facilities
5,600
3,006
33,136
951
Graph not to scale
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
61

We have been monitoring our energy 
performance by benchmarking it 
against the Bank’s income and 
full-time employees (FTEs). During 
FY22, our Scope 1+2 GHG emissions 
intensity decreased by 14% and 
6% y-o-y for per FTE and per Crore 
income, respectively. 
Key measures to reduce 
GHG emissions across our 
value chain
Reducing paper waste emissions: 
Our digital strategy forms the 
backbone of our paper waste 
reduction initiatives. Our digital 
products and services, along with 
automation of several internal as well 
as customer-linked processes and 
channels, have enabled us to reduce 
paper waste generation. The ‘Green 
Event Guidelines’ rolled out by our 
retail marketing team has helped save 
about 2.14 Million square feet of paper 
during the reporting year. We have 
also shifted to electronic payments for 
our electricity bill payments – which 
helps avoid paper use for issuing 
about 50,000 Demand Drafts annually. 
Where paper use is unavoidable, we 
are switching to recycled paper. As a 
result, associated emissions increased 
by less than 2% y-o-y in FY22, despite 
an 18.3% increase in our customer 
base. 
Tree plantation: We are also 
implementing an ambitious tree 
plantation programme, under which we 
have planted over 17 Lakh trees so far. 
This programme has not only positively 
impacted our GHG emissions, but has 
also helped enhance our social capital 
and relationship capital. 
Energy efficiency and 
energy management
over 80% of our GHG emissions are 
attributed to energy consumption 
in the form of electricity and diesel 
consumption in DG sets. We are 
aggressively working to reduce our 
energy consumption across operations 
to complement our initiatives to 
decarbonise. This is being achieved by 
reducing energy consumption across 
our operations by regulating existing 
equipment, installing energy-efficient 
ones, and implementing automated 
energy management solutions, among 
others. Our energy management and 
energy efficiency strategy includes 
various initiatives.
Energy efficient space cooling 
measures: We have installed 55 
Air Handling Units (AHUs) at our 
Kanjurmarg location and we are 
planning to replace all blowers to 
EC Fan by FY23, indicating potential 
savings of 25-40%. Thus far, we have 
converted one AHU as a trial and 
saved around 4,082 kWh of electrical 
energy while avoiding 4 MT of carbon 
emissions. We are installing inverter 
ACs in our locations that has helped 
us save 5 Million+ kWh of electricity 
during FY22. Additionally, we have also 
saved 54,450 kWh of electricity during 
the year, through installation of VRF 
HVAC Unit at our back offices. We use 
digital systems and data analytics to 
understand the energy consumption 
pattern, in addition to ensuring that the 
branches are maintained at optimal 
temperatures, improving the power 
factor and automating major energy 
consuming assets.
Efficient data centres: Our Bangalore 
data centre, ‘Netmagic-DC3B’ is a 
certified green data centre under 
the IGBC Green Data Center Rating 
System. We have implemented 
several other energy-saving measures 
including upgradation to efficient 
Environment
Our digitised processes 
and products have helped 
customers reduce their 
frequency of visits to the 
Bank’s branches, ATMs, and 
Offices - thereby reducing 
associated emissions.
26,000+
tCO2e/ per year
CO2 SEQUESTRATION POTENTIAL CREATED 
THROUGH PLANTATION ACTIVITIES
0.13
tCO2e/ per year
REDUCTION IN SCOPE 1+2 EMISSIONS 
PER CR INCOME IN FY22
0.37
tCO2e/ per year
REDUCTION IN SCOPE 1+2 EMISSIONS PER 
FTE IN FY22
1.96
2.09
2.88
FY20
FY22
FY21
GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY
Scope 1 + Scope 2 (tCO2e / ` Cr income)c
2.18
2.55
3.40
FY20
FY22
FY21
GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY
Scope 1 + Scope 2 (tCO2e / FTE)
62

cooling units, cold-aisle containment, 
replacement of old storages and 
servers and with new generation 
hardware, and implementation of 
Smart iPDUs. Additionally, we have 
switched to R-407c refrigerant for 
INROW cooling, deployed new fire 
suppression system with NOVEC 1230 
gas, and replaced UPS batteries with 
Li-ion batteries.
IGBC Platinum 
Certification
FOR OUR DATA CENTRE IN BANGALORE
Building management and Green 
Buildings: We have incorporated 
several changes within our 
infrastructure to improve energy 
efficiency through auto controls and 
environment-friendly equipment. We 
have installed centrally controlled 
energy management system in 
600 branches across India till date. 
This system allows us to control 
consumption patterns, resulting in 
a minimum of 10% saving on power 
consumption. In FY22 alone, we 
saved ~48.81 Lakh units. Based on 
encouraging results from this project, 
we plan to expand the initiative to an 
additional 1,500 branches across 
the country. 
We have LEED Gold certified offices in 
Mumbai and Bhubaneswar. In addition, 
new buildings in Mohali, Kolkata Palava 
and Mumbai (Maharashtra) premises 
are being constructed to meet IGBC 
Gold certification standards. Similarly, 
our Wanowrie back-office has 
been designed as per IGBC Green 
standards; we have received IGBC 
Gold rating for it. All new interior work 
carried out during and after FY22 are 
being designed as per IGBC Green 
standards. So far, interior work at 
378 branches is being carried out as 
per IGBC Green standards and one 
branch in Maharashtra has received 
Gold rating.
Besides, we are leveraging technology 
and innovation as facilitators in our 
journey towards low-carbon growth. 
We have implemented elevator and 
equipment scheduling to reduce our 
energy consumption. We have also 
installed occupancy sensors, capacitor 
banks as well as Building Management 
Systems at several of our operating 
locations. The energy management 
modules with auto controls deployed 
across select branches have resulted 
in significant energy savings. 
Energy 
Consumption
GJ
Diesel: DG Set
165,586
Diesel: Company Cars
38,599
Petrol: Company Cars
81,417
CNG: Company Cars
9
Grid Electricity
1,310,888
10.15
9.58
14.21
FY20
FY22
FY21
ENERGY INTENSITY
(GJ/ ` Cr income)
11.28
11.65
16.77
FY20
FY22
FY21
ENERGY INTENSITY
(GJ/employee)
0.32
1.31
0.29
0.21
1.19
1.64
FY20
FY22
FY21
TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMED
(Million GJ)
	 Electrical Energy
	 Fossil Fuel Energy
4.8+  
Million kWh
ENERGY SAVED DURING FY22 ON 
ACCOUNT OF EnMS IMPLEMENTATION
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
63

Renewable energy
With the goal of gradually 
decarbonising our energy 
consumption, we are steadily 
increasing the share of renewable 
energy in our overall power 
consumption. We have installed 
rooftop solar plants at our offices in 
Jaipur, Pune, Noida, Bhubaneswar, 
Chandigarh, Mumbai and Mohali.
In Maharashra, we are gradually 
shifting our branches to run on green 
power procured through DISCOMs at 
a premium. So far, 14 of our branches 
are operating on green power, resulting 
in annual avoidance of ~905 MT 
carbon emissions on 1,028 MWh of 
procurement per annum.
238.5 kWp
OF CUMULATIVE SOLAR POWER 
GENERATION CAPACITY COMMISSIONED  
AS OF MARCH 31, 2022
Managing waste
We are working progressively towards 
sustainable management of waste 
generated from our operations. We 
deal with three types of non-hazardous 
waste – e-waste, dry waste (paper 
waste) and wet waste (cafeteria, 
sewage), of which e-waste is disposed 
through authorised recyclers. A total of 
212 tonnes of e-waste was generated 
in FY22, because of asset refresh, 
damaged and non-functional assets. 
For paper waste and wet waste, we 
are developing a management plan 
in consultation with our partners. We 
have already initiated pilots at select 
locations and intend to scale it up 
over the next few years. We continue 
to work towards establishing and 
implementing systems and procedures 
for tracking wet and dry waste from 
our operations.
Environment
We are also aggressively working 
towards minimising the use of plastic 
bottles. Single use plastic bottles 
have already been phased out from 
all our hub offices pan-India, and we 
have replaced multiple use plastic 
water bottles with glass jars across 
all meeting and video conferencing 
rooms. Hazardous waste within our 
scope, arising from diesel/fuel oil used 
in generator sets, is negligible.
Responsible financing 
ESG and climate change are 
becoming increasingly important from 
the perspective of borrower credit 
evaluation, as well as regulators and 
other stakeholders. We are following 
a two-pronged approach to address 
ESG and climate change risks in 
our lending portfolio. On one hand, 
we seek to ensure adoption of and 
adherence to complete ESG and 
Climate Change assessment across 
multiple business divisions when 
issuing credit facilities, based on 
interactions with stakeholders, external 
agencies and relevant literature. On 
the other hand, we are engaging 
with some of our largest corporate 
borrowers to better understand their 
ESG strategies and transition plans for 
managing climate risks. 
Our credit policy requires that no 
funding be provided for establishing 
new manufacturing units that 
produce or consume ozone-depleting 
substances, and that no financing 
be provided to small- and medium-
sized businesses that manufacture 
aerosols containing CFCs. Besides, 
as a standard practice, we require all 
loans, including project loans, to be 
approved by a Credit Approver/Senior 
Credit Approver with the necessary 
approval authority. Due to the elevated 
risk involved with large project loans, 
the extension of financing for such 
projects require additional approvals 
from senior management/the Board 
to ensure adequate scrutiny of the 
proposals. 
Evaluation of environmental and social 
risk is an integral part of our overall 
credit appraisal and approval process. 
64

In FY22, 861 loan 
proposals were 
screened through the 
SEMS framework
Long-term financing proposals for 
large industrial/infrastructure projects 
(greater than `100 Million and tenor 
above 5 years) are evaluated through 
the SEMS framework, which requires 
an assessment of Environmental, 
Health, Social, and Safety risks in 
addition to other risks as part of 
the overall credit appraisal process. 
This comprehensive assessment 
involves evaluating the borrower's 
operations, as well as any potential 
negative environmental and social 
consequences. We have already 
mapped potential impact categories 
for risk evaluation of specific, capital-
intensive industries such as roads 
and highways, thermal power, power 
transmission, cement, hydroelectric 
power, and manufacturing, among 
others, to guide the assessment 
process. In addition, the SEMS 
framework includes assessment of 
aspects related to labour availability 
and worker welfare, risk assessments, 
and compliances and approvals. 
In FY22, 861 loan proposals were 
screened through the SEMS 
framework.
Availability and validity 
of various statutory 
approvals/clearances 
for implementation of 
the project from various 
government bodies 
Social & Environment Monitoring System (SEMS) framework
Borrower’s operation 
and the potential 
adverse environmental 
and social impacts 
Borrower’s/sponsor’s 
track record in 
adequately addressing/
managing the risks 
Labour availability, 
facilities provided to 
project personnel and 
labour, exploitative/
child labour 
C
o
m
p
l
i
a
n
c
e
 
R
i
s
k
 
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
L
a
b
o
u
r
 
a
n
d
 
w
o
r
k
e
r
s
I
m
p
a
c
t
s
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
65

Environment
Where required, we place pre-
disbursement stipulations/terms 
of sanction to mitigate adverse 
environmental and social impacts, 
collect undertaking of compliance with 
applicable regulations and criteria, and 
monitor ongoing compliance on an 
annual basis.
Our lending procedures are guided 
by borrower and market demand, but 
our credit exposure is well-diversified, 
with no single industry having a 
high concentration. As a result, our 
credit exposure to ecologically/
socially sensitive industry sectors has 
minimal negative consequences. We 
also finance entities that deals with 
environmental and social issues. 
For select large project finance transactions, we 
appoint a Lenders' Independent Engineer (LIE) for 
conducting an environmental and techno-commercial 
evaluation of the project prior to loan disbursement. 
Any loan disbursement is subject to the correction of 
deficiencies related to environmental and social risks 
identified by LIE. During the construction stage as well, 
the LIE continues to monitor the project and flags any 
risks associated with environmental/social issues in 
the project to the Bank and borrower for necessary 
corrective action.
We have identified upgradation of 
the SEMS framework as a priority 
activity and have been working 
on revising the SEMS framework 
with a ‘ESG & Climate Change 
Assessment’ framework to enable a 
more comprehensive assessment of 
ESG and Climate Change issues. We 
have also been working on expanding 
the coverage of the assessment 
framework. Our newly formulated and 
exhaustive ‘ESG & Climate Change 
Template’ shall be applicable to all 
Credit Assessment Memoranda 
Upgrading to a new ‘ESG & Climate Change Assessment’ framework 
(CAMs) where the aggregate CAM 
appetite crosses a certain threshold, 
rather than at a transactional level, as 
is the current practice. This template 
shall be included in all CAMs where 
direct customer exposure is above a 
certain threshold. 
Highlights of 
the Bank’s 
credit exposure 
Less than 1% of the total exposure comes from fossil fuels (coal and lignite) 
and their extraction/mining 
No exposure of chemical or biological weapons manufacturing enterprises; 
the Bank provides a substantial amount of funding to the healthcare industry 
to meet the funding requirements of hospitals, diagnostic labs, and clinics 
Solar and wind power, hydroelectricity, natural gas (extraction and 
distribution), and biogas-based energy generation are a mong the Bank’s 
environment-friendly industry sectors for lending 
Financing to regional rural banks, NBFC and microfinance that are key financial 
intermediaries to agriculture workers, self-help groups, MSMEs, etc. through 
direct lending (term loans, working capital loans, etc.) and/or through purchase 
of receivables through the securitisation/direct assignment/IBPC route 
66

To complement our ESG and Climate 
Change risk assessment framework, 
we are tailoring our own corporate 
loan portfolio towards climate-
sensitive financing and to companies 
with robust systems and processes. 
For this purpose, we have begun 
engaging with select customers to 
understand their current ESG strategy, 
compliance, reporting frameworks 
and ESG ratings; their operations, and 
long-term climate transition plans for 
carbon footprint reduction through 
process improvements in existing 
operations, business transitions, such 
as de-commissioning of certain lines 
of business and investment in 'clean' 
technologies; and targets for water 
consumption reduction, emission 
reduction, etc.
The Product Responsibility sub-
committee of our ESG action 
committee focuses on identifying new 
opportunities in the Environmental and 
Social space, such as Green Bonds. 
We aim to provide access to capital for 
environmentally sustainable projects 
that contribute to climate change 
mitigation. 
We also finance renewable energy 
projects. So far, we have underwritten 
loans of H14,839 Crore for a cumulative 
capacity of 5,860 MW (solar capacity 
of 3,386 MW and wind of 584 MW). 
We have also financed city-gas 
distribution networks under Minimum 
Work Program with a total underwritten 
amount of H2,393 Crore for 794 CNG 
stations and over 4.6 Million domestic 
connections. In FY22, we also 
partnered with Indore Clean Energy 
Private Limited for financing Asia’s 
largest waste to energy plant at Indore, 
Madhya Pradesh. This plant aims 
to treat 50% of municipal waste 
generated in the city and convert it 
to 100% biogas and manure.
RENEWABLE ENERGY FINANCING
FY20
2,268
8,562
FY21
2,945
10,869
FY22
14,839
5,860
	 Cumulative Underwritten amount (` Crore)
	 Cumulative RE Capacity Financed (MW)
ESG and 
climate 
change 
template 
– key 
highlights 
The impact 
of specific 
environmental 
risks – emissions, 
radiation hazards, 
biomedical/
industrial waste, 
deforestation, 
etc. as well 
as mitigating 
factors in terms 
of systems 
and processes 
to cope with 
negative impacts
Impact of social 
issues – land 
acquisition, 
resettlement and 
rehabilitation, 
labour safety, etc. 
Qualitative 
assessment of 
the physical and 
transition risk of 
climate change on 
the borrower’s  
activities 
Evaluation of 
the availability 
and sufficiency 
of legislative 
clearances/
compliances in the 
areas of pollution 
control and 
effluent treatment 
Positive aspects 
of the Company’s 
environment 
impact, such 
as biodiversity 
conservation 
and community  
engagement 
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
67

Achieve carbon neutrality by 2032
Environment
In June 2021, the Bank pledged to become carbon neutral 
by FY32. We are in the process of rolling out an integrated 
actionable strategy roadmap comprising three mitigation 
pillars and three management pillars. The next decade 
will be a ‘Decade of Action’ for the Bank, as we will build 
on each of these pillars to make meaningful and system-
driven changes within the organisation to achieve our 
carbon neutrality goal.
68

Our target includes GHG emissions 
generated by our operations arising 
from the combustion of fossil fuels 
(Scope 1 emissions) as well as 
emissions from the generation of 
purchased electricity consumed by 
the Bank (Scope 2 emissions) at its 
operating locations and its owned 
and co-located data centres. The 
target covers carbon dioxide (CO2), 
nitrous oxide (N2O), and methane 
(CH4) emissions.
Our integrated strategy for achieving 
carbon neutrality is based on a 
detailed assessment of our key 
operational parameters. The baseline 
emissions were established based on 
the latest dataset available, which fed 
into an integrated tool for forecasting 
emissions. The projected emissions 
based on a likely business growth 
scenario were laid over with multiple 
scenarios of emission reduction 
pathways to understand cost and 
potential reductions under each 
scenario. Based on an engaging and 
deeply consultative process with our 
departmental teams and ESG action 
committees, we have set our eyes to 
achieve carbon neutrality based on 
the following interventions:
Demand-side energy 
management
We are in the process of adopting 
a broad range of technological 
solutions and operational measures 
to reduce energy consumption at our 
operating locations. We have mapped 
Energy Performance Indicator (EPI) 
for all our locations and are using 
it as an internal benchmark for the 
energy performance of all types of 
facilities. We have shortlisted various 
demand-side interventions for 
phase-wise implementation across 
locations based on an assessment of 
feasibility and RoI. These measures 
include smart IoT-based building 
management systems, modular 
UPS systems, air-conditioners with 
high ISEER rating using Brushless DC 
Motors (BLDC) technology, etc.
Supply-side energy 
interventions
We seek to progressively decarbonise 
our energy consumption and 
are increasingly adopting low-
carbon energy sources to support 
our operations. Our supply-side 
strategy focuses on gradual shifting 
to green tariffs offered by utilities 
wherever available and procurement 
of renewable energy from offsite 
power plants and exchanges. The 
green tariff option, which is currently 
available only in a few states 
(Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra 
Pradesh) is expected to be made 
available and affordable in more 
states, and therefore in the interest 
of sustainability, we plan to make use 
of the offering on a gradual basis, 
despite a premium over the existing 
electricity rates. In large locations 
where regulatory requirements for 
open access and wheeling are met, 
renewable energy will be procured 
from offsite power plants, either 
directly or through power exchanges. 
The initial list of locations where 
renewable energy procurement is 
planned to be taken up is already 
identified. A firm-level policy guideline 
on making maximum use of green 
energy supply interventions in existing 
and new locations is also being 
finalised. If and when required, we may 
also utilise green certificates for carbon 
neutrality compliance.
Carbon Credits and 
Offsets
Carbon offsets will continue to play 
a role in addressing the balance 
of our residual emissions. We will 
evaluate and leverage carbon 
offsets and assess opportunities to 
develop mitigation and abatement 
projects through technological and 
nature-based solutions. We intend 
to engage in voluntary markets, and 
in compliance markets when the 
latter is applicable to our business 
operations. When participating in 
voluntary carbon markets, we will 
carry out due diligence to ensure that 
we retire the highest quality offsets, 
which are verified by internationally 
recognised standards such as Verra, 
Gold Standard, etc., to balance our 
residual emissions. We will adopt a 
two-pronged approach to secure the 
availability of offsets for retirement. 
While we may make direct investments 
in carbon offset generating projects 
in collaboration with our partners, we 
may also need to purchase carbon 
credits from various market options on 
a need basis for retirement against our 
residual emissions. While investing in 
carbon offset generating projects, we 
will prioritise projects that add socio-
economic-ecological value to the 
communities in which we operate, and 
those projects which are in proximity to 
our operations in India. 
The ‘management’ related pillars of 
our carbon neutrality strategy pertain 
to developing firm-level guidelines 
for operations and procurement 
for supply-side and demand-side 
interventions, establishing a framework 
for coordinated action between 
key teams for implementation and 
continuously enhancing the GHG 
data collection processes to improve 
the quality of the inventory. We will 
also monitor the implementation of 
interventions and progress towards 
our emission reduction targets every 
two years and realign our integrated 
strategy incorporating the best 
available technologies and measures.
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
69

Our roadmap to 2032
OUR GOAL
Carbon 
neutral 
by FY32
FOR SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS
Our Carbon Neutrality strategy formulation is based 
on a detailed review of operational parameters 
informed by the most recent dataset available. 
We have established our baseline emissions data 
and projected emission for a likely scenario business 
growth, superimposed with future abatement
Demand-side measures
Adopting a broad range of 
technological solutions and O&M 
measures to reduce energy 
consumption at our operating locations
	· Installation of Modular UPS System
	· IoT-based building management 
systems
Guidelines for HDFC Bank’s 
operations
Firm-level guidelines for operations 
and procurement for supply-side and 
demand-side intervention
Supply-side measures
Supporting our operational locations 
with energy supplied from low-carbon 
sources
	· Green tariff from utility
	· Offsite RE procurement
	· Green certificates
Steering mechanism
Framework for coordinated action 
between key corporate level and 
facilities level teams for implementation
Carbon credits and offsets
Neutralise our residual Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions by investing in 
carbon offset projects or purchasing 
carbon credits
	· Co-investing in offset projects 
	· Forward ERPA
	· Retail purchase
Continual improvement
Continuously enhancing our data 
collection processes to iteratively 
improve the quality of the inventory 
and guide progressive inventory 
improvement
We have identified six strategic pillars to ensure that our journey to carbon neutrality is 
meaningful and brings about a systems change within the organisation
Environment
1
4
2
5
3
6
70

TCFD disclosures
HDFC Bank recognises the growing concerns of regulators, investors and clients 
about climate risks that businesses, particularly banks and financial institutions, 
face. This is our second year of working on the recommendations of the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) – which provides a useful 
framework for identifying climate-related risks and opportunities, evaluating 
effective responses and communicating crucial information to stakeholders. 
Governance
We have a strong Risk Management Group (RMG) at the 
Bank that oversees putting the Board's risk strategy into 
action, as well as designing procedures and systems for 
detecting, measuring, monitoring, assessing and managing 
risks. The RMG is led by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), who 
is responsible for risk management and the entire risk 
architecture and framework of the Bank including stress 
testing. The Chief Information Security Officer reports on 
the Bank's cyber-security concerns as well as updates from 
Business Impact Analysis and Disaster Response. 
The Group Head for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
& ESG updates the CSR & ESG committee of the Board, 
every quarter on the Bank's sustainability (ESG) initiatives 
and progress on ESG actionables and chairs the ESG apex 
committee. The ESG apex committee governs and reviews 
the progress of the three action committees that drive the 
ESG agenda (including climate change) at the Bank. 
The Product Responsibility sub-committee, examines 
Environmental & Social (E&S) risks in our operations, 
including climate risks, while finding new business 
opportunities in the E&S arena. The Environment sub-
committee comprises of representatives from the 
Administration, Infrastructure and IT teams at the Bank, sets 
targets and identifies opportunities for improvement in areas 
ESG & CSR Committee 
of the Board
ESG Apex Committee
Environment 
Committee
Social & 
Governance 
Committee
Product 
Responsibility 
Committee
of emissions, energy, water, and waste. This committee 
will continue to drive the Bank’s path towards achieving 
carbon neutrality. The Bank has a dedicated ESG vertical 
that works in conjunction with several internal and external 
stakeholders, to drive the ESG agenda.
Credit managers assess environmental risks arising from 
large loans through the SEMS framework. 
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
71

Risk Management
Current 
regulation 
Banks are highly regulated in the country and mandates as part 
of current regulations are always integrated into the overall risk 
planning and assessment process. Current regulations are also 
factored in the credit assessment process, especially through 
the SEMS framework which is used to screen large loans for 
environmental and social risks. 
Emerging 
regulation 
Transition risk can impact the Bank's credit portfolio resulting from 
changes in the climate policy, technology, consumer, and market 
sentiment during the transition to a low-carbon economy. This is 
particularly relevant for policy changes that can result in loan defaults 
from certain sectors like coal, thermal and infrastructure. We are 
exploring techniques for developing climate risk assessment and 
scenario analysis to analyse our portfolio at risk due to the transition 
risk of climate change.
Technology 
While our digital environment and information security standards 
are the foundation of our business today, as financial services 
professionals, we do not anticipate technology to have a significant 
impact on climate risk. Our low-carbon digital banking products use 
technology to enable business.
Legal 
For large loans, we verify whether the project complies with all 
applicable environmental rules, failing to do so could result in the 
loan becoming a non-performing asset if the project goes into 
litigation. This, however, is not a claim against the Bank. There are 
no other circumstances in which the Bank can be held liable for a 
climate-related lawsuit.
Market 
In the context of climate change, markets could play a key role 
in shifting the demand and supply for certain products like green 
loans or bonds, or in low-carbon digital products. However, we do 
recognise the relevance of change in consumer preferences, and 
hence, the need to evaluate this risk, but do not have the tools 
at present to quantify/include this as part of our risk assessment 
process. 
Reputation
Reputation risk from community/customer perception is a primary 
risk to our business. We thus invest in community and customer 
involvement through surveys to educate and enlighten them 
on our environmental sustainability programmes. Further, ESG 
performance measures are increasingly being used by the global 
investor community, especially sovereign wealth funds and pension 
funds, to assess long-term profitable growth. We strive to implement 
environment-friendly measures throughout our operations. We 
further show our commitment to ESG, particularly climate change, 
by including ESG elements in regulatory reporting such as the 
annual report. In addition, in our annual integrated report, we publish 
details on our carbon emissions and footprint (third-party assured). 
Strategy
The Bank has been reporting to the 
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 
on its climate change strategy, 
risks, opportunities, and emissions. 
From the perspective of climate risk 
assessment, we will assess the priority 
of physical and transition risks in the 
near to medium term. Some of the 
critical parameters to consider would 
be GHG emissions, air pollutants and 
climate transition risk pathways both at 
the sector and borrower level. 
There are two main types of climate-
related risks: 
1)	
Physical risks (both acute 
and chronic): Economic losses 
(physical damage to property and 
assets) from extreme weather 
events (flood, cyclone, etc) 
attributed to climate change; and 
2) 	 Transition risks: Possible 
process of adjustment to a low-
carbon economy and its effects 
on the value of financial assets 
and liabilities
We are exploring frameworks to model 
and assess climate risks. We also 
continue to acquire granular data 
further corroborated by BRSR data 
(FY23 onwards) and test tools for 
climate risk assessment and conduct 
scenario analysis through suitable 
partnerships – including exploring 
options to tie-up with data providers. 
Given that climate risk is an emerging 
and long-term risk for the Bank, we 
will consider adopting a suitable 
methodology/pathway to analyse the 
Bank's exposures under different 
climate scenarios. 
Environment
72

Evaluation of environmental & social 
risk is an integral part of our overall 
credit appraisal and approval process. 
Large industrial / infrastructure 
projects where the extension of 
long-term financing (greater than 
`100 million and longer than 5 
years) are covered under the Bank’s 
Social & Environment Monitoring 
System (SEMS) which necessitates 
an assessment of Environmental, 
Health, Social, and Safety risks in 
addition to other risks as part of the 
overall credit appraisal process. This 
comprehensive assessment involves 
evaluation of various environmental 
and social aspects of the project and 
operations of the borrowing entity - 
such as the nature of the borrower's 
operations, as well as any potential 
negative environmental and social 
consequences. We have already 
mapped potential impact categories 
for risk evaluation of specific, capital-
intensive industries such as Roads 
and Highways, Thermal Power, Power 
Transmission, Cement, Hydroelectric 
Power, and Manufacturing amongst 
others to guide the assessment 
process. While the bank's lending 
procedures are guided by borrower 
and market demands, the bank's credit 
exposure is well diversified across 
numerous industries, with no single 
industry having a high concentration. 
As a result, the Bank's credit exposure 
to ecologically / socially sensitive 
industry sectors has minimal negative 
consequences. In addition, as part 
of our credit policy, we do not extend 
finance for setting up of new units for 
producing/consuming ozone-depleting 
substances (CFC -11, CFC – 12, CFC 
– 113, Carbon Tetrachloride, Methyl 
Chloroform, Halons – 1211, 1301, 2402) 
and for small & medium scale units 
engaged in the manufacture of aerosol 
units using CFC. 
We recognise the importance of water 
availability affecting our portfolio, 
especially in certain sectors like 
agriculture. As part of our credit due 
diligence, we evaluate loan proposals 
against water availability with an 
assured irrigation facility. In case of 
climate-linked events like droughts, 
we extend crop insurance facility to 
borrowers (who harvest at least two 
cropping cycles).
Metrics and Targets
We are firming up an integrated 
strategy to achieve carbon neutrality 
by 2032, which will set internal 
benchmarks for energy performance 
and targets for phased renewable 
energy integration. We will monitor 
the implementation of interventions 
and emission reduction achievements 
every two years and realign our 
integrated strategy incorporating 
the best available technologies and 
practices. 
We plan to enhance our commitment 
to financing climate change solutions 
such as energy transition, renewables, 
energy efficiency, sustainable 
transportation, green buildings, 
climate smart agriculture, among 
others, besides monitoring the 
implications of our own operations. 
We are working on developing KPIs 
and setting goals to monitor, manage, 
and track the progress. This involves 
a thorough examination of our Scope 
3 emissions and our carbon-related 
asset exposure. Please refer to the 
Environment section of this Report 
for details on our performance on 
emissions and energy-related KPIs.
Acute 
physical 
Acute physical hazards can have a negative influence on our 
credit portfolio by causing bad debts due to damage to property, 
infrastructure, and land. This is also relevant for climate disasters 
destroying assets (that serve as collaterals). We continue to 
measure physical risks from a climate risk assessment perspective 
and will assess the priority of these risks in the near-to-medium 
term. In addition, our Disaster Response and Business Continuity 
teams conduct business impact analyses and have rapid response 
procedures in place in the event of natural disasters such as floods.
Chronic 
physical 
Chronic physical risks are far into the future. Given that climate risk 
is an emerging and long-term risk us, we will consider adopting 
a suitable methodology/pathway to analyse our exposures under 
different climate scenarios. 
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
73

Customer Centricity
Creating value for our customers
Customer Focus is one of the five core 
values of the Bank. Our customer base 
consists of individuals, corporates, 
MSMEs, farmers and Government 
entities amongst others and our focus is 
to provide them with a seamless banking 
experience. We undertake multiple 
initiatives geared towards serving the 
diverse needs of the customers and our 
efforts are reflected in the strength of 
our brand value and recall.
Service Quality 
Initiatives and 
Grievance Redressal
Driven by the core value of Customer 
Focus, the Bank has always 
endeavoured to improve customer 
experience and has adopted a 
holistic approach for the same 
across multiple channels ranging 
from BranchBanking, PhoneBanking, 
NetBanking, MobilBanking, EVA 
chatbot and the Bank’s social care 
handles. The Bank has also improvised 
on the relationship-based banking 
programmes. In addition to the 
branch-based relationship managers, 
it also has a Virtual Relationship 
Manager (VRM) programme to 
cater to various financial needs in a 
personalized manner. The Bank has 
adopted a three-step strategy with 
regards to Customer Service– Define, 
Measure, and Improve. It invites and 
reviews performance on customer 
service as well as grievance redressal 
at different levels which are Branch 
Level Customer Service Committees 
(BLCSCs), Standing Committee 
on Customer Service (SCCS) and 
Customer Service Committee of the 
Board (CSCB). We have put robust 
processes in place to regularly monitor 
and measure quality of service levels 
not only at various touch points but 
also at a product and process level by 
Quality Initiatives Group.
As part of its continuous efforts to 
enhance quality of service, the Service 
Quality team carries out regular 
reviews across various products/
processes/channels. The effectiveness 
of the quality of service provided 
is also reviewed at different levels, 
including the Customer Service 
Committee of the Board.
One of the basic building blocks of 
providing acceptable level of customer 
service is to have an effective internal 
Grievance Redressal mechanism / 
framework. In this regard, we have 
outlined a framework for redressal of 
customer grievances and documented 
it in the form of a Grievance Redressal 
Policy – duly approved by its Board. 
It has also made this policy available 
in public domain (on the website 
as well as in the branches). The 
Bank has also formulated a Board 
approved Protection Policy, which 
limits the liability of customers in case 
of unauthorized electronic banking 
transactions.
Thanks to these initiatives, the Bank’s 
customer complaints for FY22 
decreased by 21% from 4,67,453* to 
3,68,291.
*Restated complaints number based on re classification of queries into complaints from 3,25,786.
74

Building a customer-
centric culture using Net 
Promoter System (NPS) 
- ‘Infinite Smiles’
We, at the Bank, believe that delivering 
an outstanding customer experience 
is a strong differentiator for a great 
product and is key to a sustained 
competitive advantage. The primary 
aim of the Infinite Smiles programme is 
to establish employee behaviour and 
practices which leads to customer-
centric actions and continuous 
improvements. 
Last year, we initiated measurement 
on key journeys, identified action areas 
to improve customer experience and 
implemented several key initiatives. 
This has led to a steady improvement 
on our NPS over the year. This year, 
we built on our commitment to our 
customers by scaling the coverage 
of our Infinite Smiles program – we 
introduced new journeys, new 
episodes and new products ensuring a 
much wider coverage. Customer focus 
has seen an increased focus - regular 
cadence with key stakeholders and 
rigorous follow-up on actions have 
become the cornerstones of 
Infinite Smiles.
The programme now encompasses 
critical episodes – Digital Journey 
Episodes, Credit Card Episodes, 
Customer Instructions, Tele 
Interactions and Collection Process. 
We now cover 120+ episodes and 
have contacted around 63 Million 
customers in FY22 for their feedback.
Our ‘Infinite Smiles’ program rests 
on three meticulously designed 
pillars – 'Listen', 'Learn' and 'Act' 
which enables us to embed customer 
feedback led transformation as a 
discipline into our systems, challenge 
what is considered as the standard, 
and offer a customer experience 
that places us amongst the best 
service brands.
Transforming Score to Systems 
Listen
Feedback of 
customers
Learn
Review and follow up to 
better understand
Act
Resolve the issue in the 
near and long term
3.4 Mn   
FEEDBACK CAPTURED ACROSS KEY 
CHANNELS, CRITICAL EPISODES AND 
KEY PRODUCT JOURNEYS
60   
BU NPS SCORE*
2.75 Lakh+    
HUDDLES CONDUCTED 
*Bottom Up NPS score
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
75

Guided by our aspiration to move 
from score to systems, we have been 
working to institutionalize the process 
for addressing customer issues that 
transcend beyond measurement and 
create a culture of customer-centricity 
and agility. 
We would not only like to anticipate 
and react to changing customer 
expectations but also like to provide 
a proposition to our customer that 
makes us more attractive than 
competitive alternatives. 
With this in view we subscribed to 
competitive benchmarking of NPS, in 
form of a subscription based product 
NPS Prism®.
HDFC Bank leads the overall brand 
NPS ranking among 20+ competitors 
in the banking category. 
Our commitment to building a 
customer obsessed culture and 
constant effort to include everyone 
in the organisation has ensured 
continuous improvement leading to 
growth in customer advocacy of the 
brand. 
Customer Centricity
Some of our customer-centric initiatives
On Doctors Day - 2021, we presented 
Salaam Dil Sey – a platform for our 
customers to thank doctors and their 
families for their hard work, sacrifice 
and tireless service. As they bravely 
continue to fight the pandemic, we 
tried to put a smile on their faces. 
Customers dedicated a “Salaam 
Dil Sey” (a personalized greeting 
card) to over 1 lac doctors and their 
families. HDFC Bank put all these 
greeting cards in a collage, displayed 
on ‘Wall of dedication’ at its Sandoz 
Bank House and unveiled on 1st July 
2021 virtually by Dr Naresh Trehan 
in presence of prominent media and 
Bank’s Sr. officials. This attempt was 
also recorded in Asia Book of Records 
& India Book of Records for “Largest 
Collage of Thank you messages”. 
The Bank also gave musical tribute to 
the doctor's fraternity by a specially 
curated anthem on the Salaam Dil 
Sey theme. HDFC Bank reached out 
to 23Mn+ people through print, social 
media and email/SMS. Our branch 
staff personally met and greeted 
40,000+ doctors during this campaign. 
#SalaamDilSey
BRAND NPS SCORE (INDEXED) 
| BANKING CATEGORY
	·
Source: NPS Prism® benchmarking report 
(2021). NPS Prism® is a registered trademark  
of Bain & Company, Inc.
	·
Name of competition banks intentionally 
masked 
	·
Score indexed to HDFC Bank 
	·
Competition bank does not include pure-play 
credit card providers
100
94
92
88
81
79
75
58
58
Bank B
Bank C
Bank D
Bank E
Bank F
Bank G
Bank H
HDFC Bank
Bank A
76

After the tremendous success of our 
Mooh Band Rakho campaign in 2020, 
we launched the second edition in 
support of the International Fraud 
Awareness Week in November 2021. 
Aimed at increasing awareness on all 
types of financial fraud, the campaign 
underlined the importance of not 
disclosing information, especially 
banking details, and to safeguard 
oneself from digital frauds. 
We launched a series of videos using 
relatable real-life situations to educate 
customers on various types of modus 
operandi. We conducted over 2,000 
workshops over 4 months across 
the country, advocating simple steps 
such as not clicking on unknown links, 
sharing card details, CVV, Expiry Date, 
OTP NetBanking/ MobileBanking Login 
ID & Password over Phone, SMS, 
email and social media. It focused on 
the younger segment targeting Senior 
Secondary Schools & Colleges to 
make safe banking an early habit in 
their financial journey.  
Mooh Band Rakho
Our Festive Treats 3.0 had more than 
10,000 offers on cards, loans and 
EasyEMI. Just as the country started to 
unlock, the campaign aimed to spread 
reasons for joy and cheer. Revolving 
around the theme of 'Karo Har Dil 
Roshan', the Bank reached out to every 
Indian through high impact visibility 
via TV, branches, ATMs, partnerships 
with stores/websites and digital media 
campaigns with a hyper local focus.
HDFC Bank partnered 
with over 10,000+ 
merchants across 100+ 
locations to offer its 
customers an opportunity 
to avail fabulous deals 
specifically created 
for their personal and 
business needs.
Festive Treats 3.0
A pioneering digital self-service 
platform was introduced by adding 
convenience, ease of usage, smarter 
user design into a mobile-friendly 
ON THE GO service platform, called 
MyCards. This solution stands to 
revolutionize the way our customer 
experiences digital banking services 
by getting more control and one-view 
of all products under a single-login 
interface. MyCards provides a fully 
cloud-hosted, digitized service stack to 
all segments of Credit and Debit Card 
customers.
Most importantly, the digital self-
service card control feature on 
contactless, online and international 
transactions on Credit Card is easily 
accessible on MyCards, with real-
time limit setting and transaction 
mode enablement.
Since its roll-out to customers on 
1st Oct 2021, over 2.5 Cr service 
requests have been processed 
digitally on the platform.
Key Features of MyCards: 
	· Dedicated platform providing 24 X 7 
banking services ON THE GO
	· Manage multiple HDFC Bank 
payments products in one single 
login interface
	· Easy to save, no downloads or 
installation or upgrades required on 
phone
	· Seamless login with just mobile-
based one-time password 
	· Faster, simpler and smarter User 
Interface
MyCards
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
77

Digitisation 
Digital Future-ready Bank 
HDFC Bank has always been 
at the forefront of innovation 
in the Indian financial 
services industry. Under our 
technology transformation 
agenda, we are investing to 
‘Run the Bank’ as well as 
‘Build a Future-ready Bank’. 
We are also strengthening 
our digital backbone to create 
differentiated, secure offerings 
for the tech-savvy customer 
backed by a core technology 
that is always ‘ON’. 
Key initiatives undertaken
Infrastructure scalability
We have invested in a hybrid-cloud 
approach with leading cloud service 
partners such as AWS, Azure and 
GCP. A common landing zone has 
been implemented across these 
partners to create a secure and 
streamlined environment for all cloud 
deployments. We have moved our 
primary data centers to state-of-the-
art facilities in Mumbai and Bengaluru 
to ensure a robust IT infrastructure to 
back our digital offerings and ensure 
higher uptimes across customer 
touchpoints. 
Capacity upgrades
Capacity management practices 
have been significantly strengthened 
to ensure close monitoring of peak 
volumes across key performance 
parameters. We have established a 
Technology Obsolescence Program 
Management Office to track, manage 
and replace/upgrade obsolete 
components in a timely manner.
Disaster recovery resilience
We are moving to the next level 
of Disaster Recovery (DR) with 
automation and implementation of 
‘Hot DR’/Active – active setup for key 
applications. 
Minimised surface area for 
cyber-attacks
We have made significant 
advancements to further consolidate 
cyber security through initiatives 
such as the foundation of a next-gen 
Security Operations Center (SOC) 
for predictive security and incident 
management, introduction of SOAR 
(Security Orchestration, Automation & 
Response) to reduce incident response 
times, network micro-segmentation 
for better control, visibility and 
preparedness against ransomware, 
and round-the-clock defacement 
monitoring and vulnerability 
management of our internet properties.
Underpinning our technology 
transformation agenda is our vision 
to provide the most preferred ‘neo-
banking’ experience to our customers. 
We design products that make banking 
simple, easy and highly secure. 
At the core of this agenda is building 
future-ready competencies. We are 
strengthening our capabilities under 
Digital Factory, Enterprise Factory and 
Enterprise IT.
Building Digital Factory and 
Enterprise Factory
Our Factory approach focuses 
on innovation-at-scale in the co-
creation of Tech Intellectual Property 
(IP) to develop and offer best-in-
class products and services to our 
customers. Agile and Development-
Security-Operations (DevSecOps) 
principles and cloudification of our tech 
stack are pivotal accelerators of our 
transformation agenda. 
Initiatives such as DR Resiliency and 
our Hybrid Cloud Strategy continue 
to fortify our IT infrastructure and 
architecture backbone.
90,000
CONCURRENT USERS 
CAPACITY FOR USING NET 
AND MOBILEBANKING
45 Cr
BANK CUSTOMER TRANSACTIONS 
PER MONTH, DOUBLED IN THE 
LAST 12 MONTHS.
99.94%
AVERAGE CUSTOMER UPTIME
We are now fully geared to launch 
our next phase of strategic digital 
& technology programs. Significant 
inroads are being made through 
initiatives such as Customer 
Experience Hub, a revamped 
Payments and Wallet experience 
and refreshed offerings for 
MSME and Wealth Management 
customers.
Looking ahead
Intellectual Capital
78

Key initiatives in the pipeline
Vyapaar
Digital onboarding of merchants for payment acceptance and servicing of 
banking transactions for the merchant community
Xpress Car Loans
A digital API platform for Auto Financing launched in April 2022
PayZapp 2.0
Enhanced experience of App. Customers to onboard, autolink HDFC Bank 
cards, wallet & limit management, transaction display via rich statements
SME customer 
experience 
transformation
New technology to support business volume at larger scale, re-vamp the entire 
SME customer experience across Commercial and Retail business lines
Biz Express 
A new web portal for SME segments covering digital onboarding, managing 
multiple accounts, making payments with hierarchy, raising GST compliant invoices 
for payment, multiple collection modes, raise service requests online, etc.
Wealth App
A new Wealth Management app with client self-profiling, goal setting, mutual 
fund order execution and portfolio re-balancing 
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
79

Social – People
Embarking on cultural 
transformation
At HDFC Bank, our culture and people 
are key enablers to continue creating 
value for our stakeholders. We have 
embarked on a conscious Culture 
Transformation journey i.e. “The HDFC 
Bank Way”. It is a key element of the 
3Cs: Culture, Conscience and Customers 
that empower our business. The HDFC 
Bank Way is defined by the six pillars of 
Culture – Integrity, Execution, Innovation, 
Humility, Inclusion and Collaboration. 
With the DNA of a responsible banker, we 
are aligning our businesses objectives 
with the 3Cs of culture, conscience and 
customers. 
Human Capital
Further, we brought in a paradigm shift in our approach 
towards learning and development through the 
establishment of the Learning Partner model. We moved 
ahead on our Diversity and Inclusion agenda with specific 
focus on women and persons with disabilities. Our flagship 
initiative, ‘HDFC Bank Cares’ is designed to enable people 
to take charge of their own wellbeing thereby creating 
an emotionally committed workforce. We are leveraging 
technology in the entire employee journey from talent 
onboarding, virtual learning, wellness initiatives, diversity 
and inclusion programmes to employee performance 
management.
80

Our Culture
A connected workforce that has 
a deep sense of belonging to the 
organization is imperative to providing 
a differentiated customer experience. 
Our onward journey and continued 
success will come from reinforcing 
our culture ‘The HDFC Bank Way’. 
It is defined by six pillars - Integrity 
|Collaboration | Inclusion |Humility | 
Innovation | Execution 
With a focus to reinforce the HDFC 
Bank Way, a large-scale Culture 
Transformation was conceived and 
deployed across the entire Bank 
through the ’Nurture, Care and 
Collaborate (‘NCC’) intervention.  
A Culture Transformation journey 
spans several years to get ingrained 
as the organizational ethos and as 
a first step towards this, the NCC 
initiative this year focused on our 
12000+ managers as ‘Custodians of 
Culture’. The objective of the program 
was to percolate the essence of the 
HDFC Bank Way by focusing on nine 
key themes over a five-month journey 
delivered through versatile and exciting 
challenges and learning tools. The 
scale was massive: 99,877 learning 
content hours were delivered in 145 
days and an average of 700 hours 
of content consumed daily. We are 
proud that 97% participants gave NCC 
a thumbs-up for its unique design & 
content.
Integrity
Doing the right thing..Always
Execution
Delivering excellence
Innovation
Inventing the future
Humility
Gratitude over entitlement
Inclusion
Valuing differences 
Collaboration
Independent yet interdependent
EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY
2021-22
2020-21
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Senior management
124
15
139
106
10
116
Junior & Middle Management
21,467
3,505
24,972
17,565
2,848
20,413
Non Supervisory staff
60,438
19,230
79,668
54,700
16,279
70,979
Frontline Staff and Sales offiers
32,553
4,247
36,800
25,976
2,609
28,585
Total
1,14,582
26,997
1,41,579
98,347
21,746
1,20,093
EMPLOYEE BY REGION
2021-22
2020-21
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
East
14,335
2,221
16,556
12,557
1,917
14,474
West
42,093
10,329
52,422
36,244
8,448
44,692
South
26,542
7,249
33,791
22,166
5,567
27,733
North
31,509
7,147
38,656
27,286
5,770
33,056
Abroad
103
51
154
94
44
138
Total
1,14,582
26,997
1,41,579
98,347
21,746
1,20,093
EMPLOYEE BY AGE
2021-22
2020-21
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
<30
41,035
13,892
54,927
30,713
10,257
40,970
30-50
72,310
12,880
85,190
66,818
11,348
78,166
>50
1,237
225
1,462
816
141
957
Total
1,14,582
26,997
1,41,579
98,347
21,746
1,20,093
Growth reflected in increasing employee strength
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
81

Diversity and Inclusion (D&I)
Inclusion is one of the key culture 
pillars of The HDFC Bank Way. 
We promote a work culture where 
everyone feels included, respected 
and valued, and has access 
to equal opportunity. We have 
branded our inclusion agenda as 
‘Valuing Differences’. We provide 
equal and fair remuneration 
opportunities, irrespective of 
gender. No complaints related to 
incidents of discrimination reported 
during FY22.
HDFC Bank Apex Inclusion Council 
6- Member Group Head Panel
	· Reports to the MD & CEO
	· Set the strategy and agenda for inclusion 
	· Framework for a culture of inclusion
	· Remove Barriers to Inclusion 
	· Senior level representatives of Group Heads for the 
Inclusion agenda
	· Partner with stakeholders to drive the agenda
	· Business specific inclusion enablers
Working committee inclusion 
SPOCs from all verticals
Merit 
Competence, performance 
outcomes and potential will 
always be the threshold for all 
talent decisions 
Character
Alignment with the HDFC Bank Way and adherence 
to our ethos will remain integral to the selection 
criteria for career advancement at the Bank
Inclusion
We will strive to be an equal 
opportunity organisation where 
everyone can excel, irrespective 
of our inherent differences.  
Three key tenets of our Inclusion Philosophy
	· Monitor on-ground implementation of the Inclusion 
strategy
	· Employee senistization and feedback
	· Regional initiatives and events
Regional 
council north
Regional council 
west (mum)
Regional 
council south
Regional council 
west (RoW)
Regional 
council east
Social – People
Three-pillar governance structure for driving D&I agenda 
3 key 
tenets
EMPLOYEE BY CONTRACT TYPE
2021-22
2020-21
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent
1,14,582
26,997
1,41,579
98,347
21,746
1,20,093
Contract(Individual)
21
5
26
19
4
23
82

Our D&I agenda focuses on two critical 
segments:
	· Gender diversity 
	· Persons with Disabilities (PwD)
Women at our 
Workplace
We work relentlessly to support the 
women at our workplace and provide 
them with an ecosystem that nurture 
their careers while being mindful of 
their unique challenges. Today, 21.7% 
of our workforce consists of women 
and we have set a target to increase 
this to 25% by 2025. 
‘Family reasons’ was revealed as a 
top driver for women attrition in our 
attrition studies. We also understood 
that returning mothers were finding it 
difficult to balance work and personal 
responsibilities. To this effect, we have 
undertaken focused interventions and 
designed programmes that address 
these challenges. 
Bank Again Program: This 
programme enables women to re-start 
their careers after a break. We reached 
out to over 3,000 women employees 
who had left from the bank over the 
past 5 years, out of which over 300 
former colleagues have re-joined the 
Bank. We are also closely monitoring 
our gender hiring with 28% of those 
hired in the year being women. This 
excludes front-line sales hiring. 
‘Pleasant Parenthood Program:  
Under this programme, we have a suite 
of offerings and initiatives to support 
women along their critical milestones 
– pre, during and post maternity leave. 
This programme also enables flexibility 
with respect to work timings, location 
and provides part-time working 
options. All our full-time employees 
are entitled to avail parental leave. In 
FY 22, 1182 female and 3072 male 
employees availed parental leave of 
which 99.75% female (1179) and 100% 
male (3071) returned to work. 6.6% 
women (78) and 5% men (160) who 
returned to work after leave ended, 
were still employed with us after 12 
months.
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
83

The Career Accelerator Programme: Our flagship intervention is aimed at building and augmenting the women talent 
pipeline for senior roles. It incorporates unique learning elements like sponsorship, group coaching, virtual learning journey, 
leadership connect and employee resource groups.  
She Inspires: This year we also ran a campaign called ‘She Inspires’ celebrating women leaders at the Bank. A video 
series was created to disseminate, powerful messages of encouragement and leadership journeys by colleagues across 
the organisation.
24%
23%
Non 
Supervisory 
Staff
11%
9%
Senior 
Management
14%
14%
Junior & Middle 
Management
Frontline Staff 
and Sales 
Officers
12%
9%
  2021-22 Female %	
  2020-21 Female %
WOMEN IN WORKFORCE- 
CATAGORY WISE
RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND 
REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN
1.19
1.09
Non 
Supervisory 
Staff
0.86
0.75
Senior 
Management
1.03
1.02
Junior & Middle 
Management
Frontline Staff 
and Sales 
Officers
0.99
0.97
  2021-22 Ratio	
  2020-21 Ratio
Social – People
WOMEN EMPLOYEES AS A % OF  
TOTAL EMPLOYEES
21.7% (22,750)
  Female       Total
Excluding frontline staff and sales officers 
percentage of women employees is 19.1% 
including frontline staff and sales officers
Inclusion council
Inclusion council to 
monitor and track the 
career trajectory
Group coaching 
	· Tools for self-awareness
	· Navigating the double bind
	· Managing priorities without guilt
Employee resource 
groups
ERGs promoting peer 
learning and promotion 
of internal opportunities 
through networking
Sponsorship
Sponsors to support in:
	· Exposure of high visibility 
opportunities
	· Advocate in TRCs/Support with IDP
	· Consequence management
Successful careers  
programme
Six months virtual training on topics:
	· Power networking
	· Art of networking
	· Executive presence (Gravitas)
	· Leading self and teams
Leader speak
Panel discussion and fire-side 
chats with internal/external 
leaders promoting access 
and visibility to leadership
84

A different perspective — 
Persons with Disabilities at our 
workplace
We are focused on building a 
workplace wherein every individual has 
an opportunity to do meaningful work, 
irrespective of any disabilities. 
We are taking small but steady steps in 
this direction:
	· Sensitising our people to create an 
environment of inclusion for Persons 
with Disabilities (PwD). Initiated by our 
Board of Directors and Group Heads 
in May 2021, sensitisation workshops 
that dealt with unconscious biases 
were organised for 6,900+ managers 
across the organisation. 
	· The inclusion governance teams work 
in tandem with HR to codify roles for 
integrating PwD seamlessly within the 
organisation. Teams are consciously 
working to improve the infrastructure 
requirements for fair and free access 
and identifying specific barriers for 
inclusion of PwDs.
We are in the process of augmenting 
our internal systems for better 
interconnection for persons with 
disabilities. Currently, we have about 
115 persons with disabilities employed 
with us and have additional hires in the 
pipeline. Furthermore, a programme 
for enabling the certification of team 
leaders on building and managing 
inclusive teams is being initiated in 
FY23.
Learning and Development
Learning initiatives 
In FY22, we brought in a paradigm 
shift in our approach to learning 
and development through the 
establishment of the Learning Partner 
model. This model institutionalises 
performance consulting, which 
consists of identifying a business need, 
its cause(s) and the capability building 
strategy (if applicable) that can meet 
that need. Performance consultants 
are experts in understanding business 
and improving human performance, 
and specialise in enhancing 
employees' performance through a 
collaborative approach.
The intent is to align business 
priorities with learning goals. Further, 
we strengthened our offerings 
on Leadership and Professional 
Development journeys. 
‘Ignite’, a programme aimed at middle 
management levels, focuses on 
collaborative and strategic skills and 
encourages courageous leadership. 
‘Trailblaze’ delivers key competencies 
and management essentials for 
frontline managers to enhance their 
effectiveness. 
Building on the foundation laid last 
year, we are progressing towards 
creating a Virtual University and 
Learning Experience platform (LXP). 
Targeting the next generation of 
employees, LXP facilitates self-paced, 
learner-led modules on the go in a 
virtual setting. 
LEARNING HOURS IN FY22 (PERSON HOURS)
144 Lakh+
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE 
1,262.23 Lakh
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
85

Social – People
AVERAGE HOURS OF LEARNING BY CATEGORY
Employee by category
2021-22
2020-21
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Senior Management
12.17
14.78
12.45
11.07
28.83
12.6
Junior & Middle Management
90.83
101.58
92.34
111.2
110.35
111.08
Non Supervisory Staff
139.83
170.65
147.27
139.12
154.31
142.6
Frontline Staff and Sales Officers
9.88
10.41
9.95
12.19
11.99
12.17
Total
93.59
136.39
101.75
100.47
131.42
106.07
TOTAL HOURS OF LEARNING BY CATEGORY
2021-22
2020-21
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Senior Management
1,509
222
1,730
1,173
288
1,462
Junior & Middle Management
19,49,764
3,56,045
23,05,809
19,53,219
3,14,272
22,67,491
Non Supervisory Staff
84,51,114
32,81,633
1,17,32,747
76,09,840
25,11,958
1,01,21,798
Frontline Staff and Sales Officers
3,21,785
44,218
3,66,003
3,16,595
31,289
3,47,885
Total
1,07,24,172
36,82,117
1,44,06,289
98,80,828
28,57,808
1,27,38,636
HR Tech
This year saw the Bank’s HR tech 
transformation journey took a decisive 
turn, with most of the HR services 
made available on mobile. The 
interventions were designed to amplify 
a ‘DIY’ approach through new-age 
interfaces, in line with the digital 
vision of the Bank. ‘I-Cube’, an HR 
conversational bot, was introduced 
to enable self-service and easy 
resolution of queries, not just for active 
employees but also for our former 
employees. Time Management piece 
was brought on mobile devices for 
all HDFC banks working in offshore 
locations. Many changes related to 
process governance, reporting, user 
friendliness were incorporated in 
the areas of hiring, employee on-
boarding and learning. Other hygiene 
HR services were also brought on 
the device and network environment 
agnostic HCM solution.
Talent management
We have a structured, well-
documented Leadership Competency 
Framework. as well as a Functional 
Capability Framework which defines 
key competencies and forms the 
bedrock for various talent processes in 
the Bank. 
We have also institutionalised the 
process of Talent Review Councils, 
wherein a panel of leaders take an in-
depth understanding of the Talent from 
multiple data points – self view from 
employee (mobility, career aspiration 
etc.), performance track record, Line 
Manager’s feedback on the talent 
and inputs of potential from the 
Development Center Report. This as 
a process, is covered for CX & 3 levels 
down of their leadership hierarchy.
The year also saw the launch of a 
360-degree feedback at apex levels of 
leadership. The intervention covering 
Group Heads, Business Heads and 
senior leaders reporting to the Group 
Heads was launched with credible 
external partners and facilitated the 
gathering of honest feedback by those 
who experience the leaders at work 
every day. This helped creating better 
self-awareness for the leadership 
team.
Succession Planning in the Bank 
is a continuous process that aligns 
with the other talent management 
interventions and endeavours to 
mitigate critical people risks such as 
vacancy fulfilment, and transition risk. 
The process of development involves 
relevant role exposures, specific 
mentoring or coaching exposures and 
any specific learning need identified 
for employees, to assume higher 
responsibilities when the need arises. 
We have a comprehensive, bi-annual 
performance management system 
(PMS) in place. Every employee is 
required to make a self-assessment 
and or her own performance (bi-
annual basis) based on the key result 
areas of his roles and responsibilities. 
The Appraiser and Appraisee have a 
joint performance discussion based 
on the self-evaluation filled by the 
Appraisee. In FY22, the PMS was 
brought on mobile with pleasant and 
easy design, facilitating qualitative 
and quantitative dialogue between 
the supervisor and the supervised. It 
seamlessly encompassed elements of 
competence and Bank values in the 
process.
Talent: acquisition and attrition
Including frontline sales staff, we hired 
57,200 employees. When compared to 
the hiring of FY21, the increase stands 
at 166%. In order to meet the growing 
requirements to outperform the market 
in identification, digital evaluation and 
quick onboarding of the best talent, 
we aim to implement the Applicant 
Tracking System in FY23. 
86

ATTRITION BY CATEGORY
2021-22
Attrition Rate
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Senior Management
13
-
13
10.5%
-
9.4%
Junior & Middle Management
1804
377
2181
8.4%
10.8%
8.7%
Non Supervisory Staff
13080
4751
17831
21.6%
24.7%
22.4%
Total
 14,897
5,128
20,025
18.16
22.5%
19.1%
Frontline Staff and Sales Officers
14268
1820
16088
43.8%
42.9%
43.7%
ATTRITION BY REGION
2021-22
Attrition rate
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
East
3,649
549
4,198
25.50%
24.70%
25.4%
West
10,639
2,585
13,224
25.30%
25.00%
25.2%
South
7,006
2,009
9,015
26.40%
27.70%
26.7%
North
7,868
1,799
9,667
25.00%
25.20%
25%
Abroad
3
6
9
2.90%
11.8%
5.8%
Total
29,165
6,948
36,113
25.50%
25.70%
25.50%
ATTRITION BY AGE
2021-22
Attrition rate
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
<30
15,009
4,453
19,462
36.6%
32.1%
35.4%
30-50
14,066
2,485
16,551
19.5%
19.3%
19.4%
>50
90
10
100
7.3%
4.4%
6.8%
Total
29,165
6,948
36,113
25.50%
25.70%
25.50%
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
87

Social – People
NEW HIRES BY CATEGORY
2021-22
New hire rate
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Senior Management
9
2
11
7.30%
13.30%
7.90%
Non Supervisory Staff
3,597
647
4,244
16.80%
18.50%
17.00%
Junior Management
18,971
7,951
26,922
31.40%
41.30%
33.80%
Frontline Staff and Sales 
Officers
22,446
3,628
26,074
69.00%
85.40%
70.9
Total
45,023
12,228
57,251
39.30%
45.30%
40.40%
NEW HIRES BY AGE
2021-22
New hire rate
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
<30
27,848
8,826
36,674
67.90%
63.50%
66.80%
30-50
17,143
3,390
20,533
23.70%
26.30%
24.10%
>50
32
12
44
2.60%
5.30%
3.00%
Total
45,023
12,228
57,251
39.30%
45.30%
40.40%
NEW HIRES BY REGION
2021-22
New hire rate
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
East
5,283
858
6,141
36.90%
38.60%
37.10%
West
16,507
4,538
21,045
39.20%
43.90%
40.10%
South
11,252
3,652
14,904
42.40%
50.40%
44%
North
11,973
3,167
15,140
38.00%
44.30%
39.20%
Abroad
8
13
21
7.80%
35.50%
13.60%
Total
45,023
12,228
57,251
39.30%
45.30%
40.40%
88

Employee well-being
Our flagship initiative ‘HDFC Bank 
Cares’ aims to provide resources 
and a platform for physical, mental, 
emotional and financial wellness for all 
employees.
Our wellness initiatives are aimed to 
help keep our employees and their 
families healthy and safe in a year 
that saw an unprecedented test of 
human resilience. We also introduced 
a comprehensive  ‘Compassion 
Package’ with an aim to reduce 
financial burden on surviving family 
members in case of the unfortunate 
event of the demise of an employee. 
The key features include offer of 
employment to a family member and 
financial support for education of 2 
children till graduation, upto `10 Lakh. 
Other initiatives include providing 
additional leave, reimbursement 
of treatment expenses, on-call 
counselling support, e-consultation 
with doctors and awareness drives 
through various channels. Further, 
the Bank has an Employee Welfare 
Trust which cover expenses beyond 
Mediclaim on a case-to-case basis. 
practices. We strictly prohibit child 
labour, forced or compulsory labour in 
all forms in our operations. In addition, 
through our ESG policy framework, we 
strive to ensure that our vendors and 
suppliers abide by the labour laws and 
human rights – including prohibition 
of child labour, forced labour and 
trafficked labour. In FY22, we received 
no complaints on infringement of 
human rights, cases of child labour, 
forced labour, and involuntary labour. 
The facility attendants deployed at our 
sites for ensuring security are imparted 
training under the provisions of the 
PSARA Act, 2005 through security 
agencies on various aspects of 
We also conduct regular health check-
ups and mental health awareness 
sessions to address issues arising from 
a sedentary lifestyle and stress. All 
our employees are provided medical 
cover. For our women employees on 
the path to embracing motherhood, we 
have a comprehensive maternity care 
programme.
Further, as a part of our credit policy, 
we evaluate all large industrial/
infrastructure projects for potential 
adverse social impact, such as 
land acquisition, resettlement and 
rehabilitation, livelihood losses and 
compensation for the same, and also 
for exploitative labour or child labour 
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
89

Social – People
security, safety, etiquette and personal 
conduct/behaviour.
There is also an employee association 
at the Bank. As of FY22, 0.18% of 
our permanent employees are part 
of this association. The Bank has an 
internal Memorandum of Settlements 
that may be interpreted as a collective 
bargaining agreement, signed 
between the Management and Union 
office bearers. There are periodic 
negotiations with Union Office Bearers 
and the Memorandum of Settlement 
is signed by the Management to 
the extent of their benefits and 
service conditions – including any 
significant operational changes. We 
provide 21 days’ notice typically to 
employees and their representatives 
prior to implementation of significant 
operational changes that could 
substantially affect them.
Measuring employee 
engagement  
HDFC Bank continues to be 
certified as a Great Place to Work® 
Organisation. This certification is 
a testimony to the Bank's inherent 
strength as an institution par 
excellence and the efforts to support 
and enable employees through 
best-in-class people practices and 
processes.
The Bank partners with Great Place 
to Work® to conduct their employee 
engagement survey over three cycles 
(18 months per cycle). Organisations 
participating in the survey are 
assessed through two lenses — the 
Trust Index and the Culture Audit. 
Great Place to Work® Institute audits 
the company’s human resource 
practices and policies. On meeting the 
qualifying criteria, the organisation is 
certified as a Great Place to Work for a 
period of one year.
The survey was conducted for a 
second time in November 2021. Over 
94% of the eligible employees (86,506 
employees) participated and scored 
the Bank on five key parameters, 
namely, camaraderie, fairness, 
respect, pride, and credibility, amongst 
its employees.
The important distinction that this 
score brings is as follows:
Employee connect initiatives 
Over the year, we organised several 
initiatives that provide employees 
an opportunity to connect with the 
organisation beyond their work-life. 
These initiatives spanned multiple 
areas including sports, art, music, 
wellness, and photography, ensuring 
there is something in it for everyone. 
We also focused on involving family 
members which was met with 
an enthusiastic response. 43,121 
employees participated across 21 
initiatives during the year. Following is 
a brief on some of the key initiatives
Best In the 
Industry — BFSI
India's Best 
Companies to 
Work For, 2022 
— Top 100
Overall Bank 
Engagement Score 
improved from 75% 
Engagement Score in 
FY21 to 83% in FY22
Only large Indian 
Bank to be certified 
amongst the 7 certified 
mega-employers (>50k 
employees) in India
Key outcomes 
of our employee 
engagement 
survey
90

Wellness sessions
Morning fitness sessions on Zumba, 
Yoga, Suryanamaskara, Meditation 
and Pranayama were introduced to 
help keep our people physically and 
mentally fit during challenging times.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
2,001
Take-a-break
We introduced weekly quizzes via 
e-mail on topics including general 
knowledge, famous personalities, 
logical reasoning, and visual puzzles 
like spot the difference for employees. 
The initiatives garnered a lot of interest 
and participation while providing a 
much-needed break to the employees.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
18,841
Syahi
Syahi is the online writing contest of 
the Bank and this year a separate 
category for Hindi writers. Employees 
showcased their creative writing skills 
through enthralling fictional as well 
as anecdotal accounts. The winning 
stories, selected by an external judge, 
were curated and published in the 
form of an e-book on the Our World 
platform. 
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
733
Corporate fitness 
challenge
We participated in an inter-corporate 
fitness challenge contest. The contest 
conducted over 10 weeks included 
different challenges such as doing the 
maximum number of push-ups, planks, 
etc. The first position in the contest 
was bagged by one of our employees. 
Apart from this, six employees won 
awards across different categories.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
521
Festive webinars
To add some excitement in the festivals 
during the pandemic, we conducted 
different webinars/DIY workshops for 
employees during popular festivals like 
Ganesh Chaturthi, Navratri, Diwali and 
Christmas. These workshops were 
also focused on involving employees’ 
children. Activities such as creating an 
Eco Ganesha, storytelling around the 
history of the festival, and interesting 
games centred around such stories, 
were conducted as a part of these 
workshops.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
325
Million dollar challenge
In 2020, we introduced this interactive 
online team building game which 
became very popular among 
employees. Last year was the second 
season of this challenge. This game 
served as a very effective icebreaker 
for new joiners. We also leveraged the 
game to build camaraderie in cross-
functional teams.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
1,832
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
91

AnalytIQ
In Season 2, employees had the option 
to play Chess, Sudoku and Scrabble 
online. It was a round robin contest 
and had different levels of shortlisting. 
The competitive format spurred a lot of 
excitement among employees and led 
to a high level of engagement.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
3,434
Breakfast cycle rides
Breakfast cycle rides were organised 
for our riding enthusiasts in Mumbai. 
This being the first on-ground initiative 
post lifting of lockdown, saw limited 
albeit enthusiastic participation.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
84
Corporate photography 
contest
This is an inter-corporate photography 
contest held every year. Out of a total 
of 3,349 photographs contributed by 
our employees, 332 were shortlisted in 
the top 1,500. We bagged the second 
prize in the wildlife category. A virtual 
3-D exhibition of these photographs 
was held for all employees.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
2,090
Digital Voice Hunt
This was the second season of this 
initiative wherein we collaborated with 
Furtados School of Music to organise a 
music competition for our employees, 
their children and spouses. This 
year, we also involved their parents, 
grandparents and in-laws. We received 
rave reviews from the family members 
who participated.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
453
Xpressions
In season 7 of Xpressions, we saw 
some very creative artwork prepared 
by our employees and their children 
with an artistic bent. The artwork was 
displayed as wallpapers on the Bank’s 
laptops, thus earning organisation-
wide recognition for the participants.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
1,390
HUNAR
HUNAR is an annual talent hunt 
organised for employees and their 
families. 17,000+ votes were cast in 
appreciation of their performances, 
from which we announced popular 
choice as well as judges’ choice 
awards.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
1,392
Social – People
92

Women’s day 
celebration
This unique initiative was arranged for 
the women in the workforce. We held 
a series of webinars on topics such 
as ‘Happiness Inside Out’, ‘Mental 
Health Awareness’ and ‘How to love 
yourself?’ over a course of 4 days in a 
virtual setting.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
1,766
Zaika
Zaika is a cooking contest launched 
in 2019. The initial rounds were 
conducted online in six cities out 
of which the shortlisted candidates 
were invited to Mumbai for a finale. 
The winning recipes of Zaika were 
compiled in an e-book and uploaded 
on Our World for display.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
468
Funtakshari
Centred around our love for 
Bollywood songs, ‘Funtakshari’ is a 
fun competition open to employees 
as well as their families. The initiative 
became very popular and was much 
appreciated by all.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
2,382
Summer camp
A novel 5-day online summer 
camp introduced for the kids of our 
employees included some interesting 
activities around science experiments, 
fire-free cooking, talent showcases 
as well as behavioural learning. We 
received heart-warming feedback for 
the event.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
626
Energise yourself
Mental well-being is as important 
as physical well-being. In order to 
raise awareness on the subject, 
we conducted webinars on topics 
like reboot happiness, energy and 
frequency, art therapy and healing 
with sound. These sessions helped 
employees stay happy and energised.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
981
Session on photography
Looking at the interest in the inter-
corporate photography contest, we 
decided to conduct a workshop on 
photography in which the employees 
learnt different techniques of 
photography, camera care 101 and 
types of lenses that can be used for 
different types of photographs. 
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
475
Auction Premier League
This was an interactive activity 
conducted in the IPL auction style 
to promote team building, thinking 
out-of-the-box, presence of mind, 
collaboration and strategic thinking. 
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
2,661
The InQUIZitive Family
Organised as a team activity for 
families, this was an online quiz 
competition held in multiple levels. 
There was enthusiastic participation 
with request for more of such initiatives 
in the future.
TOTAL PARTICIPATION
608
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
93

Social - Community
WE ARE ONE OF THE HIGHEST CSR 
SPENDERS IN INDIA, WITH A TOTAL CSR 
EXPENDITURE OF 
`736.01 Cr
Building resilient 
communities together
We believe businesses can only thrive if 
the communities in which they operate 
thrive as well. Our CSR programmes are 
designed to have a long-term, meaningful 
impact on the upliftment of marginalised 
communities, while contributing to global 
sustainable development goals. The 
pandemic-induced economic hardships 
that our communities have witnessed over 
the past two years have reaffirmed our 
resolve to address deep-seated social 
inequalities. We have aligned our efforts 
towards a ‘people-centric’ recovery 
through multi-dimensional interventions 
across livelihood, skill development, 
education, health, and natural resources.  
We seek to bring about a revolution in the 
quality of life and livelihood of our communities 
through our CSR Brand, Parivartan, which 
means Change. Our programmes are created 
and shortlisted through a participatory, bottom-
up, and consultative process, including all 
stakeholders. We work with a variety of NGOs 
and partners, as well as employee volunteers, 
to assist us in the implementation of various 
sustainable development programmes.
Social & Relationship Capital
94

*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
CSR initiatives and UN Sustainable Development Goals     
Natural Resource Management
Under Parivartan, the bank has been 
working in 23 states in India to bring 
holistic development in the rural 
landscape.
	 Construction of solar 
streetlights, biomass stoves, 
community biogas plants, and 
the distribution of solar home 
lighting
	 Building Rainwater Harvesting 
Structures, Community Tanks, 
Hand Pump, and Wells
	 Seed Bank, Grain Bank, and 
Village Nursery are being 
established
	 Establishment of ~48,490+ 
kitchen gardens
Skill Development and  
livelihood Enhancement 
Managing and improving skills is 
an important part of increasing 
employment and establishing long-
term livelihood options.
	 Assist farmers in changing their 
logistics and supply chains
	 Aided in the formation of dairy 
cooperatives, poultry farms, 
integrated poultry-goat rearing-
fishery units
	 Parivartan has trained ~8,470 
SHGs in rural India with the goal 
of empowering women
	 The bank has trained nearly 
2.54 Lakh+ people through its 
partners, in accordance with the 
ideals of fairness and inclusion
Promotion of Education 
This is one of Parivartan’s most 
significant pillars, which encourages 
equal education for all students, from 
early childhood through secondary 
school.
	Scholarship opportunities like 
the ECS Scholarship
	 Introduction of Smart Classes 
across different states to 
integrate technology with 
education
	 Sports as one of the pillars of 
education to promote the health 
and well-being of childern
Financial Literacy and 
Inclusion 
Our Bank offers financial literacy 
programmes to help communities 
make informed financial decisions.
	 The bank conducts financial 
literacy workshops
	Digidhan or Dhanchayat is 
the Bank’s financial literacy 
programme on wheels
Healthcare and Hygiene
The bank focuses on eliminating 
Non-Communicable Disease in some 
states and establish accessible 
sanitary facilities despite difficult 
terrains.
	 Planting of 17.69 Lakh+ 
trees has helped increase 
groundwater levels
	 Development of ~23,800 
household toilet units across 
India
	 Guinness World Record for 
organising the world's largest 
blood donation drive
The CSR and ESG committee of the Board reviews our CSR projects, monitors CSR policy and performance, and 
ensures that the Bank is compliant with the regulatory requirements. There were no fines or non-monetary sanctions in 
the social area during FY22 owing to non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
95

Social - Community
Parivartan – a step towards 
sustainable Sustainable 
progress
Parivartan is the Bank's umbrella 
brand for all social efforts. It 
aims to drive positive change in 
people's lives by empowering 
them, to become self-sufficient and 
integrated with the society through 
direct or indirect interventions. 
Parivartan is also at the forefront 
of natural disaster response, 
successfully restoring infrastructure 
and rehabilitating communities. 
Parivartan works under five thematic 
areas. Based on the identified focus 
areas, we have set seven goals 
and 11 sub-goals that guide our 
community development activities.   
LIVES IMPACTED*
9.6 Cr+
Our Holistic Rural Development 
Programme (HRDP) focuses on 
comprehensive development through 
activities under NRM, Education, 
Skill Development and Livelihood, 
Financial Literacy and Healthcare. 
These activities are based on the 
belief that rural development is key to 
India’s growth. The Natural Resource 
Management theme rests on the 
twin goals of enhancement of natural 
resources and their optimal utilisation 
for the economic development of the 
community. Under this theme, we 
have defined three goals. First, we 
are working to irrigate 2 Lakh acres 
of unirrigated land and cover 1 Lakh 
acres with vegetation, to increase the 
area of land under cultivation, as well 
as to increase the cropping intensity of 
cultivable land.  
HOUSEHOLDS
9.88 Lakh+
VILLAGES
3,335+
Rural Development (Natural Resource Management) 
Our focus 
areas
Rural 
Development
Skill Training 
and Livelihood 
Enhancement
Promotion of 
Education
Healthcare 
and Hygiene
Financial 
Literacy and 
Inclusion
1
3
4
5
2
1
*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
96

1,000 villages to have clean 
and renewable energy 
solutions
reducing the carbon and ecological 
footprint of our communities
Promoting the use 
of chemical-free farming
to achieve 3 Lakh acres of farmland 
under chemical free farming
Irrigate 2 Lakh acres of 
unirrigated land
	· To increase the cropping intensity 
of cultivable land
	· To increase the area of land under 
cultivation
2.5 Million trees to be 
planted (CO2 reduction)
Implementing tree plantation 
programmes to sequester 
carbon and promote 
sustainability
WATER CONSERVATION STRUCTURES 
DEVELOPED* 
10,500+
BIOMASS STOVES DEPLOYED*
11,670+
KITCHEN GARDENS DEVELOPED*
48,490+
TREES PLANTED*
17.69 Lakh+
SOLAR LIGHTS INSTALLED*
41,810+
Second, we aim to reduce the 
carbon and ecological footprint of 
our communities by promoting clean 
and renewable energy solutions. 
This includes undertaking projects 
such as tree plantation for carbon 
sequestration and biodiversity 
conservation. We are targeting 1,000 
villages to have clean and renewable 
energy solutions and a minimum of 10 
solar lights in each village. In addition, 
we are providing solar home lights, 
biomass chulha, biogas plant, solar 
study lamp, and a solar irrigation unit, 
covering 25% of the households in 
each village. The biomass stoves have 
helped improve indoor air quality, 
creating a direct positive impact on 
women’s health. Further, we target to 
plant 2.5 Million trees by FY25.
Third, we have been promoting the use 
of chemical-free farming, to maintain 
the soil, environment, and human 
health by combining tradition, creativity 
and science. We train farmers on 
different agricultural techniques for 
improving productivity and using locally 
produced manure and fertilisers, which 
not only aid in chemical-free farming 
but also help avoid expenditures on 
chemical fertilisers.
Natural Resource Management
Our 
targets
*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
97

Social - Community
Promotion of Education
We are implementing a programme 
to promote education in line with 
India’s Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan. Under 
this theme, we provide multi-faceted 
support to schools, to enhance the 
quality of education – which includes 
training the teachers, providing 
scholarships and career guidance 
to students, as well as infrastructure 
support to schools, such as building 
toilets and improving classrooms. 
We have dedicated programmes for 
improving teachers' skills and scaling 
up no-cost solutions for improving 
existing systems and processes. 
We have also been working towards 
establishing libraries, scientific labs 
and digital classrooms.
Under this theme, we have set the goal 
of enhancing the quality of education in 
government schools through a three-
dimensional, target-driven approach. 
The first dimension aims to convert 
2,500 traditional schools into smart 
schools, to establish a favourable 
learning environment and enable 
teachers to utilise various efficient 
teaching-learning methods. We have 
identified six building blocks for the 
development of smart schools and 
would be providing targeted support, 
based on a detailed need assessment 
and situational analysis of the 
availability of adequate infrastructure 
such as space and electricity.
The second dimension aims to support 
meritorious yet underprivileged 
students with scholarships, to not 
let the financial crises interrupt the 
development of bright young minds. 
We identify economically backward 
students with an annual family income 
below `2.5 Lakh and a minimum of 
55% marks on their latest available 
marksheet. 
The third dimension targets quality 
of education in schools. We aim to 
achieve 70% of students in all schools 
(those under intervention) at class 
appropriate learning (CAL) levels. The 
CAL levels are assessed as per the 
NCERT defined framework in classes 
3, 5, and 8 through the National 
Achievement Survey in language, 
mathematics, EVS, science, and social 
science.
Digital classrooms
The Smart Classrooms by Parivartan 
in the state-run schools are equipped 
with a pre-loaded projector and 
an interactive board. The in-built 
e-content is aligned with the 
concerned state curriculum, making 
learning fun and engaging for the 
students. For effective implementation 
of the digital classrooms initiative, 
the Bank provides training to the 
teachers making them the experts and 
custodians of the infrastructure.  
2
To convert 2500 
traditional schools 
to smart schools
To support meritorious 
underprivileged students 
with scholarships. 
To achieve 70% 
children at class 
appropriate 
learning levels in all 
intervention schools
Our 
targets
98

Skills Training and Livelihood Enhancement
2.8 Lakh+ 
SCHOOLS BENEFITTED*
19.94 Lakh+ 
TEACHERS TRAINED*
2.09 Cr+  
STUDENTS REACHED*
710+  
LIBRARIES SET UP*
Basic Science and Math 
laboratory
For collaborative practical approach
Smart class infrastructure
enable modern technology in 
education to provide an interactive 
learning environment. 
Drinking water facility
Provisioning uncontaminated and safe 
drinking water for students
Library
Additional learning hubs fundamental 
to overall personal development
Construction and maintenance 
of toilet facility
Prevents dropouts and absenteeism
Active Corner (for primary 
schools only)
For stimulation of cognitive learning 
capacities and improve attendance 
and enrolment
Our 
Targets
3
Increase in income
Increase in income of ~5 
Lakh farmers across the 
country
To have 1 Lakh 
community institutions
to have Local Economic 
Activation with 1 Lakh 
community-led enterprises 
promoted including VDCs/ 
FIG/FPO/SHG/JLG/WUG/
YG/AG etc. (~50% women 
led)
Skilling of youth
Skill training for employment generation
*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
99

Under the Skills Training and Livelihood 
Enhancement theme, we focus on the 
economic development of farmers 
and youth in rural areas by providing 
means of generating income through 
agricultural or non-agricultural 
activities. Since its beginning, this 
initiative has assisted around 2.54 
Lakh+ people. The overarching 
objective is to empower the 
disadvantaged by providing them with 
greater possibilities, assisting them 
in finding local jobs, increasing their 
household income and discouraging 
migration. We also support women 
Self Help Groups (SHGs) or Joint 
Liability Groups (JLGs) by providing 
occupational skills training, financial 
literacy, credit counselling, livelihood 
finance, and market linkage. We have 
started SLI EMI collections through 
Common Service Centre operators 
(CSC VLE) providing convenience to 
customers at the village level.
We have set separate goals for 
individual and institutional capacity 
development under this theme. 
The first goal focuses on increasing 
farmers' income across the country. 
We have defined three distinct sub-
goals to move forward in a targeted 
and systematic way. Through the 
first sub-goal, we aim to reach 5 
Lakh small and marginal farmers 
(with annual income below `60,000) 
and support them in maximising 
output and reducing input costs. We 
are also enabling farmers to adopt 
modern and innovative farming tools 
and techniques, by providing them 
exposure visits to different fields and 
agricultural institutes, and supporting 
them with seeds, fertilisers, and other 
farm support materials. Additionally, 
we help farmers diversify their income 
by supporting them in allied activities 
such as livestock rearing, timber, 
horticulture, and fishery, among others.
The second sub-goal relates to the 
promotion of 1 Lakh community-
led enterprises to boost local 
economic activities, of which ~50% 
would be women-led. Under this, 
we encourage the economically 
deprived communities to engage in 
entrepreneurship on an individual or a 
cluster basis. We support identification 
of prospective economic activities in 
the intervention villages and assist 
the community members in founding 
and operating an enterprise – which 
include beauty parlours, small shops, 
goateries, poultry, tailoring, etc. for 
individual beneficiaries, and processing 
units, packaging units, fisheries, and 
handicrafts, etc. for group enterprises, 
established through FPO, SHG, and 
JLG.
The third sub-goal relates to skill 
development for employment 
generation where we provide 
classroom/online/blended skill 
development training in trades 
that could lead to job placement 
or self-employment opportunity 
for unemployed youth, school 
dropouts and landless farmers. Our 
training programmes typically have 
certifications from the NSDC, the 
Sector Skill Council, or other qualified 
non-government agencies.
The second goal relates to the 
development and sustenance of 
institutions for livelihood enhancement 
– particularly community institutions 
such as village development 
committees, farmers’ groups, self-help 
groups, water user groups, sanitation 
committees, youth groups, and 
adolescent groups. We aim to develop 
and support 1 Lakh community 
institutions. The Bank’s intervention 
could range from a few months to 
three years. The activities are related 
to agriculture, water, sanitation, health, 
livelihood, and other rural development 
work. 
Social - Community
8.08 Lakh+
WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS 
TRAINED*
8,470+  
SHGs REVIVED/FORMED/
TRAINED*
*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
100

Stories of Parivartan
Tehsil: Lalsot, Dausa District, Rajasthan
District: Mandi, Himachal Pradesh
Prem Devi is a small-scale 
farmer who was dealing 
with a variety of challenges, 
including poor tomato quality 
owing to inappropriate 
sapling planting, output 
losses due to numerous 
illnesses, and severe lack 
of water.
We assisted her with a high-
tech farming system and 
capacitated her to maximise 
profit, while lowering the cost 
of production. Drip systems, 
mulching sheet covering, 
Farmers in the Mandi district 
have become victims to 
exploitation by middlemen. 
In addition, their lack of 
negotiating power over prices 
has aggravated the situation. 
We supported market 
linkages through:
	· Formation of 45 Farmer 
Interest Groups (FIG)
	· Conducted 25 orientation 
trainings on value chain 
and value addition in apple 
production
	· Encouraged farmers to sell 
their harvest in bulk
stands, and water tanks 
were provided as part of the 
initiative to her boost her 
agricultural operations.
Since implementation of the 
intervention, the water usage 
has been reduced due to 
installation of drip systems.
Prem Devi sold roughly 150 
quintals of tomatoes, making 
a profit of `98,000. This has 
not only improved her quality 
of life, but has also motivated 
other farmers in the region.
Constructed a model apple 
processing machine to 
promote apple bi-products
Farmers now have better 
market access, with 27.63 
tonnes of apples sold 
straight from the producer. 
FIG farmers have begun 
selling their products in bulk 
and delivering it straight to 
customers. As a result, their 
negotiating strength and 
revenues have improved.
Increasing production with high-tech farming
Strengthening agri-horticulture
Beneficiary: Prem Devi
Beneficiary: 2,000 Farmers
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
101

India
India
We reached out to  
Covid-care hospitals in 
several states to learn 
about their needs and 
concerns, with the aim to fix 
infrastructural gaps using 
the lessons learned during 
the second and third wave.
Through the Covid Crisis 
Support Scholarship 
Programme, we are assisting 
4,000+ students who are 
experiencing personal or 
financial hardships, as 
a result of Covid. With 
monetary aid up to `75,000, 
the Bank created a specific 
initiative to help students 
In collaboration with 
the Apparel Made-Ups 
and Home Furnishings 
Sector Skill Council, we 
have trained over 5000 
women across six states in 
apparel-related job areas. 
This included awareness/
counseling sessions, quality 
training sessions, provision 
of learning materials, toolkit 
etc.
We have also set up a team 
to followup and support the 
applicants to get employed 
at top companies.
We aim to place women 
candidates in top national 
and international companies. 
We are setting up a team 
to follow and support the 
from class 1 and above, up 
to those pursuing UG and PG 
programmes.
We are increasing the oxygen 
capacity in 18 hospitals 
around the country to better 
prepare for the approaching 
COVID-19 waves. These 
oxygen plants are now being 
set up in Uttar Pradesh, 
Jharkhand, Haryana, Punjab, 
Karnataka, Kerala, Assam, 
West Bengal, New Delhi, 
Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, 
Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, 
Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and 
Himanchal Pradesh.
applicants, once they’ve been 
placed through off-site or on-
site verification.
With our ‘Head Held High’ 
(HHH) initiative, we have 
developed the ‘Make India 
Capable’ programme 
which aim to improve the 
skills and capabilities of 
1500 rural youths in ten 
districts across ten states 
(Karnataka, Maharashtra, 
Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Bihar, 
Uttarakhand, Telangana, 
Gujarat, Haryana, and Odisha).
The programme guarantees 
that ~70% of the trained 
youngsters would be placed 
in a job within 39 months. The 
project commenced in FY21-
22 and has trained over 280 
applicants until March 2022.
Fighting the pandemic
Upskilling women and rural youth
Social - Community
Training and 
placing 5,000 
women across 
6 states
Aiding 
disconnected 
rural youth 
across 10 states
102

Healthcare and Hygiene
Improve sanitation 
facility
100% of households have 
sanitation facilities in usable 
conditions
Improve Sanitation 
facility
1,000 villages to have a waste 
management system in place
15 ULBs to have MRF and 
recycling facilities
Improve Sanitation 
facility
1,000 villages to have 
access to clean drinking 
water
Our 
Targets
4
We have adopted an integrated 
approach related to healthcare and 
hygiene. We have not only been 
provisioning healthcare services 
to our communities in the form of 
health clinics, nutrition programmes 
and immunisation drives, but have 
also been working on hygiene 
and sanitation in schools and 
communities. To complement our 
community-led sanitation efforts 
directed toward the proper disposal 
of wastewater, we have been 
working on the institutionalisation 
of waste pickers through social and 
financial inclusion for dry waste 
management. 
Under this thematic area, we have set 
the goal to improve sanitation facilities 
– which we are implementing through 
targeted efforts on three distinct sub-
goals. The three sub-goals are related 
to waste management, clean drinking 
water and household sanitation 
facilities.  
Under the first sub-goal, we are 
developing waste management 
systems in 1,000 settlements. We are 
committed to establishing a long-term 
solid waste management system by 
providing the necessary infrastructure 
and instilling the necessary behavioural 
changes toward responsible 
consumption, source segregation and 
litter prevention. This includes setting-
up materials recovery facilities (MRF) 
and recycling facilities in 15 ULBs, in 
addition to village-level interventions 
such as residential composting, 
door-to-door garbage collection and 
the related mechanisms for user 
fee collection, compost sales and 
recycling. 
We are targeting 1,000 communities 
for providing access to clean drinking 
water. This would include interventions 
to promote clean drinking water 
availability at both the community-
level (through Jal-minar or other water 
buildings) as well as at the family-level 
(piped water connection). Through 
these interventions, three litres of 
water per person per day will be 
made available. We are also forming 
and orienting water user groups to 
ensure sustenance of the services who 
would be entrusted with post-project 
maintenance and water quality testing.
The third sub-goal pertains to 
ensuring that 100% of households 
have acceptable sanitation facilities. 
While the Government of India is 
believed to have provided sanitation 
facilities to every household, we are 
supplementing the government’s 
efforts by working towards 
enhancing the usage of such facilities 
by undertaking soft initiatives 
like awareness and motivation, 
infrastructure-based interventions, to 
support the repair and upgradation of 
such facilities, if and where required.
23,800+
HOUSEHOLD TOILETS CONSTRUCTED*
1,810+  
SANITATION DRIVES CONDUCTED*
*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
103

Social - Community
Financial Literacy 
Sessions for school 
students
	· HDFC Bank has 
created a fun-filled and 
student-friendly financial 
literacy workshop. 
These workshops are 
conducted by the bank 
employees.
	· The Bank collaborated 
with Teach for India to 
conduct these sessions. 
100+ students were 
engaged through the 
virtual workshops.
Konkan Flood Relief
	· The Bank collaborated 
with Donatekart and 
Aahardaan Foundation 
to raise funds and 
facilitate delivery of 
essential materials to the 
Konkan flood affected 
areas.
	· Among the affected 
areas, the Bank catered 
to communities in 
Chiplun district reaching 
out to 500 families.
Be a Secret Santa
	· The Bank organised 
its annual ‘Be a Secret 
Santa’ campaign 
marking Christmas-
donation drive.
	· The campaign allowed 
the bank to donate 
towards several causes 
including support for 
children living on streets, 
welfare of stray animals, 
senior citizens and 
more.
SmartUp
	· Under its SmartUp 
programme, HDFC 
Bank supports start-
ups to help them drive 
social change with 
motivation.
	· The Bank officials 
cumulatively spent 100+ 
hours in shortlisting the 
start-ups. The Bank 
also launched a new 
sub-segment called 
SmartUp Unnati, a 
dedicated programme 
for mentoring women 
entrepreneurs by 
women leaders at the 
Bank. Under the above 
programme, four senior 
leaders dedicated 15+ 
hours in mentoring 8 
women entrepreneurs.
Employee payroll 
giving programme
	· 1,400+ employees have 
subscribed to the Give 
India Payroll Giving 
Programme to donate 
towards several different 
causes.
	· HDFC Bank matches the 
employee’s contribution, 
and the sum amount 
is annually donated 
to a charity of the 
employees’ choice.
Gifting 
independence 
to the elderly on 
Independence Day
	· On Independence Day, 
the Bank organised 
an email-fundraiser 
campaign through 
its NGO partner- 
Donatekart. The bank 
employees through the 
campaign could donate 
towards procurement of 
essential materials for 
the elderly staying at Old 
age homes.
Plant on the go
	· With a motto to make 
our surroundings 
greener, the bank 
distributed seedbombs 
among its staff in 
Mumbai.
	· The seedbombs (mud 
balls consisting of 
seeds) were specially 
made by tribal women. 
800+ seedbombs were 
distributed among the 
staff.
Employee engagement 2021-22
The Parivartan initiative also strives to engage our employees through its Employee Volunteering Programme, 
encouraging them to contribute their time and effort. Our employees have displayed strong commitment by 
participating in various social programmes.
104

Financial Literacy and Inclusion
The first step towards true financial 
inclusion is financial literacy. Financial 
literacy camps are periodically 
conducted at our branches. In 
addition, we have set up financial 
literacy centres across India. We 
are also working with our non-profit 
partners to enhance financial literacy. 
The camps are designed to provide 
communities with information about 
the fundamentals of saving, investing 
and organised finance, enabling them 
to make informed decisions. Digidhan, 
our flagship plan under this pillar, is a 
mobile financial literacy programme 
that travels the length and breadth of 
the country's hinterland, presenting 
the advantages of digital banking in an 
audio-visual format.
23 Lakh+
FINANCIAL LITERACY CAMPS ORGANISED*
1.71 Cr+
INDIVIDUALS BENEFITTED* 
5
*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
105

HDFC Bank continued its journey 
to contribute to nation–building 
by digitising payments, collecting 
direct, indirect, and local taxes, 
and facilitating digital commerce by 
integrating with various Government 
owned platforms like e–National 
Agricultural Marketplace, and 
Government e–marketplace and 
offering banking solutions to 
unbanked and underserved sections 
of the society. The focus is to ensure 
the unbanked sections of the society 
are provided relevant financing 
and other banking services. As a 
responsible banker, we aim to deliver 
relevant banking solutions through 
partnerships with Government and 
other entities. The goal is to enable 
easier availability of funds and 
facilitate ease of doing business 
for beneficiaries such as farmers, 
students, teachers, and healthcare 
workers, amongst others.
Nation Building
Contributing to 
India’s development
As a socially responsible citizen, HDFC Bank 
endeavours to contribute to nation-building 
by remaining focused on key areas. These 
include digitising workflows and helping 
build alternate channels for the Government, 
supporting the start-up ecosystem to help 
fuel the economy further and supporting the 
Government’s financial inclusion agenda.  
106

Helping the Government 
digitise fund distribution 
efficiently
The bank plays a major role in 
distribution of the Government’s funds 
for most major schemes like central 
sponsored schemes, central sector 
schemes and funds from the 15th 
Finance Commission. 
The Bank is one of the top 5 banks 
processing Government pay-outs 
including Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) 
and has also been recognised by the 
Ministries of Finance, Panchayati Raj and 
Electronics and Information Technology 
for its efforts in this area.
Assisted Single 
Nodal Agencies in 
streamlining fund-flows 
across the states.
26%
OUR SHARE OF FUND-FLOWS  
FROM THE CENTRE TO THE STATES
Powering trade and digital 
commerce
The Bank's integration with various 
platforms demonstrates continued 
contribution to the Government’s ‘Ease 
of doing business’ and ‘Digital India’ 
initiatives. The Bank has integrated with 
the following platforms:
	· ‘ICEGATE’ (Indian Customs and 
Central Excise Electronic Commerce/ 
Electronic Data Interchange Gateway)
	· National Agriculture Markets (eNAM)
	· FOIS system (Freight Operations 
Information System) of Indian 
Railways
The Bank’s long association with GeM 
portal, which facilitates procurement 
for Government departments, was 
extended as it was empanelled to 
collect GeM Caution Money for 
registered suppliers.
The Bank has enabled about hundred 
thousand suppliers to be eligible 
to transact on the Government 
e-Marketplace by offering them the 
facility to deposit caution money that 
suppliers must deposit with GeM, prior 
to becoming active on the platform.
Improving our foreign ties
HDFC Bank has created dedicated 
products for Embassies, Consulates 
and diplomats, helping strengthen 
the nation’s foreign ties. To address 
the pain-points of this segment, the 
Bank offers best-in-class solutions 
including seamless international Trade 
and Forex facilities, digital solutions for 
Visa collections and special current 
accounts to suit the needs of the 
expatriate community.
Promoting entrepreneurship 
through SmartUp programme
At HDFC Bank, we work with various 
State Governments and incubators/ 
accelerators including the Indian 
Institutes of Technology (IITs) and the 
Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) 
to promote entrepreneurship under 
our SmartUp programme and Startup 
fund. We work with 45+ incubators 
certified by the Department of Science 
and Technology.
Networking and mentoring sessions 
are also held for our startup customers 
with HNIs and senior executives of 
the Bank. We have signed MoUs 
with 7 State Governments and the 
Ministry of Electronics and Information 
Technology (MEITY) to facilitate the 
execution of their startup policies.
85 
SOCIAL IMPACT START-UPS IN THE 
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & GENDER DIVERSITY 
SECTORS WERE PROVIDED WITH FINANCIAL AND 
ADVISORY SUPPORT IN FY22.
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
107

Nation Building
Developing our children,  
our future
The Bank recognises the importance 
of today’s youth in shaping the future 
of the nation. Accordingly, it works at 
many levels to support the country’s 
education system.
HDFC Bank has been a key player in 
extending the reach of Government 
schemes that help school children. 
It has enabled state education 
departments to disburse funds to 
Government schools for fulfiling the 
nutritional needs under the Mid-Day 
Meal Scheme. The Bank has also 
helped disburse funds to the last mile 
under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyaan 
Scheme, a Centrally Sponsored 
Scheme focused on making quality 
education available to students.
Disbursements to 1 
Lakh+ schools benefitting 
1 Cr+ students under 
Mid-day Meal Scheme
Further, the Bank has enhanced its 
education loan offering to students to 
enable larger numbers to avail quality 
education programmes. This has been 
achieved by removing the cap on 
loan values and widening the range of 
courses for which they can be used.
Additionally, the Bank has worked 
with Education Boards to digitise 
the payment of remuneration to 
faculty who offer their services during 
examinations. This has expedited 
the pace of these payments, brought 
transparency to the process, 
and ultimately resulted in higher 
participation rates by faculty members 
to conduct examinations seamlessly. 
Online submission of claims has also 
helped the boards and faculties of 
these institutions overcome logistical 
challenges posed by the pandemic 
in submitting and processing such 
claims. 
The Bank also recognises the critical 
role played by educators and has been 
committed to improving their lives. 
A new initiative under the banner of 
#SalaamDilSey was launched this year 
for Teacher’s Day. Industry leaders 
from across the HDFC Group and 
others spoke at a special webinar 
aimed at helping teachers simplify 
their family finances. Attended by 
1,300+ teachers, the webinar was 
well-received and will now become an 
annual affair given its success.
108

Boosting and protecting 
farmer incomes
The Bank has been consistently 
assisting the Government focused 
sectors such as agriculture and allied 
industries.
In line with the Central Government’s 
focus on developing Farmer Producer 
Organisations (FPO), the Bank has 
powered the platform created by a 
state agriculture department with 
integrated digital payment channels. 
This has enhanced farmers’ access 
to a common platform for trading and 
buying agri-produce and supplies. 
The platform has also helped revenue 
optimisation on crop yields by farmers. 
The Bank has also helped digitise 
the financial operations for the dairy 
industry by offering an integrated 
solution for the entire ecosystem, thus 
driving transparency in the process and 
improving planning since it provides 
visibility into both the demand and 
supply ends of the business. 
In the current year, your Bank became 
the first private sector Bank to be 
empanelled with the Agriculture 
Insurance Company of India (AIC), for 
marketing their insurance products. 
Through this partnership, the Bank aims 
to provide financial security and income 
stability to farmers, in the event of natural 
calamities that affect their crop yield.
`70,000 Cr+
VALUE OF AGRI PROCUREMENT
Making India healthy
The Bank extended its focus on 
healthcare during the pandemic. It 
enabled the smooth transfer of funds 
from state apex bodies to primary and 
secondary healthcare centres and 
village level hospitals. Our services 
also included digitisation of processes, 
expenditure reporting, providing digital 
platforms for centralised monitoring of 
fund utilisation, etc. The Bank has also 
enabled state health departments to 
distribute funds in a timely manner to 
ASHA Workers as compensation for 
extending healthcare services to end 
beneficiaries.
The pandemic provided new avenues 
for customising banking solutions 
across various segments. With 
the continued focus on enhancing 
affordability, we have enabled several 
large partner hospitals/clinics/IVF 
centres to provide loans and the ability 
to conveniently convert healthcare 
treatment costs to EMIs. 
These cost-effective solutions will help 
customers avail quality healthcare 
with ease and flexibility. Our SmartBuy 
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
109

Nation Building
platform provides a large range of 
offers that help customers reduce their 
expenses on healthcare and wellness. 
The Bank has alliances with 150+ 
providers including players in 
diagnostic, pharmaceutical and 
hospital care. Attractive membership 
benefit programmes are provided to 
customers as a value-added service 
across segments. 
Two special programmes, providing 
customised banking and financial 
services benefits have also been 
created especially for doctors. 
Digitisation and modernisation 
of citizen services
The Bank continued its participation 
in the digitisation and modernisation 
of Government to Citizen (G2C) 
services. This has not only helped 
optimise resources in Government 
organisations but also helped 
deliver services remotely. It includes 
services like payment of taxes, online 
collections of charges and fees by 
transport authorities as well as online 
tracking of case status with legal 
authorities like Motor Accident Claim 
Tribunals (MACT). This has also helped 
the authorities deliver un-interrupted 
services during the pandemic.
Taking banking to the 
unbanked
The Bank continued to leverage 
Common Service Centres (CSCs) 
to reach the last mile. The Bank 
expanded its product range in the 
last year to include all liability, assets 
and payments products. We also 
initiated the delivery of Government 
sponsored social security schemes 
and enabled Business Correspondents 
to assist in collection of delinquent 
EMIs. Managed by Village Level 
Entrepreneurs (VLEs), the CSCs 
are instrumental in increasing our 
penetration in deeper geographies. 
The distribution network built through 
110

CSC now includes 4 Lakh+ centres 
across India for banking services. Of 
this, more than 68% are in semi-urban 
and rural areas. We also have 15,000+ 
centres enabled across India for 
conducting banking transactions. 
Social Security Schemes: 
17,500+ enrolled 
for SSL schemes 
across APY, JBY & SBY
EMIs collected: 62,000+ 
transactions across Retail 
and SLI/JLG loans
The approach in deeper geographies 
is based on the ecosystem around 
the distribution network, our 
digital capabilities and rule-based 
underwriting to provide seamless 
service. In the process of training our 
VLEs, which includes women, we 
equip them with digital skills and make 
them self-reliant by enabling them to 
function as a small branch. To scale 
further into deeper geographies by 
replicating our success with CSC, we 
have also signed MOUs with additional 
partners. We are driven by the 
aspiration to provide banking products 
and services to the vast unbanked and 
underserved sections of the society.
Women empowerment is furthered 
by training 1.3 Lakh+ women from 
19,600+ SHGs, making them 
financially self-reliant and positively 
impacting the lives of more than 6 
Lakh fellow countrymen in semi urban 
and rural areas. Under the Stree 
Swabhiman initiative, sanitary napkin 
making units have been provided 
to women VLEs, to manufacture 
economic and hygienic pads. These 
are provided to 12,500 school-going 
girls who have been adopted for a year 
by the Bank, thereby creating an eco-
system of menstrual hygiene access.
10 Lakh citizens in the 
hinterlands were able to 
register for their COVID-19 
vaccinations at CSCs 
with the Bank’s support. 
Registration costs for 
all 10 Lakh citizens was 
funded by the Bank.
Driving digitisation in Rural 
Banking
We have integrated 30+ APIs which 
power the digital delivery of 25+ 
best-in-class financial products and 
services to the last mile customer. 
We have also funded the digital 
infrastructure set-up for 4,000 villages 
supporting the Digi Gaon initiative of 
the Government. 
Best Practice 
in Digital 
Transformation 
2021
 AT THE COVETED CII-DX 2021 FORUM
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
111

Governance
The DNA of a 
responsible banker 
Our governance framework forms 
the bedrock of our value creation 
process. At HDFC Bank, stringent 
regulatory compliance is a given. 
Beyond compliance, our practices 
aim to embody the principles of 
ethical conduct, independence, 
responsibility, accountability, and 
transparency in true spirit. This is 
reflected in our strategic thinking, 
decision-making, monitoring 
processes and underlines all our 
activities and operations.
We are led by a diverse, experienced and 
competent Board. The Board, along with its 
committees, institutes policies and frameworks 
on ethical conduct, anti-corruption, anti-money 
laundering, compliance, IT, information security, 
ESG, and customer satisfaction, among 
others, and monitors their implementation. We 
strive to adhere to best practices in corporate 
governance, such as alignment of executive 
pay to company performance, disclosure of 
Board evaluation outcomes, and wide scope of 
whistle-blower policy, to name a few.
112

Board expertise and 
competence
Our Board is diverse and inclusive, 
comprising of members with rich 
experience to fulfil its governance 
role and related responsibilities, 
objectively and effectively. Our 
Board includes members with 
varied skill sets and competencies 
across banking and allied sectors 
such as finance, agriculture, rural 
economy, risk management, small 
scale industries and technology. 
The Board also seeks opinions from 
external experts whenever required. 
Further information on the skills, 
expertise and competence of our 
Board is included in our Corporate 
Governance Report on Page 385.
Beyond compliance
At HDFC Bank, compliance with 
regulatory requirements is just the 
starting point for good governance 
practices. We have consistently 
ensured that the composition of the 
Board and its Committees, in terms 
of independence, diversity in skills, 
expertise and gender, meets and 
at times, exceeds the requirements 
prescribed by regulations.
We ensure a high level of independence in the composition of 
our Board Committees. The below Committees are chaired by an 
independent director.
‘Leadership’ category 
organisation in Corporate 
Governance by IIAS  
The Indian Corporate 
Governance Scorecard is 
developed by Institutional 
Investor Advisory Services 
India Limited (IIAS) with 
support from International 
Finance Corporation (IFC) 
and BSE Limited. The 
scorecard is built around 
the G20/OECD Principles 
of Corporate Governance, 
which are the globally 
accepted benchmark for 
corporate governance. 
In the 2021 scorecard 
(published in February 
2022), HDFC Bank was one 
of the 20 companies which 
ranked in the ‘LEADERSHIP’ 
category. For more details, 
please refer to https://
www.iiasadvisory.com/
governance-scorecard. 
BOARD DIVERSITY BY AGE 
AND GENDER
	 Male         Female
2
6
As on March 31, 2021
2
<=50 years
> 50 years
2
3
6
<=50 years
> 50 years
As on March 31, 2022
Independence in Committee composition
100%
60%
67%
100%
71%
	 CSR & ESG Committee
	 Stakeholders' Relationship Committee
	 Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee 
	 Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
	 Audit Committee
(Percentage of Independent Directors)
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
113

Board initiatives and 
involvement
The Board provides leadership and 
strategic guidance in shaping our 
procedures and processes for value 
creation. The key focus areas in FY22 
included adherence to regulatory 
compliance, creating a strong 
technological backbone to mitigate IT 
and operational risks, infrastructure 
scalability, talent management and 
ESG commitments.
Culture of transparency and 
accountability
We strive to inculcate global best 
practices in governance, timely 
disclosures and fair presentation 
of information. Transparency and 
accountability are among the key 
expectations of stakeholders. We have 
put in place policies and processes 
that allow for a sufficient and visible 
flow of information with adequate 
safeguards in place. We have also 
formulated a Code of Practices and 
Procedures for Fair Disclosures in 
accordance with the SEBI (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. 
This Code lays down principles of 
prompt disclosure along with uniform 
and universal dissemination of 
information. Further, the Board has 
also approved the following policies 
which are available on our website: 
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/
about-us/corporate-governance/
codes-and-policies for easy reference:
	· Policy on Appointment and Fit and 
Proper criteria for Directors
	·  Whistle Blower Policy
	· Compensation Policy
Policies and frameworks for 
ethical conduct
To ensure a pervasive culture of 
ethical behaviour, we have created an 
environment and instituted policies 
and frameworks that encourage 
appropriate business conduct. These 
policies are communicated regularly to 
the management, employees and other 
stakeholders.
Our corporate governance policies 
include: 
	· Code of Ethics/Conduct
	· Policies to prevent insider trading, 
govern related-party transactions
	· Policies around Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment (POSH)
	· Environmental Social & Governance 
(ESG) Policy Framework
Transparency and accountability 
are embedded in our culture. Our 
Code of Ethics/Conduct directs the 
Board and senior management to 
uphold our values and carry out 
business worldwide with integrity 
and highest ethical standards. As 
per our Conduct Philosophy, we 
do not employ child, forced or 
compulsory labour in our operations. 
Our Whistle-blower Policy provides 
a comprehensive framework for 
capturing and addressing stakeholder 
complaints/grievances. In FY22, we 
had 147 whistle-blower complaints 
filed by various stakeholders including 
shareholders, employees, customers 
and value chain partners. The nature 
of complaints varied; while some were 
linked to corruption and improper 
business practices, others pertained to 
behavioural issues. We did not make 
any political contributions.  
Our publicly available Conduct 
Philosophy codifies mechanisms to 
deal with issues related to mental or 
physical coercion or verbal abuse, 
sexual harassment, sexual abuse, 
slavery, of employees. During 
FY22, there were no complaints of 
infringement of human rights. 
We have a ‘Zero Tolerance’ policy on 
sexual harassment and an internal 
complaints committee is in place to 
address such complaints. During 
the year, we received 51 complaints 
pertaining to sexual harassment, 
of which 48 were resolved during 
the year. For more information, please 
refer to our Corporate Governance 
Report on Page 385.
PERSON-HOURS SPENT  
ON HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING
2 Lakh+ Hrs
Governance
114

Anti-corruption, 
Anti-bribery, and Anti-money 
Laundering (AML)  
We have focused programmes 
consisting of Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act and Bribery Act, Code of Ethics 
and Commitment, Trade-based 
Money Laundering, and KYC and 
AML norms to enable effective training 
on anti-corruption, anti-bribery and 
anti-money laundering. Our operations 
are assessed for corruption and any 
complaints by any stakeholder can 
be raised through our whistle-blower 
mechanism.
EMPLOYEES TRAINED ON  
ANTI-CORRUPTION, AML AND  
KYC TRAININGS
68,087
CONFIRMED INCIDENTS* WHEREIN
EMPLOYEES WERE DISMISSED OR
DISCIPLINED FOR CORRUPTION IN FY22 
7
Customer satisfaction 
The Customer Service Committee 
of the Board (CSCB) works towards 
continuously improving the quality of 
services rendered to the customer. 
It also ensures the implementation 
of directives received from the RBI in 
this regard. Accordingly, the CSCB 
formulates the Bank’s comprehensive 
deposit policy, incorporating the issues 
arising out of the product approval 
process, annual survey of depositor 
satisfaction, and the triennial audit 
of such services, among others. We 
ensure strict adherence to market 
conduct regulations and have defined 
frameworks in place to maintain 
transparency in communications to our 
customers and clients. During FY22, 
we did not record any new cases of 
non-compliance concerning product 
and service information and labelling, 
or marketing communications.
During the year, we undertook several 
initiatives to strengthen our IT systems, 
augment capabilities and increase 
resiliency. To read more about our 
initiatives, refer Pg. 78 (Digitisation). 
During FY22, we received no 
complaints regarding identified leaks, 
thefts, or losses of customer data 
with respect to data security. During 
the same period, we received 298 
complaints from customers concerning 
breaches of customer privacy, 1 
complaint from an outside party 
and 19 from regulatory bodies. The 
major areas of customer complaints 
in FY22 were related to unauthorised 
transactions done through UPI, 
unauthorised usage through Credit 
Card, unauthorised transactions done 
through NetBanking, unauthorised 
usage through Debit Card online and 
failed transactions at the Bank's ATMs.
We have a transparent Grievance 
Redressal Mechanism that ensures 
quick and effective resolution of 
complaints. Customers can reach 
out to us through multiple channels 
including retail branches, phone 
banking application, website and 
net banking application and retail 
asset customer service centres. Any 
grievance received, either verbally, 
by email or in writing, if not resolved 
and responded to on the same day, 
is logged into CRMnext – a state-
of-the-art web-based system or 
Vision Plus (for Credit Card related 
issues). The CRMnext system has the 
capability to record and categorise 
grievances into different types and 
maintain turnaround times (TAT) for 
specific category/sub-category. It also 
has an auto escalation mechanism 
for cases not resolved within the 
defined TAT. This not only ensures 
proper recording and resolution of 
cases, but also provides for effective 
escalation channels in case of delays 
in resolution. Acknowledgement is 
provided for every grievance logged, 
in the form of a Complaint Reference 
Number (CRN), and the customer is 
kept informed in case of any delay 
envisaged by the Bank, in resolution 
of the grievance beyond the stated 
timelines. 
Apart from direct grievances from 
customers, grievances received 
through various regulatory bodies 
including Reserve Bank of India and 
Banking Ombudsman are handled 
by designated Nodal Officers. The 
Bank has also appointed an Internal 
Ombudsman as per the guidelines 
prescribed by the Reserve Bank of 
India. Denial/partial denial cases are 
referred to the Internal Ombudsman for 
guidance. The decision of the Internal 
Ombudsman is binding on the Bank.
ESG governance
ESG matters are a vital component in 
the Bank’s governance framework. The 
CSR and ESG Committee of the Board 
oversees the Bank’s sustainability 
and climate change initiatives. The 
Board level committee is guided by 
the ESG apex committee. The ESG 
apex committee that comprises of 
key representatives from the senior 
management, oversees sustainability 
reporting initiatives, climate change 
disclosures, internal projects to ensure 
reduction of our overall emissions and 
tracks its progress on ESG, to achieve 
industry leadership. This Committee is 
further supported by ESG action sub-
committees which includes Product 
Responsibility Sub-committee, which 
looks at ESG risks (including climate 
risks) in the existing portfolio and ESG-
linked opportunities; the Environment 
Sub-committee which oversees 
the environmental impact from our 
operations and Social and Governance 
Sub-committee which works on 
workplace policies and governance 
initiatives.
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
115

Board of Directors
Leveraging expertise
Length of service of Directors (Years)
<3
3-6
6-8
Age group of Directors (Years)
41 to 50 
51 to 60
61 to 70
AVERAGE EXPERIENCE OF BOARD 
MEMBERS
31 Years
THE BOARD ARE INDEPENDENT 
DIRECTORS
~72%
WOMEN DIRECTORS ON THE BOARD
3
Malay Patel
Independent Director
Renu Karnad
Non-Executive Director
Umesh Chandra 
Sarangi
Independent Director
Lily Vadera
Independent Director
Sunita Maheshwari
Independent Director
Kaizad Bharucha
Executive Director
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer
Sanjiv Sachar
Independent Director
Sandeep Parekh
Independent Director
Atanu Chakraborty
Part Time Chairman and 
Independent Director 
MD Ranganath
Independent Director
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
116
117

Senior Management Team
Driving a future-ready organisation
Sashidhar Jagdishan 
Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer 
Arvind Kapil
Group Head -  
Retail Assets and SLI 
Benjamin Frank
Group Head - 
Wholesale Credit 
Kaizad Bharucha
Executive Director 
Arvind Vohra
Group Head - 
Retail Branch Banking 
Bhavesh Zaveri
Group Head - Operations, 
ATM and Cash Management 
Product 
Anjani Rathor
Chief Digital Officer 
Ashima Bhat
Group Head - Business 
Finance & Strategy, 
Administration, Infrastructure, 
ESG & CSR 
Chakrapani 
Venkatachari
Group Head - Internal Audit 
and Quality Initiatives Group 
Arup Rakshit
Group Head - Treasury- Sales, 
Analytics and Overseas 
Ashish Parthasarthy
Group Head - Treasury, GIB, 
NRI, Overseas and Tele-
Service Channels 
Jimmy Tata
Chief Credit Officer 
Nirav Shah
Group Head - Corporate 
Banking and PSUs 
Ramesh 
Lakshminarayanan
Chief Information Officer 
Srinivasan 
Vaidyanathan
Chief Financial Officer 
Parag Rao
Group Head - Payments 
Business, Digital & IT 
Raveesh Bhatia
Group Head - Emerging 
Corporates Group 
Vinay Razdan
Chief Human  
Resources Officer 
Rahul Shukla
Group Head - Commercial 
Banking and Rural Business 
Sampath Kumar
Group Head - NRI Domestic 
& Overseas Business, Third 
Party Products and Tele-
Sales & Service Relationships
Sanmoy Chakrabarti
Chief Risk Officer
Rakesh Singh
Group Head - Investment 
Banking, Private Banking, 
Marketing and Products 
Smita Bhagat
Group Head - Government 
and Institutional Business, 
Partnerships, Ecosystems, 
Inclusive Banking and 
Start-ups 
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
118
119

10 Year Financial Highlights
Continuing our growth journey
2012-13
2013-14
2014-15
2015-16
2016-17
2017-18
2018-19
2019-20
2020-21
2021-22
Interest income
35,064.87
41,135.53
48,469.91
60,221.45
69,305.96
80,241.35
98,972.05
1,14,812.65
1,20,858.23
1,27,753.12
Interest expense
19,253.75
22,652.90
26,074.23
32,629.93
36,166.74
40,146.49
50,728.83
58,626.40
55,978.66
55,743.53
Net interest income
15,811.12
18,482.63
22,395.68
27,591.52
33,139.22
40,094.86
48,243.22
56,186.25
64,879.57
72,009.59
Other income
6,852.62
7,919.64
8,996.34
10,751.72
12,296.49
15,220.31
17,625.87
23,260.82
25,204.89
29,509.90
Net revenues
22,663.74
26,402.28
31,392.02
38,343.24
45,435.71
55,315.17
65,869.09
79,447.07
90,084.46
1,01,519.49
Operating costs
11,236.11
12,042.20
13,987.55
16,979.69
19,703.32
22,690.36
26,119.37
30,697.53
32,722.63
37,442.19
Operating result
11,427.63
14,360.08
17,404.47
21,363.55
25,732.39
32,624.81
39,749.72
48,749.54
57,361.83
64,077.30
Provisions and contingencies :
1,677.01
1,588.03
2,075.75
2,725.61
3,593.30
5,927.49
7,550.08
12,142.39
15,702.85
15,061.83
Loan loss provisions
1,234.21
1,632.58
1,723.58
2,133.63
3,145.30
4,910.43
6,394.11
9,083.32
11,450.19
10,119.38
Others
442.80
(44.56)
352.17
591.98
448.00
1,017.06
1,155.97
3,059.07
4,252.66
4,942.45
Profit before tax
9,750.62
12,772.05
15,328.72
18,637.94
22,139.09
26,697.32
32,199.64
36,607.15
41,658.98
49,015.47
Provision for taxation
3,024.34
4,293.67
5,112.80
6,341.71
7,589.43
9,210.57
11,121.50
10,349.84
10,542.46
12,054.12
Profit after tax
6,726.28
8,478.38
10,215.92
12,296.23
14,549.66
17,486.75
21,078.14
26,257.31
31,116.52
36,961.35
Funds :
Deposits
2,96,246.98
3,67,337.48
4,50,795.65
5,46,424.19
6,43,639.66
7,88,770.64
9,23,140.93
11,47,502.29
13,35,060.22
15,59,217.44
Subordinated debt
16,586.75
16,643.05
16,254.90
15,090.45
13,182.00
21,107.00
18,232.00
18,232.00
17,127.00
21,795.25
Stockholders’ equity
36,214.15
43,478.63
62,009.42
72,677.77
89,462.38
1,06,295.03
1,49,206.32
1,70,986.03
2,03,720.83
2,40,092.94
Working funds
4,21,327.31
4,91,599.50
5,95,695.13
7,40,796.07
8,63,840.19
10,63,934.32
12,44,540.69
15,30,511.26
17,46,870.52
20,68,535.05
Loans
2,39,720.64
3,03,000.27
3,65,495.04
4,64,593.96
5,54,568.20
6,58,333.09
8,19,401.22
9,93,702.88
11,32,836.63
13,68,820.93
Investments
1,11,303.21
1,00,111.88
1,56,833.82
1,95,836.29
2,14,463.34
2,42,200.24
2,93,116.07
3,91,826.66
4,43,728.29
4,55,535.69
Key Ratios :
Earnings per share (`)1
14.24
17.74
21.08
24.42
28.59
33.88
39.33
48.01
56.58
66.80
Return on equity
20.07%
20.88%
20.36%
17.97%
18.04%
18.22%
16.30%
16.76%
16.60%
16.90%
Tier 1 capital ratio
11.08%
11.77%
13.66%
13.22%
12.79%
13.25%
15.78%
17.23%
17.56%
17.87%
Total capital ratio
16.80%
16.07%
16.79%
15.53%
14.55%
14.82%
17.11%
18.52%
18.79%
18.90%
Dividend per share (`)1
2.75
3.43
4.00
4.75
5.50
6.50
7.50
Nil 3
6.504
15.505
Dividend payout ratio
22.77%
22.68%
23.62%
23.51%
23.32%
23.26%
23.36%
NA 3
11.54%4
23.28%5
Book value per share as at March 31 (`)1
76.10
90.62
123.70
143.74
174.56
204.80
273.94
311.83
369.54
432.95
Market price per share as at March 31 (`)2
312.68
374.40
511.35
535.58
721.28
964.50
1,159.45
861.90
1,493.65
1,470.35
Price to earnings ratio
21.95
21.11
24.26
21.93
25.23
28.47
29.48
17.95
26.40
22.01
` 1 Cr = ` 10 Million
1 Figures for the years prior to 2019-2020 have been adjusted to reflect the effect of split of equity shares from nominal value of  
` 2 each into two equity shares of nominal value of ` 1 each
2	Source : NSE (prices for years prior to 2019-2020 have been divided by two to reflect the sub-division of shares)
3	Basis RBI notifications dated April 17, 2020 and December 4, 2020
4	Basis RBI notification dated April 22, 2021
5	Proposed
` Crore
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
120
121

Awards
Recognised across platforms
National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM),  
Ministry of Rural Development, Govt of India
Best Performing Bank in SHG Linkage
Euromoney Private Banking and  
Wealth Management Survey 2022
Ranks No. 1 in the Mass/Super Affluent 
clients category (US$100K to US$5m)
PWM Global Private Banking Awards 2021
Best Private Bank in India
FinanceAsia Country Awards for  
Achievement 2021
Best Bank in India
Asiamoney Asia Private Banking Awards 2021
Best for wealth transfer/succession 
planning in India 2021
CII Digital Transformation Award 2021
‘Most Innovative Best Practice’  
for financial inclusion — HDFC Bank  
and Government of India’s Common 
Service Centres (CSC) partnership
Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2021
Best Bank in India
Business Today India's Best Banks
Best Large Bank
ABF Corporate & Investment  
Banking Awards 2021
Corporate & Investment Bank  
of the Year - India
Asiamoney Asia's Outstanding Companies Poll 2021
Most Outstanding Company in India
Business Today India’s Best Companies to work for
Ranked Best Company to work  
for in the BFSI sector
Great Place To Work Institute
Certified as a 'Great Place  
To Work' for 2021-22
122

Assurance Statement
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
123

Assurance Statement
124

Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
125

GRI Index
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Description
Page Number(s) and/or 
URL(s)/Section
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Organizational 
profile
102-1
Name of the organization.
8, 319
102-2
Activities, brands, products, and services
6-21
102-3
Location of headquarters
https://www.hdfc.com/
corporate-office
102-4
Location of operations
6-7, 393
102-5
Ownership and legal form
6, 387
102-6
Markets served
6-7
102-7
Scale of the organization
6-7
102-8
Information on employees and other workers
80-93
102-9
Supply chain
13-21
102-10
Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain
16-21
102-11
Precautionary Principle or approach
56-67
102-12
External initiatives
94-105
102-13
Membership of associations
420
Strategy
102-14
Statement from senior decision-maker
10-15
102-15
Key impacts, risks, and opportunities
10-15, 42-51
Ethics and 
integrity
102-16
Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior
112-115
102-17
Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics
112-115
Governance
102-18
Governance structure
112-115
102-19
Delegating authority
112-115
102-20
Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics
373-379
102-21
Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics
24-31
102-22
Composition of the highest governance body and its committees
112-115
102-23
Chair of the highest governance body
112-115
102-24
Nominating and selecting the highest governance body
112-115
102-25
Conflicts of interest
349
102-26
Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy
365
102-27
Collective knowledge of highest governance body
385
102-28
Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance
156
102-29
Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts
28-31
102-30
Effectiveness of risk management processes
146-148
102-31
Review of economic, environmental, and social topics
28-31
102-32
Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting
2, 112-115, 378
102-33
Communicating critical concerns
157, 373-379
102-34
Nature and total number of critical concerns
157
102-35
Remuneration policies
156-157, 273-278
102-36
Process for determining remuneration
156-157, 273-278
126

GRI Standard
Disclosure
Description
Page Number(s) and/or 
URL(s)/Section
102-37
Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration
156-157, 273-278
102-38
Annual total compensation ratio
205-206
102-39
Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio
205-206
102-40
List of stakeholder groups
24-27
102-41
Collective bargaining agreements
102-42
Identifying and selecting stakeholders
24-27
102-43
Approach to stakeholder engagement
24-27
102-44
Key topics and concerns raised
24-27
102-45
Entities included in the consolidated financial statements
2, 319
102-46
Defining report content and topic Boundaries
102-47
List of material topics
28-31
102-48
Restatements of information
2
102-49
Changes in reporting
2
102-50
Reporting period
2
102-51
Date of most recent report
2
102-52
Reporting cycle
2
102-53
Contact point for questions regarding the report
At the end of this table.
102-54
Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards
2
102-55
GRI content index
This table
102-56
External assurance
2
GRI 200: ECONOMIC
Economic 
Performance
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
16-23, 132-137
103-2
The management approach and its components
16-23, 132-137
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
16-23, 132-137
201-1
Direct economic value generated and distributed
16-23, 120-121, 132-137
201-2
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change
71-73
201-3
Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans
327-330
201-4
Financial assistance received from government
112-115
Market 
Presence
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
80-93
103-2
The management approach and its components
80-93
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
80-93
202-1
Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage
80-93
202-2
Proportion of senior management hired from the local community
80-93
Indirect 
Economic 
Impacts
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
94-105
103-2
The management approach and its components
94-105
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
94-105
203-1
Infrastructure investments and services supported
94-105
203-2
Significant indirect economic impacts
94-105
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
127

GRI Index
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Description
Page Number(s) and/or 
URL(s)/Section
Procurement 
Practices
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
80-93
103-2
The management approach and its components
80-93
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
80-93
204-1
Proportion of spending on local suppliers
Anti- 
corruption
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
112-115
103-2
The management approach and its components
112-115
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
112-115
205-1
Operations assessed for risks related to corruption
112-115
205-2
Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures
112-115
205-3
Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken
112-115
Anti-
competitive 
Behavior
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
112-115
103-2
The management approach and its components
112-115
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
112-115
206-1
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices
420
GRI 300: ENVIRONMENT
GRI 300: ENVIRONMENT
Energy
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
62-64
103-2
The management approach and its components
62-64
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
62-64
302-1
Energy consumption within the organization
62-64
302-2
Energy consumption outside of the organization
62-64
302-3
Energy intensity
62-64
302-4
Reduction of energy consumption
62-64
302-5
Reductions in energy requirements of products and services
62-64
Emissions
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
58-62
103-2
The management approach and its components
58-62
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
58-62
305-1
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
58-62
305-2
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
58-62
305-3
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
58-62
305-4
GHG emissions intensity
58-62
305-5
Reduction of GHG emissions
58-62
Effluents  
and waste
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
62-64
103-2
The management approach and its components
62-64
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
62-64
306-1
Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts
62-64
306-2
Management of significant waste-related impacts
62-64
306-3
Waste generated
62-64
306-5
Waste directed to disposal
62-64
128

GRI Standard
Disclosure
Description
Page Number(s) and/or 
URL(s)/Section
Environmental 
Compliance
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
57
103-2
The management approach and its components
57
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
57
307-1
Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations
57
Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
57
103-2
The management approach and its components
57
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
57
308-1
New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria
57
308-2
Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
57
GRI 400: SOCIAL
GRI 400: SOCIAL
Employment
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
80-93
103-2
The management approach and its components
80-93
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
80-93
401-1
New employee hires and employee turnover
80-93
401-2
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-
time employees
80-93
401-3
Parental leave
80-93
Labor/
Management 
Relations
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
80-93
103-2
The management approach and its components
80-93
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
80-93
402-1
Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes
80-93
Occupational 
Health and 
Safety
403-3
Occupational health services
80-93
403-4
Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and 
safety
80-93
403-6
Promotion of worker health
80-93
403-7
Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked 
by business relationships
80-93
403-10
Work-related ill health
80-93
Training and 
Education
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
80-93
103-2
The management approach and its components
80-93
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
80-93
404-1
Average hours of training per year per employee
80-93
404-2
Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs
80-93
404-3
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 
reviews
80-93
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
129

GRI Index
GRI Standard
Disclosure
Description
Page Number(s) and/or 
URL(s)/Section
Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
80-93
103-2
The management approach and its components
80-93
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
80-93
405-1
Diversity of governance bodies and employees
112-115
405-2
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men
80-93
Non-
discrimination
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
80-93
103-2
The management approach and its components
80-93
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
80-93
406-1
Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken
80-93
Freedom of 
Association 
and Collective 
Bargaining
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
80-93
103-2
The management approach and its components
80-93
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
80-93
Child Labor
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
80-93
103-2
The management approach and its components
80-93
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
80-93
Forced or 
Compulsory 
Labor
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
80-93
103-2
The management approach and its components
80-93
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
80-93
Security 
Practices
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
80-93
103-2
The management approach and its components
80-93
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
80-93
410-1
Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures
80-93
Human Rights 
Assessment
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
80-93
103-2
The management approach and its components
80-93
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
80-93
412-1
Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments
80-93
412-2
Employee training on human rights policies or procedures
80-93
412-3
Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses 
or that underwent human rights screening
80-93
Local 
Communities
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
30-31, 94-105
103-2
The management approach and its components
94-105
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
94-105
413-1
Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programs
94-105
Supplier  
Social 
Assessment
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
80-93
103-2
The management approach and its components
80-93
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
80-93
414-1
New suppliers that were screened using social criteria
80-93
414-2
Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
80-93
130

GRI Standard
Disclosure
Description
Page Number(s) and/or 
URL(s)/Section
Public Policy
415-1
Political contributions
112-115
Customer 
Health and 
Safety
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
70-75
103-2
The management approach and its components
70-75
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
70-75
Marketing and 
Labeling
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
112-115
103-2
The management approach and its components
112-115
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
112-115
417-1
Requirements for product and service information and labeling
112-115
417-2
Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and 
labeling
112-115
417-3
Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications
112-115
Customer 
Privacy
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
112-115
103-2
The management approach and its components
112-115
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
112-115
418-1
Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 
customer data
112-115
Socio-
economic 
Compliance
103-1
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary
94-105
103-2
The management approach and its components
94-105
103-3
Evaluation of the management approach
94-105
419-1
Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area
94-105
SECTOR STANDARD
Emissions
G4-EN15
Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 1)
60-63
G4-EN17
Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 3)
60-63
Investment
G4-HR1
Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts 
that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening
64-67
Local 
Communities
FS13
Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type
6, 138
FS14
Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people
24, 105, 138, 140-143
Product 
Portfolio
FS6
Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/
SME/large) and by sector
136-143
FS7
Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit 
for each business line broken down by purpose
140-143
FS8
Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific 
environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose
65-67
For any queries pertaining to this report, contact Nusrat.Pathan@hdfcbank.com or write in at Ms. Nusrat Pathan, HDFC Bank 
House, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai - 400 013. Tel: 022 3976 0000
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
131

132
Directors’ Report
Dear Stakeholders,
Your Directors take great pleasure in presenting the 28th 
Annual Report on the business and financial operations of your 
Bank, together with the audited accounts for the year ended 
March 31, 2022.
Like last year, let me start by wishing all of you health and 
happiness on behalf of the HDFC Bank family. The entire 
world has learnt the importance of this all over again during 
the pandemic.
The good news is that the pandemic more or less appears to be 
behind us, thanks to the pick-up in the vaccination program rolled 
out by the Union Government and the virus mutants being less 
and less dangerous. As the shadow over the health of individuals 
lifts, the health of the economy has been improving too.
India’s GDP grew by 8.7 per cent in FY 2021-22 compared to 
a contraction of 6.6 per cent in FY 2020-21 as per the Central 
Statistical Organisation (CSO), surpassing pre-pandemic 
levels of output. The biggest drivers of growth were pick up 
in investment and exports. Capital expenditure was led by the 
Union Government, with the private sector playing a supporting 
role. The Government and the RBI also announced a host of 
measures to contain the impact of the second wave on domestic 
economic activity. This was followed by stepping up allocation 
on capital expenditure in the Union Budget for FY 2022-23 by 
24.5 per cent to ` 7.5 lakh crore.
The economy now faces headwinds from rising inflationary 
pressures brought about by supply chain disruptions and 
geopolitical tensions, particularly the Ukraine crisis. This can 
affect private consumption, lead to reduced profit margins due 
to rising input costs and slowdown the recovery  in the private 
sector capital expenditure cycle. 
In an effort to contain inflation, the RBI on May 4, 2022 in an off 
cycle announcement, hiked the policy rate by 40 basis points 
to 4.4 per cent and increased the Cash Reserve Ratio by 50 
basis points to 4.5 per cent. It further hiked the Repo Rate by 
another 50 points to 4.90 per cent in the June 8, 2022 Monetary 
Policy announcement. 
To sum up, despite the current headwinds, India is expected 
to be the fastest growing economy in the world in FY 2022-
23, clocking a 7.3 per cent growth rate, and is well poised to 
withstand any external volatility and shocks.
(For more details, please refer to the Macroeconomic and 
Industry section on page no. 135)
In spite of the challenges, your Bank continued on its growth 
path by conducting its business responsibly and reinforcing its 
commitment to the environment and community at large.
Financial Parameters
Your Bank recorded an improvement in a majority of its key 
financial parameters, largely due to its prudent credit evaluation 
of targeted customers and diversified loan book across 
customer segments, products, and sectors. Managing risk-
return decisions with discipline was an important  element in 
the Bank’s performance. Net Profit at ` 36,961.3 crore went up 
by 18.8 per cent. Net Interest Income at ` 72,009.6 crore rose 
11.0 per cent. Net Interest Margin stood at 4.0 per cent. Gross 
Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) at 1.17 per cent was among the 
lowest in the industry.
GNPA
1.17 per cent
Among the lowest in the industry
Parivartan
Your Bank continued to transform lives through its umbrella CSR 
brand, Parivartan, which denotes change.
The Bank believes that businesses can only prosper if the 
communities in which they operate prosper as well. This belief 
has inspired its social initiatives, which have potentially made a 
difference to the lives of over 9.6 crore people, predominantly 
in rural India. Driving this change is the Sustainable Livelihood 
Initiative (SLI) team, which works on improving livelihood 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
133
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
opportunities. The ‘Teaching-The-Teacher’ initiative has 
impacted over 2 crore students since inception. The Holistic Rural 
Development Programme has touched 9.88 lakh households 
across more than 3,335 villages. Having an umbrella brand 
enables the Bank to lend a sharper focus to these efforts. 
Your Directors are also happy to report that your Bank met the 
mandatory CSR expenditure through a spend of  736.01 crore.
CSR spend
`736.01 crore
in FY 2021-22
For further details on Parivartan please refer to page no. 94. 
Summary
The economy recovered in FY 2021-22 and India is 
expected to be the fastest growing economy in the world in 
FY 2022-23. There are of course inflationary pressures, but the 
country has the ability to absorb these and the uncertainties 
brought about by geopolitical issues. In the long run, the market 
presents tremendous opportunities given the sheer level of 
under penetration of banking services in the country. Your Bank 
is well positioned to capitalise on these opportunities given the 
strength of its franchise. It has geared up for the years ahead 
through its Future Ready Strategy. This can be envisaged as 10 
strategic pillars backed by key enablers to catalyse, create and 
capture the next wave of growth. (To know more about this 
please refer to page no. 32)
Your Bank is also poised to make a greater contribution to 
bridge the urban-rural divide through both its business and 
social activities and help build a country where more can 
prosper together.
This will, of course, not be possible without the contribution of 
the ever-growing family of over two lakh employees (including 
those of the subsidiaries) across the country, who remain at the 
forefront of taking your Bank forward every day. In the previous 
two financial years, which were characterised by the pandemic, 
our colleagues went beyond the call of duty to keep the bank 
functioning. Many of them soldiered on despite the loss of loved 
ones. We also lost some colleagues during the pandemic.
While we structured and delivered a compassion package to 
the families of the deceased, no word or action can adequately 
convey our sorrow.
Your Directors would also like to place on record that we did 
not reduce salaries during this trying period. Your Bank paid 
bonuses and increments on time in the year under review and 
followed the normal promotion cycle. It is doing the same this 
year as well.
Mission and Strategic Focus
Your Bank’s mission is to be a ‘World-Class Indian Bank’. Its 
business philosophy is based on five core values: Customer 
Focus, Operational Excellence, Product Leadership, People 
and Sustainability. Sustainability should be viewed in unison with 
Environmental, Social and Governance performance. As a part 
of this, your Bank, through its umbrella CSR brand Parivartan, 
seeks to bring about change in the lives of communities mainly 
in rural India.
During the year under review, the Bank did not lose its human 
touch but continued building sound customer franchises across 
distinct businesses to achieve healthy growth in profitability 
consistent with your Bank’s risk appetite.
In line with the above objective, the Bank aims to take digitalisation 
to the next level to:
• 
Deliver superior experience and greater convenience 
to customers
• 
Increase market share in India’s growing banking and 
financial services industry
• 
Expand geographical reach
• 
Cross-sell the broad financial product portfolio
• 
Sustain strong asset quality through disciplined credit 
risk management
• 
Maintain low cost of funds
Your Bank remains committed to the highest levels of ethical 
standards, professional integrity, corporate governance, and 
regulatory compliance, which is articulated in its Code of 
Conduct. Every employee affirms to abide by the Code annually.

134
Directors’ Report
Summary of Financial Performance 
(` crore)
Particulars
For the year ended/As on
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Deposits and Borrowings
1,744,034.6
1,470,547.5
Advances
1,368,820.9
1,132,836.6
Total Income
157,263.0
146,063.1
Profit Before Depreciation and Tax
50,615.3
42,961.4
Profit After Tax
36,961.4
31,116.5
Profit Brought Forward
73,652.8
57,492.4
Total Profit Available for Appropriation
110,614.1
88,608.9
Appropriations
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
9,240.3
7,779.1
Transfer to General Reserve
3,696.1
3,111.6
Transfer to Capital Reserve
666.5
2,291.7
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve
233.1
61.7
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve
-
1,712.0
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year
3,592.4
-
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet
93,185.7
73,652.8
Dividend
The Board of Directors of the Bank, at its meeting held on April 23, 2022, has recommended a dividend of ` 15.50 (Fifteen Rupees 
Fifty Paise only) per equity share of ` 1/- (Rupee 1 only) each, for the financial year ended March 31, 2022. This translates to a 
Dividend Payout Ratio of  23.28 % of the profits for the financial year ended March 31, 2022.
In general, your Bank’s dividend policy, among other things, balances the objectives of rewarding shareholders and retaining capital 
to fund future growth. It has a consistent track record of dividend distribution, with the Dividend Payout Ratio ranging between 20 
per cent and 25 per cent, which the Board endeavours to maintain.
The dividend policy of your Bank is	available on your Bank’s website: 
https://v1.hdfcbank.com/htdocs/common/pdf/corporate/Dividend-Distribution-Policy.pdf
Ratings
Instrument
Rating
Rating Agency
Comments
Fixed Deposit Programme 
CARE AAA (FD) 
CARE Ratings 
Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree 
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such 
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
IND tAAA 
India Ratings 
Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree 
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such 
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
Certificate of Deposits 
Programme 
CARE A1+ 
CARE Ratings 
Instruments with this rating are considered to have very strong degree 
of safety regarding timely payment of financial obligations. Such 
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
IND A1+ 
India Ratings
Instruments with this rating are considered to have very strong degree 
of safety regarding timely payment of financial obligations. Such 
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
Long Term Unsecured, 
Subordinated  
(Lower Tier 2) Bonds
CARE AAA 
CARE Ratings 
Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree 
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such 
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
IND AAA 
India Ratings 
Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree 
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such 
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
135
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Instrument
Rating
Rating Agency
Comments
Infrastructure Bonds 
CARE AAA 
CARE Ratings 
Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree 
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such 
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
CRISIL AAA 
CRISIL 
Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree 
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such 
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
Additional Tier I Bonds (Under 
Basel III)
CARE AA+ 
CARE Ratings 
Instruments with this rating are considered to have high degree 
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such 
instruments carry very low credit risk.
CRISIL AA+ 
CRISIL 
Instruments with this rating are considered to have high degree 
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such 
instruments carry very low credit risk.
IND AA+ 
India Ratings 
Instruments with this rating are considered to have high degree 
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such 
instruments carry very low credit risk.
Tier II Bonds  
(Under Basel III) 
CARE AAA 
CARE Ratings 
Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree 
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such 
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
CRISIL AAA 
CRISIL 
Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree 
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such 
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
Issuance of Equity Shares and Employee Stock 
Option Scheme (ESOP)
As on March 31, 2022, the issued, subscribed and paid up 
capital of your Bank stood at ` 5,545,540,976/- comprising 
5,545,540,976 equity shares of ` 1/- each. Further, 32,764,494 
equity shares of face value of ` 1/- each were issued by your Bank 
pursuant to the exercise of Employee Stock Options (ESOPs). 
(For information pertaining to ESOPs, please refer Annexure 1 
of the Directors’ Report).
Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)
As on March 31, 2022, your Bank’s total CAR, calculated as 
per Basel III Regulations, stood at 18.9 per cent, well above the 
regulatory minimum requirement of 11.70 per cent, including a 
Capital Conservation Buffer of 2.50 per cent and an additional 
requirement of 0.20 per cent on account of the Bank being 
identified as a Domestic Sytemically Important Bank. Tier I 
Capital was at 17.9 per cent as of March 31, 2022.
Total CAR
18.9 per cent
well above regulatory minimum requirement of 11.70 per 
cent
Management Discussion and Analysis
Macroeconomic and Industry Developments
The Indian economy expanded in FY 2021-22, surpassing 
pre-pandemic levels of output. As per the Central Statistical 
Organisation, GDP grew by 8.7 per cent compared with a 
contraction of 6.6 per cent in FY 2020-21. Growth was supported 
by reopening of the economy and a pick-up in the vaccination 
rate. Private consumption recovery picked up pace (registered 
a growth of 7.9 per cent in FY 2021-22) and rose above pre-
pandemic levels. The biggest support came from a pick-up 
in investment (supported by Government capital expenditure 
and some revival in private capital expenditure) and strong 
export growth.
In addition, both the Central Government and the RBI announced 
a host of measures to contain the impact of the second wave 
on domestic economic activity. The Government focused on 
providing relief and credit flow to small business, health, tourism 
sectors and other service sectors that were affected by the 
pandemic. On the monetary policy side, the RBI kept its stance 
accommodative and policy rates unchanged at 4.0 per cent 
in FY 2021-22 and announced measures to provide liquidity 
support. Some of the measures included extension of Targeted 
Long Term Repo Operations (TLTRO), providing on-tap liquidity 
window for contact intensive sectors, and extension of priority 
sector lending.
Economic activity is poised to gain further momentum in FY 2022-
23 supported by a recovery in consumption, continued rise in 
exports and a push through Government capital expenditure. In 
the Union Budget for FY 2022-23, the Government increased 
its allocation on capital expenditure by 24.5 per cent (from 
FY 2021- 22 Revised Estimates) to ` 7.5 lakh crore. In addition, 
it announced measures in the Union Budget for FY 2022-23 
such as extension of credit guarantee scheme by a year and 
an increase in guaranteed amount earmarked for the hospitality 
sector. This was to address the sectors worst affected by 
the pandemic.

136
Directors’ Report
However, recent geopolitical tensions do present some 
headwinds for the growth outlook. Higher crude oil prices and 
resulting higher fuel and transportation costs are likely to weigh 
on private consumption. In addition, higher input costs are likely 
to put stress on profit margins and could slow down the recovery 
in the private capex cycle. Moreover, lower global growth (due 
to a slowdown in China and geopolitical tensions) could have a 
bearing on India’s export demand. The International Monetary 
Fund expects the world economy to grow at a slower pace of 3.6 
per cent in 2022 from 6.1 per cent in 2021. On balance, India’s 
GDP growth is expected to rise by 7.3 per cent in FY 2022-23, 
making it the fastest growing economy in the world. External 
stability related indicators (short-term debt, Forex reserves, FDI 
flows) show that India is better positioned than the 2013 taper 
tantrum episode to withstand shocks.
Besides growth, geopolitical tensions and lingering supply side 
disruptions are likely to weigh on domestic retail inflation as well. 
CPI headline inflation rose to an 8-year high of 7.8 per cent in 
April-22 (vs. 6.95 per cent in March-22) led by a broad-based 
increase in food prices, which rose to a 17-month high, fuel and 
core inflation (CPI excluding food and fuel). Core inflation rose 
to around  8-year high of 7.0 per cent in Apr-22. Going forward, 
CPI inflation is expected to average at 7.3 per cent in H1 FY23 
and ease to 6.2 per cent in H2 FY23 assuming crude oil prices 
average at USD 105 pbl in FY23. For the full FY23, CPI infation 
is expected to average at 6.7 per cent, assuming a normal 
monsoon, some moderation in global commodity prices in H2, 
and elevated services inflation. Support from recently announced 
excise duty cuts on petrol and diesel is likely to be offset by some 
pass through of high crude oil prices to pump prices by Oil 
Marketing Companies to cover up their under recoveries.
To rein in elevated inflation amid Russia-Ukraine crisis, the RBI 
raised rate by 40 bps in an off-cycle meeting on 4th May 2022 
and delivered another rate hike of 50 bps in its June 2022 policy, 
taking the repo rate to 4.9%. The central bank justified its rate 
action as a step to control the second-round impact of inflationary 
pressures and an effort to anchor inflation expectations. The RBI 
raised its inflation forecast by 100 bps to 6.7% for FY23. On the 
liquidity front, the central bank reiterated that it would provide 
enough liquidity in the system --- balancing any change due to 
its FX operations, Government spending or seasonality - in a 
manner that the normalization is non-disruptive for growth. The 
average liquidity in the system as of May 2022 stood at INR 5.2 
lakh crore. The MPC voted to remain focused on withdrawal 
of accommodation in a calibrated fashion to ensure inflation 
remains within the RBI’s upper band while supporting growth. 
The RBI dropped the phrase “remain accommodative” from 
its stance. RBI’s concern about the broad-based nature of the 
increase in inflation and the risk of the second-round impact on 
inflation expectations makes a case for an aggressive path by the 
central bank going forward. The policy rate is likely to be raised 
well beyond the pre-pandemic level, close to 5.75-6% by fiscal 
year-end. (HDFC Bank expectations). 
Overall, the Indian economy recovered from the impact of the 
pandemic in FY 2021-22 and is estimated to be the fastest 
growing economy in the world in FY 2022-23. Though there are 
new headwinds that could cloud the economic outlook, India is 
better positioned (as gauged by external indicators) to withstand 
extreme volatile episodes/shocks.
Financial Performance
The financial performance of your Bank during the year ended 
March 31, 2022, remained healthy with Total Net Revenue 
(Net Interest Income plus Other Income) rising 12.7 per cent 
to ` 101,519.5 crore from ` 90,084.5 crore in the previous year. 
Revenue growth was driven by an increase in both Net Interest 
Income and Other Income. Net Interest Income grew by 11.0 
per cent to ` 72,009.6 crore coupled with a Net Interest Margin 
(NIM) of 4.0 per cent.
Total Net Revenue
12.7 per cent growth
Other Income grew by 17.1 per cent to ` 29,509.9 crore. The 
largest component was Fees and Commissions at ` 19,536.6 
crore. Gain on Revaluation and Sale of Investments was 
` 2,282.6 crore. Foreign Exchange and Derivatives Revenue 
was ` 3,907.9 crore, and recoveries from written-off accounts 
were ` 2,765.1 crore.
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic had led to a nation-
wide lockdown in April-May 2020. This was followed by localised 
lockdowns in areas with a significant number of COVID-19 
cases. Following the easing of lockdown measures, there was 
an improvement in economic activity in the second half of fiscal 
2021. Since then, India experienced two waves of the COVID-19 
pandemic following the discovery of mutant coronavirus variants, 
leading to the reimposition of regional lockdowns which were 
subsequently lifted. The impact of COVID-19, including changes 
in customer behaviour and pandemic fears, as well as restrictions 
on business and individual activities, led to significant volatility in 
global and Indian financial markets and a significant decrease in 
global and local economic activities. The disruptions following 
the outbreak impacted loan originations, the sale of third-party 
products, the use of credit and debit cards by customers and the 
efficiency in collection efforts resulting in increase in customer 
defaults and consequent increase in provisions there against. 
India is emerging from the COVID-19 pandemic. The extent 
to which any new wave of COVID-19 will impact the Bank's 
results will depend on ongoing as well as future developments, 
including, among other things, any new information concerning 
the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, and any action to contain 
its spread or mitigate its impact whether Government-mandated 
or elected by us.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
137
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Operating (Non-Interest) Expenses rose to ` 37,442.2 crore 
from ` 32,722.6 crore. During the year, your Bank set up 734 
new branches and 2,043 ATMs / Cash Deposit and Withdrawal 
Machines (CDMs). This, along with higher spend on IT, resulted in 
higher infrastructure and staffing expenses. Staff expenses also 
went up due to employee additions and annual wage revisions. 
Further, Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation 
(DICGC) premium cost increased due to deposit growth and rate 
increase. Despite higher staff and infrastructure expenses, the 
Cost to Income Ratio was 36.9 per cent as compared to 36.3 
per cent during the previous year.
New Branches
734
in FY 2021-22
Total Provisions and Contingencies were ` 15,061.8 crore as 
compared to ` 15,702.8 crore in the preceding year. Your Bank’s 
provisioning policies remain more stringent than regulatory 
requirements. Total provisions for the fourth quarter of the 
financial year included credit reserves in the form of contingent 
provisions of approximately ` 1,000.0 crore.
The Coverage Ratio based on specific provisions alone excluding 
write-offs was 72.7 per cent and including general, floating and 
contingent provisions was 182.3 per cent. Your Bank made 
General Provisions of ` 1,257.9 crore during the year. Gross 
Non-Performing Assets (GNPAs) were at 1.17 per cent of Gross 
Advances, as against 1.32 per cent in the previous year. Net 
NPA ratio stood at 0.32 per cent as against 0.40 per cent in the 
previous year.
Profit Before Tax grew by 17.1 per cent to ` 49,015.4 crore. After 
providing for Income Tax of ` 12,054.1 crore, Net Profit increased 
by 18.8 per cent to ` 36,961.3 crore from ` 31,116.5 crore. Return 
on Average Net Worth was 16.90 per cent while Basic Earnings 
Per Share was ` 66.80 up from ` 56.58.
As on March 31, 2022, your Bank’s Total Balance Sheet stood at 
` 2,068,535 crore, an increase of 18.4 per cent over ` 1,746,871 
crore on March 31, 2021. Total Deposits rose by 16.8 per cent 
to ` 1,559,217 crore from ` 1,335,060 crore. Savings Account 
Deposits grew by 26.8 per cent to ` 511,739 crore while Current 
Account Deposits rose by 12.8 per cent to ` 239,311 crore. Time 
Deposits stood at ` 808,168 crore, representing an increase of 
12.3 per cent. CASA Deposits accounted for 48.2 per cent of Total 
Deposits. Advances stood at ` 1,368,821 crore, representing an 
increase of 20.8 per cent. Domestic Loan Portfolio of ` 1,337,504 
crore grew by 20.3 per cent over March 31, 2021.
Net Profit
18.8 per cent increase
in FY 2021-22
Business Review
Your Bank’s operations are split into Domestic and International.
A)	 Domestic Business comprises the following:
Retail Banking
The Retail Business operated under challenging circumstances 
in the year under review but these were less pronounced 
compared with the previous year. This business is directly 
linked to consumption, which slowed down in general during 
the lockdown. The lockdown was less severe in the year under 
review and as the unlock gathered momentum, the business 
too gained momentum with Domestic Retail Advances rising 
by 13.7 per cent.
Domestic Retail Deposits grew by 18.5 per cent to ` 1,262,093 
crore from ` 1,064,684 crore in the preceding year, while 
Retail Advances rose 13.7 per cent to ` 599,608 crore from 
` 527,586 crore.
Personal Loans continue to exhibit strong growth with overall 
portfolio reaching ` 1,40,000 crore at the end of the year. 
A greater focus on the Government segment as well as top 
corporates resulted in improved portfolio quality.
This year, your Bank maintained leadership position in Auto 
Loan segment, which underwent supply chain constraints, by 
outpacing industry growth, thus increasing marketshare and 
crossing ` 100,000 crore.
There is continued focus on digitalising processes and customer 
touchpoints to better your Bank’s reach. After the great success 
of Personal Loan in 10 Seconds, Digital Loan Against Shares 
and Digital Loan against Mutual Funds, the Bank has recently 
launched an end-to-end digital car loan process (Application 
to Disbursement). This is an industry first car loan process with 
a completely digital, contactless and paperless experience, 
wherein New to the Bank customers can avail disbursement 
within 30 Minutes (which includes Video KYC Process) and 
existing pre-approved customers can get loan disbursement in 
10 seconds.
The Payments Business, where your Bank has a strong 
presence not only acts as a catalyst for cashless transactions 
but also spurs consumption. With 4.30  crore debit cards, 1.65 
crore credit cards and about 28.94 lakh acceptance points, it 
is among the largest facilitators of cashless payments in the 
country. Your Bank’s payments business has launched digital 

138
Directors’ Report
offerings such as Bharat QR Code, UPI, and SMS pay solutions. 
It has also pioneered products such as the SmartHub app for 
small merchants and DigiPos,  which  enables  traditional  PoS 
machines  to  accept  digital  payments.
RBI, through its order dated December 2, 2020, advised 
your Bank to immediately (i) stop sourcing of new credit card 
customers and (ii) stop all launches of digital business generating 
activities planned under program Digital 2.0. 
RBI lifted the restrictions on new credit card acquisitions in 
August 2021 followed by the removal of the embargo on the 
Digital 2.0 program in March 2022. 
The Bank has since been working on the following four pillars: 
making credit cards more powerful and customer focused, 
entering into strategic alliances and forging partnerships, 
enhancing focus on customers’ experience and complaints and 
digitalising the user journeys
Credit cards in force
1.65
crore
The Virtual Relationship Management practice is an integrated 
customer centric approach covering three pillars - Virtual 
Relationships, Virtual Sales and Virtual Care. A banking 
experience with digital ease and personalised conversations is 
at the core of our VRM strategy. As digital or contactless banking 
became a necessity during the pandemic, this programme gained 
further traction in the year under review. Under VRM, relationship 
managers reach out to customers through remote and digital 
platforms resulting in deeper and cost effective engagement. 
As digital literacy and exposure increases exponentially, VRMs 
are gaining wider acceptance through deeper engagement and 
relationships backed by a strong product offering. 
Meanwhile, your Bank also added 734 branches during the 
year, taking the total to 6,342. As of March 31, 2022, the Bank’s 
distribution network was at 6,342 branches and 18,130 ATMs / 
Cash Deposit & Withdrawal Machines (CDMs) across 3,188 cities 
/ towns as against 5,608 branches and 16,087 ATMs / CDMs 
across 2,902 cities / towns as of March 31, 2021. Fifty per cent of 
our branches are in semi-urban and rural areas. In addition, the 
Bank has 15,341 business correspondents, which are primarily 
manned by Common Service Centres (CSCs). The total number 
of customers your Bank catered to as on March 31, 2022 was 
over 7.10 crore, up from over 6.18 crore in the previous year.
As you are aware, your Bank operates in the Home Loan Business 
in conjunction with HDFC Limited. As per this arrangement, your 
Bank sells HDFC home loans while HDFC Limited approves and 
disburses them. Your Bank receives sourcing fee for these loans 
and as per the arrangement, has the option to purchase up to 70 
per cent of fully disbursed loans either through the issuance of 
mortgage-backed Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) or a direct 
assignment of loans. The balance is retained by HDFC Limited. 
Your Bank originated, on an average ` 3,550 crore of home loans 
every month in the year under review and purchased ` 28,205 
crore as direct assignment of loans.
Third Party Products
Your Bank distributes Life, General and Health Insurance, and 
Mutual Funds (third party products). Income from this business 
grew by 24 per cent to ` 4,422 crore from ` 3,573 crore and 
accounted for 23 per cent of Total Fee Income in the year ended 
March 31, 2022, compared with 22 per cent in the preceding year.
Life Insurance
The open architecture adopted by your Bank for insurance 
distribution with eight insurers was made more robust through 
enhancements in digital journeys and product innovation with all 
the partners. End- to-end solicitation journey for all the products 
offered is now seamlessly integrated between the Bank and 
insurance partners. More than 50 products are available for 
solicitation on HDFC Bank NetBanking platform - which now 
contributes almost 50 per cent of the total policies. Premium 
mobilisation in Life Insurance for the year ended March 31, 2022 
was ` 6,819 crore.
Non-Life Insurance
In the Non-Life insurance space, your Bank along with its 
insurance partners, introduced new and innovative products 
and increased customer offerings with an objective of providing 
wider health insurance coverage during the pandemic. All the 
products offered are enabled through NetBanking and tele-
sales platforms. Employees across channels have been trained 
on the new products and processes. Manpower has been 
strengthened across Non-Life insurers to increase our business 
in the health insurance space keeping the customer requirement 
in mind. Premium mobilisation in General and Health Insurance 
stood at ` 2,270 crore as of March 31, 2022.
Mutual Funds
Your Bank adopts an open architecture in Mutual Funds 
distribution as well and distributes funds of 35 Asset Management 
Companies (AMCs) with continued focus on digital journeys 
which enables customers to register for an online Investment 
Services Account (ISA); 85 per cent of ISAs are now opened 
through digital mediums. AUM of the Bank grew by 22.7 per cent 
to ` 92,479 crore for the year ended March 31, 2022.
Wealth 
The Private Banking Group was rebranded as HDFC Bank 
Wealth with a focussed strategy to reach out to Super Affluent 
and Mass Affluent Customers in B30 cities in addition to the 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
139
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Corporate Banking, which focuses on large, well-rated 
companies, continued to be the biggest contributor to Wholesale 
Banking in terms of asset size. It was able to do so as it was 
armed with sufficient cash due to its strong capital base and 
balance sheet.
In Corporate banking, your Bank refocused on its engagement 
with MNCs. This business also continued to capitalise on the 
trend of large companies preferring to deal with fewer banks. 
Your Bank deepened its existing relationships as well as 
gained market share by leveraging its wide product offering. 
This business supported customer requirements under 
the Production Linked Incentive Scheme. The Emerging 
Corporates Group, which focuses on the mid- market segment, 
too witnessed significant growth. Your Bank leveraged its 
vast geographical reach, technology backbone, automated 
processes, suite of financial products and quick turnaround 
times to offer a differentiated service, which has resulted in new 
customer acquisitions as well as a higher share of the wallet from 
existing customers. The business continues to have a diversified 
portfolio in terms of both industry and geography.
In the year under review, the Bank continued its focus on the 
MSME sector. There has already been increased formalistion/
digitalisation of the MSME sector due to the adoption of the 
Goods and Service Tax (GST). The COVID-19  pandemic led to 
the sector experiencing substantial stress, prompting the Union 
Government to identify it for special support through various 
schemes like Moratorium, ECLGS, ECLGS Extension and COVID 
support loans. Your Bank supported its customers during this 
period by participating in  the Government schemes.
The Investment Banking business further cemented its 
prominent position in the Debt Capital Markets, Equity Capital 
Markets and INR Loan Syndication. Your Bank maintained its 
position amongst the top 3 in the Bloomberg rankings of Rupee 
Bond Book Runners for FY 2021-22, with a market share of 
14.42 per cent. Your Bank is actively assisting clients in equity 
fund raising and was ranked 5th in the PRIME Database League 
Tables for IPOs and Rights Issues for FY 2021-22 for private 
sector issues against 9th for FY 2020-21. Your Bank is ranked 
2nd in the Bloomberg rankings of Syndicated INR term loans 
for FY 2021-22, with a market share of 11.32 per cent against 
ranking of 3rd for FY 2020-21.
In the Government business, your Bank sustained its focus on tax 
collections, collecting direct tax (CBDT) of Rs 4,08,869.61 crore 
and Indirect tax (CBIC+ GST) of over Rs 2,24,712.76 crore during 
FY 2021-22. It continues to enjoy a pre-eminent position among 
the  country’s major stock and commodity exchanges in both 
Cash Management Services and Cash Settlement  Services.
Your Bank has been a pioneer in providing Digital Banking 
Services to its wholesale banking customers. It was an early 
current setup in metros. In the year under review, the business 
has expanded to 67 new locations and is now catering to 216 
cities with 46 per cent increase in total families managed and total 
Assets under management of Rs. 4.11 lakh crores. Your bank 
is on track to reach 800+ locations by the end of this financial 
year through a hub and spoke model. Your bank is currently 
ranked 2nd amongst distributors in terms of distributor managed 
Mutual Fund Assets under management with market share of 4 
per cent. The business has been ranked No. 1 in Mass Affluent 
(US$100K to US$5m) Category by Euromoney Private Banking 
& Wealth Management Survey 2022 in addition to receiving 
prestigious awards like Best Private Bank in India by Global 
Private Banking Awards 2021 and Best Bank for Succession 
Planning by Asiamoney Asia Private Banking Awards 2021.
Our dedicated service team for Wealth Clients ensures that 
we deliver on our Service First philosophy. Further, to ensure 
transition from transactional approach of wealth management to 
client centric portfolio management approach, your bank tracks 
the Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) of its Wealth business 
as a key metric of client retention. Your bank has an open 
architecture framework across investment products to ensure 
that the recommended investment options are based on robust 
quantitative and qualitative evaluation model re-accentuating 
our customer centricity. Your bank is developing a mobile first 
Wealth application that will leverage on advanced analytics and 
intuitive client experience/ journeys to provide differentiated 
wealth solutions across customer segments. The digital platform 
will focus on agile digital journeys and personalisation to cater 
to customers across the country. The goal is to deliver a highly 
personalised experience that democratises wealth management 
and makes it accessible for all our customers.
Wholesale Banking
The Wholesale Banking business was a key growth engine for 
your Bank in the year under review. This business focuses on 
institutional customers such as the Government, PSUs, large and 
emerging corporates, and SMEs. Your Bank’s strong offerings 
include working capital and term loans, as well as trade credit, 
cash management, supply chain financing, foreign exchange, 
and investment banking services.
The Wholesale Banking business recorded healthy growth, 
ending FY 2021-22 with a domestic loan book size of ` 737,896 
crore, recording a growth of 26.4 per cent over the year earlier. 
This constituted about 55 per cent of your Bank’s domestic 
loans as per Basel II classification. Your Bank was able to 
expand its share of the customer wallet, primarily using sharper 
customisation, cross-selling and expanding into greater 
geographies. And continuing to lend during the pandemic while 
being prudent.

140
Directors’ Report
adopter of digital technology through the Corporate Net Banking 
Platform, ENet. It has now launched an upgraded Corporate 
Internet Banking Platform CBX  which offers a better UI/UX and 
richer dashboard. New customers will be onboarded on this and 
existing customers will be migrated to this platform.
The bank has introduced a unique Supply Chain digital platform 
that allows its corporate clients and their supply chain network 
consisting of dealers, vendors, and corporate customers to 
connect seamlessly with the bank’s system. The platform is 
designed to provide a convenient, easy to use and efficient 
interface across all supply chain products for all members of 
the supply chain thus enhancing customer experience. 
Your Bank offers the entire gamut of financial services, such as 
payments, collection, tax solutions, Government business, trade 
finance services, cash management solutions and corporate 
cards through its flagship platform, besides seamlessly 
connecting its customers through API, S2S (Server to Server) 
and Host-to-Host services.
Treasury
The Treasury is the custodian of your Bank’s cash/liquid assets 
and handles its investments in securities, foreign exchange 
and cash instruments. It manages the liquidity and interest rate 
risks on the balance sheet and is also responsible for meeting 
reserve requirements. The vertical also helps manage the 
treasury needs of customers and earns a fee income generated 
from transactions customers undertake with your Bank while 
managing their foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Revenue accrues from spreads on customer transactions based 
on trade and remittance flows and demonstrated hedging needs. 
Your Bank recorded revenue of ` 3,907.9 crore from foreign 
exchange and derivative transactions in the year under review. 
While plain vanilla forex products were in demand across all 
customer segments, demand for derivatives products increased 
with the RBI liberalizing regulations and allowing Indian banks to 
participate in Non-Deliverable Offshore markets.
As part of its prudent risk management, your Bank enters into 
foreign exchange and derivatives deals with counterparties after 
it has set up appropriate credit limits based on its evaluation of 
the ability of the counterparty to meet its obligations. Where 
your Bank enters into foreign currency derivatives contracts 
not involving the Indian Rupee with its customers, it typically 
lays them off in the inter-bank market on a matched basis. For 
such foreign currency derivatives, your Bank primarily carries 
the counterparty credit risk (where the customer has crystallised 
payables or mark-to-market losses) and may carry only residual 
market risk, if any. Your Bank also deals in derivatives on its own 
account, including for the purpose of its own Balance Sheet 
risk management.
Your Bank maintains a portfolio of Government Securities in 
line with the regulatory norms governing the Statutory Liquidity 
Ratio (SLR). A significant portion of these SLR securities are in 
‘Held-to- Maturity’ (HTM) category, while some are ‘Available for 
Sale’ (AFS). Your Bank is also a primary dealer for Government 
Securities. As a part of this business, your Bank holds fixed 
income securities as ‘Held for Trading’ (HFT).
In the year under review, your Bank continued to be a significant 
participant in the domestic exchange and interest rate markets. It 
also capitalised on falling bond yields to book profits and is now 
looking at tapping opportunities arising out of the liberalisation 
in the foreign exchange and interest rate markets.
B)	 International Business
During the year, your Bank stayed on course to cater to NRI 
clients and deepen its product and service proposition. Your 
Bank has global footprints by way of representative offices and 
branches in countries like Bahrain, Hong Kong, the UAE and 
Kenya. It also has a presence in International Financial Service 
Centre (IFSC) at GIFT City in Gandhinagar, Gujarat. 
The Bank’s product strategy in International Markets is customer 
centric and it has products to cater to client needs across asset 
classes. Your Bank now has plans to extend the product offering 
from GIFT City Branch under Liberalized Remittance Scheme to 
Resident and Non Resident clients.
As on March 31, 2022, the Balance Sheet size of International 
Business was US$ 7.66 billion. Advances constituted 3.12% of 
the Bank’s gross advances. The Total Income contributed by 
Overseas Branches constituted 0.55% of Bank’s Total Income 
for the year.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
US $ 7.6 + billion
Balance Sheet
C)	 Partnering with the Government 
Government and Institutions Business
The past year has been momentous for the Government and 
Institutions Business vertical in your Bank. Some key Highlights 
for your Bank include:
1.	
Declared the single largest collector of direct taxes by the 
Controller General of Accounts, Government of India in 
FY 2020-21
2.	
Received mandates and began collecting customs duty
3.	
Received mandates from the Railways Board for e-freight 
collections, and pension business

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
141
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
4.	
Integrated with Government of India’s e-National 
Agricultural Marketplace
5.	
Enabled more than 90,000 MSMEs to be eligible to transact 
on the Government e-marketplace
6.	
Processed more than 130 million transactions using 
Government of India’s Public Financial Management 
System to transfer funds to beneficiaries
7.	
Processed about 26% of the funds flowing from the Central 
Government to the states for development programs under 
the aegis of the Centrally sponsored schemes, Central 
sector schemes, and 15th Finance Commission
8.	
Received collection mandates from the following two state 
Governments – Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh
D)	 Semi-Urban and Rural
The Semi-urban and Rural markets have always been a focus of 
your Bank’s strategy. In the last few years, your Bank has made 
a renewed push into the Semi-urban and rural markets as rising 
income levels and aspirations of rural customers are leading to 
demand for better quality financial products and services. The 
rural groups in every department of your Bank work together to 
tap these opportunities.
Apart from meeting its statutory obligations under PSL (Agri & 
Allied activities, Small and Marginal Farmers and weaker sections 
etc), your Bank has been offering a wide range of products on 
the asset side, such as auto, two-wheeler, personal, gold, Light 
Commercial Vehicle (LCV), small shopkeeper loans in these 
markets. Now it plans to increase its coverage of villages and 
deepen relationships in existing ones. The semi-urban and rural 
push has been backed by the Bank’s digital strategy.
Your Bank’s operations in Semi-urban and Rural locations are 
explained below:
Agriculture and Allied Activities
Your Bank’s assets in Agriculture & Allied activities stood at 
`134,487.50 crore as on March 31, 2022.
In general, the key to your Bank’s success in the existing market 
is its ability to tap the opportunities through:
-	
Wide product range
-	
Faster turnaround time
-	
Digital solutions
The Bank’s product range includes pre-and post-harvest 
crop loans, farm development/investment loans, two- wheeler 
loans, auto loans, tractor loans, small agri business loans, loan 
against gold, among others. This has helped the Bank establish 
a strong footprint in the rural hinterland with its asset products. 
Apart from advising farmers on their financial needs, your Bank 
is increasingly focusing on facilitating various Government/
Regulatory schemes and non-crop segment covering agri allied 
and small agri business enterprises including rural MSMEs.
Your Bank has designed a range of crop and geography-
specific products in line with the harvest cycles and the local 
needs of farmers across diverse Agro-climatic zones. It has 
transformed rural banking services from being product centric 
to customer centric.
Products such as post-harvest cash credit and warehouse 
receipt financing enable faster cash flows to farmers. Credit 
is also offered for allied agricultural activities such as dairy, 
pisciculture, and sericulture.
Participation in Government Schemes
As a part of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, to give a fillip to the 
Indian economy and to make every Indian citizen self-reliant, the 
Government of India has announced several schemes/enablers 
across several sectors, more particularly in the agriculture sector.
Your Bank is implementing almost all such initiatives/schemes 
targeting multiple stakeholders of the agri ecosystem.
Agricultural Infrastructure Fund (AIF) Scheme: Through 
this scheme the Bank is offering medium to long-term debt 
facility for investment in viable projects pertaining to post harvest 
management, infrastructure development such as construction 
of warehouses/silos.
Your Bank has actively participated in agri infrastructure 
campaigns conducted by PMU, AIF (Ministry of Agriculture) and 
stood #1 amongst private sector Banks. As on March 31, your 
Bank has sanctioned ` 427 crore covering 298 projects.
Farmer Produce Organisations (FPOs): Leveraging the 
Government scheme for formation and promotion of 10k new 
FPOs (Credit guarantee is available from SFAC/NABARD), your 
Bank is funding eligible FPOs for working capital and term loan 
requirements. Through this initiative, your Bank will be able to 
reach a larger number of small and marginal farmers.
Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Food and Micro 
Enterprises (PMFME): Your Bank is actively implementing the 
scheme and passing the benefits to all eligible borrowers in the 
food processing sector.
Other Agri schemes include Agri Marketing Infrastructure Fund, 
Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Fund, Pradhan Mantri Kisan 
Urja Suraksha evam Utthaan Mahabhiyan (PMKUSUM), Mission 
for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) as well as 
state specific Government schemes.
Your Bank’s focus in the rural markets has not just been on 
increasing credit offtake, but also on cementing relationships 

142
Directors’ Report
with customers by empowering them. As part of these efforts, 
farmer centres or Kisan Dhan Vikas Kendras have been rolled 
out in Punjab, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. 
At these centres, farmers access information on soil health, 
mandi prices, and various Government initiatives and also receive 
expert advice. Moreover, these services are also available on 
the Bank’s website in vernacular languages. Kisan Dhan Vikas 
e-Kendra is one of its kind in the Banking Industry to reach out 
to farmers as a one-stop solution for all their requirements viz. 
loan eligibility, online application facility, training though kiosks, 
call an expert facility, soil testing and much more. Your Bank 
also provides advisory on weather, cropping and harvesting 
through SMS.
In line with this, the Bank also launched the e-KISAN Dhan 
app, a unique digital app for the rural/farming community. 
This is an exclusive mobile app for all rural banking and agriculture 
information needs from HDFC Bank.
This app aggregates crucial information required by the farmers. 
There have been about 100,000 downloads of the app.
Multiple needs of the farmers can be serviced such as purchase 
of agri inputs, agro products, information on best practices, 
weather alerts, mandi rates, expert advice, agri news, information 
on Government schemes like debt waiver, interest subvention, 
crop insurance and livestock centre amongst others.
Digital Interventions
Digitising Milk Procurement: This initiative brings 
transparency in the milk procurement and payment process, 
which benefits both farmers and dairy societies. Multi-function 
Terminals (MFTs), popularly known as Milk-to- Money ATMs, are 
deployed in dairy societies. The MFTs link the milk procurement 
system of the dairy society to the farmer’s account to enable 
faster payments. MFTs have cash dispensers that function as 
standard ATMs. Payments are credited without the hassles of 
cash distribution. Further, this process creates a credit history 
which can then be used for accessing bank credit. Apart from 
dairy and cattle loans, customers gain access to all the Bank’s 
products including digital offerings such as 10 Second Personal 
Loans, Kisan Credit Card, Bill Pay, and Missed Call Mobile 
Recharge. So far, your Bank has digitised payments at over 
1,700 milk cooperatives across 21 states, benefiting more than 
5.2 lakh dairy farmers. The Dairy business witnessed 73% per 
cent year-on-year growth in disbursements and 61% in the book.
Substituting Moneylenders:
The bank is making inroads into a market dominated by 
the unorganised sector, moneylenders and pawn brokers. 
The bank is keen on making the gold loan facility available across 
the length and breadth of the country. In FY 2021-22 your bank 
made gold loans available in 351 more branches taking the 
total number of branches where it can be availed of to 1,362. 
The bank has ended the year with a porfolio of ` 8,367 crore. 
The bank is implementing its blueprint  for gold loans being made 
available in every branch of the country. The Bank is also 
planning strategically to partner with channels who have the 
solutions available to increase the reach. 
Social initiatives in Farm Sector
Farm yield and income are subject to the vagaries of the 
weather. In addition, factors like soil health, input quality (seeds 
and fertilizers), water availability, and Government policy have 
significant impact, along with price realisations and storage 
facilities. Your Bank has launched a variety of initiatives to ease 
the stress on farm income and rural households.
Over the last few years, several parts of the country have 
been severely impacted by natural calamities such as drought, 
unseasonal rains, hailstorms, floods and the pandemic. Within 
regulatory guidelines, your Bank has been providing relief to the 
impacted farmers. It also has put in place systems designed to 
enable direct benefit transfers in a time-bound manner.
Lending to the agriculture sector, including to small and marginal 
farmers, is a regulatory mandate as part of priority sector lending 
requirements. The Bank has leveraged its extensive knowledge 
of rural customers to create as well as deliver products and 
services at affordable price points and with quick turnaround 
time. This has enabled the Bank to establish a strong footprint 
in the rural geographies, which it has now leveraged to increase 
its penetration of liability products. Further, your Bank is building 
a segment-specific approach like funding to horticulture clusters, 
supply chain finance, agri business, MSMEs and dairy farmers. 
It also continues to engage closely with farmers to mitigate risks 
and protect portfolio quality.
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME)
The MSME sector serves as an important engine for economic 
growth and is one of the largest employers in the economy. Your 
Bank’s assets in the MSME segment stood at ` 313,919.49 crore 
as on March 31, 2022. Its Micro Enterprises assets alone stood 
at ` 112,564.77 crore as on March 31, 2022.
The MSME sector was one of the sectors identified for special 
support by the Government and the RBI during the pandemic 
through various schemes like Interest Moratorium, ECLGS. 
ECLGS extension, COVID support loans etc.
Your Bank has ensured support for its customers through 
ECLGS and ECLGS extension schemes during the year and has 
also supported the customers through ad hoc enhancements 
as needed by them. Your Bank emerged as a star performer 
under the ECLGS 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 and ECLGS extension schemes. 
It disbursed loans amounting to ` 17,100.89 crore to over 0.78 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
143
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
lakh customers in all ELGS schemes. This swift support enabled 
existing customers to meet their operational liabilities and helped 
in the smooth functioning of their businesses.
The silver lining has been that the pace of digitalisation among 
MSMEs has gained further momentum. This will not only help 
the pace of disbursement but also increase transparency in the 
sector. The process started with the Government’s digitalisation 
push and the adoption of GST, which resulted in easy availability 
of data for banks regarding cash flows of these companies. It 
has been further expanded to enable customers to apply online 
by submitting requisite documents online and post sanction 
disbursement execution in digital way.
The SME portal continues to offer ad hoc approvals, pre-
approved TODs on an STP basis to existing customers. They 
can request top-up of loans and submit the required documents 
online. The SME portal also helps customers access your 
Bank’s services related to sanctioned credit facilities 24/7 
from anywhere.
On the trade side, your Bank’s focus has been on customer 
engagement for increasing the penetration of Trade on Net 
applications. This is a complete enterprise trade solution for 
customers engaged in domestic as well as foreign trade, enabling 
them to initiate online requests and track them seamlessly, 
resulting in reduced time and costs.
Taking Banking to the Unbanked
Your Bank is fully committed to taking banking to the remotest 
parts of the country through a combination of an extensive 
physical network and a robust digital suite of products and 
services. Today, about half of your Bank’s outlets are located 
in rural and semi-urban areas. Your Bank also offers last mile 
access through mobile applications such as BHIM, UPI, USSD, 
Scan and Pay, and RuPay enabled Micro-ATMs.
To bring more under-banked sections of the population into 
formal financial channels, your Bank has opened over 26.02 lakh 
accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) 
and enrolled 38.58 lakh customers in social security schemes 
since inception. We now rank among the leading private sector 
banks in this regard. In the year under review, loans to the tune 
of ` 7,028 crore to 12.76 lakh beneficiaries were extended under 
the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) and nearly ` 216 
crore to 1,014 beneficiaries under the ‘Stand up India’ scheme 
to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and women borrowers. 
Your Bank also has actively supported PM Street Vendor’s 
AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PMSVANIDHI) a special scheme under micro-
credit facility for street vendors with a collateral free affordable 
term loan of ` 10,000 for 1 year. Your Bank has disbursed 
` 10,000 each to 16,286 street vendors to support them during 
the pandemic and has also educated the street vendors in using 
the digital mode for making financial transactions.
Sustainable Livelihood initiative
This is primarily a social initiative with elements of business. It 
entails skill training, livelihood financing, and creating market 
linkages. (Please refer to page no. 95 for details)
E)	 Environmental Sustainability
Sustainability is one of the core values of the Bank. Please refer 
to page no. 56 where it is covered in detail.
F)	 Business Enablers
1)	
People Transformation
People is one of the core values of the Bank. For details please 
refer to page no. 80.
2)	
Information Technology 
Summary
The Bank has accelerated the Technology and Digital 
Transformation with a continued focus on creating a seamless 
digital experience for customers. RBI, through its order dated 
December 2, 2020, advised your Bank to immediately (i) stop 
sourcing of new credit card customers and (ii) stop all launches 
of digital business generating activities planned under program 
Digital 2.0. RBI lifted the restrictions on new credit card 
acquisitions in August 2021 followed by the removal of the 
embargo on the Digital 2.0 program in March 2022. The Bank 
is fully geared to launch the next wave of strategic technology 
& digital programs which will pave the way for new customer 
journeys and best-in-class products and services through 
innovation and transformation.
Your Bank has taken significant strides to ensure further 
fortification of its IT infrastructure and architecture as a robust, 
scalable and secure ecosystem. Strategic technology initiatives 
such as hybrid cloud approach, DR Resiliency, capacity 
enhancements, data centre migration to state-of-the-art facilities, 
comprehensive obsolescence management and monitoring, 
next-gen security operations centre and more are pivotal to the 
Bank to move from strength to strength and usher in the next 
age of digital banking.
(A) Technology Absorption
The Bank is accelerating the technology and digital transformation 
agenda. It continues to stay invested in creating a seamless 
digital and customer experience across digital touchpoints. Your 
Bank’s focused factory approach is enabling the building of its 
own capabilities to co-create Tech IP. Additionally, the imbibing of 
agile and DevSecOps principles and practices and cloudification 
of the Bank’s tech stack are pivotal enablers in the next leg of its 
technology and digital transformation journey.

144
Directors’ Report
Initiatives such as DR Resiliency and the Bank’s Hybrid 
Cloud Strategy continue to fortify its IT infrastructure and 
architecture backbone. 
Focus on its digital programs will pave the way for the Bank to 
create next level neo-banking experiences for its customers. 
From shaping new customer journeys to introducing best-in-
class products and services, transformation and innovation shall 
be at the forefront.
Key initiatives in this space are:
• 
Vyapar: Digital onboarding of merchants for payment 
acceptance and servicing of banking transactions for the 
merchant community
• 
API based digital journeys for the auto industry: 
Launched a digital API platform for auto financing
• 
PayZapp 2.0: Enhanced experience of app customers 
to onboard, auto-link HDFC Bank cards, wallet and limit 
management, transaction display via rich statement
• 
Wealth management system: A new wealth management 
app with client self-profiling, goal setting, mutual fund order 
execution and portfolio re-balancing
• 
SME customer experience transformation: New 
technology to support business volume at larger scale, 
revamp the entire SME customer experience across 
commercial and retail business lines
• 
Biz Express: A new web portal for SME segments 
covering digital on-boarding, managing their multiple 
accounts, making payments with hierarchy, raising GST 
compliant invoices for payment, multiple collection modes, 
raise service requests online etc.
Your Bank has taken multiple steps to ensure that its robust, 
scalable and secure technology set-up is strengthened even 
further. The Bank continues to rigorously monitor the progress 
against commitments to the regulator.
To this effect, significant strides were taken in the following 
technology areas:
1.	
Implementation of a landing zone for Hyperscalers
Your Bank has invested in a hybrid-cloud approach with the 
leading cloud service partners i.e, AWS, Azure and GCP. A 
common landing zone has been implemented across these 
partners to create a secure and streamlined environment for all 
cloud deployments in the future. The landing zone also enables 
the Bank’s agenda of imbibing agility and DevSecOps in the 
technology and digital transformation journey.
2.	
Capacity Upgrades
The capacity management program has made significant 
inroads to ensure capacity planning and management are 
commensurate with the rapid business growth witnessed by 
the Bank. Strengthening of capacity management practices 
has culminated into a threshold of 70 per cent across key 
parameters such as user concurrency, utilisation of database, 
server, storage, network and security devices. This has resulted 
in planned capacity upgrades of critical applications such as:
• 
90,000 concurrent users capacity for using NetBanking 
and MobileBanking.
• 
The foundations of the banking platform being upgraded 
along with modernisation of 300+ services. This enhances 
the Bank’s scalability and capacity to cater to triple the 
load of UPI transactions. Successfully managing over 
45 crore bank customer transactions per month which 
had doubled in the last 12 months. Your Bank has already 
been ranked among the top players as published in NPCI’s 
UPI performance metrics dashboard. Overall, the Bank’s 
average customer uptime was 99.94 per cent.
The senior management and the Board continue to keep strong 
focus on capacity, performance, scalability and availability of the 
Bank’s critical applications.
3.	
DR and Resiliency
The Bank has notably intensified the rigour in its DR drills 
for critical applications and will continue to further work on 
strengthening its DR processes and capabilities as outlined and 
communicated in its periodic submissions. The pivotal enablers 
in this journey are:
• 
A rigorous focus on reducing RTO for key applications 
to 40-60 minutes, which has been completed for 56 
key applications
• 
Deep automation to improve configuration drift management 
between primary and DR sites
• 
Enrichment of existing automation tools for DR to cover all 
DR scenarios and reduce the RTO time further
• 
Refactoring key applications into an ‘Hot DR’ / ‘Active-
Active’ design
4.	
Migration of the Primary Data Centre
Your Bank embarked on a journey to fully migrate and consolidate 
its primary data centre to state-of-the-art facilities in Mumbai 
and Bengaluru partnering with Sify and NTT. A systematic plan 
helped achieve 100 per cent migration of production applications 
in November 2021 followed by 100 per cent migration of UAT 
applications in March 2022. Further, a phase-wise plan is in 
place to migrate the Bank’s Chandivali, Mumbai data centre to 
the NTT facility over the next 6 months.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
145
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
The new facilities help ensure the Board’s continued focus on 
ensuring a robust IT infrastructure for the Bank’s applications 
and operations with higher customer uptimes across 
digital touchpoints.
5.	
Technology Obsolescence Management
A technology obsolescence program management office was 
established in June 2021 for comprehensive obsolescence 
tracking and management. Processes and procedures have 
been introduced to identify and remediate obsolete components 
6 months before the end of support. The scope covers more 
than 19,000 components across the Bank’s IT environment as 
of today. A detailed plan is in place to remediate components 
pertaining to high-risk applications by June 2022. The Bank 
continues to maintain rigorous monitoring on obsolescence 
through periodic reviews and reporting along with the 
senior management.
6.	
Cyber Security
Cyber security is at the heart of the technology transformation 
journey with substantial advancements being made to further 
fortify the Bank’s infrastructure and applications. A few initiatives 
in this regard are:
• 
Foundation of a next-gen Security Operations Centre 
(SOC) with advanced technologies for predictive security 
and incident management - To this effect, the Bank 
has provisioned the Securonix platform on AWS and 
configured more than 10,000 logging sources and devices 
for monitoring
• 
Introduction of Security Orchestration, Automation & 
Response (SOAR) to reduce the incident response time 
by connecting security solutions with each other and 
automating the incident life cycle
• 
Micro-segmentation is being enabled in the data centre 
network to allow higher visibility across network flows as 
well as stronger preparedness and management against 
ransomware related events/incidents
• 
24x7 defacement monitoring and vulnerability management 
of the Bank’s internet properties minimise the surface area 
for cyber security attacks.
Technology related challenges over the past few years have 
only made the Bank’s resolve stronger to consolidate and fortify 
its technology environment. Focused technology and digital 
investments and programs in technology are pivotal to the Bank 
to usher in the new age of digital banking and experiences for 
its customers.
Service Quality Initiatives and Grievance Redressal
Customer Focus is one of the five core values of your Bank. 
Driven by this core value, your Bank has always endeavoured 
to improve customer experience and has adopted a holistic 
approach for the same across multiple channels. This is critical 
in a highly competitive business environment, especially since 
it has various lines of businesses. Ensuring product quality and 
service delivery becomes vital for business growth. Your Bank 
desires to achieve this by seeking customer feedback as well 
as benchmarking with best-in-class business entities. Your bank 
has adopted a three-step strategy with regards to Customer 
Service - Define, Measure, and Improve.
Your Bank has adopted a multi-pronged approach to provide 
an omnichannel experience to its customers. On one side, your 
Bank has traditional touch points like Branch, Email Management 
team and Phone banking, and on the other side, it has state- of-
the-art platforms like NetBankinbg, MobileBanking, the chatbot 
Eva and the bank’s exclusive social care handles which offer a 
wide range of channel choice to its customers. Your Bank has 
also improvised on the relationship-based banking programmes. 
In addition to the branch-based relationship managers, it also 
has a Virtual Relationship Manager (VRM) programme to cater 
to various financial needs in a personalized manner. Your Bank 
invites and reviews the performance on customer service as well 
as grievance redressal at different levels which are Branch Level 
Customer Service Committees (BLCSCs), Standing Committee 
on Customer Service (SCCS) and Customer Service Committee 
of the Board (CSCB). Your Bank has put robust processes in 
place to regularly monitor and measure quality of service levels 
not only at various touch points but also at a product and 
process level by Quality Initiatives Group.
As part of its continuous efforts to enhance quality of service, the 
Service Quality team carries out regular reviews across various 
products/processes/channels. The effectiveness of the quality 
of service provided is also reviewed at different levels, including 
the Customer Service Committee of the Board.
One of the basic building blocks of providing acceptable level 
of customer service is to have an effective internal Grievance 
Redressal mechanism / framework. In this regard, the bank has 
outlined a framework for redressal of customer grievances and 
documented it in the form of a Grievance Redressal Policy – duly 
approved by its Board. Bank has also made this policy available 
in public domain (on the website as well as in the branches). 
Your Bank has provided multiple channels to its customers 
to share feedback on its services as well as register their 
grievances. Your Bank is at the forefront of developing innovative 
financial solutions and digital platforms. This, coupled with 
concerted efforts at creating awareness among customers, 
has led to an increase in the use of its digital channels as well 

146
Directors’ Report
as customer loyalty. Keeping customer interest in focus, your 
Bank has formulated a Board approved Protection Policy, which 
limits the liability of customers in case of unauthorized electronic 
banking transactions
Your Bank is on a journey to measure customer loyalty through 
a high velocity, closed loop customer feedback system. This 
customer experience transformation programme will help 
employees empathize better with customers and improve 
turnaround times. Branded as ‘Infinite Smiles’, the programme 
would help establish behaviours and practices that result in 
customer-centric actions through continuous improvements in 
product, services, process, and policies.
Thanks to these initiatives, your Bank’s customer complaints for 
FY 21-22 decreased by 21 percent from 4,67,453* to 3,68,291. 
*Restated complaints number based on reclassification of 
queries into complaints from 3,25,786.
Risk Management and Portfolio Quality
1)	
Risk Management and Portfolio Quality
Traditionally, the key risks that your Bank is exposed to in the 
course of its business have been the Pillar 1 risks - Credit Risk, 
Market Risk and Operational Risk. Given the evolving banking 
environment, Liquidity Risk, Information Technology Risk and 
Information Security Risk have also become vital. These risks 
not only have a bearing on your Bank’s financial strength and 
operations but also on its reputation. Keeping this in mind, 
the Bank has put in place Board-approved risk strategy and 
policies, whose implementation is supervised by the Risk Policy 
and Monitoring Committee (RPMC). The Committee ensures 
that frameworks are established for assessing and managing 
various risks faced by your Bank, systems are developed to 
relate risk to the Bank’s capital level and methods are in place for 
monitoring compliance with internal risk management policies 
and processes. The Committee guides the development 
of policies, procedures and systems for managing risks. It 
ensures that these are adequate and appropriate to changing 
business conditions, the structure and needs of your Bank and 
its risk appetite.
The hallmark of your Bank’s risk management function is that it 
is independent of the business sourcing unit with convergence 
only at the CEO level.
The gamut of key risks faced by the Bank which are dimensioned 
and managed include:
• 
Credit Risk, including Residual Risks
• 
Market Risk
• 
Operational Risk
• 
Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book
• 
Liquidity Risk
• 
Intraday Liquidity Risk
• 
Intra Day Credit Risk
• 
Credit Concentration Risk
• 
Counterparty Credit Risk
• 
Model Risk
• 
Outsourcing Risk
• 
People Risk
• 
Business Risk
• 
Strategic Risk
• 
Compliance Risk
• 
Reputation Risk
• 
Technology Risk
• 
Group Risk
Credit Risk
Credit Risk is defined as the possibility of losses associated with 
diminution in the credit quality of borrowers or counterparties. 
Losses stem from outright default or reduction in portfolio 
value. Your Bank has a distinct credit risk architecture, 
policies, procedures and systems for managing credit risk in 
both its retail and wholesale businesses. Wholesale lending is 
managed on an individual as well as portfolio basis. In contrast, 
retail lending, given the granularity of individual exposures, is 
managed largely on a portfolio basis across various products 
and customer segments. For both categories, there are robust 
front-end and back-end systems in place to ensure credit quality 
and to minimise loss from default. The factors considered while 
sanctioning retail loans include income, demographics, credit 
history, loan tenor and banking behaviour. In addition, there are 
multiple credit risk models developed and used to appraise and 
score different segments of customers on the basis of portfolio 
behaviour. In wholesale loans, credit risk is managed by capping 
exposures on the basis of borrower group, industry, credit rating 
grades and country, among others. This is backed by portfolio 
diversification, stringent credit approval processes and periodic 
post-disbursement monitoring and remedial measures. Your 
Bank has been able to ensure strong asset quality through 
volatile times in the lending environment by stringently adhering 
to prudent norms and institutionalised processes. Your Bank 
also has a robust framework for assessing Counterparty Banks, 
which are reviewed periodically to ensure interbank exposures 
are within approved appetite.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
147
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
As on March 31, 2022, your Bank’s ratio of Gross Non Performing 
Assets (GNPAs) to Gross Advances was 1.17 per cent. Net Non-
performing Assets (Gross Non-Performing Assets Less Specific 
Loan Loss provisions) was 0.32 per cent of Net Advances.
Your Bank has a conservative and prudent policy for specific 
provisions on NPAs. Its provision for NPAs is higher than the 
minimum regulatory requirements and adheres to the regulatory 
norms for Standard Assets.
Digital and Credit Risk 
Driven by rapid advancements in technology, digitalisation is 
increasingly becoming a key differentiator for customer retention 
and service delivery in the banking sector. Digital lending enables 
customers to secure loans at the click of a button in a matter of 
minutes, if not seconds. However, there are also attendant risks 
associated with it and your Bank has put in place appropriate 
checks and balances to manage these risks. Such loans are 
sanctioned primarily to your Bank’s existing customers. Often, 
they are customers across multiple products, thus enabling the 
Bank ready access to their credit history and risk profile. This 
facilitates evaluation on their loan eligibility. Besides, most of the 
credit checks and scores used by your Bank in process- based 
underwriting are replicated for digital loans. The Bank has an 
independent model validation unit that minutely assesses the 
models used to generate the credit scores for such loans. These 
models are monitored, reviewed periodically, back tested and 
corrective action is taken whenever needed.
Market Risk
Market Risk arises largely from your Bank’s statutory reserve 
management and trading activity in interest rates, equity and 
currency market. These risks are managed through a well-
defined Board approved Market Risk Policy, Investment Policy, 
Foreign Exchange Trading Policy and Derivatives Policy that 
caps risk in different trading desks or various securities through 
trading risk limits/triggers. The risk measures include position 
limits, tenor restrictions, sensitivity limits, namely, PV01, Modified 
Duration of Hold to Maturity Portfolio and Option Greeks, Value-
at-Risk (VaR) Limit, Stop Loss Trigger Level (SLTL), Scenario 
based P&L Triggers, Potential Loss Trigger Level (PLTL), and 
are monitored on an end-of-day basis. In addition, forex open 
positions, currency option delta and interest rate sensitivity 
limits are computed and monitored on an intraday basis. This 
is supplemented by a Board-approved stress testing policy 
and framework that simulates various market risk scenarios 
to measure losses and initiate remedial measures. The Market 
Risk capital charge of your Bank is computed on a daily basis 
using the Standardised Measurement Method applying the 
regulatory factors.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank may not be able to 
meet its financial obligations as they fall due without incurring 
unacceptable losses. Your Bank’s framework for liquidity and 
interest rate risk management is spelt out through a well-defined 
Board approved Asset Liability Management Policy. As part of 
this process, your Bank has established various Board-approved 
limits, both for liquidity risk and interest rate risk in banking book. 
Implementation of the policy, monitoring of limits is reviewed by 
the Asset Liability Committee (ALCO). While the maturity gap, 
Basel III ratios and stock ratio limits help manage liquidity risk, 
Net Interest Income and market value impacts help mitigate 
interest rate risk. This is reinforced by a comprehensive Board-
approved stress testing programme covering both liquidity and 
interest rate risk.
Your Bank conducts various studies to assess the behavioural 
pattern of non-contractual assets and liabilities and embedded 
options available to customers, which are used while managing 
maturity gaps and repricing risk. Further, your Bank also has the 
necessary framework in place to manage intraday liquidity risk.
The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), a global standard, is also 
used to measure your Bank’s liquidity position. LCR seeks to 
ensure that the Bank has an adequate stock of unencumbered 
High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) that can be converted into 
cash easily and immediately to meet its liquidity needs under 
a 30-day calendar liquidity stress scenario. Based on Basel III 
norms, your Bank’s average LCR stood at 121.16 per cent on 
a consolidated basis for FY 2021-22 as against the regulatory 
threshold at 100 per cent.
Average Liquidity Coverage Ratio
121.16 per cent
on a consolidated basis for FY 2021-22
The Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR), a key liquidity risk measure 
under BCBS liquidity standards, is also used to measure your 
Bank’s liquidity position. The NSFR seeks to ensure that 
your Bank maintains a stable funding profile in relation to the 
composition of its assets and off-balance sheet activities. The 
RBI guidelines stipulated a minimum NSFR requirement of 100 
per cent at a consolidated level with effect from October 1, 2021. 
Your Bank has maintained the NSFR well above 100 per cent 
since its implementation. Based on guidelines issued by RBI, 
your Bank’s NSFR stood at 124.00 per cent on a consolidated 
basis at March 31, 2022.
Operational Risk
This is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
processes, people and systems or from external events. It also 
includes risk of loss due to legal risk.

148
Directors’ Report
Given below is a detailed explanation under four different 
heads: Framework and Process, Internal Control, Information 
Technology and Security Practices and Fraud Monitoring 
and Control.
a.	
Framework and Process 
To manage Operational Risks, your Bank has in place a 
comprehensive Operational Risk Management Framework, 
whose implementation is supervised by the Operational Risk 
Management Committee (ORMC) and reviewed by the RPMC 
of the Board. An independent Operational Risk Management 
Department (ORMD) implements the framework. Under the 
framework, the Bank has three lines of defence. The first line of 
defence is the business line (including support and operations).
The first line is primarily responsible for developing risk mitigation 
strategies in managing operational risk for their respective units.
The second line of defence is the ORMD, which is responsible 
for implementing the operational risk management framework 
across the Bank. It designs and develops tools required for 
implementing the framework including policies and processes, 
guidelines towards implementation and maintenance of the 
framework. In order to achieve the aforesaid objective pertaining 
to operational risk management framework, the ORMC guides 
and oversees the functioning, implementation and maintenance 
of operational risk management activities of Bank, with special 
focus on:
• 
Identification and assessment of risks across the Bank 
through the Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) and 
Scenario analysis
• 
Measurement of Operational Risk based on the actual 
loss data
• 
Monitoring of risk through Key Risk Indicators (KRI)
• 
Management and reporting through KRI, RCSA and loss 
data of the Bank
Internal Audit is the third line of defence. The team reviews the 
effectiveness of governance, risk management and internal 
controls within your Bank.
b.	
Internal Control
Your Bank has implemented sound internal control practices 
across all processes, units and functions. It has well laid down 
policies and processes for the management of its day-to-
day activities. Your Bank follows established, well-designed 
controls, which include traditional four eye principles, effective 
segregation of business and support functions, segregation of 
duties, call back processes, reconciliation, exception reporting 
and periodic MIS. Specialised risk control units function in risk-
prone products/ functions to minimise operational risk. Controls 
are tested as part of the SOX control testing framework.
c.	
Information Technology and  Information 
Security Practices
Your Bank operates in a highly automated environment and 
makes use of the latest technologies available on cloud or on 
Premises Data centres to support various business segments. 
This results in various risks such as those associated with the 
use, ownership, operation, involvement, influence, and adoption 
of IT within an enterprise, as well as business disruption due 
to technological failures. Additionally, it can lead to risks 
related to information assets, data security, integrity, reliability 
and availability, among others. Your Bank has put in place a 
governance framework, information security practices and 
business continuity plan to mitigate Information Technology & 
Information Security-related risks.
The three lines of defence approach is adopted for enterprise-
wide Technology Risk management. The first line of defence 
holds primary responsibility of managing the risk and ensuring 
proper controls are in place.
The second line of defence defines policies, frameworks and 
controls. Information Technology Risk and Information Security 
Group addresses technology and information security related 
risks. A well-documented Board-approved information security 
policy and cyber security policy are in place. Your Bank has a 
robust Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plan that is 
periodically tested to ensure that it can meet any operational 
contingencies. Further, there is a well-documented crisis 
management plan in place to address the strategic issues of 
a crisis impacting the Bank and to direct and communicate 
the corporate response to the crisis including cyber crisis. In 
addition, employees mandatorily and periodically undergo 
information security training and sensitisation exercises.
For details on robust cyber security measures please refer page 
no. 51. 
An independent assurance team within Internal Audit acts as a 
third line of defence that provides assurance on the management 
of IT-related risks.
d.	
Fraud Monitoring and Control 
Your Bank has put in place a Whistle Blower and Vigilance Policy 
and a central vigilance team that oversees the implementation 
of fraud prevention measures. Frauds are investigated to 
identify the root cause and relevant corrective steps are taken 
to prevent recurrence.
Fraud Monitoring committees at the senior management and 
Board level also deliberate on material fraud events and advise 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
149
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
preventive actions. Periodic reports are submitted to the Board 
and senior management committees.
Compliance Risk
Compliance Risk is defined as the risk of impairment of your 
Bank’s integrity, leading to damage to its reputation, legal or 
regulatory sanctions, or financial loss, as a result of a failure (or 
perceived failure) to comply with applicable laws, regulations 
and standards. Your Bank has a Compliance Policy to ensure 
the highest standards of compliance. A dedicated team of 
subject matter experts in the Compliance Department works 
with business, support and operations teams to ensure active 
Compliance Risk management and monitoring. The team also 
provides advisory services on regulatory matters. The focus is on 
identifying and reducing risk by rigorously testing products and 
also putting in place robust internal policies. Products that adhere 
to regulatory norms are tested after rollout and shortcomings, 
if any, are fully addressed till the product stabilises on its own. 
Internal policies are reviewed and updated periodically as per 
agreed frequency or based on market actions or regulatory 
guidelines/actions. The compliance team also seeks regular 
feedback on regulatory compliance from product, business and 
operation teams through self-certifications and monitoring.
ICAAP
Your Bank has a structured management framework in the 
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) to 
identify, assess and manage all risks that may have a material 
adverse impact on its business/financial position/capital 
adequacy. The ICAAP framework is guided by the Board 
approved ICAAP Policy.
Stress Testing Framework
Your Bank has implemented a Board approved Stress Testing 
Policy and Framework which forms an integral part of the Bank’s 
ICAAP. Stress testing involves the use of various techniques to 
assess your Bank’s potential vulnerability to extreme but plausible 
stressed business conditions. The changes in the levels of Pillar 
I risks and select Pillar II risks, along with the changes in the 
on and off Balance Sheet positions of your Bank are assessed 
under assumed ‘stress’ scenarios and sensitivity factors. The 
suite of stress scenarios include topical themes as well as 
prevailing geopolitical / macroeconomic / sectoral and other 
trends. The stress testing outcome may be analysed through 
capital impact and/or identification of vulnerable borrowers 
depending on the scenario.
Group Risk
Your Bank has two subsidiaries, HDB Financial Services Limited 
and HDFC Securities Limited. The Board of each subsidiary is 
responsible for managing their respective material risks (Credit 
Risk, Concentration Risk, Market Risk, Operational Risk, 
Liquidity Risk, Interest Rate Risk on Banking Book, Technology 
Risk, Reputation Risk, Compliance Risk, Business Risk and 
others). The Group Risk Management Committee (GRMC) was 
instituted in your Bank under the ICAAP framework to establish a 
formal and dedicated structure to periodically assess the nature/
quantum of material risks of the subsidiaries and adequacy of 
its risk management processes. Stress testing for the group 
as a whole is carried out by integrating the stress tests of 
the subsidiaries. Similarly, capital adequacy projections are 
formulated for the group after incorporating the business/capital 
plans of the subsidiaries.
Business Continuity Planning (BCP)
Your Bank has an ISO22301:2019 certified Business Continuity 
Program in place to minimise service disruptions and potential 
impact on its employees, customers and business during any 
unforeseen adverse events or circumstances. This program 
is designed in accordance with the guidelines issued by 
regulatory bodies and is subject to regular internal, external and 
regulatory reviews. The central Business Continuity Office works 
towards strengthening the bank’s continuity preparedness. 
The implementation is overseen by the Business Continuity 
Steering Committee which is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer. 
The Business Continuity Procedure has well defined roles and 
responsibilities for Crisis Management, Business Recovery, 
Emergency Response and IT Disaster Recovery Teams. Please 
refer to page no. 52 for more details.
Some of the key aspects of thisprogram include thefollowing:
• 
Presence of a Steering Committee for centralised monitoring 
of your Bank's Business Continuity program implementation
• 
Presence of Crisis Management teams for effective 
management of recovery operations during disruptive events
• 
Presence of a dedicated DR site for recovery of critical core 
and customer facing applications
• 
Decentralised recovery plans at functional and regional 
levels for structured and speedy recovery of operations
• 
Periodic drills are exercises for testing the effectiveness of 
these recovery plans.
These robust practices have enabled your bank to continue 
delivering banking services seamlessly to customers throughout 
the COVID-19 pandemic phases coupled with other major 
disruptive events. Your Bank has successfully emerged from 
all these difficult situations with a hybrid approach comprising 
of well-adopted continuity and recovery strategies like remote 
working (work from home), split operations, work transfer and/
or staff transfer to available sites, in accordance with prevailing 
protocols and norms.

150
Directors’ Report
7)	 Internal Controls, Audit and Compliance
Your Bank has put in place extensive internal controls and 
processes to mitigate Operational Risks, including centralised 
operations and ‘segregation of duty’ between the front office 
and back office. The front-office units usually act as customer 
touch-points and sales and service outlets while the back-office 
carries out the entire processing, accounting and settlement 
of transactions in the Bank’s core banking system. The policy 
framework, definition and monitoring of limits is carried out by 
various mid-office and risk management functions. The credit 
sanctioning and debt management units are also segregated 
and do not have any sales and operations responsibilities.
Your Bank has set up various executive-level committees, with 
participation from various business and control functions, that 
are designed to review and oversee matters pertaining to capital, 
assets and liabilities, business practices and customer service, 
Operational Risk, information security, business continuity 
planning and internal risk-based supervision among others. The 
second line of defense functions set standards and lay down 
policies and procedures by which the business functions manage 
risks, including compliance with applicable laws, compliance 
with regulatory guidelines, adherence to operational controls and 
relevant standards of conduct. At the ground level, your Bank has 
a mix of preventive and detective controls implemented through 
systems and processes, ensuring a robust framework in your 
Bank to enable correct and complete accounting, identification 
of outliers (if any) by the Management on a timely basis for 
corrective action and mitigating Operational Risks.
Your Bank has put in place various preventive controls:
(a)	
Limited and need-based access to systems by users
(b)	
Dual custody over cash and near-cash items
(c)	
Segregation of duty in processing of transactions vis-à-vis 
creation of user IDs
(d)	
Segregation of duty in processing of transactions vis-à-vis 
monitoring and review of transactions/reconciliation
(e)	
Four eye principle (maker-checker control) for processing 
of transactions
(f)	
Stringent password policy
(g)	
Booking of transactions in core banking system mandates 
the earmarking of line/limit (fund as well as non-fund based) 
assigned to the customer
(h)	
STP processes between core banking system and payment 
interface systems for transmission of messages
(i)	
Additional authorisation leg in payment interface systems 
in applicable cases
(j)	
Audit logs directly extracted from systems
(k)	
Empowerment grid
Your Bank also has detective controls in place:
(a)	
Periodic review of user IDs
(b)	
Post-transaction monitoring at the back-end by way of call 
back process (through daily log reports) by an independent 
person, i.e., to ascertain that entries in the core banking 
system/messages in payment interface systems are based 
on valid/authorised transactions and customer requests
(i)	
Daily tally of cash and near-cash items at end of day
(ii)	
Reconciliation of Nostro accounts (by an independent 
team) to ascertain and match-off the Nostro credits 
and debits (External or Internal) regularly to avoid / 
identify any unreconciled/unmatched entries passing 
through the system
(c)	
Reconciliation of all Suspense Accounts and establishment 
of responsibility in case of outstanding
(d)	
Independent and surprise checks periodically by supervisors
Your Bank has an Internal Audit Department which is responsible 
for independently evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of 
all internal controls, risk management, governance systems and 
processes and is manned by appropriately qualified personnel.
This department adopts a risk-based audit approach and carries 
out audits across various businesses i.e. Retail, Wholesale and 
Treasury (for India and Overseas books), audit of Operations units, 
Management and Thematic audits, Information Security audit, 
Revenue audit and Concurrent audit in order to independently 
evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls on 
an ongoing basis and pro-actively recommending enhancements 
thereof. The Internal Audit Department, during the course of audit, 
also ascertains the extent of adherence to regulatory guidelines, 
legal requirements and operational processes and provides 
timely feedback to the Management for corrective actions. A 
strong oversight on the operations is also kept through off-site 
monitoring by use of data analytics to study trends/patterns to 
detect outliers (if any) and alert the Management.
The Internal Audit Department also independently reviews 
your Bank’s implementation of Internal Rating Based (IRB)- 
approach for calculation of capital charge for Credit Risk, the 
appropriateness of your Bank’s ICAAP, as well as evaluates the 
quality and comprehensiveness of your Bank’s disaster recovery 
and business continuity plans and also carries out management 
self-assessment of adequacy of the Bank’s internal financial 
controls and operating effectiveness of such controls in terms of 
Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) Act and Companies Act, 2013. The Internal 
Audit Department plays an important role in strengthening of the 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
151
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Control functions by periodically reviewing their practices and 
processes as well as recommending enhancements thereof. 
Additionally, oversight is also kept on the functioning of the 
subsidiaries, related party transactions and extent of adherence 
to the licensing conditions of the RBI.
Any new product/process introduced in your Bank is reviewed by 
Compliance function in order to ensure adherence to regulatory 
guidelines and also by Internal Audit from the perspective of 
existence of internal controls. The Audit function also proactively 
recommends improvements in operational processes and 
service quality, wherever deemed fit.
To ensure independence, the Internal Audit Function has a 
reporting line to the Audit Committee of the Board and a dotted line 
reporting to the Managing Director for administrative purposes.
The Compliance function independently tracks, reviews and 
ensures compliance with regulatory guidelines and promotes a 
compliance culture in the Bank.
Your Bank has a comprehensive Know Your Customer, 
Anti Money Laundering (AML) and Combating Financing of 
Terrorism (CFT) policy (based on the RBI guidelines/provisions 
of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002) incorporating 
the key elements of Customer Acceptance Policy, Customer 
Identification Procedures, Risk Management and Monitoring of 
Transactions. The policy is subjected to an annual review and is 
duly approved by the Board.
Your Bank besides having robust controls in place to ensure 
adherence to the KYC guidelines at the time of account opening 
also has monitoring process at various stages of the customer 
lifecycle including a continuous review process in the form of 
transaction monitoring carried out by a dedicated AML CFT 
monitoring team, which carries out transaction reviews for 
identification of suspicious patterns/trends that enables your 
Bank to further carry out enhanced due diligence (wherever 
required) and appropriate actions thereafter. The status of 
adherence to the KYC, AML and CFT guidelines is also placed 
before the Audit Committee of the Board for their review at 
quarterly intervals.
The Audit team and the Compliance team undergo regular 
training both in-house and external to equip them with the 
necessary knowhow and expertise to carry out the function.
The Audit Committee of the Board reviews the effectiveness 
of controls, compliance with regulatory guidelines as also the 
performance of the Audit and Compliance functions in your Bank 
and provides direction, wherever deemed fit. Your Bank has 
always adhered to the highest standards of compliance and 
has put in place appropriate controls and risk measurement 
and risk management tools to ensure a robust compliance and 
governance structure.
G)	 Performance of Subsidiary Companies
Your Bank has two subsidiaries, HDB Financial Services Limited 
(HDBFSL) and HDFC Securities Limited (HSL). HDBFSL is a 
leading NBFC that caters primarily to segments not covered 
by the Bank while HSL is among India’s leading retail broking 
firms. The financial results of the subsidiaries are prepared in 
accordance with notified Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind-AS’).
The detailed financial performance of the companies is 
given below.
Transacting customers of HSL
12.73 lakh
HDFC Securities Limited (HSL)
HSL’s Total Income under Indian Accounting Standards was 
` 1,990.30 crore as against ` 1,399.43 crore in the previous 
year and Net Profit was ` 984.34 crore as against ` 703.22 
crore in the previous year. The company has a customer base of 
38.30 lakh to whom it offers an exhaustive range of investment 
and protection products. In the year under review, HSL had 
12.73 lakh transacting customers. The focus on digitalisation 
continued. Notably, 91 per cent of its customers accessed its 
services digitally, against 92 per cent in the previous year.
In a conscious effort to rationalise the distribution network 
with greater emphasis on digital offerings, HSL consolidated 
its existing branches to end with 216 branches across 147 
cities / towns at the end of the year. It created digital Boarding 
Journeys which led to more than 50 per cent customers being 
onboarded digitally.
In the case of Margin Trade Funding (MTF), the average book 
size during the year was ` 2,992 crore, which is more than three 
times the average book size of ` 930 crore in the last financial 
year. The book size at the year end stands at ` 3,288 crore.
Nifty rose right from the beginning of FY 2021-22 to touch a peak 
in mid-October 2021. It corrected later to a low in early March 
2022. An upward bounce later led to Nifty closing the fiscal not 
very far from the all-time high of October 2021. The Indian equity 
market gave solid returns in FY 2021-22, despite geopolitical 
turmoil playing spoilsport in the last quarter of the financial 
year. Nifty50 recorded an impressive 19 per cent year-on-year 
gain and ended the financial year with the second-best returns 
in seven years. Broader markets also put up an impressive 
performance. The Nifty Midcap 100, up more than 25 per cent 
y-o-y, and the Nifty Smallcap 100, up more than 29 per cent 
y-o-y, out performed the benchmark in FY 2021-22. Sectoral 
indices also posted decent performance during this period.

152
Directors’ Report
As on March 31, 2022, your Bank held 95.96 per cent stake 
in HSL.
HDB Financial Services Limited
Incorporated in 2007, HDB is a leading NBFC that caters to the 
evolving needs of its customers by re-imagining opportunities 
and fulfilling their aspirations. It has a strong network of over 
1,374 branches spread across 989 cities/towns. HDB’s net 
interest income grew 9.4 per cent to ` 5,037.5 crore for the 
year ended March 31, 2022, from ` 4,605.0 crore in the year 
ended March 31, 2021. Profit for the year under review was 
` 1,011.4 crore against ` 391.5 crore in the previous year. Its 
Assets Under Management for the year ended March 31, 2022 
stood at ` 61,444.3 crore compared to ` 61,560.7 crore in the 
previous year.
HDB offers a comprehensive suite of products and service 
offerings that are tailor-made to suit its customers’ requirements, 
including first-time borrowers and the under- served segments.
Products and Services
HDB is engaged in the business of Financing, fee-based 
products and BPO services.
Financing: HDB offers a diverse range of product offerings 
(secured and unsecured) to various customer segments. These 
include Consumer Loans, Enterprise Loans, Asset Finance and 
Micro-Lending.
Consumer Loans
Consumer loans are offered to customers to buy consumer 
durables, lifestyle products and digital products. HDB also 
provides personal and Gold loans to individuals for personal, 
family or household purposes to meet their short or medium 
term requirements. The Company also provides auto loans and 
two-wheeler loans.
Enterprise Loans
HDB offers secured and unsecured loans designed for SMEs, 
including working capital and term loans.
Asset Finance
HDB offers loans for the purchase of new and used commercial 
vehicles and construction equipment that generate income for 
the borrowers. The customer base includes fleet owners, first 
time users, first time borrowers and captive use buyers.
Micro Lending
HDB offers micro-loans to borrowers through the Joint Liability 
Groups (JLGs) framework. With Micro-Lending, HDB endeavours 
to empower and promote financial inclusion within these 
sections, thus resulting in sustainable development of the nation.
Fee-based products/Insurance Services
HDB is a registered Corporate Insurance Agent having licence 
from Insurance Regulatory & Development Authority of India 
(IRDAI). The company is engaged in the sale of both Life and 
General (Non-Life) Insurance products.
BPO Services
HDB runs a Collections BPO business, offering end-to end, 
specialised collection services with domain expertise in 
collections tele-calling, recovery management, collections 
analytics and cash reconciliation management. The division 
also delivers back-office services such as forms processing, 
documents verification, finance and accounting services and 
correspondence management and front office services such as 
contact centre management and outbound marketing.
The Enablers
HDB’s presence across diverse digital channels has enabled 
the company to offer a wide variety of financial solutions to its 
customers. HDB’s customers can access and manage their loan 
account 24/7 through its Mobile Banking Application - ‘HDB On 
The Go’, Customer Service Portal to manage the loan account, 
Missed Call Service, WhatsApp Account Management Service 
and the Chatbot  #AskPriya.
As on March 31, 2022, your Bank held 94.96 per cent stake 
in HDB.
Other Statutory Disclosures
Number of Meetings of the Board, attendance, 
meetings and constitution of various Committees 
Fourteen (14) meetings of the Board were held during the year 
under review. The details of Board meetings held during the 
year, attendance of Directors at the meetings and constitution 
of various Committees of the Board are included separately in 
the Corporate Governance Report.
Annual Return 
In accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013, the 
Annual Return of the Bank in the prescribed Form MGT-7 is 
available on the website of the Bank at the link https://www.
hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/investor-relations/annual-
reports.
Requirement for maintenance of cost records
The cost records as specified by the Central Government under 
section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, are not required to 
be maintained by the Bank.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
153
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Details in respect of frauds reported by auditors 
under section 143 (12)
During the year under review, no instances of fraud committed 
against the Bank by its officers or employees were reported by 
the Statutory Auditors and Secretarial Auditors under Section 
143(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 to the Audit Committee or 
the Board of Directors of the Bank.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Pursuant to Section 134 (3) (c) read with Section 134 (5) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, the Board of Directors hereby confirm that:
•  
In the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable 
accounting standards have been followed along with 
proper explanation relating to material departures. 
•  
We have selected such accounting policies and applied 
them consistently and made judgments and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Bank as on March 31, 2022 
and of the profit of the Bank for the year ended on that date. 
•  
We have taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, for safeguarding 
the assets of the Bank and for preventing and detecting 
fraud and other irregularities.
•  
We have prepared the annual accounts on a going 
concern basis.
•  
We have laid down internal financial controls to be followed 
by the Bank and have ensured that such internal financial 
controls were adequate and operating effectively.
•  
We have devised proper systems to ensure compliance 
with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such 
systems were adequate and were operating effectively.
Compliance with Secretarial Standards
The Bank is in compliance with all applicable Secretarial 
Standards as notified from time to time.
Statutory Auditors
M. M. Nissim & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants and MSKA & 
Associates, Chartered Accountants, have conducted the joint 
statutory audit of the Bank for FY 2021-22, pursuant to the 
approval of the RBI and the shareholders of the Bank. 
The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, has finalized for recommendation to RBI for 
approval, the name of M/s. Price Waterhouse LLP, Chartered 
Accountants as the first preferred firm to act as Joint Statutory 
Auditors of the Bank in relation to the Financial Years 2022-23, 
2023-24 and 2024-25, subject to approval of the shareholders at 
the ensuing Annual General Meeting (AGM). This firm shall act as 
the Joint Statutory Auditors along with M.M. Nissim & Co. LLP, 
Chartered Accountants for the remainder of the latter's tenure.
Appropriate resolutions in this regard are also being proposed 
at the ensuing AGM.
During the year ended March 31, 2022, fees paid to MSKA & Associates and M.M. Nissim & Co. LLP and their respective network 
firms on consolidated basis are as follows:	
(` in crores)
Fees (excluding taxes)
HDFC Bank to Statutory Auditors
HDFC Bank to network firms of 
Statutory Auditors
Subsidiaries of HDFC Bank 
to Statutory Auditors and its 
network firms
Statutory Audit*
3.85
-
-
Certification & other attestation 
services
1.88
-
-
Non-audit services
-
-
-
Outlays
0.02
-
-
Total
5.75
-
-
	
*Out of the total statutory audit fees, ` 3.30 crore were approved at the AGM held on July 17, 2021 and the balance ` 0.55 crore is proposed to the 
shareholders for approval at the ensuing AGM
Disclosure under Foreign Exchange Management 
Act, 1999 
As far as FEMA compliances in relation to strategic downstream 
investments in the Bank’s subsidiaries is concerned, during the 
year under review, there have been no strategic downstream 
investments made by Bank in its subsidiaries. Accordingly, 
the Bank has obtained a certificate from MSKA & Associates, 
Chartered Accountants, to this effect.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The brief outline of the CSR policy of the Bank and the initiatives 
undertaken by the Bank on CSR activities during the year are 

154
Directors’ Report
of the Bank, i.e. Share Dealing Code of the Bank, (d) wilful data 
breach and/ or unauthorized disclosure of Bank’s proprietary 
data including customer data.
All Protected Disclosures made under the policy shall be 
made to the Whistle Blower Committee through the following 
modes; (a) By letter in a closed / sealed envelope addressed 
to Whistle Blower committee, (b) by submission of the same 
on the information portal of the Bank, (c)  by way of an email 
addressed to whistleblower@hdfcbank.com. In exceptional 
circumstances, the Whistle Blower may make such Protected 
Disclosures directly to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee 
of the Bank. 
All Protected Disclosures received under this Policy would be 
examined by the Whistle Blower Committee and further assign the 
investigation to an appropriate Investigation Officer(s) depending 
on the nature of the subject matter of the Protected Disclosure. 
The Investigation Authority shall place the investigation report in 
respect of any Protected Disclosure before the Whistle Blower 
Committee together with any other supporting documents 
which may be required by the Whistle Blower Committee and 
shall discuss the findings of the investigation with the Whistle 
Blower Committee. After review of the investigation report 
and the requisite supporting documents, the Whistle Blower 
Committee shall take the necessary actions in relation to the 
Protected Disclosure. 
Details of Whistle blower complaints received and subsequent 
action taken and the functioning of the Whistle Blower 
mechanism are reviewed periodically by the Audit Committee 
of the Board. During the financial year 2021-22, a total of 147 
such complaints were received and taken up for investigation 
which has resulted in certain staff actions in 47 cases post 
investigation. The broad categories of whistle blower complaints 
were in the areas of improper business practices, behavioural 
related issues and corruption.
The Policy is available on the website of the Bank at the link-
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-
governance/codes-and-policies
Securities Class Action Suit
On September 3, 2020, a securities class action lawsuit was filed 
against the Bank and certain of its current and former officers in 
the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New 
York. The complaint was amended on February 8, 2021. The 
amended complaint alleges that the Bank, its former Managing 
Director, Mr. Aditya Puri, and the present Managing Director 
& CEO, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan made materially false and 
misleading statements regarding certain aspects of the Bank’s 
business and compliance policies, which resulted in the Bank’s 
American Depository Share price declining on July 13, 2020 
set out in Annexure 2 of this report in the format prescribed 
in the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014. This Policy is available on the Bank’s website at 
https://v1.hdfcbank.com/csr/index.aspx.
Related Party Transactions
Particulars of contracts or arrangements with related parties 
referred to in Section 188 (1), as prescribed in Form AOC-2 under 
Rule 8 (2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is enclosed 
as Annexure 3.
Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments
Pursuant to Section 186 (11) of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
provisions of Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013, except 
sub-section (1), do not apply to a loan made, guarantee given 
or security provided or any investment made by a banking 
company in the ordinary course of business. The particulars of 
investments made by the Bank are disclosed in note number 10 
of Schedule 18 of the Financial Statements as per the applicable 
provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
Financial 
Statements 
of 
Subsidiaries 
and 
Associates
In terms of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 and read 
with Rule 8 (1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 the 
performance and financial position of the Bank’s subsidiaries 
and associates are enclosed as Annexure 4 to this report. 
There were no entities which became or ceased to be the Bank’s 
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures during the year. 
Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism
The Bank encourages an open and transparent system of 
working and dealing amongst its stakeholders. While the Bank's 
"Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy" directs employees to uphold 
Bank values and conduct business worldwide with integrity and 
highest ethical standards, the Bank has also adopted a "Whistle 
Blower Policy" to encourage and empower the Employees/ 
Stakeholders to make or report any Protected Disclosures under 
the Policy, without any fear of reprisal, retaliation, discrimination 
or harassment of any kind. 
This Policy has also been put in place to provide a mechanism 
through which adequate safeguards can be provided against 
victimization of employees who avail of this mechanism. The 
policy would cover and will be applicable to the Protected 
Disclosures related to violation/ suspected violation of the Code 
of Conduct including (a) breach of applicable law; (b) fraud or 
corruption; (c) leakage/suspected leakage of unpublished price 
sensitive information which are in violation to SEBI (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and related internal policy 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
155
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
thereby allegedly causing damage to the Bank’s investors. On 
April 9, 2021, the Bank, Mr. Puri, and Mr. Jagdishan served their 
motion to dismiss the amended complaint, and on July 23, 2021, 
they served their reply brief in support of the motion and filed 
all of the motion papers.  The Court held oral argument on the 
motion to dismiss on January 14, 2022, and the motion remains 
pending before the Court.  The Bank believes that the asserted 
claims are baseless and without merit and intends to vigorously 
defend against the allegations.
Material Developments: Proposed Scheme of 
Amalgamation 
The Board of Directors of HDFC Bank Limited (‘HDFC Bank’) at 
its meeting held on April 4, 2022, approved a composite scheme 
of amalgamation (‘Scheme’) for the amalgamation of: (i) HDFC 
Investments Limited and HDFC Holdings Limited, wholly-owned 
subsidiaries of the Housing Development Finance Corporation 
Limited (‘HDFC Limited’), with and into HDFC Limited and (ii) 
HDFC Limited with and into HDFC Bank and matters related 
thereto.  
With effect from the appointed date and upon the amalgamation 
of HDFC Limited with and into HDFC Bank becoming effective, 
HDFC Limited along with all its assets, liabilities, contracts, 
employees, licenses, records and approvals being their 
respective integral parts shall stand transferred to and vest in 
or shall be deemed to have been transferred to and vested in 
HDFC Bank, as a going concern. 
Upon the Scheme becoming effective and in consideration of the 
proposed amalgamation of HDFC Limited with and into HDFC 
Bank, HDFC Limited will stand dissolved without being wound 
up and the shareholders of HDFC Limited as on the record 
date will receive 42 shares of HDFC Bank (each of face value of 
` 1), for 25 shares held in HDFC Limited (each of face value of 
` 2). This share exchange ratio has been arrived at based on a 
joint valuation report submitted by two Registered Valuers and 
independent Chartered Accountancy firms appointed by HDFC 
Bank and HDFC Limited, which was supported by a Fairness 
Opinion provided by two SEBI registered merchant bankers. 
During the period between the approval of the Scheme by the 
respective boards of HDFC Bank and HDFC Limited and up to 
the effectiveness of the Scheme, the business of HDFC Bank 
and HDFC Limited  shall be carried out with reasonable diligence 
and business prudence in the ordinary course, consistent with 
past practice, in accordance with the applicable laws and as 
mutually agreed. 
The Board of Directors of HDFC Bank and HDFC Limited 
have opined that the proposed amalgamation would be in the 
best interest of the respective companies, their shareholders, 
employees, creditors and other stakeholders, since the proposed 
amalgamation will yield advantages as set out, inter alia, below: 
(a)	
the amalgamation, through the Scheme, shall enable HDFC 
Bank to build its housing loan portfolio and enhance its 
existing customer base;
(b)	
The amalgamation is based on leveraging the significant 
complementarities that exist amongst the parties to the 
Scheme. It would create meaningful value for various 
stakeholders including respective shareholders, customers, 
employees, as the combined business would benefit 
from increased scale, comprehensive product offering, 
balance sheet resiliency and the ability to drive synergies 
across revenue opportunities, operating efficiencies and 
underwriting efficiencies, amongst others; 
(c)	
HDFC Bank is a private sector bank and has a large base of 
over 6.8 Crore customers. The Bank platform will provide a 
well-diversified low cost funding base for growing the long 
tenor loan book acquired by the HDFC Bank  pursuant to 
the amalgamation; 
(d)	
HDFC Bank is a banking company with a large distribution 
network that offers product offerings in the retail and 
wholesale segments. HDFC Limited is a premier housing 
finance company in India and provides housing loans to 
individuals as well as loans to corporates, undertakes lease 
rental discounting and construction finance apart from 
being a financial conglomerate. A combination of HDFC 
Limited and HDFC Bank is entirely complementary to, and 
enhances the value proposition of, HDFC Bank;
(e)	
HDFC Bank would benefit from a larger balance sheet and 
networth which would allow underwriting of larger ticket 
loans and also enable a greater flow of credit into the 
Indian economy; 
	
HDFC Limited has invested capital and developed skills 
and has set up approximately 464 (Four Hundred and Sixty 
Four) offices across the country. These offices can be used 
to sell the entire product suite of both HDFC Bank and 
HDFC Limited;
(f)	
The loan book of HDFC Limited is diversified having 
cumulatively financed over 9 million dwelling units. With 
HDFC Limited’s leadership in the home loan arena, 
developed over the past 45 years, HDFC Bank would be 
able to provide to customers flexible mortgage offerings in 
a cost-effective and efficient manner;
(g)	
HDFC Bank has access to funds at lower costs due to 
its high level of current and savings accounts deposits 
(CASA). With the amalgamation of HDFC Limited with and 
into HDFC Bank, HDFC Bank will be able to offer more 
competitive housing products; 

156
Directors’ Report
(h)	
HDFC Limited’s rural housing network and affordable 
housing lending is likely to qualify for HDFC Bank as priority 
sector lending and will also enable a higher flow of credit 
into priority sector lending, including agriculture; 
(i)	
the amalgamation will result in reducing HDFC Bank’s 
proportion of exposure to unsecured loans;
(j)	
HDFC Limited has built technological capabilities to 
evaluate the credit worthiness  of customers  using 
analytical models, and has developed unique skills in 
financing various customer segments. The models have 
been tested and refined over the years at scale and HDFC 
Bank will benefit from such expertise in underwriting and 
financing of mortgage offerings;
(k)	
HDFC Bank can leverage on the loan management 
system, comprising rule engines, IT tools and rules, agents 
connected through a central system;
(l)	
The amalgamation is expected to result in bolstering the 
capital base and bringing in resiliency in the balance sheet 
of HDFC Bank. 
(m)	 HDFC Investments Limited and HDFC Holdings Limited 
are Systemically Important Non - Deposit Taking Non - 
Banking Financial Companies and are also wholly owned 
subsidiaries of HDFC Limited. The proposed amalgamation 
shall result in simplified corporate structure.
The Scheme is subject to receipt of requisite approvals, including 
from statutory and regulatory authorities, as required under 
applicable laws. The scheme has been filed with BSE Limited, 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited and Reserve Bank 
of India. 
Statement on Declaration by Independent Directors
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Mrs. Lily Vadera, Mr. Malay Patel, 
Mr. M. D. Ranganath, Mr. Sanjiv Sachar,  Mr. Sandeep Parekh, 
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari and Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi 
are the Independent Directors on the Board of the Bank as on 
March 31, 2022. 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 149 of the Act, the 
Independent Directors have submitted declarations that each of 
them meets the criteria of independence as provided in Section 
149(6) of the Act along with Rules framed thereunder and 
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015. There has been no change in the circumstances affecting 
their status as Independent Directors of the Bank. In the opinion 
of the Board, the Independent Directors possess the requisite 
integrity, experience, expertise and proficiency required under 
all applicable laws and the policies of the Bank.  
Board Performance Evaluation
The performance evaluation of the Board, Committees of the 
Board and the individual members of the Board (including the 
Chairman) for FY 2021-22, was carried out internally pursuant to 
the framework laid down by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee (NRC). A questionnaire for the evaluation of the 
Board, its Committees and the individual members of the Board 
(including the Chairman), designed in accordance with the said 
framework and covering various aspects of the performance 
of the Board and its Committees, including composition, roles 
and responsibilities, Board processes, Boardroom culture, 
adherence to Code of Conduct and Ethics, quality and flow of 
information, as well as measurement of performance in the areas 
of strength and areas of focus, as identified in the previous year's 
evaluation, was sent out to the Directors. The Committees were 
evaluated inter alia on parameters such as composition, terms of 
reference, quality of discussions, contribution to Board decisions 
and balance of agenda between the Committee and the Board. 
The responses received to the questionnaires on evaluation of 
the Board and its Committees were placed before the meeting 
of the Independent Directors for consideration. The assessment 
of performance of Non-Independent Directors on key personal 
and professional attributes was also carried out at the meeting 
of Independent Directors. The assessment of performance of 
the Independent Directors on the Board (including Chairman) 
was subsequently discussed by the Board. In addition to the 
above parameters, the Board also evaluated fulfillment of the 
independence criteria as specified in SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2015 by the 
Independent Directors of the Bank and their independence from 
the management. 
The evaluation brought out the cohesiveness of the Board, a 
Boardroom culture of trust and cooperation, and Boardroom 
discussions which are open, transparent and encourage diverse 
viewpoints. Other areas of strength included effective discharge 
of Board's roles and responsibilities. Some of the areas of focus 
for the Board going forward included increasing time dedicated 
to strategy- competitive positioning and benchmark, long term 
succession planning and talent management, improvement in 
Board processes and quality of information. The Board also 
noted that while there has been positive development in the 
areas of focus identified in the previous year's evaluation, efforts 
need to continue in that direction. The appropriate feedback 
was conveyed to the Board members and other concerned 
stakeholders, for suitable action.
Policy on Appointment and Remuneration of 
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
Your Bank has in place a Policy for appointment and fit and 
proper criteria for Directors of the Bank. The Policy lays down 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
157
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
the criteria for identification of persons who are qualified and 
‘fit and proper’ to become Directors on the Board- such as 
academic qualifications, competence, track record, integrity, etc. 
which shall be considered by the NRC while recommending 
appointment of Directors. The Policy is available on the website 
of the Bank at the link https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/
about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and-policies.
The remuneration of all employees of the Bank, including Whole 
Time Directors, Material Risk Takers, Key Managerial Personnel 
and Senior Management, is governed by the Compensation 
Policy of the Bank. The same is available at the web-link https://
www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
codes-and-policies. The Compensation Policy of the Bank, duly 
reviewed and recommended by the NRC has been articulated in 
line with the relevant Reserve Bank of India guidelines.
Your Bank’s Compensation Policy is aimed to attract, retain, 
reward and motivate talented individuals critical for achieving 
strategic goals and long term success. The Compensation 
Policy is aligned to business strategy, market dynamics, internal 
characteristics and complexities within the Bank. The ultimate 
objective is to provide a fair and transparent structure that helps 
the Bank to retain and acquire the talent pool critical to building 
competitive advantage and brand equity.
Your Bank’s approach is to have a “pay for performance” 
culture based on the belief that the Performance Management 
System provides a sound basis for assessing performance 
holistically. The compensation system should also take into 
account factors such as roles, skills / competencies, experience 
and grade / seniority to differentiate pay appropriately on the 
basis of contribution, skill and availability of talent on account 
of competitive market forces. The details of the Compensation 
Policy are also included in Note No. 25 of Schedule 18 forming 
part of the Accounts.
Non-Executive Directors are paid remuneration by way of sitting 
fees for attending meetings of the Board and its Committees, 
which are determined by the Board based on applicable 
regulatory prescriptions. 
Further, expenses incurred by them for attending meetings 
of the Board and Committees in person are reimbursed at 
actuals. Pursuant to the relevant RBI guidelines and approval 
of the shareholders, the Non-Executive Directors, other than 
the Chairperson, are paid fixed remuneration of ` 20,00,000 
(Rupees Twenty Lakh Only) per annum for each Non-Executive 
Director on proportionate basis.
Mr. Malay Patel, Independent Director of the Bank, is also an 
Independent Director on the Board of HDFC Securities Limited, 
subsidiary of the Bank. Mr. Patel receives sitting fees and 
reimbursement of expenses at actuals incurred for attending 
Board/ Committee meetings from the said subsidiary. None of 
the Directors of your Bank other than Mr. Patel is a director of 
the Bank’s subsidiaries as on March 31, 2022.
Succession Planning 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee ('NRC') and the 
Board of Directors (“the Board”), review succession planning 
and transitions at the Board and Senior Management levels. The 
Board composition and the desired skill sets/ areas of expertise 
at the Board level are continuously reviewed and vacancies, if 
any, are reviewed in advance through a systematic due diligence 
process. The recent appointment on the Board of Mrs. Lily 
Vadera as an Independent Director was done taking into account 
her skill sets/areas of expertise in the banking industry.
Succession planning at Senior Management levels, including 
business and assurance functions, is continuously reviewed to 
ensure continuity and depth of leadership at two levels below the 
Managing Director. Successors are identified prior to the Senior 
Management positions falling vacant, to ensure a smooth and 
seamless transition.  
Succession planning is a continuous process which is periodically 
reviewed by the NRC and the Board.
Significant and Material Orders Passed by 
Regulators 
1) 	
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) by an order dated May 27, 2021, 
levied a penalty of `10 cores (Rupees ten crores only) for 
marketing and sale of third-party non-financial products 
to the Bank’s auto loan customers, arising from a whistle 
blower complaint, which revealed, inter alia, contravention 
of Section 6(2) and Section 8 of the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949. The Bank has discontinued the sale of said 
third-party non-financial product since October 2019. 
The penalty was paid by the Bank.
2) 	
SEBI issued final order on January 21, 2021, levying a 
penalty of `1 crore on the Bank, in the matter of invocation 
of securities pledged by BMA Wealth Creators (BRH 
Wealth Kreators) for availing credit facilities. SEBI has also 
directed the Bank to transfer sale proceeds of ` 158.68 
crores on invocation of securities, along with interest to 
escrow account with a nationalised bank by marking lien 
in favour of SEBI. The Bank had challenged SEBI's order 
before SAT and SAT, vide its interim order, have stayed 
operation of SEBI’s order. SAT, vide its final order dated 
February 18, 2022, allowed the Bank’s appeal and quashed 
SEBI’s Order.
3) 	
RBI has issued an Order dated December 02, 2020 (“Order”) 
to HDFC Bank Limited (the “Bank”) with regard to certain 
incidents of outages in the internet banking/mobile banking/ 
payment utilities of the Bank over the past 2 years, including 

158
Directors’ Report
the outages in the Bank’s internet banking and payment 
system on November 21, 2020 due to a power failure in 
the primary data centre. RBI, vide above order, advised 
the Bank (a) to stop all digital business generating activities 
planned under its ‘Digital 2.0’ and proposed Business 
generating applications digital also imposed restrictions 
and (b) to stop sourcing of new credit card customers. 
The Bank has initiated remedial activities including fixing 
of staff accountability and the same were communicated 
to the RBI. Basis the Bank’s submission, RBI vide its letter 
dated August 17, 2021, has relaxed the restriction placed 
on sourcing of new credit cards customers and further vide 
its letter dated March 11, 2022 has lifted the restrictions on 
the business generating activities planned under the Bank’s 
Digital 2.0 program.
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
In compliance with Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
Mrs. Renu Karnad will retire by rotation at the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting and is eligible for re-appointment. A resolution 
seeking shareholders’ approval for her re-appointment forms 
a part of the Notice of this AGM. A brief resume is furnished 
in the report on Corporate Governance for the information 
of shareholders.
During the year, Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was appointed as the 
Part-time Chairman and Independent Director on the Board of 
the Bank with effect from May 5, 2021 and Mrs. Lily Vadera was 
appointed as an Independent Director on the Board of the Bank 
with effect from November 26, 2021.   
Further, Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as 
Non- Executive (Non-Independent) Director of the Bank, effective 
from February 18, 2022, citing potential future transactions/ 
arrangements which may materialize between the Bank and a 
company in which Mr. Nadhamuni may be interested. Your Board 
places on record its sincere appreciation for the contribution 
made by Mr. Nadhamuni during his tenure with the Bank and 
wishes him well in future endeavours.
Further, at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 
April 16, 2022, Mrs. Renu Karnad has been re-appointed as 
the Non-Executive Director (Nominee of Housing Development 
Finance Corporation Limited, promoter of the Bank) on the 
Board of the Bank, for a period of five (5) years with effect from 
September 3, 2022, subject to the approval of the shareholders 
at the ensuing AGM.
During the financial year 2021-22, there have been no changes 
in the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank other 
than the above.
Particulars of Employees
The information in terms of Section 197(12) of the Act read with 
Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is given in Annexure 5. 
Further, the statement containing particulars of employees as 
required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is given 
in an Annexure and forms part of this report. In terms of Section 
136(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, the annual report and the 
financial statements are being sent to the Members excluding 
the aforesaid Annexure. The Annexure is available for inspection 
and any Member interested in obtaining a copy of the Annexure 
may write to the Company Secretary of the Bank.
Conservation of Energy and Technology Absorption
Please refer to page no. 58 for information on Conservation of 
Energy and page no. 143 for information on Technology Absorption.
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
During the year, the total foreign exchange earned by the 
Bank was ` 3,907.9 crore (on account of net gains arising on 
all exchange / derivative transactions) and the total foreign 
exchange outgo was ` 2,248.3 crore towards the operating and 
capital expenditure requirements.
Secretarial Audit
In terms of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
Rules made thereunder, M/s. Alwyn Jay & Co., Company 
Secretaries were appointed as Secretarial Auditors of the Bank 
for the financial year 2021-22. The report of the Secretarial 
Auditors is enclosed as Annexure 6 to this Report. There are 
no observations/ qualifications/ comments in the Report of the 
Secretarial Auditor. 
Corporate Governance
In compliance with Regulation 34 and other applicable provisions 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, a separate 
report on Corporate Governance along with a certificate of 
compliance from the Secretarial Auditors, forms an integral part 
of this Report.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
159
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
The Bank’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
containing a report on its Corporate Social Responsibility 
Activities and Initiatives in the format adopted by companies in 
India as per the guidelines of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India in this regard forms an integral part of this report. 
Information under the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013
The relevant information is included in the Corporate 
Governance Report.
Acknowledgement
Your Directors would like to place on record their gratitude for 
all the guidance and co-operation received from the Reserve 
Bank of India and other government and regulatory agencies. 
Your Directors would also like to take this opportunity to express 
their appreciation for the hard work and dedicated efforts put 
in by the Bank’s employees and look forward to their continued 
contribution in building a ‘World Class Indian Bank.’
Conclusion
The year started in the shadow of the pandemic. The good news 
is that it more or less appears to be behind us. In no small 
measure due to the roll out of the vaccination programme. 
The recovery in health has been followed by clear signs of 
economic recovery with the country's GDP growing by 8.7 per 
cent in 2021-22 against a contraction of 6.6 per cent in the 
previous year. 
Headwinds have now appeared in the form of inflationary 
pressures due to a combination of supply chain disruptions 
and geopolitical tensions particularly the Ukraine crisis.  In an 
effort to contain inflation the RBI has hiked the Repo Rate by 90 
basis points in two announcements - an off cycle one on May 
4 and the June Policy- to 4.90 per cent. Notwithstanding these 
challenges the Indian economy is expected to be the fastest 
growing one in the world. That is clearly good news. 
Going forward, the Bank has a huge opportunity as India is 
still under penetrated when it comes to banking services. 
Your Bank clearly has certain factors in its favour : A strong 
balance sheet with among the lowest NPA levels in the industry 
and a trusted franchise. The regulators too have been kind. 
Our progress against our regulatory commitments over the past 
year has resulted in the lifting of the restrictions placed on new 
card acquisitions in August 2021, followed by the removal of the 
embargo on the Digital 2.0 program in March 2022. The Bank 
has also rolled out the Future Ready Strategy. All this will help 
the Bank move forward in the next level of its growth journey. 
It will do this by focusing on its five core values: Customer 
Focus, Operational Excellence, Product Leadership, People and 
Sustainability. And adhere to the highest standards of corporate 
governance as we continue to ‘Lead Responsibly’.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Atanu Chakraborty
Managing Director 
and CEO
Part-time Chairman and 
Independent Director
Mumbai, June 10, 2022

160
Directors’ Report
Annexure 1 to the Directors’ Report
The ESOP Schemes of the Bank are in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 [erstwhile Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) 
Regulations, 2014 (“the Regulations”)] and the details as per the Regulations and as required to be disclosed pursuant to sub rule 
(9) of Rule 12 of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014, are as under:
Schemes
Date of 
Share-
holders 
Approval
Total No 
of Options 
Approved 
Face value 
of ` 1/- each
Grant 
Price (`) 
FV ` 1/-
Options 
Opening 
balance 
FV ` 1/-
Options 
Granted  / 
Options 
Re-
instated 
FV ` 1/-
Options 
Vested FV 
` 1/-
Options 
Exercised 
& Shares 
Allotted of 
` 1/-
Options 
Forfeited
Options 
Lapsed
Total 
Options in 
Force as on 
March 31, 
2022
Plan C-ESOS XXIII
17th June, 2005
10,00,00,000
417.75
9,700
8,700
1,000
0
Plan F-ESOS XXIV
27th June, 2013
20,00,00,000
417.75
35,58,600
35,49,300
9,300
0
Plan F-ESOS XXV
27th June, 2013
20,00,00,000
546.33
1,55,16,200
1,03,12,000
0
61,100
51,43,100
Plan F-ESOS XXVII
27th June, 2013
20,00,00,000
716.6
1,58,68,540
34,32,004
0
45,800
1,23,90,736
Plan F-ESOS XXVIII
27th June, 2013
20,00,00,000
731.08
30,930
0
0
0
30,930
Plan G-ESOS XXIX 
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1030.6
2,95,53,280
63,81,300
1,20,27,590
2,74,000
149550
1,71,02,140
Plan G-ESOS XXX 
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1003.03
7,47,310
1,69,200
2,50,000
8,000
0
4,89,310
Plan G-ESOS XXXI
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1045.23
4,80,400
1,12,000
97100
0
0
3,83,300
Plan G -ESOS XXXII
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1107.18
5,26,800
1,24,700
133500
24400
0
3,68,900
Plan G -ESOS XXXIII
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1229
4,36,51,000
1,01,70,200
2227200
8,24,900
11600
4,05,87,300
Plan G -ESOS XXX1V
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
882.85
10,20,400
2,36,100
37800
29500
0
9,53,100
Plan G -ESOS XXXV
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1235.8
57205600
14173500
689300
1137700
0
55378600
Plan G -ESOS XXXVI
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1426.45
0
2,53,90,600
0
0
350000
0
25040600
Plan G -ESOS XXXVII
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1516.95
0
2,38,000
0
0
0
0
238000
Total :-
16,81,68,760
2,56,28,600
3,13,67,000
3,27,64,494
26,48,500
2,78,350 15,81,06,016
Options Exercised during FY 2021-22 
32,764,494
Share Capital Money received during FY 2021-22
3,27,64,494.00
Share Premium Money received during FY 2021-22
26,064,848,619.40
Perquisite Tax Amount collected during FY 2021-22
9,656,899,957.00
Total Amount collected during FY 2021-22
35,754,513,070.40
  Note: One (1) share of the face value of ` 1/- each would arise on exercise of One (1) Equity Stock Option
Vesting 
Requirements
Except for the death/ permanent disablement or retirement of the employee, the options will vest only if the employee is in the 
continuous and uninterrupted employment of the Bank as on the date of vesting.
Maximum Term of 
Options
Provided the employee is in the continuous and uninterrupted employment of the Bank, the options vested under the ESOP 
Schemes XXIII to ESOP Scheme XXVIII will lapse in case the same are not exercised by the employee within 4 years from 
the respective dates of vesting. However, for the grant of options under the ESOP Schemes XXIX to ESOP Scheme XXXVII, 
the vested options will lapse in case the same are not exercised by the employee within 2 years from the respective dates 
of vesting. 
In case of death/ permanent disablement or retirement of the employee to whom the options are granted, all unvested options 
shall get vested to the employee on the date of happening of such event and should be exercised within one year period or its 
lapse date whichever is earlier from the date of such event for options granted under ESOP Scheme XXIII to ESOP Scheme 
XXXV. However, in case of ESOP Scheme XXXVI to ESOP Scheme XXXVII the vesting will happen on date of such event and 
exercisable within two years from the occurrence of the event or its lapse date whichever is earlier.
Source of shares
Primary
Variation in terms 
of ESOS
The below modification was approved by Shareholders as a Special Resolution in the Annual General Meeting held on 
July 17, 2021. 
Amendment to the ESOS Plan D-2007, ESOS-Plan E-2010, ESOS-Plan F-2013 and ESOS-Plan G-2016, to incorporate the 
changes mentioned in the explanatory statement to the Notice of the AGM held on July 17, 2021.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
161
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
i.	
DETAILS OF OPTIONS GRANTED TO SENIOR MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL AND KMP*
S. No.
Name
Grade
Final Grant
1.
Anantharaman S**
Group Head
86,200
2.
Anjani Rathor
Group Head
1,03,700
3.
Arup Rakshit
Group Head
86,200
4.
Arvind Kapil
Group Head
1,03,700
5.
Arvind Vohra
Group Head
1,03,700
6.
Ashima Bhat
Group Head
1,03,700
7.
Ashish Parthasarthy
Group Head
1,03,700
8.
Benjamin Frank
Group Head
86,200
9.
Bhavesh Zaveri
Group Head
86,200
10.
Chakrapani Venkatachari
Group Head
86,200
11.
Jimmy Tata
Group Head
1,03,700
12.
Nirav Shah
Group Head
1,03,700
13.
Parag Rao
Group Head
1,03,700
14.
Rahul Shukla
Group Head
1,03,700
15.
Rakesh Singh
Group Head
1,03,700
16.
Ramesh Lakshminarayanan
Group Head
1,03,700
17.
Raveesh Bhatia
Group Head
86,200
18.
S Sampathkumar
Group Head
1,03,700
19.
Sanmoy Chakrabarti
Group Head
86,200
20.
Santosh Haldankar
Senior Vice President (Legal ) & Company Secretary
12,100
21.
Smita Bhagat
Group Head
1,03,700
22.
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Chief Financial Officer
1,03,700
23.
Vinay Razdan
Group Head
1,03,700
	
*  No ESOPs were granted to the Managing Director and Executive Director during FY 2021-22.
	
** Exited during the year
ii. Other employees who receive a grant in any one year of options amounting to 
5 % or more of options granted during that year
None
iii. Identified employees who were granted options, during any one year, equal to 
or exceeding 1 percent of the issued capital (excluding outstanding warrants and 
conversions)
None
iv. Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) pursuant to the issue of shares on exercise 
of option calculated in accordance with Accounting Standard (AS) - 20 (Earnings 
Per Share)
The diluted EPS of the Bank calculated after considering the 
effect of potential equity shares arising on account of exercise 
of options is ` 66.3
v.    Where the company has calculated the employee compensation cost using 
the intrinsic value of the stock options, the difference between the employee 
compensation cost so computed and the employee compensation cost that shall 
have been recognized if it had used the fair value of the options, shall be disclosed. 
The impact of this difference on profits and on EPS of the company shall also be 
disclosed
During the year, the compensation cost for options granted 
has been recognised basis the fair value of the options 
calculated based on the Black-Scholes model 
vi. Weighted average exercise prices and weighted average fair values of options 
shall be disclosed separately for options whose exercise price either equals or 
exceeds or is less than the market price of the stock options
The weighted average price of the stock options exercised 
is ` 796.5 and the weighted average fair value is ` 214.98 
vii. A description of the method and significant assumptions used during the year 
to estimate the fair value of options, at the time of grant including the following 
weighted average information:
The Bank adopted the Fair value method to account for the 
stock options it granted to the employees during the year. The 
Bank calculated the fair value of options at the time of grant, 
using Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions
I. Risk-free interest rate
4.38 percent to 6.07 percent

162
Directors’ Report
II. Expected life
1  to 6 years 
III. Expected volatility
23.86 percent to 38.70 percent
IV. Expected dividends
0.21 percent to 0.52 percent
V. The price of the underlying share in the market at the time of option grant
The market price per share was ` 1,426.45 and ` 1,518.05 
at the time of grant of options under ESOS XXXVI and ESOS 
XXXVII respectively.
VI. The weighted average market price of Bank’s shares on NSE at the time of 
option grant
` 1,422.61 and `1,524.49 at the time of grant of options 
under ESOS XXXVI and ESOS XXXVII respectively.
VII. Method used and assumptions made to incorporate effects of expected early 
exercise
The Black-Scholes model is used to calculate the fair value of 
options at the time of grant. 
VIII.  How expected volatility was determined, including explanation of the extent to 
which expected volatility was based on historical volatility
Stock expected volatility is completely based on GARCH 
volatility forecasting model using historical stock prices from 
the market.
IX.  Whether and how any other features of the option grant were incorporated into 
the measurement of fair value, such as a market condition
Stock price and risk free interest rate are variables based on 
actual market data at the time of ESOP valuation.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
163
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Annexure 2 to the Directors’ Report
1.	 Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company
The Bank’s CSR is implemented under the aegis of ‘Parivartan’ which is the umbrella brand for all the Bank's social initiatives. 
Parivartan aims to bring about a transformation in the communities in which the bank operates through multiple initiatives in the areas 
of Education, Skill training and livelihood enhancement, Health Care, Sports, Environmental Sustainability and Rural Development. 
The Bank's programs are guided by CSR Policy duly approved by the Board which is driven by the vision of “Creating Sustainable 
Communities”. The CSR policy and programs are aligned to comply with the requirements of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 
2013 and are monitored by a board level committee.
2.	 Composition of CSR and ESG Committee:
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation /Nature of Directorship 
Number of meetings of the 
Committee held during the 
year
Number of meetings of 
the Committee attended 
during the year
1
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari*
(Chairperson, Independent Director)
5
4
2
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi*
Independent Director
5
2
3
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
Executive Director
5
5
4
Mr. Malay Patel
Independent Director
5
5
5
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar
Independent Director
5
5
6
Mrs. Renu Karnad
Non-Executive Director
5
5
*During the year, Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi ceased to be a member of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021 while Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita 
Maheshwari was inducted as a member on the Committee with effect from June 9, 2021.
3.	
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR and ESG committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved 
by the board are disclosed on the website of the company: 
	
https://v1.hdfcbank.com/csr/index.aspx
4.	
Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of 
the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report): 
	
The Bank carried out 8 impact assessment studies in FY 2021-22 of which 2 impact assessment studies were mandated in 
compliance with the requirements of CSR Rules, additionally 6 impact assessment studies were conducted.
	
Below is the web link of mandatory impact assessment studies conducted: 
	
https://v1.hdfcbank.com/csr/our-commitment.aspx
5. 	 Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year, if any
Sl. 
No.
Financial Year
Amount available for set-off
from preceding financial
years (in `)
Amount required to be setoff
for the financial year, if
any (in `)
1
2020-21
7.05 Cr
0
Total
7.05 Cr
0
6. 	 Average net profit of the company as per section 135(5): ` 36,693 Cr
7.	
(a) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5): ` 733.86 Cr

164
Directors’ Report
 	
(b) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: ` 0
	
(c) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any: ` 0
	
(d) Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c): ` 733.86 Cr
8. 	 (a) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Total Amount
Spent for the
Financial Year.
(` Cr.)
Amount Unspent (in `)
Total Amount transferred to
Unspent CSR Account as per
section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under
Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
736.01
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
(b) Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
1
Promoting 
quality 
education
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh 
Varanasi
1
1.31
1.31
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
2
Support for 
school children
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Karauli
1
1.49
1.49
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustaintgable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259
3
Promoting 
quality 
education 
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes Rajasthan & 
J &K
Tonk, Dungarpur, 
Srinagar, Badgam, 
Anantnag, Jammu 
and Samba
1
3.55
3.55
NA
No
Bal Raksha 
Bharat 
CSR00000158
4
Promoting 
quality 
education
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Karnataka, 
Telangana, 
Andhra 
Pradesh
Tumkur, Medchal, 
Srikakulam, 
Vijayanagaram, 
Vishakhapattanam, 
Guntur, Prakasam, 
Nellore, Chittoor, 
Kadappa, 
Anantpuram, Kurnul, 
West Godavari, 
Krishna, East 
Godavari 
1
5.06
5.06
NA
No
Bal Raksha 
Bharat
CSR00000158
5
Educational 
Crisis 
Scholarship 
Support
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple districts 
1
8.3
8.3
NA
No
Buddy4study 
India 
Foundation
CSR00000121
6
Promoting 
quality 
education
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes Pan India
Multiple districts 
1
3.28
3.28
NA
No
Central 
Square 
Foundation
CSR00000107
7
Promoting 
quality 
education
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Delhi
Delhi
1
1.08
1.08
NA
No
Centum 
Foundation
CSR00000520

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
165
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
8
Smart School 
project
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Gujarat
Banaskantha 
3
0.12
0.12
NA
No
Collectives 
For 
Integrated 
Livelihood 
Initiatives
CSR00000508
9
Promoting 
quality 
education
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Himachal 
Pradesh
Shimla 
1
1
1
NA
No
Efrah- A 
Society 
For Social 
Welfare
CSR00004094
10
Entre-
preneurship 
Training 
Program
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Kerala & 
Tamil Nadu
Thiruvananthapuram, 
Kollam, Alappuzha, 
Kottayam, Idukki, 
Ernakulam, Thrissur, 
Virudhunagar, Vellore, 
Chennai, Tiruvallur, 
Kanchipuram, 
Madurai, Tirupur, 
Coimbatore, Karur, 
Namakkal, Salem, 
Dindigul, Siva Ganga, 
Erode, Tirunelveli, 
Pondicherry, 
Cuddalore 
1
1.08
1.08
NA
No
Ict Academy 
Of Tamilnadu
CSR00009157
11
Scholarship 
support 
program
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Haryana
Sonipat 
3
3.18
3.18
NA
No
International 
Foundation 
For Research 
And 
Education 
(Ifre)
CSR00000712
12
Student 
Learning 
improvement 
program 
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple districts 
4
1.99
1.99
NA
No
Khan 
Academy 
India
CSR00001762
13
Anando
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Yavatmal 
3
0.09
0.09
NA
No
Light Of Life 
Trust
CSR00000156
14
Support for 
school children
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Raigad 
3
0.09
0.08
NA
No
Light Of Life 
Trust
CSR00000156
15
Project Utkarsh Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Jaipur 
2
0.15
0.15
NA
No
Moinee 
Foundation
CSR00000043
16
Project Utkarsh Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Bikaner 
1
1.2
1.2
NA
No
Moinee 
Foundation
CSR00000043
17
Promoting 
quality 
education
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Maharashtra Mumbai 
1
0.3
0.3
NA
No
Save The 
Children 
India
CSR00000158
18
Upgradation 
of government 
schools
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Punjab
Ludhiana
1
1.01
1.01
NA
No
Society For 
Action In 
Community 
Health
CSR00000283
19
Zero 
Investment 
Innovation 
for Education 
initiatives 
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple districts 
5
10.31
10.31
NA
No 
Sri Aurobindo 
Society
CSR00000200

166
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
20
Promoting 
quality 
education 
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Jharkhand
Singhbhum
1
2
2
NA
No
Tata Steel 
Foundation
CSR00001142
21
Digital 
Equalizer
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai 
3
0.67
0.67
NA
No
The 
American 
India 
Foundation 
Trust
CSR00001977
22
Promoting 
quality 
education 
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Odisha & 
Jharkhand 
Naupada, Balangir, 
East Singhbhum 
3
2.65
2.65
NA
No
The 
American 
India 
Foundation 
Trust
CSR00001977
23
Promoting 
quality 
education 
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple projects 
2
4
4
NA
No
The 
American 
India 
Foundation 
Trust
CSR00001977
24
Promoting 
quality 
education 
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Maharashtra, 
Haryana, 
and Punjab 
Thane, Mumbai, 
Oune, Kurukshetra, 
Panchkula, 
Phagwara 
3
0.23
0.22
NA
No
Udayan Care
CSR00000619
25
Promoting 
quality 
education 
Promoting 
Education (ii)
Yes
Jharkhand
Ranchi, Khunti, 
Bokaro and Dhanbad 
3
4
4
NA
No
Wockhardt 
Foundation
CSR00000161
26
Plastic Waste 
Management
Preventive 
and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh and 
Maharashtra
Gwalior and Thane 
3
0.41
0.41
NA
No
Centre For 
Environment 
Education 
(Cee) Society 
Ahmedabad
CSR00001260
27
Plastic Waste 
Management
Preventive 
and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Assam and 
Bihar
Kamrup, Samastipur 
and Patna 
3
0.51
0.51
NA
No
Centre For 
Environment 
Education 
(Cee) Society 
Ahmedabad
CSR00001260
28
Plastic Waste 
Management
Preventive 
and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Andhra 
Pradesh and 
Telangana
Rajanna Sircilla NTR 
Krishna 
3
0.39
0.39
NA
No
Centre For 
Environment 
Education 
(Cee) Society 
Ahmedabad
CSR00001260
29
Plastic Waste 
Management
Preventive 
and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Punjab and 
Jammu & 
Kashmir 
Ludhiana, Jammu 
and Leh 
3
0.44
0.44
NA
No
Centre For 
Environment 
Education 
(Cee) Society 
Ahmedabad
CSR00001260
30
Plastic Waste 
Management
Preventive 
and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Jharkhand
Ranchi and Khorda 
3
0.41
0.41
NA
No
Centre For 
Environment 
Education 
(Cee) Society 
Ahmedabad
CSR00001260

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
167
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
31
Plastic Waste 
Management
Preventive 
and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Odisha
Ganjam and Sarguja 
3
0.12
0.12
NA
No
Centre For 
Environment 
Education 
(Cee) Society 
Ahmedabad
CSR00001260
32
Solid waste 
management 
Preventive 
and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Goa and 
Uttarakhand 
Panjim, Rishikesh, 
Haldwani, Dehradun 
and Uttarkashi 
4
2
2
NA
No
Charities Aid 
Foundation 
India
CSR00001692
33
Solid Waste 
Management
Preventive 
and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Himachal 
Pradesh
Dharamshala
3
1.11
1.11
NA
No
Waste 
Warriors
CSR00002589
34
Trauma Care 
upskilling 
program  
Preventive 
and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Gujarat 
Ahmedabad, 
Vadodara, Surat, 
Bhuj, Gandhidham, 
Rajkot and 
Bhavnagar 
1
0.09
0.09
NA
No
Lifeline 
Foundation
CSR00005458
35
Mental Health 
Program 
Preventive 
and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
PAN India 
Multiple districts 
1
0.09
0.09
NA
No
The Live 
Love Laugh 
Foundation
CSR00012198
36
Covid relief 
program 
Preventive 
and Curative 
Healthcare 
(i)/ Disaster 
Management 
(xii)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple districts 
2
1.74
1.74
NA
Yes 
Direct 
NA
37
Covid relief 
program 
Preventive 
and Curative 
Healthcare 
(i)/ Disaster 
Management 
(xii)
Yes
PAN India
Multiple districts 
2
17.73
17.73
NA
Yes 
Direct 
NA
38
Covid relief 
program 
Preventive 
and Curative 
Healthcare 
(i)/ Disaster 
Management 
(xii)
Yes
Maharashtra Mumbai
2
0.09
0.09
NA
Yes
Direct 
NA
39
Covid relief 
program 
Preventive 
and Curative 
Healthcare 
(i)/ Disaster 
Management 
(xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
2
0.21
0.21
NA
Yes
Direct
NA
40
Natural 
Resource 
Management 
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
Punjab
Firozpur 
1
0.44
0.44
NA
No
Aiilsg
CSR00000373
41
Natural 
Resource 
Management 
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
Chhattisgarh Korba 
3
0.31
0.31
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation 
CSR00006913

168
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
42
Solar Energy 
Project  
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
Uttarakhand
Haridwar  
1
1.8
1.8
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation 
CSR00006913
43
Natural 
Resource 
Management 
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
Rajasthan
Jhadol 
3
0.17
0.17
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihood 
And 
Development 
(Bisld)
CSR00000259
44
Water Supply 
Management
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
Karnataka
Chikkaballapur
3
0.74
0.74
NA
No
Foundation 
For 
Ecological 
Security
CSR00000637
45
Natural 
Resource 
Management
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
Rajasthan
Chittorgarh 
3
0.5
0.5
NA
No
Foundation 
For 
Ecological 
Security (Fes)
CSR00000637
46
Plastic Waste 
Management
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
Assam 
Golaghat 
2
5.9
5.9
NA
No
Gramin Vikas 
Trust
CSR00000633
47
Natural 
Resource 
Management 
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
Rajasthan
Banswara
1
0.8
0.8
NA
No
Nm Sadguru 
Water And 
Development 
Foundation
CSR00000285
48
Tree plantation
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
PAN INDIA
Multiple districts 
1
8
8
NA
Yes
Direct
NA
49
Solar 
streetlights 
installation  
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Raigarh, 
Kondagaon,Bastar 
1
1.3
1.3
NA
No
Professional 
Assistance 
For 
Development 
Action
CSR00000973
50
Natural 
Resource 
Management 
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
Rajasthan
Pratapgarh 
3
0.96
0.96
NA
No
Self Reliant 
Initiatives 
Through 
Joint Action 
(Srijan)
CSR00001911
51
Natural 
Resource 
Management 
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
Uttarakhand, 
Assam, 
Odisha, 
Nainital, Biswanath 
Charali Khorda 
3
2.16
2.16
NA
No
Society 
For The 
Upliftment Of 
Villagers & 
Development 
Of Himalayan 
Areas 
(Suvidha)
CSR00000399
52
Natural 
Resource 
Management 
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
Jharkhand
East Singhum 
1
0.44
0.44
NA
No
Tata Steel 
Foundation
CSR00001142

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
169
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
53
Natural 
Resource 
Management 
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
Uttarakhand
Chamoli
1
0.8
0.8
NA
No
Himmotthan 
Society
CSR00000081
54
Solar Panel 
Installation 
Ensuring 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
(iv) 
Yes
Maharashtra Mumbai 
2
0.02
0.02
NA
No
United Way 
Of Mumbai 
CSR00000762
55
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Gujarat
Surendranagar & 
Dang
3
0.28
0.28
NA
No
Aga Khan 
Rural 
Support 
Programme 
India
CSR00004229
56
Livelihood 
enhancement 
of farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Harda
1
1.91
1.91
NA
No
Aga Khan 
Rural 
Support 
Programme 
India
CSR00004229
57
Skill training to 
youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
3
0.3
0.3
NA
No
All India 
Institute Of 
Local Self 
Government
CSR00000373
58
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Gujarat
Junagadh
3
0.11
0.11
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
59
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Uttarakhand Haridwar
1
1.01
1.01
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
60
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for women
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
PUNJAB
Muktsar
3
0.82
0.82
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
61
Skill Training for 
youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Bilaspur
3
0.3
0.3
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
62
Skill training of 
youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Noida
3
1.04
1.04
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
63
Skill Training 
Program for 
Youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Lucknow
1
0.49
0.49
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913

170
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
64
Skill Training 
Program for 
Youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Uttarakhand Haridwar
3
1.7
1.68
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
65
Skill Training 
and Livelihood 
Enhancement 
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple District
3
0.51
0.51
NA
No
Anudip 
Foundation 
For Social 
Welfare
CSR00000060
66
Skill Training for 
youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple District
1
2
2
NA
No
Apparel 
Made Ups 
And Home 
Furnishing 
Sector Skill 
Council
CSR00000393
67
Training of 
youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple District
1
7.18
7.18
NA
No
Apparel 
Made Ups 
And Home 
Furnishing 
Sector Skill 
Council
CSR00000393
68
Skill training of 
youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Himachal 
Pradesh
Sirmaur
3
1.5
1.5
NA
No
Appropriate 
Technology 
India
CSR00000392
69
Integrated 
Watershed 
Management 
and Enterprise 
Development 
Program
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Meghalaya
West Jayantya 
4
0.94
0.94
NA
No
Aroh 
Foundation
CSR00000044
70
Integrated 
Livestock 
Development
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Osmanabad
2
0.91
0.91
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259
71
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Raebareli
3
0.6
0.6
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259
72
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh & 
Ditricts 
Multiple districts s
3
0.5
0.5
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
171
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
73
Livelihood 
enhancement 
of farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Andhra 
pradesh
Telangana - 
Rangareddy, 
Vikarabad, 
Mahabubnagar, AP - 
Prakasham, Guntur
3
1.03
1.03
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259
74
Livelihood 
enhancement 
of farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Mandsaur 
3
0.2
0.2
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259
75
Livestock 
development 
program
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Karnataka
Haveri, Dharwad, 
Davangere, 
Gadag, Vijayapura, 
Bagalkote, Ballary, 
and Belgaum
3
0.94
0.94
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259
76
Skills Training 
and Livelihood 
Enhancement
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Odisha
Sambalpur
0.34
0.34
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259
77
Promoting 
community led 
enterprises
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Ladakh
Leh, Kargil
3
1.41
1.41
NA
No
Barefoot 
College 
International
CSR00011699
78
Livelihood 
enhancement 
of farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Andhra 
pradesh
Krishna
3
0.16
0.15
NA
No
Bharatiya 
Yuva Shakti 
Trust
CSR00001952
79
Livelihood 
enhancement 
of farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Telangana
Hydrabad, 
Rangareddy
3
0.13
0.12
NA
No
Bharatiya 
Yuva Shakti 
Trust
CSR00001952
80
Livelihood 
Promotion for 
Farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Satara
1
1.44
1.44
NA
No
Bharatiya 
Yuva Shakti 
Trust
CSR00001952
81
Livelihood 
Promotion for 
Farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Gujarat
Chhota Udepur
1
1.73
1.73
NA
No
Care India 
Solutions For 
Sustainable 
Development
CSR00000786
82
Livelihood 
Promotion for 
Farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Damoh
1
1.85
1.85
NA
No
Care India 
Solutions For 
Sustainable 
Development
CSR00000786

172
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
83
Livelihood 
Promotion for 
Farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
PUNJAB
Bathinda
1
2.26
2.23
NA
No
Care India 
Solutions For 
Sustainable 
Development
CSR00000786
84
Skill Training 
Program for 
Youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Karnataka
Dharwad
2
3.61
3.61
NA
No
Deshpande 
Foundation.
CSR00001646
85
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for women
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Aurangabad, 
Beed, Nanded, 
Osmanabad, Hingoli
3
0.51
0.51
NA
No
Dhan 
Foundation
CSR00000273
86
Livelihood 
Promotion for 
Farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Tamilnadu
Sivaganga
1
1.66
1.66
NA
No
Dhan 
Foundation
CSR00000273
87
Skill training of 
Persons with 
Disabilities
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Tamilnadu 
and Kerala
Chennai and Kochi
3
0.22
0.22
NA
No
Dr Reddys 
Foundation
CSR00000794
88
Skill training of 
youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Gujarat
Rajkot & Navsari
3
0.36
0.36
NA
No
Dr Reddys 
Foundation
CSR00000794
89
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Uttarakhand Champawat
3
1.23
1.23
NA
No
End Poverty
CSR00000314
90
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for tribals
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Gujarat
Mahisagar
3
0.87
0.87
NA
No
Foundation 
For 
Ecological 
Security
CSR00000637
91
Livelihood 
Promotion 
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Bhilwara
1
1.68
1.68
NA
No
Foundation 
For 
Ecological 
Security
CSR00000637
92
Skill Training for 
Youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
1
0.4
0.4
NA
No
Friends 
Union For 
Energizing 
Lives
CSR00000051

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
173
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
93
Skill Training 
Program for 
Youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Chandigarh
Chandigarh
3
2.12
2.12
NA
No
Friends 
Union For 
Energizing 
Lives
CSR00000051
94
Skill Training 
Program for 
Youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Pune
1
2.97
2.97
NA
No
Friends 
Union For 
Energizing 
Lives
CSR00000051
95
Skills Training 
and Livelihood 
Enhancement
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Odisha
Bhuvaneshwar
2
0.93
0.93
NA
No
Friends 
Union For 
Energizing 
Lives
CSR00000051
96
 Livelihood 
enhancement 
for women
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Assam
Darang
3
0.14
0.12
NA
No
Fxb India 
Suraksha
CSR00000076
97
Skill 
Enhancement 
of Youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple District
3
0.82
0.82
NA
No
Head 
Held High 
Foundation
CSR00000919
98
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Uttarakhand Uttarkashi
3
0.81
0.8
NA
No
Himalayan 
Action 
Research 
Centre
CSR00008707
99
Farmers 
training 
program
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Jammu and 
Kashmir
Ladakh
3
1.69
1.69
NA
No
Himmotthan 
Society
CSR00000081
100 Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Chamoli
1
1.03
1.03
NA
No
Himmotthan 
Society
CSR00000081
101 Skill Training for 
Youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Kerala
Palakkad
3
1.4
1.4
NA
No
Iit Palakkad
CSR00006228
102 Skill training for 
farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Jammu and 
Kashmir
Kupwara,Gandebal, 
Baramula, Budgam, 
Shopian, Pulwama
3
1.2
1.2
NA
No
Indian 
Society Of 
Agribusiness 
Professionals
CSR00000109

174
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
103 Livelihood 
enhancement 
for artisans and 
farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Jammu and 
Kashmir
Kashmir
3
0.72
0.72
NA
No
Indo Global 
Social 
Service 
Society
CSR00001677
104 Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Karnataka
Hassan, 
Chikmangular  
Shivmogga Madurai, 
Myladuriathurai, 
Nagapatinam, 
Tirunelveli, Tuticorn
3
3.58
3.58
NA
No
Indus Tree 
Crafts 
Foundation
CSR00000571
105 Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Jharkhand
Ranchi (Regional 
Project)
1
1.28
1.28
NA
No
Kgvk
CSR00000159
106 Entrepreneurial 
skill 
development 
for women
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Odisha
Kandamal 
3
0.96
0.96
NA
No
Kiit 
Technology 
Business 
Incubator
CSR00002635
107 Skills Training 
and Livelihood 
Enhancement
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Odisha
Sambalpur
3
0.2
0.2
NA
No
Mahashakti 
Foundation
CSR00002561
108 Value chain 
development 
for fisher 
women
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Karnataka
Uttra Kannada, 
Uduppi
3
0.3
0.3
NA
No
Manuvikasa
CSR00002730
109 Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for women
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
3
0.45
0.45
NA
No
New 
Resolution 
India
CSR00000754
110 Skill Training for 
youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Chandigarh
Chandigarh
1
1.21
1.21
NA
No
Orion 
Educational 
Society
CSR00000597
111 Training of 
nurses
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Jharkhand
Gumla, Ranchi, West 
Singhbhum
1
2.69
2.69
NA
No
Paniit Alumni 
Reach 
For India 
Foundation
CSR00000005
112 Skill training for 
farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Udaipur
3
0.47
0.47
NA
No
Professional 
Assistance 
For 
Development 
Action
CSR00000973

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
175
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
113 Skill training for 
farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Bihar
Kisangunj, Jamui, 
Banka & Samstipur
3
0.39
0.39
NA
No
Professional 
Assistance 
For 
Development 
Action
CSR00000973
114 Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for women
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Dhamtari
3
1.13
1.13
NA
No
Professional 
Assistance 
For 
Development 
Action
CSR00000973
115 Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for women
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Raigarh
3
1.84
1.84
NA
No
Professional 
Assistance 
For 
Development 
Action
CSR00000973
116 Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for women
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Panna and 
Chattarpur 
3
1.2
1.2
NA
No
Professional 
Assistance 
For 
Development 
Action
CSR00000973
117 Livelihood 
Promotion for 
Farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Bastar
3
1.6
1.6
NA
No
Professional 
Assistance 
For 
Development 
Action
CSR00000973
118 Livelihood 
Promotion for 
Farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Jharkhand
Dumka
1
1.96
1.96
NA
No
Professional 
Assistance 
For 
Development 
Action
CSR00000973
119 Skills Training 
and Livelihood 
Enhancement
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
West bengal
Bankura
3
0.72
0.71
NA
No
Professional 
Assistance 
For 
Development 
Action
CSR00000973
120 Skills Training 
and Livelihood 
Enhancement
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
West bengal
Purulia 
3
0.82
0.82
NA
No
Professional 
Assistance 
For 
Development 
Action
CSR00000973
121 Skill training for 
artisans
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Palghar
3
0.23
0.23
NA
No
Raah 
Foundation
CSR00003673
122 Skill Training for 
Health workers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai, Pune, 
Satara, Udipi, Goa
1
0.08
0.08
NA
No
Red Dot 
Foundation
CSR00005987

176
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
123 Farmers 
training 
program
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Himachal 
Pradesh
Mandi
3
1.68
1.68
NA
No
Sanjeevani 
Vikas Evam 
Jan Kalyan 
Samiti
CSR00000466
124 Skill training for 
youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Varanasi
1
0.4
0.33
NA
No
Sarthak 
Educational 
Trust
CSR00001093
125 Skill training of 
disabled youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Kerala
Thiruvananpuram
1
0.35
0.34
NA
No
Sarthak 
Educational 
Trust
CSR00001093
126 Skill training for 
farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Jharkhand 
and Bihar 
Khunti, Muzaffarpur, 
Vaishali, Gaya, 
Jehanabad, 
Samstipur, Nawada
3
1.18
1.18
NA
No
Sarva Seva 
Samity 
Sanstha
CSR00000224
127 Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
chitrakoot
3
0.69
0.69
NA
No
Self Reliant 
Initiatives 
Through 
Joint Action
CSR00001911
128 Livelihood 
Promotion for 
Farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Baran
3
2.85
2.85
NA
No
Self Reliant 
Initiatives 
Through 
Joint Action
CSR00001911
129 Skill Training for 
Women
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple District
1
12
12
NA
No
Society For 
Development 
Alternatives
CSR00000829
130 Livelihood 
Development 
through 
Organic 
Agriculture
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Assam, 
Meghalaya, 
Odisha and 
Bihar 
Golaghat, Ri 
Bhoi, Khorda and 
Darbhanga 
3
3.45
3.44
NA
No
Suvidha..
CSR00000399
131 Skill training of 
youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra 
& Goa 
Nagpur and North 
Goa  
3
0.11
0.11
NA
No
Tata 
Community 
Initiatives 
Trust
CSR00002739
132 Livelihood 
Promotion for 
Farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Gujarat
Dahod
1
1.46
1.46
NA
No
Tata 
Education 
And 
Development 
Trust
CSR00003775

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
177
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
133 Livelihood 
Promotion for 
Farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Jharkhand
Dumka
1
1.02
0.7
NA
No
Tata 
Education 
And 
Development 
Trust
CSR00003775
134 Livelihood 
Promotion for 
Farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Odisha
Kalahandi
1
0.21
0.21
NA
No
Tata 
Education 
And 
Development 
Trust
CSR00003775
135 Livelihood 
Promotion for 
Farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Uttarakhand Pitthoragarh
1
0.5
0.5
NA
No
Tata 
Education 
And 
Development 
Trust
CSR00003775
136 Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for socially 
excluded and 
stigmatised 
populations 
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
3
0.29
0.29
NA
No
Tata Institute 
Of Social 
Sciences, 
Mumbai
CSR00003475
137 Skill Training for 
Youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Jharkhand
Kharsawan
3
0.9
0.9
NA
No
Tata Steel 
Foundation
CSR00001142
138 Livelihood 
Promotion for 
Farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Ratnagiri
1
0.91
0.91
NA
No
The Pride 
India
CSR00001069
139 Skill training for 
farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Y Yes 
es 
es
Jharkhand
Simdega, Ranchi
3
0.33
0.33
NA
No
Transforming 
Rural India 
Foundation
CSR00000421
140 Skill training of 
youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Delhi NCR 
and UP
Delhi, Gautam 
Buddha Nagar and 
Ghaziabad
1
0.21
0.21
NA
No
Udayan Care
CSR00000619
141 Livelihood 
Promotion for 
Farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Madhopur
1
0.28
0.28
NA
No
Udyogini
CSR00001487
142 Skill training of 
youth
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple District
3
4.87
4.87
NA
No
United Way 
Of Delhi
CSR00000216

178
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
143 Women and 
farmers training 
program
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Bikaner
3
2.32
2.32
NA
No
Urmul 
Seemant 
Samiti
CSR00000567
144 Farmers 
training 
program
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Jharkhand
Gumla
3
0.95
0.95
NA
No
Vikas 
Samvad 
Samiti
CSR00000367
145 Livelihood 
Enhancement 
for farmers
Vocational 
Training and 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Telangana
Mulungu
2
1.62
1.62
NA
No
Vrutti
CSR00000538
146 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Chindwada
4
0.02
0.02
NA
No
Watershed 
Organisation 
Trust
CSR00000518
147 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Sagar
2
0.73
0.73
NA
No
Abhyuday 
Sansthan
CSR00000495
148 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Ratlam
4
0.19
0.19
NA
No
Baif 
Development 
Research 
Foundation
CSR00000308
149 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Assam
Kamrup
4
0.07
0.07
NA
No
Fxb India 
Suraksha
CSR00000076
150 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Assam
Nalbari
4
0.29
0.29
NA
No
Gramya 
Vikash 
Mancha
CSR00000407
151 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Odisha
Nayagarh
4
1.42
1.42
NA
No
Gram Vikas
CSR00000596
152 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
PUNJAB
Amritsar
4
0.17
0.17
NA
No
Shramik 
Bharti
CSR00000332
153 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
PUNJAB
Fazilka
4
0.52
0.52
NA
No
Centre For 
Advance 
Research 
And 
Development
CSR00000339
154 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttarakhand Haridwar
4
1.57
1.57
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
155 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Shahdol
4
2.18
2.18
NA
No
Action 
For Social 
Advan-
Cement (Asa)
CSR00001213
156 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Meghalaya
Ri-Bhoi
4
0.72
0.72
NA
No
Fxb India 
Suraksha
CSR00000076

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
179
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
157 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Dhamtari
4
0.48
0.46
NA
No
Gramin Vikas 
Trust
CSR00000633
158 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Khunti
4
1.84
1.84
NA
No
Network For 
Enterprise 
Enhan-
Cement And 
Develop-
Ment 
Support 
Needs
CSR00002858
159 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Odisha
Rayagada
4
1.97
1.97
NA
No
Prayatn 
Sanstha
CSR00000483
160 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Bihar
Vaishali
4
0.53
0.53
NA
No
Aga Khan 
Rural 
Support 
Programme 
India
CSR00004229
161 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Ramgarh
4
3
3
NA
No
Kgvk
CSR00000159
162 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Haryana 
Mahendragarh
4
0.64
0.64
NA
No
S M Sehgal 
Foundation
CSR00000262
163 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Assam
Dhemaji
3
0.16
0.16
NA
No
World Vision 
India
CSR00004211
164 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Barabanki
4
1.47
1.46
NA
No
Aga Khan 
Foundation
CSR00008713
165 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Satara
3
0.09
0.09
NA
No
Action For 
Agricultural 
Renewal In 
Maharashtra 
Afarm
CSR00000092
166 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Dhule
3
0.14
0.14
NA
No
Vikas Sahyog 
Pratishthan
CSR00001779
167 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Kerala
Idukki, Wayanadu, 
Alapuzha, Kottayam, 
Pathanamthitta, 
Ernakulam
3
1.27
1.27
NA
No
M S 
Swaminathan 
Research 
Foundation
CSR00000470
168 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Nanded
3
1.42
1.42
NA
No
Centre For 
Advance 
Research 
And 
Development
CSR00000339
169 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Gujarat
Sabarkantha
4
3.04
3.04
NA
No
Collectives 
For 
Integrated 
Livelihood 
Initiatives
CSR00000508

180
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
170 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Gujarat
Narmada
3
1.73
1.73
NA
No
Aga Khan 
Rural 
Support 
Programme 
India
CSR00004229
171 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Gujarat
Kheda
3
1.66
1.66
NA
No
Foundation 
For 
Ecological 
Security
CSR00000637
172 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Dumka
4
3.06
3.06
NA
No
Professional 
Assistance 
For 
Development 
Action
CSR00000973
173 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Assam
Kamrup
3
2.16
2.16
NA
No
Citizens 
Foundation
CSR00000589
174 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Rajasthan
Jaisalmer
3
1.86
1.86
NA
No
Urmul Rural 
Health 
Research 
And 
Development 
Trust
CSR00000546
175 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Karnataka
Gulberga, Bidar, 
Raichur
3
2.65
2.65
NA
No
Myrada
CSR00001099
176 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Prayagraj (Allahabad)
3
1.88
1.88
NA
No
Peoples 
Action For 
National 
Integration
CSR00000125
177 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Rajasthan
Dhaulpur
3
1.95
1.95
NA
No
Manjari 
Foundation
CSR00000074
178 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Rajasthan
Karauli
3
1.64
1.64
NA
No
Udyogini
CSR00001487
179 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Haryana
Yamunanagar
4
1.88
1.88
NA
No
Centre For 
Advance 
Research 
And 
Development
CSR00000339
180 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Surguja
3
0.46
0.46
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
181 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Barwani
3
1.37
1.37
NA
No
Aga Khan 
Rural 
Support 
Programme 
India
CSR00004229

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
181
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
182 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Bilaspur
3
0.48
0.48
NA
No
National 
Institute Of 
Women Child 
And Youth 
Development
CSR00000206
183 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Korea(Koriya)
3
0.77
0.77
NA
No
Watershed 
Organisation 
Trust
CSR00000518
184 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Kanker
3
0.48
0.48
NA
No
Udyogini
CSR00001487
185 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Yawatmal
3
1.49
1.49
NA
No
Sanjeevani 
Inst. For 
Empower-
Ment & 
Develop-
Ment
CSR00000270
186 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Balod
3
0.57
0.53
NA
No
Vrutti
CSR00000538
187 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Rajasthan
Dausa
2
2.12
2.11
NA
No
Baif 
Development 
Research 
Foundation
CSR00000308
188 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Palghar
2
1.09
1.09
NA
No
All India 
Institute Of 
Local Self 
Government
CSR00000373
189 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Vidisha
2
2.52
2.52
NA
No
Arpan Seva 
Sansthan
CSR00000826
190 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Janjgir-Champa
3
1.17
1.17
NA
No
Indo Global 
Social 
Service 
Society
CSR00001677
191 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Himachal 
Pradesh
Kangra
3
2.32
2.32
NA
No
Peoples 
Action For 
National 
Integration
CSR00000125
192 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Assam
Darang
3
1.65
1.65
NA
No
Fxb India 
Suraksha
CSR00000076
193 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Kabeerdham
3
0.77
0.77
NA
No
Aroh 
Foundation
CSR00000044
194 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Jashpur
3
1.59
1.59
NA
No
Self Reliant 
Initiatives 
Through 
Joint Action
CSR00001911
195 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Meghalaya
East Khasi 
3
1.45
1.45
NA
No
Aroh 
Foundation
CSR00000044

182
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
196 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Assam
Vishwanath Chirali
4
2.14
2.14
NA
No
Suvidha..
CSR00000399
197 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Rajasthan
Pali
2
1.52
1.52
NA
No
Self Reliant 
Initiatives 
Through 
Joint Action
CSR00001911
198 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Rajasthan
Rajasmand
2
2.17
2.17
NA
No
Seva Mandir
CSR00000288
199 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Durg
2
4.14
4.14
NA
No
Care India 
Solutions For 
Sustainable 
Development
CSR00000786
200 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Khandwa
3
1.26
1.26
NA
No
Indo Global 
Social 
Service 
Society
CSR00001677
201 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Khargone
3
2.32
2.32
NA
No
Suvidha..
CSR00000399
202 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Hazaribagh
4
2.89
2.89
NA
No
Kgvk
CSR00000159
203 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Sikkim
East Sikkim
2
1.54
1.54
NA
No
Citizens 
Foundation
CSR00000589
204 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Bihar
Nalanda
4
1.89
1.89
NA
No
Oxfam India
CSR00000839
205 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Gujarat
Somnath
3
0.73
0.73
NA
No
Tns India 
Foundation
CSR00001337
206 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Odisha
Koraput
3
1.26
1.26
NA
No
Foundation 
For 
Ecological 
Security
CSR00000637
207 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Jalna
3
3.47
3.47
NA
No
Watershed 
Organisation 
Trust
CSR00000518
208 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Osmanabad
3
1.27
1.27
NA
No
Cohesion 
Foundation 
Trust
CSR00000148
209 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Ujjain
2
1.81
1.81
NA
No
Action 
For Social 
Advance-
Ment (Asa)
CSR00001213
210 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Rajasthan
Dholpur
1
0.31
0.31
NA
No
Manjari 
Foundation
CSR00000074

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
183
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
211 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Balrampur
3
1.82
1.82
NA
No
Udyogini
CSR00001487
212 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Surajpur
2
1.45
1.45
NA
No
Indo Global 
Social 
Service 
Society
CSR00001677
213 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Sarguja
3
0.92
0.92
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
214 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
PUNJAB
Patiala
2
2.5
2.5
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
215 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Assam
Lakhimpur
1
1.69
1.69
NA
No
Indo Global 
Social 
Service 
Society
CSR00001677
216 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Gariaband
2
1.41
1.4
NA
No
National 
Institute Of 
Women Child 
And Youth 
Development
CSR00000206
217 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Gorakhpur
3
2.49
2.49
NA
No
Peoples 
Action For 
National 
Integration
CSR00000748
218 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Varanasi
1
1.28
1.28
NA
No
Aroh 
Foundation
CSR00000044
219 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Burhanpur
2
1.74
1.64
NA
No
Aga Khan 
Rural 
Support 
Programme 
India
CSR00004229
220 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Ranchi
1
0.36
0.36
NA
No
Nav Bharat 
Jagriti 
Kendra
CSR00001693
221 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Meghalaya
Ri-Bhoi
2
2.73
2.73
NA
No
Society For 
Action In 
Community 
Health
CSR00000283
222 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Haryana
Nuh
3
1.77
1.77
NA
No
S M Sehgal 
Foundation
CSR00000262
223 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Bahraich
3
1.8
1.8
NA
No
Aga Khan 
Foundation
CSR00008713
224 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Rajasthan
Alwar
2
1.83
1.83
NA
No
Ibtada
CSR00002333

184
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
225 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttarakhand Almora
3
2.76
2.76
NA
No
Himmotthan 
Society
CSR00000081
226 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Jhabua
3
0.9
0.9
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259
227 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Bihar
Gaya
1
1.93
1.93
NA
No
Nav Jagriti
CSR00000824
228 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Guna
1
1.32
1.32
NA
No
End Poverty
CSR00000314
229 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Chandrapur
1
1.63
1.63
NA
No
Krushi Vikas 
Va Gramin 
Prashikshan 
Sanstha
CSR00001360
230 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Haryana
Rewari
3
2.13
2.13
NA
No
End Poverty
CSR00000314
231 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Hingoli
1
2.4
2.4
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259
232 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Tamilnadu
Virudhunagar
4
3.04
3.04
NA
No
National Agro 
Foundation
CSR00000610
233 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Himachal 
Pradesh
Hamirpur
1
2.01
2.01
NA
No
Himmotthan 
Society
CSR00000081
234 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Karnataka
Koppal
1
0.79
0.79
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259
235 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Andhra 
pradesh
Anantapur
1
1.14
1.14
NA
No
Foundation 
For 
Ecological 
Security
CSR00000637
236 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Sitapur
1
2.25
2.25
NA
No
Aga Khan 
Foundation
CSR00008713
237 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Rajgarh
1
1.14
1.14
NA
No
Arpan Seva 
Sansthan
CSR00000826

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
185
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
238 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Gujarat
Kheda
1
1.96
1.96
NA
No
Foundation 
For 
Ecological 
Security
CSR00000637
239 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Lalitpur
1
1.2
1.2
NA
No
Centre For 
Advance 
Research 
And 
Development
CSR00000339
240 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Pratapgarh
1
1.31
1.31
NA
No
Peoples 
Action For 
National 
Integration
CSR00000125
241 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Balod
3
1.19
1.19
NA
No
Vrutti
CSR00000538
242 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Satara
1
1.35
1.35
NA
No
Action For 
Agricultural 
Renewal In 
Maharashtra 
Afarm
CSR00000092
243 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Nasik
1
2.37
2.37
NA
No
Sanjeevani 
Inst. For 
Empower-
Ment & 
Develop-
Ment
CSR00000270
244 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Bihar
Sitamarhi
1
0.82
0.82
NA
No
Oxfam India
CSR00000839
245 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Agra
3
1.92
1.92
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
246 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Kerala
Ernakualam
3
1.51
1.51
NA
No
M S 
Swaminathan 
Research 
Foundation
CSR00000470
247 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Shrawasti
3
2.16
2.16
NA
No
Gorakhpur 
Environ-
Mental Action 
Group
CSR00000748
248 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Chandauli
3
1.43
1.42
NA
No
Sahbhagi 
Shikshan 
Kendra
CSR00000486
249 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Sikkim
W Sikkim
3
1.98
1.98
NA
No
Gramin Vikas 
Trust
CSR00000633
250 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Bihar
Sheikhpura
3
1.07
1.07
NA
No
Integrated 
Development 
Foundation
CSR00000268
251 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Odisha
Jagatsinghpur 
1
1.59
1.59
NA
No
Harsha Trust
CSR00001106 

186
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
252 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Odisha
Kalahandi
3
2.41
2.34
NA
No
Oxfam India
CSR00000839
253 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Odisha
Puri
4
0.98
0.98
NA
No
Prayatn 
Sanstha
CSR00000483
254 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Korea
3
1.69
1.69
NA
No
Watershed 
Organisation 
Trust
CSR00000518
255 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Balrampur
3
1.73
1.73
NA
No
Udyogini
CSR00001487
256 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Gujarat
Amreli
3
0.89
0.89
NA
No
Coastal 
Salinity 
Prevention 
Cell
CSR00002590
257 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Gujarat
Panchmahals
3
1.46
1.46
NA
No
Navin-
Chandra 
Mafatlal 
Sadguru 
Water And 
Develop-
Ment 
Foundation
CSR00000285
258 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
BALODA BAZAR
3
0.71
0.67
NA
No
Gramin Vikas 
Trust
CSR00000633
259 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Assam
Baksa
3
1.34
1.34
NA
No
Gramya 
Vikash 
Mancha
CSR00000407
260 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Palamu
4
2.07
2.07
NA
No
Aident Social 
Welfare 
Organisation
CSR00000766
261 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Bokaro
3
1.19
1.19
NA
No
Life 
Education 
And 
Development 
Support
CSR00000579
262 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Mathura
3
1.21
1.21
NA
No
S M Sehgal 
Foundation
CSR00000262
263 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Jhansi
1
0.86
0.86
NA
No
Self Reliant 
Initiatives 
Through 
Joint Action
CSR00001911
264 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Sitapur
3
0.58
0.58
NA
No
Aga Khan 
Foundation
CSR00008713
265 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Lakhimpur
3
0.6
0.6
NA
No
Aga Khan 
Foundation
CSR00008713

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
187
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
266 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Ayodhya
3
1.07
1.07
NA
No
Peoples 
Action For 
National 
Integration
CSR00000125
267 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Bulandshahr
3
1.36
1.36
NA
No
End Poverty
CSR00000314
268 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Koderma
3
1.72
1.72
NA
No
Support.
CSR00007700
269 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Saraikela Kharsawan
3
1.22
1.22
NA
No
Centre 
For World 
Solidarity
CSR00008062
270 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Latehar
3
1.27
1.27
NA
No
Vikas Bharti
CSR00001499
271 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Odisha
Nabarangpur
3
0.46
0.46
NA
No
Agragamee
CSR00008478
272 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Bihar
Begusarai
3
0.77
0.77
NA
No
Nirdesh
CSR00008272
273 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Bihar
Aurangabad
3
1.72
1.72
NA
No
Rashtriye 
Gramin Vikas 
Nidhi
CSR00002390
274 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Amravati
3
1.13
1.13
NA
No
Vikas Sahyog 
Pratishthan
CSR00001779
275 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Dhar
1
1.47
1.47
NA
No
Watershed 
Organisation 
Trust
CSR00000518
276 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Wardha
3
0.16
0.16
NA
No
Aga Khan 
Agency For 
Habitat India
CSR00001277
277 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Saharanpur
3
0.86
0.86
NA
No
Centre For 
Advance 
Research 
And 
Development
CSR00000339
278 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Sehore
3
1.4
1.4
NA
No
Arpan Seva 
Sansthan
CSR00000826
279 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Dewas
4
0.74
0.74
NA
No
Samaj 
Pragati 
Sahayog
CSR00002541
280 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Bemetara 
1
0.5
0.5
NA
No
Samerth 
Charitable 
Trust
CSR00000832 

188
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
281 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Kaushambi
3
0.87
0.87
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259
282 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Godda
3
0.58
0.58
NA
No
Professional 
Assistance 
For 
Development 
Action
CSR00000973
283 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
PUNJAB
Partner
1
1.25
1.25
NA
No
Centre For 
Advance 
Research 
And 
Development
CSR00000339
284 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Himachal 
Pradesh
Una
3
0.23
0.23
NA
No
Ambuja 
Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
285 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Haryana
Mahendragarh
3
0.41
0.41
NA
No
S M Sehgal 
Foundation
CSR00000262
286 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Shajapur
1
1.26
1.26
NA
No
Arpan Seva 
Sansthan
CSR00000826
287 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Chhindwara
1
1.55
1.55
NA
No
Naman Sewa 
Samiti
CSR00008347
288 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Indore
1
0.65
0.65
NA
No
Sai Jyoti 
Gramodoyog 
Samaj Sewa 
Samiti
CSR00007807
289 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Andhra 
pradesh
Andhra
3
0.66
0.66
NA
No
Foundation 
For 
Ecological 
Security
CSR00000637
290 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Andhra 
pradesh
Prakasam  
3
0.28
0.28
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259
291 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Karnataka
Krishnagiri
3
0.18
0.18
NA
No
Myrada
CSR00001099
292 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Karnataka
Gulbarga
3
0.7
0.7
NA
No
Myrada
CSR00001099
293 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Karnataka
Yadgiri
3
0.68
0.67
NA
No
Myrada
CSR00001099

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
189
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
294 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Karnataka
Bidar 
3
0.51
0.51
NA
No
Myrada
CSR00001099
295 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Kerala
Wayanadu,Idukki
3
0.32
0.32
NA
No
M S 
Swaminathan 
Research 
Foundation
CSR00000470
296 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Kerala
Thiruvananthapuram
3
0.38
0.38
NA
No
Dhan 
Foundation
CSR00000273
297 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Nanded 
3
0.43
0.43
NA
No
Centre For 
Advance 
Research 
And 
Development
CSR00000339
298 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Maharashtra
Bhandara
3
0.36
0.36
NA
No
Vikas Sahyog 
Pratishthan
CSR00001779
299 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Meghalaya
Ri Bhoi
3
0.14
0.14
NA
No
Fxb India 
Suraksha
CSR00000076
300 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Odisha
Bolangir
3
0.7
0.7
NA
No
Gram Vikas
CSR00000596
301 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
West bengal
South 24 Paraganas
3
0.33
0.33
NA
No
Sabuj 
Sangha
CSR00000299
302 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Odisha
Kendrapara
3
0.18
0.18
NA
No
Youth 
Council For 
Development 
Alternative 
(Ycda)
CSR00016873 
303 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Bihar
Nawada
3
0.33
0.33
NA
No
Bhartiya 
Jan Uthan 
Parishad
CSR00001501 
304 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Khunti
2
0.39
0.39
NA
No
Network For 
Enterprise 
Enhance-
Ment And 
Develop-
Ment 
Support 
Needs
CSR00002858
305 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Lohardaga
3
0.44
0.44
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259
306 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Sahebganj
3
0.54
0.54
NA
No
Pravah
 CSR00002347

190
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of 
activities
in Schedule 
VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Project
dura-
tion
Amount
allocated
for the
project
(` Cr.)
Amount 
spent in
the 
current
financial 
Year (` 
Cr)
Amount
transferred 
to
Unspent 
CSR
Account 
for the 
project as 
per
Section 
135(6) 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
307 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Bihar
Munger
3
0.15
0.15
NA
No
Baif 
Institute For 
Sustainable 
Livelihoods 
And 
Development
CSR00000259
308 Holistic Rural 
Development 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Jharkhand
Giridih
3
0.24
0.24
NA
No
Jan Jagran 
Kendra
CSR00000161
309 Financial 
Literacy 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Pan India
 Multiple districts 
1
157.54
157.54
NA
Yes
Direct
NA
310 Dairy Support 
Program
Rural 
Development 
Projects (x)
Yes
Pan India
1
19.19
19.19
NA
Yes
Direct
NA
Total 
613.02
*612.16
NA*
* 	 Bank has overachieved it’s 2% mandatory CSR obligation for FY 2021-22. Hence, unspent balance of INR 0.86 Cr. against the excess fund disbursed 
will not be transferred to unspent CSR account for FY 2021-22 and same will be treated as opening balance for FY 2022-23.
(c) Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
1
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Sagar
0.08
No
Abhyuday Sansthan
CSR00000495
2
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Satara
0.01
No
Action For 
Agricultural Renewal 
In Maharashtra Farm
CSR00000092
3
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Ujjain
0.01
No
Action For Social 
Advancement (Asa)
CSR00001213
4
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Shahdol
0.03
No
Action For Social 
Advancement (Asa)
CSR00001213
5
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Tamilnadu
Melmaruvathur
0.56
No
Adhiparasakthi 
Charitable Medical 
Educational And 
Cultural Trust
CSR00000466
6
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Barabanki
0.01
No
Aga Khan 
Foundation
CSR00008713

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
191
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
7
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Bahraich
0.09
No
Aga Khan 
Foundation
CSR00008713
8
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Bihar
Vaishali
0.03
No
Aga Khan Rural 
Support Programme 
India
CSR00004229
9
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Barwani
0.04
No
Aga Khan Rural 
Support Programme 
India
CSR00004229
10
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Gujarat
Narmada
0.03
No
Aga Khan Rural 
Support Programme 
India
CSR00004229
11
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Odisha
Bhubaneswar
0.25
No
Aic Cv Raman 
College Of 
Engineering 
Foundation
CSR00017678
12
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
PUNJAB
Mohali
0.5
No
Aic Isb Association
CSR00004912
13
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Rajasthan
Jaipur
0.25
No
Aic Jklu Foundation
CSR00018265
14
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Gujarat
Ahmedabad
0.1
No
Aic Lmcp Foundation CSR00005955
15
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Maharashtra
Pune
0.5
No
Aic Mitadt Incubator 
Forum
CSR00003125
16
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Karnataka
Bangalore
0.98
No
Aic Ncore 
Developmental 
Impact Foundation
CSR00017882
17
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Andhra 
pradesh
Anantapur
0.25
No
Aic Sku 
Confederation
CSR00017704
18
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Sikkim
Majitar
0.25
No
Aic Smu Technology 
Business Incubation 
Foundation
CSR00004563
19
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Delhi
New Delhi
0.9
No
Aic Stpinext 
Initiatives
CSR00019475
20
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Uttarakhand Haridwar
0.08
No
Ambuja Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
21
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Sarguja
0.00
No
Ambuja Cement 
Foundation
CSR00006913
22
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Noida
0.5
No
Amity Technology 
Incubator
CSR00018123

192
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
23
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Kerala
Kollam
0.5
No
Amrita Technology 
Business Incubator
CSR00018348
24
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Raigad
0.73
No
Annada
CSR00000749
25
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Varanasi
0.08
No
Aroh Foundation
CSR00000044
26
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Kawardha
0.03
No
Aroh Foundation
CSR00000044
27
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Rajgrah
0.02
No
Arpan Seva 
Sansthan
CSR00000826
28
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Vidisha 
0.07
No
Arpan Seva 
Sansthan
CSR00000826
29
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Pan India
Guwahati
1
No
Assam Arogya Nidhi
CSR00009814
30
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Gujarat
Surat
0.5
No
Association 
For Harnessing 
Innovation And 
Entrepreneurship
CSR00003499
31
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Dhar
0
No
Baif Development 
Research Foundation
CSR00000308
32
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Jhabua
0.28
No
Baif Institute 
For Sustainable 
Livelihoods And 
Development
CSR00000259
33
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Hingoli
0.01
No
Baif Institute 
For Sustainable 
Livelihoods And 
Development
CSR00000259
34
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Karnataka
Koppal
0.01
No
Baif Institute 
For Sustainable 
Livelihoods And 
Development
CSR00000259
35
Support to 
person with 
disability
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Pan India
Jaipur
0.72
No
Bhagwan Mahaveer 
Viklang Sahayata 
Samiti
CSR00001480
36
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
0.12
Yes
Direct
NA
37
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Himachal 
Pradesh
Pan India
5.73
Yes
Direct
NA

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
193
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
38
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Pan India
Separate list 
provided
12.99
No
Buddy4study India 
Foundation
CSR00000121
39
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Pan India
PATNA
3
No
Care India Solutions 
For Sustainable 
Development
CSR00000786
40
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Durg
0.04
No
Care India Solutions 
For Sustainable 
Development
CSR00000786
41
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Lalitpur
0.04
No
Centre For Advance 
Research And 
Development
CSR00000339
42
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Haryana
Yamuna Nagar
0.03
No
Centre For Advance 
Research And 
Development
CSR00000339
43
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Nanded
0.04
No
Centre For Advance 
Research And 
Development
CSR00000339
44
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
0.18
Yes
Direct
NA
45
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Osmanabad
0.02
No
Cohesion Foundation 
Trust
CSR00000148
46
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Gujarat
Sabarkantha
0.02
No
Collectives For 
Integrated Livelihood 
Initiatives
CSR00000508
47
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
PUNJAB
Ludhiana, Khargone 
and Kendrapada
1.19
No
Concern India 
Foundation
CSR00000898
48
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple districts 
1
No
Csc Academy
CSR00006887
49
Training on 
Phlebetomy
Vocational Training and 
Livelihood Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Multiple districts
0.25
No
Csc Academy
CSR00006887
50
Digitization in 
villages
Promoting Education (ii)
Yes
Odisha
Angul, Pali
2
No
Csc Academy
CSR00006887
51
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Karnataka
Bangalore
0.9
No
Derbi Foundation
CSR00010231
52
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
1.15
Yes
Direct
NA
53
Flood Relief 
program
Disaster Management 
(xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Sangli
0.05
No
Donatekart 
Foundation
CSR00005168

194
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
54
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Gorakhpur
0
Yes
Direct
NA
55
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Guna
0.17
No
End Poverty
CSR00000314
56
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Haryana
Rewari
0.18
No
End Poverty
CSR00000314
57
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Maharashtra
Pune
1
No
Entrepreneurship 
Development Center
CSR00000220
58
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Telangana
Hyderabad
0.25
No
Foundation For Cfhe
CSR00001821
59
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Odisha
Koraput
0.02
No
Foundation For 
Ecological Security
CSR00000637
60
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Gujarat
Kheda
0.02
No
Foundation For 
Ecological Security
CSR00000637
61
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Gujarat
Kheda
0.02
No
Foundation For 
Ecological Security
CSR00000637
62
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Andhra 
pradesh
Ananthpur
0.09
No
Foundation For 
Ecological Security
CSR00000637
63
Support to 
Olympiads
Training to Promote 
Sports (vii)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple District
1.5
No
Foundation For 
Promotion Of Sports 
And Games
CSR00001100
64
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Karnataka
Hubballi
0.25
No
Foundation For 
Sandboxstartup 
Initiatives
CSR00001469
65
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai, Thane
0.79
Yes
Direct
NA
66
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Punjab
Ludhiana
0.01
Yes
Direct
NA
67
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Gujarat
Ahmedabad
0.5
No
Gcs Med College 
Hosp And Research 
Centre
CSR00000688
68
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Karnataka
Ranchi
0.15
Yes
Direct
NA
69
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Pan India
Partner
3.04
No
Giveindia
CSR00000389

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
195
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
70
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
West bengal
Washim
0.53
No
Giveindia
CSR00000389
71
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Pan India
Pan India
4.78
No
Giveindia
CSR00000389
72
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Pan India
Pan India
8.78
No
Giveindia
CSR00000389
73
Payroll Giving 
Programme
Eradicating Poverty (i)/ 
Promoting Education (ii)/ 
Gender Equality (iii)
Yes
Pan India
Pan India
0.41
No
Giveindia
CSR00000389
74
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Dhamtari
0.07
No
Gramin Vikas Trust
CSR00000633
75
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Assam
Nalbari
0.05
No
Gramya Vikash 
Mancha
CSR00000407
76
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Gujarat
Ahmedabad
0.9
No
Gujarat Student 
Startup And 
Innovation Hub
CSR00023347
77
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Uttarakhand Almora
0.01
No
Himmotthan Society
CSR00000081
78
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Telangana
Hyderabad
0.5
No
I Tic Foundation Iit 
Hyderabad
CSR00003816
79
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Alwar
0.01
No
Ibtada
CSR00002333
80
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Karnataka
Bangalore
0.5
No
Indian Institute 
Of Management 
Bangalore
CSR00003458
81
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Bhilai
0.76
No
Indian Institute Of 
Technology Bhilai
CSR00018467
82
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Delhi
New Delhi
0.5
No
Indian Society 
Of Agribusiness 
Professionals
CSR00000109
83
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Bhadohi, Varanasi, 
Lucknow
1.27
Yes
Direct
NA
84
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Surajpur
0.1
No
Indo Global Social 
Service Society
CSR00001677
85
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Champa
0.1
No
Indo Global Social 
Service Society
CSR00001677

196
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
86
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Khandwa
0.06
No
Indo Global Social 
Service Society
CSR00001677
87
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Himachal 
Pradesh
Mandi
0.01
Yes
Direct
NA
88
Purchase 
of Medical 
Equipment
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Uttarakhand Dehradun
0.27
Yes
Direct
NA
89
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Bihar
Samastipur
0.02
No
Integrated 
Development 
Foundation
CSR00000268
90
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Telangana
Hyderabad
0.5
No
International Institute 
Of Information 
Technology 
Hyderabad 
Foundation
CSR00005001
91
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Kerala
Thrissur
0.62
Yes
Direct
NA
92
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Pan India
Assam - KAMRUP 
(Rural), Tinsukia, 
Biswanath, 
NAGAON, Sonitpur, 
Morigaon,  Morigaon. 
Manipur - Imphal 
East, Thoubal, 
Tamenglong. 
Meghalaya - West 
Jaintia Hills, West 
Khasi Hills, East 
Garo Hills. Nagaland 
- Dimapur. Sikkim 
- East Sikkim. WB - 
KTiruppur, Alimpong, 
Koochbehar, 
Karnataka - Kurg, 
Shimogga, Kolar, 
Srinivaspur, 
Gulbarga, Bellari, 
Arunachal - 
TAWANG, West 
Tripura, Tamil Nadu 
- Virudhunagar, 
Thanjavur, Vellore, 
Tirunelveli, Mizoram - 
Aizwal, Saiha
12.35
No
Karuna Trust
CSR00000946
93
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Punjab
Patiala
0
Yes
Direct
NA

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
197
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
94
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Odisha
Bhubaneswar
0.26
No
Kiit Technology 
Business Incubator
CSR00002635
95
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Kerala
Wayanadu,Idukki, 
Kuttanadu, Enakulam
0.05
No
M S Swaminathan 
Research Foundation
CSR00000470
96
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Dholpur
0.07
No
Manjari Foundation
CSR00000074
97
Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Maharashtra
Aurangabad
0.5
No
Marathwada 
Accelerator For 
Growth And 
Incubation Council
CSR00012590
98
Purchase of 
Machinery for 
Hospital
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Tamilnadu
Kolkata
0.9
No
Medical Research 
Foundation
CSR00002370
99
COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
0.34
Yes
Direct
NA
100 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Bilaspur
0.02
Yes
Direct
NA
101 Promoting 
Quality 
Education
Promoting Education (ii)
Yes
Uttarakhand Dehradun
0.51
No
Meerabo Global 
Foundation
CSR00005114
102 Support 
to Cancer 
Patients
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Madan
1.5
No
Msbsv Mahamana 
Pandit Madan Mohan 
Malviya Cancer 
Centre Tata Memorial
CSR00001287
103 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Karnataka
Gulberga, Bidar, 
Raichur
0.1
No
Myrada
CSR00001099
104 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Tamilnadu
Virudhunagar
0.03
No
National Agro 
Foundation
CSR00000610
105 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Pendra
0.07
No
National Institute Of 
Women Child And 
Youth Development
CSR00000206
106 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Gariabandh
0.02
No
National Institute Of 
Women Child And 
Youth Development
CSR00000206
107 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Bihar
Gaya
0.03
No
Nav Jagriti
CSR00000824
108 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Jharkhand
Khunti
0.04
No
Network For 
Enterprise 
Enhancement 
And Development 
Support Needs
CSR00002858

198
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
109 Distribution 
of E- 
Rikshaws
Ensuring Environmental 
Sustainability (iv)
Yes
Jharkhand
Lucknow
2.62
Yes
Direct
NA
110 Promoting 
Quality 
Education
Promoting Education (ii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Alwar
0.2
No
Orion Educational 
Society
CSR00000597
111 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Bihar
Nalanda
0.12
No
Oxfam India
CSR00000839
112 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Bihar
Sitamarhi
0.08
No
Oxfam India
CSR00000839
113 Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Gujarat
Gandhinagar
0.5
No
Pdeu Innovation And 
Incubation Centre
CSR00001317
114 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Prayagraaj
0.04
No
Peoples Action For 
National Integration
CSR00000125
115 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Gorakhpur
0.04
No
Peoples Action For 
National Integration
CSR00000125
116 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Pratapgarh
0.01
No
Peoples Action For 
National Integration
CSR00000125
117 Solar Stree 
Light
Ensuring Environmental 
Sustainability (iv)
Yes
Himachal 
Pradesh
Kullu
0.22
No
Peoples Action For 
National Integration
CSR00000125
118 Promotion 
of Clean and 
Renewable 
Energy
Ensuring Environmental 
Sustainability (iv)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Kaushambi and 
Shahjahapur
0.6
No
Peoples Action For 
National Integration
CSR00000125
119 Water Supply 
Management
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Himachal 
Pradesh
Bilaspur
0.24
No
Peoples Action For 
National Integration
CSR00000125
120 Tree 
Plantation 
Program
Ensuring Environmental 
Sustainability (iv)
Yes
Pan India
Prayagraj
0.02
Yes
Direct
NA
121 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Odisha
Rayagada
0.12
No
Prayatn Sanstha
CSR00000483
122 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Tamilnadu
Chennai
0.45
Yes
Direct
NA
123 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Jharkhand
Dumka
0.03
No
Professional 
Assistance For 
Development Action
CSR00000973
124 Infrastructure 
for sports 
complex
Training to Promote 
Sports (vii)
Yes
West bengal
Kolkata
0.73
Yes
Direct
NA

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
199
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
125 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Haryana
Nuh
0.04
No
S M Sehgal 
Foundation
CSR00000262
126 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Haryana
Mahendragarh
0.02
No
S M Sehgal 
Foundation
CSR00000262
127 Controlling 
Air Pollution
Ensuring Environmental 
Sustainability (iv)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Bilaspur
0.2
Yes
Direct
NA
128 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Yavatmal
0.02
No
Sanjeevani Inst. For 
Empowerment & 
Development
CSR00000270
129 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Nasik
0.05
No
Sanjeevani Inst. For 
Empowerment & 
Development
CSR00000270
130 Carbon 
Footprint 
Mitigation
Ensuring Environmental 
Sustainability (iv)
Yes
Himachal 
Pradesh
Mandi
2.56
No
Sanjeevani Vikas 
Evam Jan Kalyan 
Samiti
CSR00000466
131 Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Maharashtra
Pune
1
No
Science And 
Technology Park 
University Of Pune
CSR00003979
132 Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Kerala
Trivandrum
0.2
No
Sctimst Technology 
Business Incubator 
For Medical Devices 
And Biomaterials
CSR00008116
133 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Pali
0.06
No
Self Reliant Initiatives 
Through Joint Action
CSR00001911
134 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Jashpur
0.03
No
Self Reliant Initiatives 
Through Joint Action
CSR00001911
135 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Karnataka
Rajanna Sircilla
1.5
Yes
Direct
NA
136 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Pan India
Pan India
0.05
No
Setu Charitable Trust CSR00001063
137 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Rajasmand
0.01
No
Seva Mandir
CSR00000288
138 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
0.01
Yes
Direct
NA
139 Skill training 
for youth
Vocational Training and 
Livelihood Enhancement 
(ii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Lucknow
0.3
Yes
Direct
NA
140 Incubator 
Support 
Program
Contribution to 
Incubators or Research 
(ix - a)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
0.5
No
Social Entrepreneurs 
Foundation India
CSR00001257

200
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
141 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Tamilnadu
Viluppuram
0.49
No
Sri Aurobindo 
Society
CSR00000200
142 Scholarship 
support 
program
Promoting Education (ii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
0.34
No
Sri Sathya Sai Trust
CSR00001704
143 Felicitating 
martyrs and 
disabled 
soldiers
Armed Force Veterans 
(vi)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple District
0.25
No
Sri Shanmukhananda 
Fine Arts & 
Sangeetha Sabha
CSR00001777
144 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Maharashtra
Mumbai
0.67
Yes
Direct
NA
145 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Assam
Golaghat
0.17
No
Suvidha..
CSR00000399
146 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Assam
Biswanath
0.03
No
Suvidha..
CSR00000399
147 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Khargone
0.04
No
Suvidha..
CSR00000399
148 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Uttarakhand 
Almoda and Tehri
0.38
No
Suvidha..
CSR00000399
149 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Pan India
Pune
1.75
No
Symbiosis Society
CSR00005192
150 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
0.2
No
Taj Public Service 
Welfare Trust
CSR00000540
151 Support 
to Cancer 
Patients
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple districts 
0.5
No
Tata Memorial Centre CSR00001287
152 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Gujarat
Somnath
0.08
No
Tns India Foundation CSR00001337
153 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Karauli
0.04
No
Udyogini
CSR00001487
154 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Balrampur
0.01
No
Udyogini
CSR00001487
155 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Kanker
0.01
No
Udyogini
CSR00001487
156 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Rajasthan
Jaisalmer
0.01
No
Urmul Rural Health 
Research And 
Development Trust
CSR00000546

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
201
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
157 Water 
Management 
tool
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Pan India
Multiple District
0.01
Yes
Direct
NA
158 Sanitation 
project
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Tamilnadu
Venkatapuram
0.49
No
Voice Foundation
CSR00000951
159 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Balod
0
No
Vrutti
CSR00000538
160 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Madhya 
Pradesh
Chhindwara
0.02
No
Watershed 
Organisation Trust
CSR00000518
161 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Jalna
0.01
No
Watershed 
Organisation Trust
CSR00000518
162 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Gujarat
Ahmedabad, 
Gandhinagar
2
No
Yuva Unstoppable
CSR00000473
163 COVID Relief 
Program
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)/ Disaster 
Management (xii)
Yes
Maharashtra
Lonavala
0
No
Yuva Unstoppable
CSR00000473
164 Smart Class 
project
Promoting Education (ii)
Yes
Chhattisgarh
Raipur, Korba, 
Mahasamund, 
Bilaspur, 
Rajnandgaon, 
Dhamtari, 
Kabirdham, Raigarh, 
Janjgir Champa, 
Durg, Bastar, 
Kondagaon, Kanker, 
Jashpur, Mungeli, 
Surguja, Dantevada, 
Bijapur, Koriya, 
0.47
No
Yuva Unstoppable
CSR00000473
165 Smart Class 
project
Promoting Education (ii)
Yes
PUNJAB
Amritsar
0.5
No
Yuva Unstoppable
CSR00000473
166 Smart Class 
project
Promoting Education (ii)
Yes
Odisha
Angul, Khurda, 
Nayagarh, 
Jagatsinghpur, 
Kendrapara, Bolangir, 
Boudh, Kandhamal, 
Jharsuguda, 
Keonjhar, 
Mayurbhanj, 
Sambalpur, Cuttack, 
Jagatsinghpur, Puri, 
Bargarh, Kalahandi, 
Koraput, Malkangiri, 
Rayagada, Balasore, 
Bhadrak, Ganjam, 
Khurda, Jajpur
2.2
No
Yuva Unstoppable
CSR00000473
167 Smart Class 
project
Promoting Education (ii)
Yes
Delhi
Delhi
0.22
No
Yuva Unstoppable
CSR00000473

202
Directors’ Report
Sl.
No.
Name
of the
Project
Item from the
list of activities
in Schedule VII
to the Act
Local
area
(Yes/
No)
Location of the
project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(` Cr)
Mode of
Imple-
menta-
tion -
Direct
(Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation -
Through Implementing
Agency
State 
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
168 Smart Class 
project
Promoting Education (ii)
Yes
Delhi
Delhi
1.53
No
Yuva Unstoppable
CSR00000473
169 Smart Class 
project
Promoting Education (ii)
Yes
PUNJAB
Rajpura
0.75
No
Yuva Unstoppable
CSR00000473
170 Smart Class 
project
Promoting Education (ii)
Yes
PUNJAB
Amritsar
0.95
No
Yuva Unstoppable
CSR00000473
171 Community 
Toilets
Preventive and Curative 
Healthcare (i)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Siddharth Nagar
0.12
No
Yuva Unstoppable
CSR00000473
172 Digitisation of 
government 
schools
Promoting Education (ii)
Yes
Uttar 
Pradesh
Varanasi, Lucknow, 
Kaasganj, Kakori, 
Gorakhpur, 
0.34
No
Yuva Unstoppable
CSR00000473
Total
110.83
(d)	
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: ` 12.53 Cr
(e)	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: ` 0.49 Cr
(f)	
Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e): ` 736.01 Cr
(g) 	 Excess amount for set off, if any
Sl. 
No.
Particular 
Amount 
(` Cr.)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
733.86
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
736.01
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
2.15
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the 
previous financial years, if any
NA
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
2.15
9 (a) 	Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years: NA
   (b) 	Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s): NA

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
203
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
10.	 In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR 
spent in the financial year (asset-wise details) : No capital assets have been created or acquired in the name of the Bank 
through CSR Spend in the financial year.
	
(a)	
Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s): NA
	
(b)	
Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset: NA 
(c)	
Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset is registered, their address 
etc: NA
(d) 	 Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and location of the capital asset): NA
11.	 Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5): NA
Sashidhar Jagdishan	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
Managing Director & CEO	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(Chairperson, CSR and ESG Committee)

204
Directors’ Report
Annexure 3 to the Directors’ Report
Form No. AOC – 2
(Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the company with related parties referred to in sub-
section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transactions under third proviso thereto
1. 	
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis:  Nil
2. 	 Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arm’s length basis:
	
(a) Name(s) of the related party
Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
Nature of relationship
Promoter of the Bank
(b) Nature of contracts/arrangements/transactions
Purchase of home loans 
(c) Duration of the contracts / arrangements/
transactions
1 year
d) Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or 
transactions including the value, if any:
The Bank has an option to purchase up to 70% of the loans sourced by it. 
Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited continues servicing of the 
assigned portfolio for which the Bank pays servicing fees.
Home loans purchased: ` 28,205.24 crs
(e) Date(s) of approval by the Board, if any:
N.A.
(f) Amount paid as advances, if any:
Nil
Note:	 The above mentioned transactions were entered into by the Bank in its ordinary course of business. Materiality threshold is as prescribed in 
Rule 15 (3) of the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Amendment Rules, 2019.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
205
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Annexure 4 to the Directors’ Report
Performance and financial position of subsidiaries of the Bank as on March 31, 2022
(` crore)
Name of entity
Net assets as of March 31, 2022
Profit for the
year ended March 31, 2022
As % of 
consolidated net 
assets**
Amount***
As % of 
consolidated 
profit 
Amount***
Parent:
HDFC Bank Limited
97.08%
240,092.94
97.13%
36,961.33
Subsidiaries*:
1. HDFC Securities Limited
0.66%
1,644.71
2.62%
995.94
2. HDB Financial Services Limited
3.97%
9,823.61
2.68%
1,020.19
Minority Interest in all subsidiaries
0.29%
720.42
0.26%
98.15
*	 	
The subsidiaries are domestic entities
**		
Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities including minority interest
***	
Amounts are before inter-company adjustments

206
Directors’ Report
Annexure 5 to the Directors’ Report
Disclosures on Remuneration
1.	
Ratio of Remuneration of each director to the 
median employees’ remuneration for the FY 
2021-22
Name and Designation                                                                                                       
Ratio
Atanu Chakraborty, Part-Time Chairman and 
Independent Director
14.42 : 1
Renu Karnad, Non-Executive Director (Nominee of 
HDFC Ltd)
16.17 : 1
Srikanth Nadhamuni, Non-Executive Director
15.37 : 1
Malay Patel, Independent Director
15.96 : 1
Umesh Chandra Sarangi, Independent Director
15.01 : 1
Sanjiv Sachar, Independent Director
16.49 : 1
Sandeep Parekh, Independent Director
13.42 : 1
MD Ranganath, Independent Director
17.86 : 1
Sunita Maheshwari, Independent Director
8.67 : 1
Lily Vadera, Independent Director
2.73 : 1
Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director & CEO
147 : 1*
Kaizad Bharucha, Executive Director
136 : 1*
*In case of Managing Director & CEO and the Executive Director, the 
Bank has considered the annualised fixed pay for the computation of 
ratios. Fixed pay includes - salary, allowances, retiral benefits as well 
as value of perquisites as approved by the Reserve Bank of India. 
Variable Pay has been excluded from the same.
For the Directors other than Managing Director & CEO  and Executive 
Director, the actual remuneration paid during the year 2021–22 has 
been considered while calculating the ratio of remuneration to the 
median employees’ remuneration.
Note: 
1. 	
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was appointed as the Part 
Time Chairman and Independent Director of the Bank 
with effect from May 5, 2021. 
2. 	
Mrs. Lily Vadera was appointed as an Independent 
Director of the Bank with effect from November 
26, 2021.
3. 	
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as 
Non-Executive (Non-Independent) Director of the 
Bank with effect from February 18, 2022. 
4. 	
All employees of the Bank, including overseas 
employees, have been considered.
5. 	
In case of non-executive directors, sitting fees paid 
for attending Board and Committee meetings during 
FY 2021-22 and fixed remuneration paid as permitted 
by relevant RBI guidelines [presently at ` 20,00,000 
(Rupees Twenty Lakhs Only) per annum for each Non-
Executive Director has been considered. Mr. Atanu 
Chakraborty, Part Time Chairman and Independent 
Director is not eligible for the same pursuant to the 
RBI guidelines and is entitled to a remuneration as 
separately approved by the RBI. During the year, 
Mr. Chakraborty was paid such remuneration of 
` 31,70,698.96 (i.e. ` 35,00,000 per annum) on 
proportionate basis.  
2.	 Percentage increase in remuneration of each 
Director, CFO, CEO, CS or Manager, if any, in 
the FY 2021-22
Designation                                                                                                      
Percentage
Managing DirectorA
0.00
Executive DirectorB
0.00
Chief Financial Officer
3.37
Company Secretary
2.75
A & B As per the salary review approval process of the Reserve Bank of 
India, the salary increment proposal to be effected from April 01 in a 
given financial year can only be made in the subsequent financial year 
post assessment of performance for the reference financial year. For 
e.g. salary increment proposal to be made to the RBI effective April 
01, 2020 can only be made post assessment of performance for the 
financial year 2020 – 2021. The approval received from the RBI will 
therefore be retrospectively applied from April 01, 2020. Therefore, 
due to this process, the salary increase given in the particular year will 
always be reported as zero. 
The salary increase for previous financial year i.e. 2020 – 2021 paid 
retrospectively from April 01, 2020 was approved by the RBI on March 
23, 2022.
A Mr.  Sashidhar Jagdishan, the current Managing Director & CEO, 
held the title of Group Head- Finance prior to his appointment as the 
Managing Director & CEO of the Bank with effect from October 27, 
2020. The percentage increase mentioned in previous year disclosures 
of 6.66 % is the increase he received in his previous role as Group 
Head. No salary increase or variable pay in the financial year 2021-
2022 has been recommended or approved so far for the Managing 
Director as an application for the same would be submitted to the 
RBI post approval by the NRC and the Board after due performance 
assessment for the year 2021-2022.
B Mr. Kaizad Bharucha the current Executive Director received an 8.00% 
increase on Fixed Pay effective April 01, 2020, the approval for which 
was received on March 23, 2022. The components considered for 
Fixed Pay increase were as follows: Basic, Consolidated Allowances, 
Leave Travel Allowance, Provident Fund, Superannuation and Gratuity. 
There was no increase given on Perquisites.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
207
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Non-executive / Independent Directors:
The Non-Executive Directors are paid sitting fees of ` 50,000 or 
` 100,000 per meeting for attending Committee & Board meetings. 
The Board of Directors increased the sitting fees of certain key 
Committee meetings to ` 100,000 per meeting with effect from 
April 1, 2021, namely, Audit Committee, Risk Policy & Monitoring 
Committee, Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Credit Approval 
Committee and IT Strategy Committee. Subsequently, sitting fees 
payable for attending Independent Directors Meeting and Customer 
Service Committee meeting were increased to ` 1,00,000 with effect 
from August 14, 2021 and November 26, 2021 respectively. The 
Non-Executive Directors, other than the Chairman, are paid fixed 
remuneration of ` 20,00,000 (Rupees Twenty Lakh Only) per annum 
for each Non-Executive Director, on proportionate basis. 
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Part Time Chairman & Independent Director 
was paid remuneration of ` 31,70,698.96 (i.e. ` 35,00,000 per annum) 
on proportionate basis, during FY 2021-22 as approved by the RBI, in 
addition to sitting fees and provision of car for official and personal use.
3.	 Percentage 
Increase 
in 
the 
median 
remuneration of employees in the FY 2021-22
The percentage increase in median remuneration of employees in the 
FY 2021-22 was 1.21%. This includes front line sales and overseas 
staff.
4.	 The number of permanent employees on the 
rolls of the Bank
As of March 31, 2022, the number of permanent employees on the 
rolls of the Bank was 1,41,579.
5.	 Average percentage increase already made 
in the salaries of employees other than the 
managerial personnel in the last financial 
year and its comparison with the percentage 
increase in the managerial remuneration and 
justification thereof and point out if there are 
any exceptional circumstances for increase in 
the managerial remuneration
The average percentage increase for Key Managerial 
Personnel : 3.06%*
The average percentage increase for Non-Managerial 
Staff	: 8.91%
The average percentage increase in the salaries is inclusive 
of front line sales and overseas staff and is primarily on 
account of annual fixed pay increase and promotions.
*The average percentage increase is only for Company 
Secretary and Chief Financial Officer. Whole Time Directors 
are excluded from the calculation since they did not receive 
increment for the financial year 2021 - 2022. For more 
details please refer to the foot notes of point number 2.
6.	 Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the 
remuneration policy of the company
	
Yes

208
Directors’ Report
Annexure 6 to the Directors’ Report
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
(‘SEBI Act’), as amended from time to time:
a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011; 
b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018; 
d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 (erstwhile The Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (repealed w.e.f. August 
13, 2021); 
e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 
2021 (erstwhile The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 
2008 (repealed w.e.f. August 9, 2021);
f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and 
dealing with client - Not applicable as the Bank 
is not registered as Registrar to issue and 
Share Transfer Agent during the financial year 
under review; 
g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 - Not applicable 
as the Bank has not delisted / proposed to delist 
its equity shares from any stock exchange 
during the financial year under review; 
h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018 - Not applicable 
as the Bank has not bought back / proposed 
to buy-back any of its securities during the 
financial year under review;
i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018;
j)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Bankers 
to an issue) Regulations, 1994;
FORM NO. MR 3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 
31ST MARCH, 2022
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
HDFC Bank Limited
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by HDFC Bank Limited (CIN: 
L65920MH1994PLC080618) (hereinafter called “the Bank”). 
The Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided 
us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conduct, 
statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Bank's statutory registers, 
books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other 
records maintained by the Bank and the information provided 
by the Bank, its officers, agents and authorized representatives 
during the conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in 
our opinion, the Bank has, during the audit period covering the 
financial period ended on 31st March, 2022, complied with the 
statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Bank has 
followed proper Board processes and has required compliance 
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to 
the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minutes books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by the Bank for 
the financial period ended on 31st March, 2022 in accordance 
with the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the Rules 
made thereunder;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the Rules made thereunder;
(iii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder;
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
Rules and Regulations made thereunder for compliance 
to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas 
Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings, 
as applicable;

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
209
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
k)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) Regulations, 1992;
l)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019
(vi)	 Other specific business/industry related laws applicable 
to the Bank - The Bank has complied with the provisions 
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, Master Circulars, 
Notifications and Guidelines and other directions pertaining 
to commercial banking issued by Reserve Bank of India 
(RBI) from time to time. Further, the Bank has complied with 
other applicable general business laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the following: 
i.	
Secretarial Standards with regard to Meeting of Board of 
Directors (SS-1) and General Meetings (SS-2) issued by The 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India; and
ii.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. 
During the period under review, the Bank has complied with 
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines and 
Standards mentioned above subject to the following observations:
1. 	
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has imposed, by an order dated 
May 27, 2021 (as received by the Bank on May 28, 2021), a 
monetary penalty of `10.00 crore (Rupees ten crore only) 
on HDFC Bank Limited (‘Bank’). As per the said order, the 
penalty has been imposed in exercise of powers vested 
in RBI under the provisions of Section 47A(1)(c) read with 
Section 46(4)(i) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (Act), 
for marketing / sale of third party non-financial products 
in contravention of provisions of Section 6(2) and Section 
8 of the Act. The Bank has discontinued the sale of said 
third-party non-financial product since October, 2019. The 
penalty was paid by the Bank. 
2. 	
SEBI issued final order on January 21, 2021, levying a 
penalty of ` 1 crore on the Bank, in the matter of invocation 
of securities pledged by BMA Wealth Creators (BRH Wealth 
Kreators) for availing credit facilities. SEBI has also directed 
the Bank to transfer sale proceeds of Rs.158.68 crores 
on invocation of securities, along with interest to escrow 
account with a nationalised bank by marking lien in favour 
of SEBI.  The Bank had challenged SEBI's order before 
Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) and SAT, vide its interim 
order, have stayed operation of SEBI’s order. SAT, vide its 
final order dated February 18, 2022, allowed the Bank’s 
appeal and quashed SEBI’s Order.
3. 	
RBI, vide its order dated December 02, 2020 with regard 
to on certain incidents of outages in the internet banking 
/ mobile banking / payment utilities of the Bank over the 
past 2 years, had advised the Bank (a) to stop all digital 
business generating activities planned under its ‘Digital 
2.0’ and proposed Business generating applications digital 
also imposed restrictions and (b) to stop sourcing of new 
credit card customers with regard to on certain incidents of 
outages in the internet banking / mobile banking / payment 
utilities of the Bank over the past 2 years. Further, basis 
the Bank’s submission, RBI vide its letter dated August 
17, 2021, have relaxed the restriction placed on sourcing 
of new credit cards customers and further vide its letter 
dated March 11, 2022 have lifted the restrictions on the 
business generating activities planned under the Bank’s 
Digital 2.0 program.
We further report that:
(a) 	 The Board of Directors of the Bank is duly constituted with 
proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors. 
(b) 	 The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors 
that took place during the period under review were carried 
out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
(c) 	 Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda 
were sent in advance as prescribed under the applicable 
Secretarial Standards, and a system exists for seeking 
and obtaining further information and clarifications on 
the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.  
(d)	
The minutes of the Board meetings and Committee 
Meetings have not identified any dissent by members of 
the Board /Committee of the Board respectively hence we 
have no reason to believe that the decisions by the Board 
were not approved by all the directors/members present. 
We further report that, there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Bank commensurate with the size and operations 
of the Bank to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable 
laws, rules, regulations and guidelines. As informed, the Bank 
has responded appropriately to communication received from 
various statutory / regulatory authorities including initiating 
actions for corrective measures, wherever found necessary.
We further report that during the audit period the following 
events / actions have taken place, having a major bearing on 
the Bank’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, 
regulations, guidelines and standards:
1. 	
The Bank has raised U.S.$ 1,000,000,000 (U.S.$ One 
Billion) by the issue and allotment of Direct, Subordinated, 

210
Directors’ Report
Unsecured 3.70% Basel III Compliant Additional Tier I Notes 
(“Notes”) to overseas investors in reliance on Rule 144A 
under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the 
“Securities Act”) and outside the United States in offshore 
transactions as defined in and in reliance on Regulation S 
under the Securities Act. The Notes will be listed on the 
India International Exchange (IFSC) Limited and the NSE 
IFSC Limited (NSE International Exchange).
2. 	
Approval of the Shareholders was obtained at the Annual 
General Meeting held on 17th July, 2021:
a. 	
to borrow or raise funds in Indian Currency by issue 
of Unsecured Perpetual Debt Instruments (part of 
Additional Tier I Capital), Tier II Capital Bonds and 
Long-Term Bonds (Financing of Infrastructure & 
affordable Housing) on a private placement basis for 
an amount in aggregate not exceeding Rs.50,000 Cr;
b. 	 to amend the HDFC Bank Limited Employees’ Stock 
Option Scheme, 2007 (“ESOS-Plan D-2007”);
c. 	
to amend the HDFC Bank Limited Employees’ Stock 
Option Scheme, 2010 (“ESOS-Plan E-2010”);
d. 	 to amend the HDFC Bank Limited Employees’ Stock 
Option Scheme, 2013 (“ESOS-Plan F-2013”);
e. 	
to amend the HDFC Bank Limited Employees’ Stock 
Option Scheme, 2016 (“ESOS-Plan G-2016”);
3. 	
The Bank has issued and allotted 6.44% Unsecured, 
Redeemable Long Term, Fully Paid-up, Non-Convertible 
Bonds in the nature of Debentures amounting to Rs.5000 
Crore (50000 Bonds of face value Rs.10,00,000/- each) on 
a private placement basis, on September 27, 2021.
4. 	
The Bank has allotted 3,27,64,494 Equity Shares of Re.1/- 
each under “Employee Stock Option Schemes” of the Bank.
Place : Mumbai           
ALWYN JAY & Co.
Date  : June 10, 2022
Company Secretaries
Office Address :
[Alwyn  D’Souza, FCS.5559]
Annex-103, Dimple Arcade,
[Partner]
Asha Nagar, Kandivali (East),
[Certificate of Practice No.5137]
Mumbai 400101.
[UDIN : F005559D000481232]
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date 
which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of 
this report.
Annexure A
To
The Members,
HDFC Bank Limited
Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with 
this letter.
1.	
The compliance of provisions of all laws, rules, regulations, 
standards applicable to HDFC Bank Limited (hereinafter 
called ‘the Bank’) is the responsibility of the management 
of the Bank. Our examination was limited to the verification 
of records and procedures on test check basis for the 
purpose of issue of the Secretarial Audit Report.
2.	
Maintenance of secretarial and other records of applicable 
laws is the responsibility of the management of the Bank. 
Our responsibility is to issue Secretarial Audit Report, 
based on the audit of the relevant records maintained and 
furnished to us by the Bank, along with explanations where 
so required.
3.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as 
were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about 
the correctness of the contents of the secretarial and other 
legal records, legal compliance mechanism and corporate 
conduct. Further part of the verification was done on the 
basis of electronic data provided to us by the Bank due to 
COVID-19 Pandemic restrictions and on test check basis to 
ensure that correct facts as reflected in secretarial and other 
records produced to us. We believe that the processes 
and practices we followed, provides a reasonable basis 
for our opinion for the purpose of issue of the Secretarial 
Audit Report.
4.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness 
of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Bank.
5.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the management 
representation about list of applicable laws, compliance 
of laws, rules and regulations and major events during the 
audit period.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as 
to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted 
the affairs of the Bank.
Place : Mumbai           
ALWYN JAY & Co.
Date  : June 10, 2022
Company Secretaries
Office Address :
[Alwyn  D’Souza, FCS.5559]
Annex-103, Dimple Arcade,
[Partner]
Asha Nagar, Kandivali (East),
[Certificate of Practice No.5137]
Mumbai 400101.
[UDIN : F005559D000481232]

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
211
Independent Auditor's Report
To the Members of HDFC Bank Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion 
We have audited the standalone financial statements of HDFC Bank Limited (“the Bank”), which comprise the Balance Sheet as at 
March 31, 2022, the Profit and Loss Account, the Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone 
financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the 
manner so required for Banking Companies and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Accounting Standards prescribed 
under section 133 of the Act read with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 as amended and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Bank as at March 31, 2022 and its profit and its cash flows for the year ended on 
that date.
Basis for Opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Bank in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“the ICAI”) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
Key Audit Matters 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone 
financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2022. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 

212
Independent Auditor's Report
Identification of Non-performing advances (NPA) and provisioning on advances:
Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at March 31, 2022: ` 1,368,821 Crores
Provision for NPA as at March 31, 2022: ` 11,733 Crores 
(Refer Schedule 9, Schedule 17(C)(2), Schedule 18(13))
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Reserve Bank of India’s (“RBI”) guidelines on Income recognition, 
asset classification and provisioning (“IRACP”) prescribe the prudential 
norms for the identification and classification of non-performing assets 
(“NPA”) and the minimum provision required for such assets.
The Bank is required to have Board approved policy as per IRACP 
guidelines for NPA identification and provision. 
The Bank is also required to apply its judgment to determine the 
identification and provision required against NPAs by applying 
quantitative as well as qualitative factors. The risk of identification of 
NPAs is affected by factors like stress and liquidity concerns in certain 
sectors. 
The provision on NPA is estimated based on ageing and classification 
of NPAs, recovery estimates, nature of loan product, value of security 
and other qualitative factors and is subject to the minimum provisioning 
norms specified by RBI and approved policy of the Bank in this regard. 
Additionally, the Bank makes provisions on exposures that are not 
classified as NPAs including advances to certain sectors and identified 
advances or group advances that can potentially slip into NPA. These 
are classiﬁed as contingency provisions.
The Management of the Bank also makes an assessment of the impact 
on borrowers’ accounts which were restructured as per RBI Circulars 
issued to provide relief to the borrowers. 
Since the identification of NPAs and provisioning for advances require 
a significant level of estimation and given its significance to the overall 
audit including possible observation by RBI which could result into 
disclosure in the financial statements, we have ascertained identification 
and provisioning for NPAs as a key audit matter.
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls (including 
application controls) over approval, recording, monitoring, and recovery 
of loans, monitoring overdue / stressed accounts, identification of NPA, 
provision for NPA, and valuation of security including collateral. 
Testing of Application controls includes testing of automated controls, 
reports and system reconciliations.
Evaluated the governance process and tested controls over calculations 
of provision on non-performing advances, basis of provisioning in 
accordance with the Board approved policy.
Selected the borrowers based on quantitative and qualitative risk factors 
for their assessment of appropriate classification as NPA including 
computation of overdue ageing to assess its correct classification and 
provision amount as per extant IRACP norms and Bank policy. 
Performed other substantive procedures including but not limited to 
the following:
• Selected samples of performing loans and assessed independently 
as to whether those should be classified as NPA;
• For samples selected examined the security valuation, financial 
statements and other qualitative information of the borrowers;
• Considered the accounts reported by the Bank and other Banks as 
Special Mention Accounts (“SMA”) in RBI’s Central Repository of 
Information on Large Credits (CRILC) to identify stress;
• For selected samples assessed independently accounts that can 
potentially be classified as NPA and Red Flagged Accounts;
• Performed inquiries with the credit and risk departments to ascertain 
if there were indicators of stress or an occurrence of an event of 
default in a particular loan account or any product category which 
needed to be considered as NPA;
• Held specific discussions with the management of the Bank on 
sectors where there is perceived credit risk and the steps taken to 
mitigate the risks to identified sectors;
• Selected and tested samples of accounts which were restructured 
under MSME restructuring circular and Resolution Framework for 
COVID-19 related stress circular for their compliance with the RBI 
directions; and
• Assessed the adequacy of disclosures against the relevant 
accounting standards and RBI requirements relating to NPAs.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
213
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Evaluation of litigations included in Contingent Liabilities
Particulars
As at March 31, 2022
Legal Cases
` 131 Crores
Taxes
` 1,293 Crores
(Refer Schedule 12, Schedule 17(C)(17), Schedules 18(18)(c)(1) & (2))
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank has material open tax litigations which involve significant 
judgement to determine the possible outcome of these disputes.
Significant management judgement is needed in determining whether 
an obligation exists and whether a provision should be recognised as 
at the reporting date, in accordance with the accounting criteria set 
under Accounting Standard 29 - Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and 
Contingent Assets (‘AS 29’), or whether it needs to be disclosed as a 
contingent liability. Further significant judgements are also involved in 
measuring such obligations, the most significant of which are:
• Assessment of liability: Judgement is involved in the determination 
of whether an outflow in respect of identified material matters are 
probable and can be estimated reliably;
• Adequacy of provisions: The appropriateness of assumptions and 
judgements used in the estimation of significant provisions; and
• Adequacy of disclosures of provision for liabilities and charges, and 
contingent liabilities.
The Bank’s assessment is supported by the facts of matter, their own 
judgement, experience, and advises from legal and independent tax 
consultants wherever considered necessary. 
Since the assessment of these open litigations requires significant level 
of judgement in interpretation of law, we have included this as a key 
audit matter.
Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
Testing the design and operating effectiveness of the Bank’s key 
controls over the estimation, monitoring and disclosure of provisions 
and contingent liabilities.
Our substantive audit procedures included and were not limited to the 
following: 
• Obtained an understanding of the Bank’s process for determining 
tax liabilities, tax provisions and contingent liabilities pertaining to 
legal matters and taxation matters;
• Obtained list of cases / matters in respect of which litigations were 
outstanding as at reporting date:
Ø	 For significant legal matters, we sought external confirmations 
and also corroborated with management’s documented 
conclusions on the assessment of outstanding litigations against 
the Bank;
Ø	 For significant taxation matters, we involved our tax specialist 
to gain an understanding of the current status of the litigations, 
including understanding of various orders / notices received by 
the Bank and the management’s grounds of appeals before the 
relevant appellate authorities.
• Evaluated the merit of the subject matter under consideration 
with reference to the grounds presented therein and available 
independent legal / tax advice; and 
• Agreed underlying tax balances to supporting documentation, 
including correspondence with tax authorities.
• Assessed the disclosures in the standalone financial statements.

214
Independent Auditor's Report
Information Technology (“IT”) Systems and Controls 
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank has a complex IT architecture to support its day-to-day 
business operations. High volume of transactions are processed and 
recorded on single or multiple applications.  
The reliability and security of IT systems plays a key role in the business 
operations of the Bank. Since large volume of transactions are 
processed daily, the IT controls are required to ensure that applications 
process data as expected and that changes are made in an appropriate 
manner.  
Appropriate IT general controls and application controls are required to 
ensure that such IT systems are able to process the data, as required, 
completely, accurately and consistently for reliable financial reporting. 
We have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as key audit matter because 
of the high level automation, significant number of systems being used 
by the management and the complexity of the IT architecture and its 
impact on the financial reporting system. 
Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
For testing the IT general controls, application controls and IT dependent 
manual controls, we involved specialists as part of the audit. The team 
also assisted in testing the accuracy of the information produced by the 
Bank’s IT systems. 
Obtained 
a 
comprehensive 
understanding 
of 
IT 
applications 
implemented at the Bank. It was followed by process understanding, 
mapping of applications to the same and understanding financial risks 
posed by people-process and technology.  
Key IT audit procedures includes testing design and operating 
effectiveness of  key controls operating over user access management 
(which includes user access provisioning, de-provisioning, access 
review, password configuration review, segregation of duties and 
privilege access), change management (which include change release 
in production environment are compliant to the defined procedures 
and segregation of environment is ensured), program development 
(which include review of data migration activity), computer operations 
(which includes testing of key controls pertaining to, backup, Batch 
processing (including interface testing), incident management and data 
centre security), System interface controls. This included testing that 
requests for access to systems were appropriately logged, reviewed 
and authorized.
In addition to the above, the design and operating effectiveness of 
certain automated controls, that were considered as key internal system 
controls over financial reporting were tested. Using various techniques 
such as inquiry, review of documentation / record / reports, observation 
and re-performance. We also tested few controls using negative testing 
technique. We had taken adequate samples of instances for our test.  
Tested compensating controls and performed alternate procedures, 
where necessary. In addition, understood where relevant, changes 
made to the IT landscape during the audit period.  
Information Other than the Standalone Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information in the Basel 
III - Pillar 3 disclosures and graphical representation of financial highlights but does not include the financial statements and our 
auditor’s reports thereon, which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, and the Annual Report, which is expected to 
be made available to us after that date. 
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, 
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or our knowledge obtained 
in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that 
we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, 
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate 
the matter to Those Charged with Governance.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
215
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Responsibilities of Management and Those charged with Governance for Standalone Financial 
Statements 
The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation 
of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance and cash 
flows of the Bank in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and circulars, guidelines and directions issued by the 
RBI from time to time (the “RBI Guidelines”) as applicable to the Bank. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI Guidelines for safeguarding of the assets of the Bank 
and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant 
to the preparation and presentation of the standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Bank’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting 
unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process. 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect 
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or 
in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
standalone financial statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout 
the audit. We also:
• 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• 
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Bank 
has internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls.
• 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by the Management of the Bank.
• 
Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention 
in our Auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the Bank to cease to continue as a going concern.
• 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures, 
and whether the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves 
fair presentation. 

216
Independent Auditor's Report
We communicate with Those Charged with Governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide Those Charged with Governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with Those Charged with Governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance 
in the audit of the standalone financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2022 and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter 
or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
1.	
The Balance Sheet and the Profit and Loss Account have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of Section 29 of 
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 read with Section 133 of the Act and relevant rules issued thereunder.
2.	
As required by sub-section 3 of Section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that:
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purpose of our audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
b)	
The transactions of the Bank, which have come to our notice during the course of our audit, have been within the powers 
of the Bank;
c)	
Since the key operations of the Bank are automated with the key applications integrated to the core banking system, the 
audit is carried out centrally as all the necessary records and data required for the purposes of our audit are available 
therein, though during the course of our audit we visited 94 branches.
3.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit;
b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Bank so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books;
c)	
The Balance Sheet, the Profit and Loss Account and the Statement Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement 
with the books of account;
d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 to the extent they are not inconsistent 
with the guidelines prescribed by the RBI;
e)	
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on March 31, 2022 taken on record by the 
Board of Directors, none of the directors are disqualified as on March 31, 2022 from being appointed as a director in 
terms of Section 164(2) of the Act;
f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Bank and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure A”;
g)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given 
to us: 
i.	
The Bank has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial statements 
- Refer Schedule 12, Schedule 17(C)(17) and Schedules 18(18)(c)(1) & (2) to the standalone financial statements;

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
217
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
ii.	
The Bank has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material foreseeable 
losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts - Refer Schedule 17(C)(7) and 17(C)(17), Schedule 
18(11) and Schedule 18(18)(c) to the standalone financial statements; 
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Bank during the year ended March 31, 2022;
iv.	
1.	
The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in the 
notes to accounts, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share 
premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank to or in any other persons / entities, including 
foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary has, whether directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
2.	
The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in the 
notes to accounts, no funds have been received by the Bank from any persons / entities, including foreign 
entities, that the company has directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; 
3.	
Based on the audit procedures which we have considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances 
and according to the information and explanations provided to us by the Management in this regard, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations made by the Management under 
sub-clause (1) and (2) contain any material misstatement; and
v.	
The Bank has paid dividend during the year which is in compliance with section 123 of the Act.
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the requirements of section 
197(16) of the Act, as amended; the Bank is a Banking Company as defined under Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 
Accordingly, the requirements prescribed under section 197 of the Act do not apply.
Other Matter
The audit of standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2021 was conducted by MSKA & Associates, Chartered 
Accountants, the statutory auditor of the Bank, who had expressed an unmodified opinion on those financial statements. Accordingly, 
we, M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants, do not express any opinion on the figures reported in the standalone financial 
statements for the year ended / as at March 31, 2021.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statement is not modified in respect of the above matter.
For MSKA & Associates
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105047W
ICAI Firm Registration Number:                                                                           
107122W/W100672
Swapnil Kale
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
Partner
Membership Number: 117812
Membership Number: 044577
UDIN: 22117812AHEKWE1480
UDIN: 22044577AHEOLM8359
Mumbai, 
April 16, 2022
Mumbai, 
April 16, 2022

218
Independent Auditor's Report
Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date on the Standalone 
Financial Statements of HDFC Bank Limited
[Referred to in paragraph 3(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the Independent Auditor’s Report of 
even date to the Members of HDFC Bank Limited on the Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2022] 
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of HDFC Bank Limited (“the Bank”) as of March 
31, 2022 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Bank for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control 
with reference to financial statements criteria established by the Bank considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (ICAI) (the “Guidance Note”). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of 
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient 
conduct of its business, including adherence to Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds 
and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, 
as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank's internal financial controls with reference to financial statements based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed 
to be prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls. Those Standards 
and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether internal financial controls with reference to financial statements was established and maintained and if 
such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, assessing the 
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on 
the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls With reference to Financial Statements
A Bank’s internal financial control with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. A Bank's internal financial control with reference to financial statements includes 
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that 
receipts and expenditures of the Bank are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the 
Bank; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition 
of the Bank's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
219
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls With reference to financial statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of 
collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject 
to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Bank has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements and 
such internal financial controls with reference to financial statements were operating effectively as at March 31, 2022, based on 
the internal control with reference to financial statements criteria established by the Bank considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note.
For MSKA & Associates
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105047W
ICAI Firm Registration Number:                                                                           
107122W/W100672
Swapnil Kale
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
Partner
Membership Number: 117812
Membership Number: 044577
UDIN: 22117812AHEKWE1480
UDIN: 22044577AHEOLM8359
Mumbai, 
April 16, 2022
Mumbai, 
April 16, 2022
         

220
Balance Sheet
As at March 31, 2022
` in '000
Schedule
As at
March 31, 2022
As at
March 31, 2021
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital
1 
5,545,541 
5,512,776 
Reserves and surplus
2 
2,395,383,846 
2,031,695,513 
Deposits
3 
15,592,174,400 
13,350,602,208 
Borrowings
4 
1,848,172,073 
1,354,873,236 
Other liabilities and provisions
5 
844,074,643 
726,021,504 
Total
20,685,350,503 
17,468,705,237 
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India
6 
1,299,956,352 
973,407,363 
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice
7 
223,312,892 
221,296,594 
Investments
8 
4,555,356,930 
4,437,282,921 
Advances
9 
13,688,209,314 
11,328,366,309 
Fixed assets
10 
60,836,735 
49,093,169 
Other assets
11 
857,678,280 
459,258,881 
Total
20,685,350,503 
17,468,705,237 
Contingent liabilities
12 
13,954,422,995 
9,710,975,961 
Bills for collection
569,680,463 
447,481,440 
Significant accounting policies and notes to the financial statements 
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Balance Sheet.
17 & 18
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Atanu Chakraborty
Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part Time Chairman of the Board
Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 
105047W
ICAI Firm Registration Number:                   
107122W/W100672
M. D. Ranganath
Malay Patel
Independent Director
Independent Director
Swapnil Kale
Sanjay Khemani
Lily Vadera
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner
Partner
Independent Director
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812
Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022
Company Secretary

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
221
Profit and Loss Account
For the year ended March 31, 2022
` in '000
Schedule
 Year ended
 March 31, 2022 
Year ended
 March 31, 2021 
I  INCOME
Interest earned
13
1,277,531,191 
1,208,582,265 
Other income
14
295,099,004 
252,048,927 
Total                                                                                                          
1,572,630,195 
1,460,631,192 
II  EXPENDITURE
Interest expended
15
557,435,282 
559,786,560 
Operating expenses
16
374,421,858 
327,226,301 
Provisions and contingencies [Refer Schedule 18 (23)]	
271,159,503 
262,453,079 
Total                                                                                                                        
1,203,016,643 
1,149,465,940 
III PROFIT
Net profit for the year
369,613,552 
311,165,252 
Balance in the Profit and Loss account brought forward
736,527,947 
574,924,020 
Total                                                                                                                        
1,106,141,499 
886,089,272 
IV  APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 92,403,388 
77,791,313 
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year
 35,923,960 
 -   
Transfer to General Reserve
 36,961,355 
 31,116,525 
Transfer to Capital Reserve
 6,664,722 
 22,916,842 
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve Account
 2,331,331 
 616,645 
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 -   
 17,120,000 
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet
 931,856,743 
 736,527,947 
Total
1,106,141,499 
886,089,272 
V  EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE (Face value ` 1 per share)
 ` 
 ` 
Basic 
 66.80 
 56.58 
Diluted 
 66.35 
 56.32 
Significant accounting policies and notes to the financial statements 
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Profit and Loss Account.
17 & 18
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Atanu Chakraborty
Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part Time Chairman of the Board
Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 
105047W
ICAI Firm Registration Number:                   
107122W/W100672
M. D. Ranganath
Malay Patel
Independent Director
Independent Director
Swapnil Kale
Sanjay Khemani
Lily Vadera
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner
Partner
Independent Director
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812
Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022
Company Secretary

222
Cash Flow Statement 
For the year ended March 31, 2022
` in '000
 Year ended 
March 31, 2022
 Year ended 
March 31, 2021
Cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before income tax 
 490,154,792 
 416,589,837 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation on fixed assets
 15,998,039 
 13,024,133 
(Profit) / loss on revaluation of investments
 (15,463,977)
 14,853,243 
Amortisation of premium on held to maturity investments
 8,213,244 
 7,654,693 
(Profit) / loss on sale of fixed assets
 33,388 
 (15,407)
Provision / charge for non performing assets
 106,334,842 
 116,499,658 
Provision for standard assets and contingencies
 49,569,684 
 42,694,827 
Dividend from subsidiaries
 (8,308,954)
 (4,830,434)
Employee Stock Options Expense
 3,259,696 
 -   
 649,790,754 
 606,470,550 
Adjustments for:
Increase in investments
 (121,951,685)
 (525,406,084)
Increase in advances
 (2,466,388,983)
 (1,509,246,390)
Increase in deposits
 2,241,572,192 
 1,875,579,261 
(Increase) / decrease in other assets
 (380,235,846)
 100,182,759 
Increase / (decrease) in other liabilities and provisions 
 75,178,971 
 (6,756,511)
 (2,034,597)
 540,823,585 
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds)
 (140,052,624)
 (125,875,723)
Net cash flows (used in) / from operating activities
 (142,087,221)
 414,947,862 
Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchase of fixed assets 
 (21,407,866)
 (16,173,763)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets
 182,956 
 141,637 
Dividend from subsidiaries
 8,308,954 
 4,830,434 
Net cash flow used in investing activities
 (12,915,956)
 (11,201,692)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Proceeds from issue of share capital, net of issue expenses 
 26,097,614 
 17,600,995 
Proceeds from issue of Additional Tier I capital bonds
 81,627,500 
 -   
Redemption of Tier II capital bonds
 (36,500,000)
 (11,050,000)
Net proceeds / (repayments) in other borrowings
 446,616,337 
 (80,362,136)
Dividend paid during the year
 (35,923,960)
 -   
Net cash flow from / (used in) financing activities
 481,917,491 
 (73,811,141)
Effect of exchange fluctuation on translation reserve
 1,650,973 
 (1,418,252)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
 328,565,287 
 328,516,777 
Cash and cash equivalents as at April 1st
 1,194,703,957 
 866,187,180 
Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31st
 1,523,269,244 
 1,194,703,957 
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Atanu Chakraborty
Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part Time Chairman of the Board
Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 
105047W
ICAI Firm Registration Number:                   
107122W/W100672
M. D. Ranganath
Malay Patel
Independent Director
Independent Director
Swapnil Kale
Sanjay Khemani
Lily Vadera
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner
Partner
Independent Director
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812
Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022
Company Secretary

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
223
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 1 - Capital 
` in '000
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
Authorised capital
6,50,00,00,000 (31 March, 2021 : 6,50,00,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 1/- each
6,500,000 
6,500,000 
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital
5,54,55,40,976 (31 March, 2021 : 5,51,27,76,482) Equity Shares of ` 1/- each
5,545,541 
5,512,776 
Total
5,545,541 
5,512,776 
Schedule 2 - Reserves and Surplus
` in '000
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
I 	
Statutory reserve
	
Opening balance
423,605,693 
345,814,380 
	
Additions during the year
 92,403,388 
77,791,313 
	
Total
516,009,081 
423,605,693 
II 	 General reserve
	
Opening balance
167,607,883 
136,491,358 
	
Additions during the year
 36,961,355 
31,116,525 
	
Total
204,569,238 
167,607,883 
III 	 Balance in profit and loss account
931,856,743 
736,527,947 
IV 	 Share premium account
	
Opening balance
605,126,833 
587,555,328 
	
Additions during the year
 26,064,849 
17,571,505 
	
Total
631,191,682 
605,126,833 
V 	 Amalgamation reserve
 
 
	
Opening balance
10,635,564 
10,635,564 
	
Additions during the year
 -   
 -   
	
Total
10,635,564 
10,635,564 
VI 	 Capital reserve
	
Opening balance
49,564,566 
26,647,724 
	
Additions during the year
 6,664,722 
 22,916,842 
	
Total
56,229,288 
49,564,566 
VII	 Investment reserve 
	
Opening balance
 616,645 
 -   
	
Additions during the year
 2,398,701 
 616,645 
	
Deductions during the year 
 (67,370)
 -   
	
Total
 2,947,976 
 616,645 
VIII Investment fluctuation reserve 
	
Opening balance
 36,190,000 
 19,070,000 
	
Additions during the year
 -   
 17,120,000 
	
Total
 36,190,000 
 36,190,000 
IX	 Foreign currency translation account
	
Opening balance
1,820,382 
3,238,634 
	
Additions / (deductions) during the year
1,650,973 
(1,418,252)
	
Total
3,471,355 
1,820,382 
X 	 Cash flow hedge reserve
	
Opening balance
 -   
 -   
	
Additions / (deductions) during the year
(976,777)
 -   
	
Total
(976,777)
 -   

224
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
` in '000
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
XI 	 Employees stock options reserve
	
Opening balance
 -   
 -   
	
Additions during the year
3,259,696 
 -   
	
Total
3,259,696 
 -   
	
Total
2,395,383,846 
2,031,695,513 
Shedule 3 - Deposits
` in '000
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
A 	 I    	Demand deposits
	
	
(i)	
From banks
55,508,311 
38,701,928 
	
	
(ii) 	 From others
2,337,597,681 
2,083,119,132 
	
Total
2,393,105,992 
2,121,821,060 
	
II    	Savings bank deposits
5,117,385,438 
4,035,000,577 
	
III   	Term deposits
	
	
(i)  	 From banks
98,018,897 
106,458,399 
	
	
(ii) 	 From others
7,983,664,073 
7,087,322,172 
	
Total
8,081,682,970 
7,193,780,571 
	
Total
15,592,174,400 
13,350,602,208 
B 	 I	
Deposits of branches in India
15,490,951,433 
13,291,717,787 
	
II 	 Deposits of branches outside India
101,222,967 
58,884,421 
	
Total
15,592,174,400 
13,350,602,208 
Schedule 4 - Borrowings
` in '000
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
I   	 Borrowings in India 
	
(i) 	 Reserve Bank of India
 90,200,000 
 90,200,000 
	
(ii) 	 Other banks
 7,001,848 
 8,860,455 
	
(iii) 	 Other institutions and agencies
 842,557,858 
 659,354,025 
	
(iv) 	Upper and lower tier II capital and innovative perpetual debts
 134,770,000 
 171,270,000 
	
(v) 	 Bonds and Debentures (excluding subordinated debt)
 236,750,000 
 186,750,000 
	
Total
1,311,279,706 
1,116,434,480 
II   	Borrowings outside India
536,892,367 
238,438,756 
	
Total
1,848,172,073 
1,354,873,236 
Secured borrowings included in I and II above: Nil (previous year: Nil) except borrowings of ` 24,204.49 crore (previous year: ` 44,625.92 crore) under 
repurchase transactions (including tri-party repo) and transactions under Liquidity Adjustment Facility.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
225
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities and Provisions
` in '000
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
I    	 Bills payable
130,937,438 
124,241,904 
II   	 Interest accrued
67,482,314 
62,334,334 
III 	 Others (including provisions)
580,028,887 
486,411,605 
IV 	 Contingent provisions against standard assets
65,626,004 
53,033,661 
	
Total
844,074,643 
726,021,504 
Schedule 6 - Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India
` in '000
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
I  	 Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)
 112,044,402 
106,925,639 
II 	 Balances with Reserve Bank of India:
	
(a) 	 In current accounts
 817,771,950 
594,421,724 
	
(b) 	 In other accounts
 370,140,000 
272,060,000 
	
Total
 1,187,911,950 
 866,481,724 
	
Total
1,299,956,352 
973,407,363 
Schedule 7 - Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
` in '000
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
I	
In India
 	
(i) 	 Balances with banks:
          	 (a) 	 In current accounts
3,227,259 
8,333,753 
          	 (b) 	 In other deposit accounts
119,869 
9,869 
	
Total
3,347,128 
8,343,622 
	
(ii) 	 Money at call and short notice:
	
	
(a) With banks
 -   
 -   
	
	
(b) With other institutions
 4,913,271 
 -   
	
Total
 4,913,271 
 -   
	
Total
8,260,399 
8,343,622 
II  	 Outside India
     	(i) 	 In current accounts 
73,622,217 
110,344,840 
     	(ii) 	 In deposit accounts 
 20,204,262 
3,909,632 
    	 (iii)  	Money at call and short notice 
121,226,014 
98,698,500 
	
Total
215,052,493 
212,952,972 
	
Total
223,312,892 
221,296,594 

226
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule  8 - Investments
` in '000
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
A 	 Investments in India in
	
(i)   	Government securities
 3,665,273,063 
3,511,410,385 
	
(ii)   	Other approved securities
 -   
 -   
     	(iii)  	Shares
 4,855,855 
4,332,926 
     	(iv)  	Debentures and bonds
 647,083,638 
617,897,218 
     	(v)   Subsidiaries / joint ventures
 38,264,875 
38,264,875 
	
(vi)  	Others (Units, CDs, CPs, PTCs and security receipts)
 173,655,256 
241,696,270 
	
Total
 4,529,132,687 
 4,413,601,674 
B   Investments outside India in
  	
(i)   	Government securities (including Local Authorities)
 2,275,818 
 5,936,075 
  	
(ii)  	Other investments
     		
(a)  Shares
 26,426 
35,024 
     		
(b)  Debentures and bonds
 23,921,999 
 17,710,148 
	
Total
 26,224,243 
 23,681,247 
	
Total
 4,555,356,930 
 4,437,282,921 
Schedule  9 - Advances
` in '000
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
A  	 (i)  	 Bills purchased and discounted
290,524,179 
345,427,765 
	
(ii)  	Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand
4,334,112,539 
3,630,544,900 
	
(iii)	 Term loans
9,063,572,596 
7,352,393,644 
	
Total
13,688,209,314 
11,328,366,309 
B 	 (i) 	 Secured by tangible assets*
9,031,012,224 
7,618,839,623 
    	 (ii) 	 Covered by bank / government guarantees
483,870,294 
393,758,390 
   	 (iii) 	 Unsecured
4,173,326,796 
3,315,768,296 
	
Total
13,688,209,314 
11,328,366,309 
    *  Includes advances against stock and book debts of ` 175,547.78 crore (previous year: ` 131,211.86 crore)
C 	 I 	
Advances in India
	
    	 (i) 	 Priority sector
3,889,850,541 
2,574,675,399 
	
   	 (ii) 	 Public sector
1,356,938,096 
1,199,082,740 
	
   	 (iii) 	 Banks
68,862,972 
85,383,854 
	
   	 (iv) 	Others
7,944,406,589 
7,153,125,825 
	
Total
13,260,058,198 
11,012,267,818 
C	 II 	 Advances outside India
    	 	
(i) 	 Due from banks
49,098,849 
55,276,539 
	
	
(ii) 	 Due from others
             	
(a) 	 Bills purchased and discounted
2,548,344 
63,490 
             	
(b) 	 Syndicated loans 
5,418,892 
8,347,907 
             	
(c) 	 Others
371,085,031 
252,410,555 
	
Total
428,151,116 
316,098,491 
	
Total
13,688,209,314 
11,328,366,309 
(Advances are net of provisions)

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
227
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Schedule  10 - Fixed Assets
` in '000
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
A 	 Premises (including land)
	
Gross block
	
At cost on 31 March of the preceding year
20,283,839 
18,636,852 
	
Additions during the year
 1,667,165 
1,745,137 
	
Deductions during the year
 (130,218)
(98,150)
	
Total  
21,820,786 
20,283,839 
	
Depreciation
      	As at 31 March of the preceding year
6,908,835 
6,341,803 
      	Charge for the year
 715,944 
660,308 
	
On deductions during the year
 (112,842)
(93,276)
	
Total  
7,511,937 
6,908,835 
	
Net block
14,308,849 
13,375,004 
B 	 Other fixed assets (including furniture and fixtures)
	
Gross block
	
At cost on 31 March of the preceding year
124,715,562 
111,296,870 
	
Additions during the year
 26,294,103 
16,176,309 
	
Deductions during the year
 (4,949,973)
(2,757,617)
	
Total  
146,059,692 
124,715,562 
	
Depreciation
 
 
	
As at 31 March of the preceding year
88,997,397 
79,272,764 
	
Charge for the year
 15,285,413 
12,360,893 
	
On deductions during the year
 (4,751,004)
(2,636,260)
	
Total  
99,531,806 
88,997,397 
	
Net block
46,527,886 
35,718,165 
C 	 Assets on lease (plant and machinery)
	
Gross block
	
At cost on 31 March of the preceding year
4,546,923 
4,546,923 
	
Additions during the year
 -   
 -   
	
Total  
4,546,923 
4,546,923 
     	Depreciation
      As at 31 March of the preceding year
4,104,467 
4,104,467 
      Charge for the year
 -   
 -   
	
Total  
4,104,467 
4,104,467 
     	Lease adjustment account
      As at 31 March of the preceding year
442,456 
442,456 
      Charge for the year
 -   
 -   
	
Total  
442,456 
442,456 
      Unamortised cost of assets on lease
 - 
 - 
	
Total  
60,836,735 
49,093,169 

228
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 11 - Other Assets
` in '000
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
I   	 Interest accrued
134,467,710 
118,762,922 
II  	 Advance tax / tax deducted at source (net of provisions)
42,693,607 
36,071,347 
III 	 Stationery and stamps
420,769 
434,856 
IV 	 Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims
512,211 
512,557 
V 	 Bond and share application money pending allotment
 -   
225,000 
VI 	 Security deposit for commercial and residential property
5,687,636 
5,483,331 
VII	 Others*
673,896,347 
297,768,868 
	
Total
857,678,280 
459,258,881 
*Includes deferred tax asset (net) of ` 6,229.67 crore (previous year: ` 4,937.76 crore) and deposits placed with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB on account 
of shortfall in lending to priority sector of ` 44,738.08 crore (previous year: `  9,320.37 crore)
Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities
` in '000
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
I   	 Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts - taxation
12,931,485 
12,677,596 
II  	 Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts - others
1,311,797 
2,275,100 
III 	 Liability for partly paid investments
 -   
 -   
IV 	 Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts
6,551,871,752 
4,964,726,675 
V 	 Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts
5,897,615,819 
3,577,046,284 
VI  	Guarantees given on behalf of constituents - 	in India
833,910,325 
751,195,338 
                                                                          - outside India
3,524,321 
1,800,917 
VII 	 Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
615,639,684 
376,536,252 
VIII	 Other items for which the bank is contingently liable	
37,617,812 
24,717,799 
	
Total
13,954,422,995 
9,710,975,961 
Schedule 13 - Interest Earned
` in '000
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2021
I   	 Interest / discount on advances / bills
985,120,227 
948,345,362 
II  	 Income from investments
260,461,338 
232,142,691 
III 	 Interest on balance with RBI and other inter-bank funds
25,523,700 
23,412,507 
IV 	 Others
6,425,926 
4,681,705 
	
Total
1,277,531,191 
1,208,582,265 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
229
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Schedule 14 - Other Income
` in '000
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2021
I   	 Commission, exchange and brokerage 
195,365,747 
161,693,202 
II  	 Profit / (loss) on sale of investments (net)
7,362,434 
53,523,204 
III 	 Profit / (loss) on revaluation of investments (net)
15,463,977 
(14,853,243)
IV 	 Profit / (loss) on sale of building and other assets (net)
706,725 
484,014 
V  	 Profit / (loss) on exchange / derivative transactions (net)
39,079,094 
24,384,132 
VI 	 Income earned by way of dividends from subsidiaries / 
      associates and / or joint ventures abroad / in India
 8,308,954 
4,830,434 
VII	 Miscellaneous income
28,812,073 
21,987,184 
	
Total
295,099,004 
252,048,927 
Schedule 15 - Interest Expended
` in '000
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2021
I   	 Interest on deposits
489,089,952 
501,433,080 
II  	 Interest on RBI / inter-bank borrowings
68,189,380 
58,225,908 
III	
Other interest
155,950 
127,572 
	
Total
557,435,282 
559,786,560 
Schedule 16 - Operating Expenses
` in '000
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2021
I     Payments to and provisions for employees
120,316,860 
103,647,937 
II    Rent, taxes and lighting
16,408,506 
16,981,899 
III   Printing and stationery
5,285,712 
4,291,454 
IV   Advertisement and publicity
2,161,308 
954,746 
V    Depreciation on bank's property
15,998,039 
13,024,133 
VI   Directors' fees / remuneration, allowances and expenses
70,825 
51,433 
VII  Auditors' fees and expenses
62,572 
46,273 
VIII Law charges
2,548,186 
1,366,427 
IX   Postage, telegram, telephone etc.
5,697,517 
4,807,651 
X    Repairs and maintenance
17,259,357 
16,162,822 
XI   Insurance
19,093,514 
17,228,235 
XII 	 Other expenditure*
169,519,462 
148,663,291 
	
Total
374,421,858 
327,226,301 
* Includes professional fees, commission to sales agents, card and merchant acquiring expenses and system management fees.

230
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 17 - Significant accounting policies 
appended to and forming part of the financial 
statements for the year ended March 31, 2022
A	
Background
	
HDFC Bank Limited (‘HDFC Bank’ or ‘the Bank’), 
incorporated in Mumbai, India is a publicly held banking 
company engaged in providing a range of banking and 
financial services including retail banking, wholesale 
banking and treasury operations. The Bank is governed 
by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the Companies 
Act, 2013. The Bank has overseas branch operations in 
Bahrain, Hong Kong, Dubai and Offshore Banking Unit at 
International Financial Service Centre (IFSC), GIFT City, 
India. The financial accounting systems of the Bank are 
centralised and, therefore, accounting returns are not 
required to be submitted by branches of the Bank.
B	
Basis of Preparation
	
The financial statements have been prepared and presented 
under the historical cost convention and accrual basis of 
accounting, unless otherwise stated and are in accordance 
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India 
(‘GAAP’), statutory requirements prescribed under the Third 
Schedule of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, circulars 
and guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) 
from time to time (RBI guidelines), Accounting Standards 
(‘AS’) specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 
2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 
2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2021, in so far as they apply to banks.
	
Use of estimates
	
The preparation of financial statements in conformity 
with GAAP requires the management to make estimates 
and necessary assumptions in the reported amounts of 
assets and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as 
of the date of the financial statements and the reported 
income and expenses for the reporting year. Management 
believes that the estimates used in the preparation of the 
financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual 
results could differ from these estimates. Any revision in 
the accounting estimates is recognised prospectively in the 
current and future periods.
C	
Principal Accounting Policies 
1	
Investments 
	
Classification:
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, investments are 
classified on the date of purchase into “Held for Trading” 
(‘HFT’), “Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Held to Maturity” 
(‘HTM’) categories (hereinafter called “categories”). 
Subsequent shifting amongst the categories is done 
in accordance with the RBI guidelines. Under each of 
these categories, investments are further classified under 
six groups (hereinafter called “groups”) - Government 
Securities, Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures 
and Bonds, Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures 
and Other Investments. 
	
Purchase and sale transactions in securities are accounted 
on settlement date except in the case of equity shares 
which are accounted on trade date.
	
Basis of classification:
	
Investments that are held for resale within 90 days from 
the date of purchase are classified under HFT category. 
Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity are 
classified under HTM category. Investments in the equity 
of subsidiaries / joint ventures are categorised as HTM. 
Investments which are not classified in either of the above 
categories are classified under AFS category.
	
Acquisition cost: 
	
Brokerage, commission, etc. and broken period interest 
on debt instruments are recognised in the Profit and Loss 
Account and are not included in the cost of acquisition.
	
Disposal of investments:
	
Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid 
three categories is recognised in the Profit and Loss 
Account. Cost of investments is based on the weighted 
average cost method. The profit from sale of investment 
under HTM category, net of taxes and transfer to statutory 
reserve is appropriated from the Profit and Loss Account 
to “Capital Reserve”.
	
Short sale:
	
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central 
Government dated securities. The short position is 
categorised under HFT category and netted off from 
investments. The short position is marked to market and 
loss, if any, is charged to the Profit and Loss Account 
while gain, if any, is ignored. Profit / Loss on short sale is 
recognised on settlement date.
	
Valuation:
	
Investments classified under AFS and HFT categories are 
marked to market individually and depreciation / appreciation 
is aggregated for each group and net depreciation in each 
group is provided and net appreciation is ignored. 
	
Traded investments are valued based on the trades / 
quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or prices 
published by Financial Benchmarks India Pvt Ltd. 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
231
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
(FBIL) with Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives 
Association (FIMMDA) as the calculating agent. Investments 
denominated in foreign currencies are valued based on the 
prices provided by market information providers such as 
Bloomberg, Refinitiv, etc.
	
The market value of unquoted government of India securities, 
state government securities and special bonds such as oil 
bonds, fertilizer bonds, etc. issued by the government of 
India is computed as per the prices published by FBIL with 
FIMMDA as the calculating agent. 
 	
The valuation of other unquoted fixed income securities (viz. 
other approved securities and bonds and debentures), and 
preference shares, is done with appropriate mark-up, i.e. 
applicable FIMMDA published credit spread over the Yield 
to Maturity (YTM) rates for government of India securities as 
published by FBIL with FIMMDA as the calculating agent.
	
Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-up 
value, if the latest Balance Sheet is available or at ` 1 for 
each company.
	
Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest net asset value 
declared by the respective schemes of the mutual fund. 
	
Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of deposits 
being discounted instruments, are valued at carrying cost. 
	
Investments in Security receipts (SR) and unquoted units 
of Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT) are valued as 
per the net asset value provided by the issuing Asset 
Reconstruction Company and InvIT trust respectively.	
	
Investments in unquoted Venture Capital Fund (VCF) are 
categorised, at the discretion of the Bank, under HTM 
category for an initial period of three years and valued at 
cost during this period. Such investments are transferred 
to the AFS category after the said period of three years. 
Investments in AFS category are valued at NAV shown by 
the VCF in its financial statements. Units are valued based 
on the latest audited financials of the VCF, if available or at 
` 1 per VCF as per the RBI guidelines.
       Pass Through Certificates (PTC) including Priority Sector-
PTCs are valued by using FIMMDA credit spread as 
applicable for the NBFC category, based on the credit rating 
of the respective PTC over the YTM rates for government 
of India securities published by FBIL with FIMMDA as the 
calculating agent.	
       	Net depreciation, if any, compared to the acquisition cost, 
in any of the six groups, is charged to the Profit and Loss 
Account. The net appreciation, if any, in any of the six groups 
is not recognised except to the extent of depreciation 
provided earlier. The book value of individual securities is 
not changed on such revaluation of investments.
	
Investments classified under HTM category are carried 
at their acquisition cost and not marked to market. Any 
premium on acquisition is amortised over the remaining 
maturity period of the security on a constant yield-to-
maturity basis. Such amortisation of premium is adjusted 
against interest income from investments. Any diminution, 
other than temporary, in the value of investments in HTM 
category is provided for.
	
Non-performing investments are identified and provision 
are made thereon based on the RBI guidelines. The 
provision on such non-performing investments are not set 
off against the appreciation in respect of other performing 
investments. Interest on non-performing investments is not 
recognised until received.
	
Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions:
	
Repurchase (Repo) and reverse repurchase (Reverse 
Repo) transactions are reflected as borrowing and lending 
transactions respectively. 
	
Borrowing cost on repo transactions is accounted as 
interest expense and revenue on reverse repo transactions 
is accounted as interest income.
2	
Advances  
	
Classification:
	
Advances are classified as performing and non-performing 
based on the RBI guidelines and are stated net of bills 
rediscounted, inter-bank participation with risk, specific 
provisions, interest in suspense for non-performing 
advances, claims received from Credit Guarantors, 
provisions for funded interest term loan and provision for 
diminution in the fair value of restructured assets. 
	
Provisioning:
	
Specific loan loss provisions in respect of non-performing 
advances are made based on management’s assessment 
of the degree of impairment of advances, subject to the 
minimum provisioning prescribed by the RBI. 
	
The specific provision for retail non-performing assets are 
also based on the nature of product and delinquency levels. 
Specific loan loss provisions in respect of non-performing 
advances are included under Provisions and Contingencies.
	
Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance 
with the Bank’s policy. Recoveries from bad debts written-
off are included under other income. 
	
In relation to derivative contracts with non-performing 
borrowers, the Bank makes provision for the entire amount 

232
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
of overdue and future receivables relating to positive 
marked to market value of the said derivative contracts.
	
The Bank maintains general provision for standard assets 
including credit exposures computed as per the current 
marked to market values of interest rate and foreign 
exchange derivative contracts and gold. In the case of 
overseas branches, general provision on standard assets 
is maintained at the higher of the levels stipulated by the 
respective overseas regulator or RBI. Provision for standard 
assets is included under other liabilities.
	
In addition to the above, the Bank on a prudent basis 
makes provisions on advances or exposures which are not 
NPAs, but has reasons to believe on the basis of the extant 
environment or specific information or basis regulatory 
guidance / instructions, of a possible slippage of a specific 
advance or a group of advances or exposures or potential 
exposures. These are classified as contingent provisions 
and included under other liabilities.
	
Provisions made in addition to the Bank’s policy for specific 
loan loss provisions for non-performing assets, possible 
slippage of specific exposures and regulatory general 
provisions are categorised as floating provisions. Creation 
of floating provisions is considered by the Bank up to a level 
approved by the Board of Directors. Floating provisions 
are used only for contingencies under extraordinary 
circumstances and for making specific provisions for non-
performing accounts. Floating provisions are included 
under other liabilities.
	
Further to the provisions required to be held according 
to the asset classification status, provisions are held for 
individual country exposures (other than for home country 
exposure). Countries are categorised into risk categories 
as per Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. 
(‘ECGC’) guidelines and provisioning is done in respect of 
that country where the net funded exposure is one percent 
or more of the Bank’s total assets. Provision for country risk 
is included under other liabilities.
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines on the prudential 
framework for resolution of stressed assets and the 
resolution frameworks for COVID-19 related stress and 
its Board approved policy, the Bank has implemented 
resolution plans for eligible borrowers. The asset 
classification and necessary provisions thereon are done 
in accordance with the said RBI guidelines.
3	
Securitisation and transfer of assets
	
Assets transferred through securitisation and direct 
assignment of cash flows are de-recognised in the Balance 
Sheet when they are sold (true sale criteria being fully met 
with) and consideration is received. Sales / transfers that do 
not meet true sale criteria are accounted for as borrowings. 
For a securitisation or direct assignment transaction, the 
Bank recognises profit upon receipt of the funds and loss 
is recognised at the time of sale.
	
On sale of stressed assets, if the sale is at a price below 
the net book value (i.e., funded outstanding less specific 
provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the Profit and 
Loss Account and if the sale is for a value higher than the 
net book value, the excess provision is credited to the 
Profit and Loss Account in the year when the sum of cash 
received by way of initial consideration and / or redemption 
or transfer of security receipts issued by SC / RC exceeds 
the net book value of the loan at the time of transfer.
	
In respect of stressed assets sold under an asset 
securitisation, where the investment by the bank in security 
receipts (SRs) backed by the assets sold by it is more than 
10 percent of such SRs, provisions held are higher of the 
provisions required in terms of net asset value declared by the 
Securitisation Company (‘SC’) / Reconstruction Company 
(‘RC’) and provisions as per the extant norms applicable to 
the underlying loans, notionally treating the book value of 
these SRs as the corresponding stressed loans assuming 
the loans remained in the books of the Bank.
	
The Bank invests in Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) 
issued by other Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs). These 
are accounted at acquisition cost and are classified as 
investments. The Bank also buys loans through the direct 
assignment route which are classified as advances. These 
are carried at acquisition cost unless it is more than the 
face value, in which case the premium is amortised based 
on effective interest rate method.
	
The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank 
participation with and without risk. In the case of participation 
with risk, the aggregate amount of the participation issued 
by the Bank is reduced from advances. In case where 
the Bank is assuming risk by participation, the aggregate 
amount of the participation is classified under advances. 
In the case of issue of participation certificate without 
risk, the aggregate amount of participation issued by the 
Bank is classified under borrowings and where the Bank 
is acquiring participation certificate, the aggregate amount 
of participation acquired is shown as due from banks 
under advances.
4	
Fixed assets and depreciation
	
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation as adjusted for impairment, if any. Cost 
includes cost of purchase and all expenditure like site 
preparation, installation costs and professional fees 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
233
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
incurred on the asset before it is ready to use. Subsequent 
expenditure incurred on assets put to use is capitalised only 
when it increases the future benefit / functioning capability 
from / of such assets. 
	
Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of 
the fixed asset on a straight-line basis. The management 
believes that the useful life of assets assessed by the 
Bank, pursuant to Part C of Schedule II to the Companies 
Act, 2013, taking into account changes in environment, 
changes in technology, the utility and efficacy of the asset 
in use, fairly reflects its estimate of useful lives of the fixed 
assets. The estimated useful lives of key fixed assets are 
given below:
Asset
Estimated useful 
life as assessed by 
the Bank
Estimated useful 
life specified under 
Schedule II of the 
Companies Act, 
2013
Owned Premises
61 years
60 years
Automated Teller 
Machines (ATMs)
10 years
15 years
Electrical equipments 
and installations
6 to 10 years
10 years
Office equipments
3 to 6 years
5 years
Computers
3 years
3 years
Modems, routers, 
switches, servers, 
network and related 
IT equipments
3 to 6 years
6 years
Motor cars
4 years
8 years
Furniture and fittings
16 years
10 years
• 
Improvements to lease hold premises are amortised 
over the remaining primary period of lease.
• 
 Software and system development expenditure is 
depreciated over a period of 5 years.
• 
 Point of sales terminals are depreciated over a period 
of 4 years.
• 
For assets purchased and sold during the year, 
depreciation is provided on pro-rata basis.
• 
Whenever there is a revision of the estimated useful 
life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable amount 
is charged over the revised remaining useful life of the 
said asset.
• 
Profit on sale of immovable property net of taxes and 
transfer to statutory reserve, are transferred to capital 
reserve account.
• 
Assets (other than POS terminals) costing less than 
` 5,000 individually, are fully depreciated in the year 
of purchase.
5	
Impairment of assets
	
The Bank assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether 
there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. 
Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent the 
carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated 
recoverable amount.
6	
Translation of foreign currency items
	
Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic 
operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing 
on the date of the transaction. Income and expenditure 
items of integral foreign operations (representative offices) 
are translated at the weekly average closing rates and 
of non-integral foreign operations (foreign branches and 
offshore banking units) at the monthly average closing rates.
	
Foreign currency monetary items of domestic and integral 
foreign operations are translated at the closing exchange 
rates notified by Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association 
of India (FEDAI) as at the Balance Sheet date and the 
resulting net revaluation profit or loss arising due to a net 
open position in any foreign currency is recognised in the 
Profit and Loss Account.
	
Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency 
assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations 
are translated at closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI 
at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss 
arising from exchange differences are accumulated in the 
Foreign Currency Translation Account until disposal of the 
non-integral foreign operations in accordance with AS - 11, 
The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates and the 
extant RBI guidelines.	
	
Foreign currency denominated contingent liabilities on 
account of foreign exchange and derivative contracts, 
guarantees, letters of credit, acceptances and 
endorsements are reported at closing rates of exchange 
notified by FEDAI as at the Balance Sheet date.
7	
Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
	
Foreign exchange spot and forward contracts, both 
deliverable and non-deliverable, outstanding as at the 
Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are revalued at 
the closing spot and forward rates respectively as notified 
by FEDAI and at interpolated rates for contracts of interim 
maturities. The USD-INR exchange rate for valuation of 
contracts having longer maturities i.e. greater than one year, 
is derived using the USD-INR spot rate as well as relevant 
INR yield curve and USD yield curve. For other currency 
pairs, the forward points (for rates / tenors not published 
by FEDAI) are obtained from Refinitiv or Bloomberg for 
valuation of the forex deals. Valuation is considered on 

234
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
present value basis. For this purpose, the forward profit 
or loss on the deals are discounted till the valuation date 
using the discounting yields. The resulting profit or loss 
on valuation is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. 
Foreign exchange contracts are classified as assets when 
the fair value is positive (positive marked to market value) or 
as liabilities when the fair value is negative (negative marked 
to market value).
	
Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for 
trading, that are entered into to establish the amount of 
reporting currency required or available at the settlement 
date of a transaction, and are outstanding at the Balance 
Sheet date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate. 
The premium or discount arising at the inception of such 
forward exchange contract is amortised as expense or 
income over the life of the contract. 
	
The Bank recognises all derivative contracts at fair value, on 
the date on which the derivative contracts are entered into 
and are re-measured at fair value as at the Balance Sheet 
date. Derivatives are classified as assets when the fair value 
is positive (positive marked to market value) or as liabilities 
when the fair value is negative (negative marked to market 
value).
	
The Bank as part of its risk management strategy, makes 
use of financial derivative instruments, including foreign 
exchange forward contracts, for hedging the risk embedded 
in some of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the 
balance sheet. The Bank identifies the hedged item (asset 
or liability) at the inception of the transaction itself. Hedge 
effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception of 
the hedge and at the reporting date thereafter.
	
In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of 
the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognised 
in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow 
hedges, the changes in fair value of effective portion are 
recognised in Reserves and Surplus under ‘Cash flow 
hedge reserve’ and ineffective portion of an effective 
hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in the Profit 
and Loss Account. The accumulated balance in the cash 
flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging relationship, is 
recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at the same time 
that the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the 
Profit and Loss Account.
8	
Revenue recognition
	
Interest income is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account 
on an accrual basis, except in the case of non-performing 
assets and overdue interest on retail EMI based performing 
advances, which are recognised when realised. In case 
of domestic advances, where interest is collected on rear 
end basis, such interest is accounted on receipt basis in 
accordance with the RBI communication.
	
Interest income on investments in PTCs and loans bought 
out through the direct assignment route is recognised at 
their effective interest rate.
	
Income on non-coupon bearing discounted instruments is 
recognised over the tenor of the instrument on a constant 
yield basis.
	
Loan processing fee is recognised as income when due. 
Syndication / Arranger fee is recognised as income when 
a significant act / milestone is completed.
	
Gain / loss on sell down of loans is recognised in line with 
the extant RBI guidelines.
	
Dividend on equity shares, preference shares and on 
mutual fund units is recognised as income when the right 
to receive the dividend is established.
  	
Guarantee commission, commission on letter of credit, 
annual locker rent fees and annual fees for credit cards 
are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period 
of contract. Other fees and commission income are 
recognised when due, where the Bank is reasonably 
certain of ultimate collection.
	
Fees paid / received for priority sector lending certificates 
(PSLC) is recognised on straight-line basis over the period 
of the certificate.
9	
Employee benefits
	
Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS):
	
The Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘the Scheme’) 
provides for the grant of options to acquire equity shares 
of the Bank to its employees and whole time directors. 
The options granted to employees vest as per their vesting 
schedule and these may be exercised by the employees 
within a specified period. 
	
The Bank follows the intrinsic value method to account for 
its stock-based employee compensation plans in respect of 
options granted up to March 31, 2021. Compensation cost 
is measured by the excess, if any, of the market price of 
the underlying stock over the exercise price as determined 
under the option plan. The market price is the closing 
price on the stock exchange where there is highest trading 
volume on the working day immediately preceding the date 
of grant. Compensation cost, if any is amortised over the 
vesting period.
	
Effective April 01, 2021, the fair value of share-linked 
instruments on the date of grant for all instruments granted 
after March 31, 2021 is recognised as an expense in 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
235
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
accordance with the RBI guidelines on Compensation of 
Whole Time Directors/ Chief Executive Officers/ Material 
Risk Takers and Control Function staff. The fair value of the 
stock-based employee compensation is estimated using 
Black-Scholes model. The compensation cost is amortised 
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the option 
with a corresponding credit to Employee Stock Options 
Reserve. On exercise of the stock options, corresponding 
balance in Employee Stock Options Reserve is transferred 
to Share Premium. In respect of the options which expire 
unexercised, the balance standing to the credit of Employee 
Stock Options Reserve is transferred to General Reserve.
	
Gratuity:
	
The Bank has an obligation towards gratuity, a defined 
benefit retirement plan covering all eligible employees. 
The plan benefit vests upon completion of five years of 
service and is in the form of lump sum amount, without an 
upper limit, equivalent to 15 days’ basic salary payable for 
each completed year of service to all eligible employees on 
resignation, retirement, death while in employment or on 
termination of employment. The Bank makes contributions 
to a recognised Gratuity Trust administered by trustees and 
whose funds are managed by insurance companies. In 
respect of erstwhile Lord Krishna Bank (eLKB) employees, 
the Bank makes contribution to a fund set up by eLKB and 
administered by the Board of Trustees. 
	
The defined gratuity benefit plans are valued by an 
independent actuary as at the Balance Sheet date using 
the projected unit credit method as per the requirement of 
AS-15, Employee Benefits, to determine the present value 
of the defined benefit obligation and the related service 
costs. The actuarial calculations entails assumptions about 
demographics, early retirement, salary increases and 
interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is recognised in the 
Profit and Loss Account.
	
Superannuation:
	
The Bank has a Superannuation Plan under which 
employees of the Bank, above a prescribed grade, are 
entitled to receive retirement benefits either through salary 
or under a defined contribution plan. For those opting for 
a defined contribution plan, the Bank contributes a sum 
equivalent to 13% of the employee’s eligible annual basic 
salary (15% for the whole time directors and for certain 
eligible employees of the erstwhile Centurion Bank of 
Punjab (eCBoP) staff) to a Trust administered by trustees 
and whose funds are managed by insurance companies. 
The Bank has no liability towards future superannuation 
fund benefits other than its contribution and recognises 
such contribution as an expense in the year incurred.
	
Provident fund:
	
The Bank is covered under the Employees Provident Fund 
and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and accordingly 
all employees of the Bank are entitled to receive benefits 
under the provident fund. The Bank contributes an amount, 
on a monthly basis, at a determined rate (currently 12% 
of employee’s basic salary). Of this, the Bank contributes 
an amount equal to 8.33% of employee’s basic salary up 
to a maximum salary level of ` 15,000/- per month, to the 
Pension Scheme administered by the Regional Provident 
Fund Office. The balance amount of the 12% employer’s 
share is contributed to an exempted Trust set up by the 
Bank and administered by a Board of Trustees. The Bank 
recognises such contributions as an expense in the year in 
which it is incurred. 
	
Interest payable to the members of the exempted trust shall 
not be lower than the statutory rate of interest declared by 
the Central Government under the Employees Provident 
Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and 
shortfall, if any, shall be made good by the Bank.
	
The guidance note on implementing AS-15, Employee 
Benefits, states that benefits involving employer established 
provident funds, which require interest shortfalls to be 
provided, are to be considered as defined benefit plans. 
Actuarial valuation of this Provident Fund interest shortfall 
is done as per the guidance note issued in this respect by 
The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI) and provision towards 
this liability is made.
	
The overseas branches of the Bank make contribution to the 
respective applicable government social security scheme 
calculated as a percentage of the employees’ salaries. 
The Bank’s obligations are limited to these contributions, 
which are expensed when due, as such contribution is in 
the nature of defined contribution.
	
Pension:
	
In respect of pension payable to certain eLKB employees 
under the Lord Krishna Bank (Employees) Pension 
Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme, the Bank 
contributes 10% of basic salary to a pension trust set up 
by the Bank and administered by the Board of Trustees and 
an additional amount towards the liability shortfall based on 
an independent actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet 
date, which includes assumptions about demographics, 
early retirement, salary increases and interest rates.
	
In respect of certain eLKB employees who had moved to 
a Cost to Company (CTC) based compensation structure 
and had completed less than 15 years of service, the 
contribution which was made until then, is maintained as a 
fund and will be converted into annuity on separation after a 

236
Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
lock-in-period of two years. For this category of employees, 
liability stands frozen and no additional provision is required 
except for interest as applicable to Provident Fund, which 
is provided for.
	
In respect of certain eLKB employees who moved to a CTC 
structure and had completed service of more than 15 years, 
pension would be paid on separation based on salary 
applicable as on the date of movement to CTC structure. 
Provision thereto is made based on an independent 
actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet date.
	
National Pension Scheme (NPS):
	
In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the 
NPS, the Bank contributes certain percentage of the basic 
salary of employees to the aforesaid scheme, a defined 
contribution plan, which is managed and administered by 
pension fund management companies. The Bank has no 
liability other than its contribution and recognises such 
contributions as an expense in the year incurred.
10	 Debit and credit card reward points
	
The Bank estimates the probable redemption of debit 
and credit card reward points and cost per point using an 
actuarial method by employing an independent actuary, 
which includes assumptions such as mortality, redemption 
and spends. Provisions for liabilities on the outstanding 
reward points are made based on an independent actuarial 
valuation as at the Balance Sheet date and included in 
other liabilities and provisions.
11	 Bullion
	
The Bank imports bullion including precious metal bars on 
a consignment basis. The imports are typically on a back-
to-back basis and are priced to the customer based on 
the price quoted by the supplier. The difference between 
the price recovered from customers and cost of bullion 
is accounted at the time of sale to the customers and 
reported as ‘‘Other Income’’.
	
The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending 
basis and the interest thereon is accounted as interest 
expense / income respectively.
12	 Lease accounting
	
Lease payments including cost escalation for assets taken 
on operating lease are recognised in the Profit and Loss 
Account over the lease term on a straight-line basis in 
accordance with the AS-19, Leases. 
13	 Income tax
	
Income tax expense comprises current tax provision (i.e. 
the amount of tax for the period determined in accordance 
with the Income Tax Act, 1961, the rules framed there 
under and considering the material principles set out in 
Income Computation and Disclosure Standards) and the 
net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during the 
year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for 
the future tax consequences of timing differences between 
the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their 
respective tax bases, and operating loss carried forward, 
if any. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using 
the enacted or substantively enacted tax rates as at the 
Balance Sheet date. 
	
Current tax assets and liabilities and deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are off-set when they relate to income taxes 
levied by the same taxation authority, when the Bank has 
a legal right to off-set and when the Bank intends to settle 
on a net basis.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent there 
is reasonable certainty that the assets can be realised 
in future. In case of unabsorbed depreciation or carried 
forward loss under taxation laws, deferred tax assets are 
recognised only if there is virtual certainty of realisation 
of such assets. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each 
Balance Sheet date and appropriately adjusted to reflect the 
amount that is reasonably / virtually certain to be realised.
14	 Earnings per share
	
The Bank reports basic and diluted earnings per equity 
share in accordance with AS-20, Earnings per Share. Basic 
earnings per equity share has been computed by dividing 
net profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders by 
the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential 
dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to 
issue equity shares were exercised or converted to equity 
during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share are 
computed using the weighted average number of equity 
shares and the dilutive potential equity shares outstanding 
during the period except where the results are anti-dilutive. 
15	 Share issue expenses
	
Share issue expenses are adjusted against Share Premium 
Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
16	 Segment information 
	
The disclosure relating to segment information is in 
accordance with AS-17, Segment Reporting and as per 
guidelines issued by RBI.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
237
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
17	 Accounting for provisions, contingent liabilities 
and contingent assets
	
In accordance with AS-29, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities 
and Contingent Assets, the Bank recognises provisions 
when it has a present obligation as a result of a past event, 
it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying 
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation 
and when a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation 
can be made. 
	
Provisions are determined based on management estimate 
required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, 
supplemented by experience of similar transactions. These 
are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and adjusted to 
reflect the current management estimates.
 	
A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
• 
a possible obligation arising from a past event, the 
existence of which will be confirmed by the occurrence 
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future 
events not within the control of the Bank; or
• 
a present obligation arising from a past event which 
is not recognised as it is not probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the obligation 
or a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation 
cannot be made.
 
When there is a possible obligation or a present obligation 
in respect of which the likelihood of outflow of resources is 
remote, no provision or disclosure is made.
	
Contingent assets, if any, are not recognised in the financial 
statements since this may result in the recognition of 
income that may never be realised.
18	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents include cash including 
foreign currency notes and gold in hand, balances with 
RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and 
short notice.
19	 Corporate social responsibility
	
Expenditure towards corporate social responsibility, in 
accordance with Companies Act, 2013, is recognised in 
the Profit and Loss Account.

238
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Schedule 18 - Notes forming part of the financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2022
Amounts in notes forming part of the financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2022 are denominated in rupee crore to 
conform to extant RBI guidelines, except where stated otherwise.
1.	
Dividend
	
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), vide its notification dated April 22, 2021 mentioned that banks may pay dividend on equity 
shares from the profits for the financial year ended March 31, 2021, subject to the quantum of dividend being not more than 
fifty per cent of the amount determined as per the dividend payout ratio prescribed by RBI. Accordingly, the Bank has paid 
dividend of ` 6.50 per equity share of ` 1/- each aggregating to ` 3,592.40 crore, for the financial year ended March 31, 2021.
2.	 Proposed scheme of amalgamation
	
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 04, 2022, approved a composite Scheme of amalgamation ("Scheme"), 
for the amalgamation of: (i) HDFC Investments Limited and HDFC Holdings Limited, into and with Housing Development 
Finance Corporation Limited ("HDFC Limited"); and thereafter (ii) HDFC Limited into HDFC Bank Limited, and their respective 
shareholders and creditors, under Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws including the 
rules and regulations. The share exchange ratio shall be 42 equity shares of face value of ` 1/- each of the Bank for every 25 
equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each of HDFC Limited. The Scheme is subject to the receipt of requisite approvals from 
statutory and regulatory authorities, and the respective shareholders and creditors, under applicable law.
	
As per the scheme, the appointed date for the amalgamation of HDFC Limited with and into the Bank shall be the effective 
date of the scheme. Upon the scheme becoming effective, the Bank will issue equity shares to the shareholders of HDFC 
Limited as on the record date. The equity shares held by HDFC Limited in the Bank will be extinguished as per the scheme.
3.	 Change in accounting policy
	
The RBI, vide its clarification dated August 30, 2021 on Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive 
Officers / Material Risk Takers and Control Function Staff, advised Banks that the fair value of share-linked instruments on the 
date of grant should be recognised as an expense for all instruments granted after the accounting period ending March 31, 
2021. Accordingly, the Bank has changed its accounting policy from the intrinsic value method to the fair value method for all 
employee stock options granted after March 31, 2021. The fair value is estimated on the date of grant using Black-Scholes 
model and is recognised as compensation expense over the vesting period. As a result, ‘Employees cost’ for the year ended 
March 31, 2022 is higher by ` 325.97 crore with a consequent reduction in profit after tax by the said amount.
4.	 Capital adequacy
	
The Bank’s capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (‘Capital Adequacy Ratio’) is calculated in accordance with the RBI guidelines 
on Basel III capital regulations (‘Basel III’). The phasing in of the minimum capital ratio requirement under Basel III is as follows:
(% of RWAs)
Minimum ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets
As at March 31,
   2020
   2021
    2022
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1)
7.575
7.575
8.200
Tier 1 capital 
9.075
9.075
9.700
Total capital 
11.075
11.075
11.700
	
The above minimum CET 1, Tier 1 and total capital ratio requirements include Capital Conservation Buffer (CCB) and additional 
capital applicable to our Bank being Domestic-Systemically Important Bank (D-SIB).

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
239
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
The Bank’s capital adequacy ratio computed under Basel III is given below:
                                                                                (` crore)
Particulars
As at March 31, 
2022
2021
CET 1 capital
225,585.50
190,602.36
Additional Tier 1 capital
16,221.25
7,985.00
Tier 1 capital
241,806.75
198,587.36
Tier 2 capital
13,927.75
13,958.94
Total capital
255,734.50
212,546.30
Total risk weighted assets
1,353,510.85
1,131,143.88
Capital adequacy ratios under Basel III
CET 1
16.67%
16.85%
Tier 1
17.87%
17.56%
Tier 2
1.03%
1.23%
Total
         18.90%  
      18.79%
Leverage Ratio
          10.62%
10.40%
Percentage of the shareholding of Government of India
Nil
Nil
Amount of non-equity Tier 1 capital raised during the year, of which:
8,318.25
Nil
Basel III compliant Perpetual Debt instrument
8,318.25
Nil
Amount of Tier 2 capital raised during the year, of which:
Nil
Nil
Basel III compliant Non-cumulative Subordinated bonds
Nil
Nil
	
As on March 31, 2022, the Bank’s subordinated and perpetual debt capital instruments amounted to ` 5,477.00 crore (previous 
year: ` 9,127.00 crore) and ` 16,318.25 crore (previous year: ` 8,000.00 crore) respectively.
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, banks are required to make consolidated Pillar 3 and Net Stable Funding Ratio 
(NSFR) disclosures under the Basel III Framework. These disclosures are available on the Bank's website at the following link: 
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/resources/regulatory-disclosures. The disclosures have not been subjected to audit by 
the statutory auditors of the Bank.
	
Capital infusion
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has allotted 3,27,64,494 equity shares (previous year: 2,94,90,022 equity 
shares) aggregating to face value of ` 3.27 crore (previous year: ` 2.95 crore) on exercise of stock options. Accordingly, the 
share capital increased by ` 3.27 crore (previous year: ` 2.95 crore) and the share premium increased by ` 2,606.48 crore 
(previous year: ` 1,757.15 crore).
	
The details of the movement in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank are given below:   
	
(` crore) 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Opening balance
551.28
548.33
Addition pursuant to stock options exercised 
3.27
2.95
Closing balance
554.55
551.28
5.	 Earnings per equity share
 	
	Basic and diluted earnings per equity share of the Bank have been calculated based on the net profit after tax of ` 36,961.36 
crore (previous year: ` 31,116.53 crore) and the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year of 
5,53,32,03,566 (previous year: 5,49,96,68,151).

240
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
	
Following is the reconciliation between the basic and diluted earnings per equity share:
Particulars
For the years ended
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Nominal value per share (`)
1.00
1.00
Basic earnings per share (`)
66.80
56.58
Effect of potential equity shares (per share) (`)
(0.45)
(0.26)
Diluted earnings per share (`)
66.35
56.32
	
Basic earnings per equity share of the Bank has been computed by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity 
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share 
has been computed by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders by the weighted average 
number of equity shares and dilutive potential equity shares outstanding during the year, except where the results are anti-
dilutive. The dilutive impact is on account of stock options granted to employees by the Bank. There is no impact of dilution 
on the profits in the current year and previous year.
	
Following is the reconciliation of the weighted average number of equity shares used in the computation of basic and diluted 
earnings per share:
Particulars
For the years ended
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing basic earnings per equity 
share
5,53,32,03,566
5,49,96,68,151
Effect of potential equity shares outstanding
3,77,30,419
2,57,50,092
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing diluted earnings per equity 
share
5,57,09,33,985
5,52,54,18,243
6.	 Reserves and Surplus 
       Statutory Reserve
	
The Bank has made an appropriation of ` 9,240.34 crore (previous year: ` 7,779.13 crore) out of profits for the year ended 
March 31, 2022 to the Statutory Reserve pursuant to the requirements of Section 17 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and 
RBI guidelines dated September 23, 2000.
	
General Reserve
	
The Bank has made an appropriation of ` 3,696.14 crore (previous year: ` 3,111.65 crore) out of profits for the year ended 
March 31, 2022 to the General Reserve.
	
Capital Reserve
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has appropriated ` 666.47 crore (previous year: ` 2,291.68 crore), being the 
profit from sale of investments under HTM category and profit on sale of immovable properties, net of taxes and transfer to 
statutory reserve, from the Profit and Loss Account to the Capital Reserve.
	
Investment Reserve Account
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has appropriated ` 233.13 crore (net) (previous year: ` 61.66 crore (net)) from 
Profit and Loss Account to Investment Reserve Account as per the RBI guidelines.
	
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank made transfer of Nil (previous year: ` 1,712.00 crore) to Investment Fluctuation 
Reserve. As per RBI guidelines, banks were required to create an Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR) equivalent to 2.00% of 
their HFT and AFS investment portfolios by March 31, 2021. The balance in the IFR as at March 31, 2022 is 2.28% (previous 
year: 2.00%) of the Bank’s HFT and AFS investment portfolios. 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
241
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has recognised ` (97.68) crore (previous year: Nil) as Cash Flow Hedge 
Reserve on derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedge.
	
Employee Stock Option Reserve
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has recognised ` 325.97 crore (previous year: Nil) as Employee Stock Option 
Reserve on account of fair valuation of share-linked instruments.
	
Draw down from Reserves
	
The Bank has not undertaken any drawdown from reserves during the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021.
7.	
Accounting for employee share based payments
	
The shareholders of the Bank approved the grant of equity share options under Plan “C” in June 2005, Plan “D” in June 2007, 
Plan “E” in June 2010, Plan “F” in June 2013 and Plan “G” in July 2016. Under the terms of each of these Plans, the Bank may 
issue to its employees and Whole Time Directors, Equity Stock Options (‘ESOPs’) each of which is convertible into one equity 
share. All the plans were framed in accordance with the SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme & Employee Stock Purchase 
Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to time and as applicable at the time of the grant. The accounting for the 
stock options has been in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweaty Equity) Regulations, 2021 and RBI guidelines to the extent applicable.
	
Plans C, D, E, F and G provide for the issuance of options at the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee of the Board (‘NRC’) at the closing price on the working day immediately preceding the date when options are 
granted. This closing price is the closing price of the Bank’s equity share on an Indian stock exchange with the highest trading 
volume as of the working day preceding the date of grant.
	
The vesting conditions applicable to the options are at the discretion of the NRC. These options are exercisable on vesting, 
for a period as set forth by the NRC at the time of the grant. The period in which the options may be exercised cannot exceed 
five years from date of expiry of vesting period. During the financial year 2021-22, certain modifications were made in the 
subsisting ESOP Plans pursuant to the approval of the shareholders of the Bank as to allow any employee of the Bank moving 
/ getting transferred to a subsidiary company, to be so entitled to the stock options already granted to such an employee as 
continuity of service for Long Term Incentives earned during the course of his / her service with the Bank.
        Activity in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans
 
• 
Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2022:
Particulars
Number of
options
Weighted average
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of year
16,81,68,760
1,063.79
Granted during the year
2,56,28,600
1,427.29
Exercised during the year
3,27,64,494
796.52
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year
29,26,850
1,196.30
Options outstanding, end of year
15,81,06,016
1,175.65
Options exercisable
6,53,21,116
1,036.49
 
• 
Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2021:
Particulars
Number of
options
Weighted average
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of year
14,28,65,602
899.03
Granted during the year
5,74,66,600
1,235.80
Exercised during the year
2,94,90,022
596.85
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year
26,73,420
1,107.22
Options outstanding, end of year
16,81,68,760
1,063.79
Options exercisable
6,44,53,260
834.48

242
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
 
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2022:
Plan
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Number of shares 
arising out of options
Weighted average life 
of options (in years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Plan F
417.75 to 731.08
1,75,64,766
1.07
666.77
Plan G
882.85 to 1,516.95
14,05,41,250
2.70
1,239.25
 
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2021:
Plan
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Number of shares 
arising out of options
Weighted average life 
of options (in years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Plan C
417.75
9,700
0.32
417.75
Plan F
417.75 to 731.08
3,49,74,270
1.48
610.67
Plan G
882.85 to 1,235.80
13,31,84,790
3.18
1,182.83
	
In accordance with the RBI clarification dated August 30, 2021, the Bank has estimated the fair value of the options granted 
after March 31, 2021 using Black-Scholes model. This is recognised as compensation expense over the vesting period of the 
options with effect from April 01, 2021.
	
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2022 are given below:
Particulars
March 31, 2022
Dividend yield
0.21% to 0.52%
Expected volatility
23.86% to 38.70%
Risk - free interest rate
4.38% to 6.07%
Expected life of the options
1 to 6 Years
8.	 Other liabilities
• 
The Bank held provisions towards standard assets amounting to ` 6,562.60 crore as at March 31, 2022 (previous year: 
` 5,303.37 crore). These are included under other liabilities.
	
Provision for standard assets is made @ 0.25% for direct advances to agriculture and Small and Micro Enterprises 
(SMEs) sectors, @ 1% for advances to commercial real estate sector, @ 0.75% for advances to commercial real 
estate - residential housing sector, @ 5% on restructured standard advances, @ 2% until after one year from the date 
on which the rates are reset at higher rates for housing loans offered at a comparatively lower rate of interest in the 
first few years and @ 2% on all exposures to the wholly owned step down subsidiaries of the overseas subsidiaries 
of Indian companies, sanctioned / renewed after December 31, 2015.
	
Provision is maintained at rates higher than the regulatory minimum, on standard advances based on evaluation of 
the risk and stress in various sectors as per the policy approved by the Board of the Bank.
	
In accordance with regulatory guidelines and based on the information made available by its customers to the Bank, 
for exposures to customers who have not hedged their foreign currency exposures, provision for standard assets 
is made at levels ranging up to 0.80% depending on the likely loss the entities could incur on account of exchange 
rate movements.
	
Provision for standard assets of overseas branches is made at higher of rates prescribed by the overseas regulator 
or RBI. 
	
For all other loans and advances including credit exposures computed as per the current marked to market values 
of interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts, provision for standard assets is made @ 0.40%.
	
In accordance with RBI guidelines, an additional provision is made @ 3% on the incremental exposure to the 
"Specified Borrowers" (except NBFCs / HFCs) beyond normally permitted lending limit (NPLL) as defined by RBI.
• 
Other liabilities include contingent provisions of ` 9,684.88 crore as at March 31, 2022 (previous year: ` 5,861.17 crore) 
in respect of advances.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
243
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
• 
The Bank has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and 
gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other liabilities 
as at March 31, 2022 include unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 7,464.74 crore (previous 
year: ` 8,127.65 crore).
9.	  Unhedged foreign currency exposure
	
The Bank has in place a policy and process for managing currency induced credit risk. The credit appraisal memorandum 
prepared at the time of origination and review of a credit facility is required to discuss the exchange risk that the customer 
is exposed to from all sources, including trade related, foreign currency borrowings and external commercial borrowings. It 
could cover the natural hedge available to the customer as well as other hedging methods adopted by the customer to mitigate 
exchange risk. For foreign currency loans granted by the Bank beyond a defined threshold the customer is encouraged to 
enter into appropriate risk hedging mechanisms with the Bank. Alternatively, the Bank satisfies itself that the customer has 
the financial capacity to bear the exchange risk in the normal course of its business and / or has other mitigants to reduce the 
risk. On a monthly basis, the Bank reviews information on the unhedged portion of foreign currency exposures of customers, 
whose total foreign currency exposure with the Bank exceeds a defined threshold. Based on the monthly review, the Bank 
proposes suitable hedging techniques to the customer to contain the risk. A Board approved credit risk rating linked limit on 
unhedged foreign currency position of customers is applicable when extending credit facilities to a customer. The compliance 
with the limit is assessed by estimating the extent of drop in a customer’s annual Earnings Before Interest and Depreciation 
(‘EBID’) due to a potentially large adverse movement in exchange rate impacting the unhedged foreign currency exposure of 
the customer. Where a breach is observed in such a simulation, the customer is advised to reduce its unhedged exposure.
	
In accordance with RBI guidelines, as at March 31, 2022 the Bank holds standard asset provisions of ` 355.00 crore (previous 
year: ` 230.31 crore) and maintains capital (including CCB & D-SIB) of ` 1,412.67 crore (previous year: ` 918.77 crore) in respect 
of the unhedged foreign currency exposure of its customers.

244
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
10.	 Investments
	
Composition of investments as at March 31, 2022: 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
       (` crore)
Investments in India
Investments outside India
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities
Other 
Approved 
Securities
Shares
Debentures 
and Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and / or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Investments 
in India
Government 
Securities 
(including 
local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and / or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Invest-
ments 
outside 
India
Held to 
Maturity
Gross
285,210.50
-
-
8,160.52
3,826.49
13.35
297,210.86
-
-
-
-
297,210.86
Less: 
Provision 
for non-
performing 
investments 
(NPI)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
285,210.50
-
-
8,160.52
3,826.49
13.35
297,210.86
-
-
-
-
297,210.86
Available for 
Sale
Gross
79,925.94
-
530.96
56,184.73
-
16,373.52
153,015.15
230.31
-
2,394.84
2,625.15
155,640.30
Less: 
Provision for 
depreciation 
and NPI
 (291.93)
-
(45.38)
-
-
-
(337.31)
(2.73)
-
-
(2.73)
(340.04)
Net
79,634.01
-
485.58
56,184.73
-
16,373.52
152,677.84
227.58
-
2,394.84
2,622.42
155,300.26
Held for 
Trading
Gross
1,684.07
-
-
363.53
-
1,047.56
3,095.16
-
-
-
-
3,095.16
Less: 
Provision for 
depreciation 
and NPI
(1.27)
-
-
(0.42)
-
(68.90)
(70.59)
-
-
-
-
(70.59)
Net
1,682.80
-
-
363.11
-
978.66
3,024.57
-
-
-
-
3,024.57
Total 
Investments
366,820.51
-
530.96
64,708.78
3,826.49
17,434.43
453,321.17
230.31
-
2,394.84
2,625.15
455,946.32
Less: 
Provision 
for non-
performing 
investments 
for HTM 
category
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
245
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Investments in India
Investments outside India
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities
Other 
Approved 
Securities
Shares
Debentures 
and Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and / or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Investments 
in India
Government 
Securities 
(including 
local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and / or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Invest-
ments 
outside 
India
Less: 
Provision for 
depreciation 
and NPI for 
AFS and HFT 
categories
(293.20)
-
(45.38)
(0.42)
-
(68.90)
(407.90)
(2.73)
-
-
(2.73)
(410.63)
Net
366,527.31
-
485.58
64,708.36
3,826.49
17,365.53
452,913.27
227.58
-
2,394.84
2,622.42
455,535.69
	
Composition of investments as at March 31, 2021:	
	
	
	
	
	
 
  (` crore)
Investments in India
Investments outside India
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities
Other 
Approved 
Securities
Shares
Deben-
tures and 
Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and / or joint 
ventures
Others
Total Invest-
ments in 
India
Government 
Securities 
(including 
local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and / 
or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Invest-
ments 
outside 
India
Held to 
Maturity
Gross
251,779.64
-
-
8,034.79
3,826.49
12.19
263,653.11
-
-
-
-
263,653.11
Less: 
Provision 
for non-
performing 
investments 
(NPI)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
251,779.64
-
-
8,034.79
3,826.49
12.19
263,653.11
-
-
-
-
263,653.11
Available 
for Sale
Gross
98,850.71
-
494.09
50,289.24
-
19,998.52
169,632.56
600.69
-
1,774.51
2,375.20
172,007.76
Less: 
Provision for 
depreciation 
and NPI
(443.03)
-
(60.79)
-
-
-
(503.82)
(7.08)
-
-
(7.08)
(510.90)
Net
98,407.68
-
433.30
50,289.24
-
19,998.52
169,128.74
593.61
-
1,774.51
2,368.12
171,496.86
Held for 
Trading

246
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Investments in India
Investments outside India
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities
Other 
Approved 
Securities
Shares
Deben-
tures and 
Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and / or joint 
ventures
Others
Total Invest-
ments in 
India
Government 
Securities 
(including 
local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and / 
or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Invest-
ments 
outside 
India
Gross
953.74
-
-
3,465.68
-
4,499.78
8,919.20
-
-
-
-
8,919.20
Less: 
Provision for 
depreciation 
and NPI
(0.02)
-
-
-
-
(340.86)
(340.88)
-
-
-
-
(340.88)
Net
953.72
-
-
3,465.68
-
4,158.92
8,578.32
-
-
-
-
8,578.32
Total 
Investments
351,584.09
-
494.09
61,789.71
3,826.49
24,510.49
442,204.87
600.69
-
1,774.51
2,375.20
444,580.07
Less: 
Provision 
for non-
performing 
investments 
for HTM 
category
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Less: 
Provision for 
depreciation 
and NPI 
for AFS 
and HFT 
categories
(443.05)
-
(60.79)
-
-
(340.86)
(844.70)
(7.08)
-
-
(7.08)
(851.78)
Net
351,141.04
-
433.30
61,789.71
3,826.49
24,169.63
441,360.17
593.61
-
1,774.51
2,368.12
443,728.29
• 
Other investments in India as at March 31, 2022 include investments in commercial paper aggregating to ` 146.82 crore (previous year: ` 977.86 crore) and Nil certificate of deposits 
(previous year: Nil).
•  Other Investment outside India as at March 31, 2022 includes shares of ` 2.64 crore (previous year: ` 3.50 crore) and bonds and debentures of ` 2,392.20 crore (previous year: 
` 1,771.01 crore).

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
247
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
• 
Movement in provisions held towards depreciation on investments & Investment Fluctuation 
Reserve:                                                                      
                                                                             (` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
i) Movement in provisions held towards depreciation on investments
a) Opening balance
851.78
978.47
b) Add: Provision made during the year (including provision on non-performing 
            investments)
         12.00
         790.99
c) Less: Write-off, write back of excess provision during the year
453.15
917.68
d) Closing balance
410.63
851.78
ii) Movement of Investment Fluctuation Reserve
a) Opening balance
3,619.00
1,907.00
b) Add: Amount transferred during the year
-
1,712.00
c) Less: Drawdown
-
-
d) Closing balance
3,619.00
3,619.00
iii) Closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments 
     in AFS and HFT category
2.28%
2.00%
	
	
Movement in provisions held towards depreciation on investments has been reckoned on a yearly basis.
 
• 
Repo transactions
	
Details of repo / reverse repo deals excluding tri-party repo / reverse repo (in face value terms) done during the year 
ended March 31, 2022:
(` crore) 
Particulars
Minimum 
outstanding during 
the year
Maximum 
outstanding during 
the year
Daily average 
outstanding during 
the year
Outstanding as at 
March 31, 2022
Securities sold under repo
1. Government securities
9,020.00
34,381.25
10,466.70
14,465.00
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased under reverse 
repo 
1. Government securities
8,968.09
131,685.88
65,670.26
35,746.89
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
•  
 Details of repo / reverse repo deals excluding tri-party repo / reverse repo (in face value terms) done during the year 
ended March 31, 2021:
(` crore) 
Particulars
Minimum 
outstanding during 
the year
Maximum 
outstanding during 
the year
Daily average 
outstanding during 
the year
Outstanding as at 
March 31, 2021
Securities sold under repo
1. Government securities
1,747.44
35,747.72
11,871.55
13,939.92
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased under reverse 
repo 
1. Government securities
3,840.10
135,217.76
61,602.21
24,948.85
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-

248
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
• 
Details of tri-party repo / reverse repo deals (in amount of funds borrowed or lent terms) done during the year ended 
March 31, 2022:
(` crore) 
Particulars
Minimum 
outstanding during 
the year
Maximum 
outstanding during 
the year
Daily average 
outstanding during 
the year
Outstanding as at 
March 31, 2022
Securities sold under tri-party repo
1. Government securities
-
70,080.05
33,659.03
9,799.00
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased under tri-party 
repo 
1. Government securities
-
44,926.80
432.45
-
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
•  
Details of tri-party repo / reverse repo deals (in amount of funds borrowed or lent terms) done during the year ended 
March 31, 2021:
(` crore) 
Particulars
Minimum 
outstanding during 
the year
Maximum 
outstanding during 
the year
Daily average 
outstanding during 
the year
Outstanding as at 
March 31, 2021
Securities sold under tri-party repo
1. Government securities
-
62,412.35
28,907.14
30,706.00
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased under tri-party 
repo 
1. Government securities
-
1,000.00
2.74
-
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
 
• 
Non-SLR investment portfolio
 
• 
Issuer-wise composition of non-SLR investments as at March 31, 2022:
(` crore) 
Sr. 
No.
Issuer
Amount
Extent of 
private 
placement #
Extent of 
“below 
investment 
grade”
 securities# (1)
Extent of 
“unrated” 
securities# (2)
Extent of 
“unlisted” 
securities# (2)
1
Public sector undertakings
9,373.42 
7,770.27 
-
-
-
2
Financial institutions
5,467.21 
1,865.00 
-
-
-
3
Banks
3,676.36 
1,889.77 
1,715.19
-
-
4
Private corporate
49,264.41 
31,047.96 
-
11.45
2,900.71
5
Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures (3)
 3,826.49 
 3,826.49 
-
-
-
6
Others
17,517.92 
16,240.06 
-
-
-
7
Provision held towards depreciation
 (117.43)
Total
89,008.38 
62,639.55
1,715.19
11.45
2,900.71
# 
 Amounts reported under these columns are not mutually exclusive.
(1) 
 Includes overseas investment of ` 1,715.19 crore in bond and debentures issued by entities having domicile in India, where the issuer 
rating given by domestic rating agencies is above investment grade.
(2) 
 Excludes investments in securities issued by foreign sovereigns, equity shares, units of equity oriented mutual fund schemes, equity / debt 
instruments / units issued by venture capital funds, commercial paper, certificate of deposits, securities acquired by way of conversion 
of debt, security receipts, pass through certificates and unlisted convertible debentures.
(3) 
 Investments in debt securities issued by Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures have been classified under Private Corporates.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
249
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
 
• 
Issuer-wise composition of non-SLR investments as at March 31, 2021:
(` crore) 
Sr. 
No.
Issuer
Amount
Extent of 
private 
placement#
Extent of 
“below 
investment 
grade”
 securities# (1)
Extent of 
“unrated” 
securities# (2)
Extent of 
“unlisted” 
securities# (2)
1
Public sector undertakings
7,058.68
6,505.03
-
-
-
2
Financial institutions
3,490.82
1,200.00
-
-
-
3
Banks
3,642.70
255.40
1,427.68
-
-
4
Private corporate
50,843.98
36,117.38
1,021.46
0.44
2,640.09
5
Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures (3)
3,826.49
3,826.49
-
-
-
6
Others
24,133.31
19,032.85
-
-
-
7
Provision held towards depreciation
(408.73)
Total
92,587.25
66,937.15
2,449.14
0.44
2,640.09
# 
 Amounts reported under these columns are not mutually exclusive.
(1) 
 Includes overseas investment of ` 1,449.14 crore in bond and debentures issued by entities having domicile in India, where the issuer 
rating given by domestic rating agencies is above investment grade.
(2) 
 Excludes investments in securities issued by foreign sovereigns, equity shares, units of equity oriented mutual fund schemes, equity / debt 
instruments / units issued by venture capital funds, commercial paper, certificate of deposits, securities acquired by way of conversion 
of debt, security receipts, pass through certificates and unlisted convertible debentures.
(3) 
 Investments in debt securities issued by Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures have been classified under Private Corporates.
 
• 
Non-performing non-SLR investments:                                                                      
                                                                             (` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Opening balance
82.44
82.44
Additions during the year
-
-
Reductions during the year
47.41
-
Closing balance
35.03
82.44
Total provisions held
35.03
60.79
 
 
• 
Securities kept as margin
	 	
		
The details of securities that are kept as margin are as under:
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Face value as at March 31,
2022
2021
I.
Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards:
a) Collateral and funds management - Securities segment
5,300.00
2,120.00
b) Collateral and funds management - Tri-party Repo
59,013.79
62,361.84
c) Default fund - Forex Forward segment
235.10
150.00
d) Default fund - Forex Settlement segment
51.05
51.05
e) Default fund - Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) segment
65.65
48.00
f) Default fund - Securities segment
65.00
65.00
g) Default fund - Tri-party repo segment
55.00
50.00
II.
Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards:
a) Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
50,539.64
51,725.77
b) Repo transactions
49,971.80
49,959.91
III.
Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 
(NSCCIL) towards NSE Currency Derivatives segment.
107.72
107.72
IV.
Securities kept as margin with Indian Clearing Corporation Limited towards 
BSE Currency Derivatives segment.
161.00
161.00
V.
Securities kept as margin with Metropolitan Clearing Corporation of India 
towards MCX Currency Derivatives segment.
13.00
13.00

250
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
 
• 
Sale and transfers to / from HTM category
• 
 During the year ended March 31, 2022, there has been no sale from, and transfer to / from, HTM category in excess 
of 5% of the book value of investments held in the HTM category at the beginning of the year.
• 
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, sale from, and transfer to / from, HTM category exclude:
a.	
The one-time transfer of securities to / from HTM category with the approval of Board of Directors undertaken 
by banks at the beginning of the accounting year;  
b.	
Direct sales from HTM for bringing down SLR holdings in HTM category consequent to a downward revision 
in SLR requirements by RBI; 
c.	
Sales to the Reserve Bank of India under liquidity management operations of RBI such as the Open Market 
Operations (OMO) and the Government Securities Acquisition Programme (GSAP);
d.	
Repurchase of Government Securities by Government of India from banks under buyback / switch operations;
e.	
Repurchase of State Development Loans by respective state governments under buyback / switch 
operations; and
f.	
Additional shifting of securities explicitly permitted by the Reserve Bank of India.
11.	 Derivatives
 
• 
Forward Rate Agreements (FRA) / Interest Rate Swaps (IRS)*
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
i)
The total notional principal of swap agreements
518,928.08
317,188.20 
ii)
Total losses which would be incurred if counter parties failed to fulfill their 
obligations under the agreements
         3,011.67 
3,251.25 
iii)
Collateral required by the Bank upon entering into swaps***
-
17.10 
iv)
Concentration of credit risk arising from swaps (%)**
47.17%
62.04%
v)
Concentration of credit risk arising from swaps (Amount)**
1,420.65
2,017.07 
vi)
The fair value of the swap book
255.15
(141.37)
*   Interest Rate Swaps are comprised of INR Interest Rate Swaps and FCY Interest Rate Swaps.
**   Concentration of credit risk arising from swaps is with banks as at March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021.
***  Represents outstanding amount of net margin received from customers as at March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021.
	
The nature and terms of Rupee IRS outstanding as at March 31, 2022 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers) 
Nature
Nos.
Notional principal 
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
2
600.00 
INCMT
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
3,609
220,044.98
OIS
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
4,041
222,466.69 
OIS
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
2
1,000.00 
MIOIS
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
425
28,418.85
MIFOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
99
  5,209.83
MIFOR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
27
  2,040.00
MOD MIFOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
18
 995.00 
MOD MIFOR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Total
480,775.35

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
251
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
The nature and terms of foreign currency IRS as on March 31, 2022 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers) 
Nature
Nos.
Notional principal 
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
1
60.05 
GBP SONIA
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
1
60.05 
GBP SONIA
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
4
161.22 
EURIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
8
434.95 
EURIBOR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
42
5,742.58 
USD LIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
205
24,189.96 
USD LIBOR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
4
463.50 
USD SOFR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
16
1,979.35 
USD SOFR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Total
33,091.66 
	
The nature and terms of Forward Rate Agreement as on March 31, 2022 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers) 
Nature
Nos.
Notional principal 
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
214
5,061.07
Bond Yield
Sell FRA
Total
5,061.07
	
The nature and terms of Rupee IRS outstanding as at March 31, 2021 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers) 
Nature
Nos.
Notional principal 
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
2
600.00
INCMT
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
2,414
  115,869.21
OIS
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
2,288
   117,077.25
OIS
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
566
32,993.50
MIFOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
281
13,465.00
MIFOR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Total
280,004.96 
	
The nature and terms of foreign currency IRS as on March 31, 2021 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers) 
Nature
Nos.
Notional principal 
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
1
91.25
GBP LIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
1
91.25
GBP LIBOR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
2
37.77
EURIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
6
316.46
EURIBOR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
84
9,350.78
USD LIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
227
25,206.95
USD LIBOR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Total
35,094.46 
	
The nature and terms of Forward Rate Agreement as on March 31, 2021 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers) 
Nature
Nos.
Notional principal 
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
66
2,088.78
Bond Yield
Sell FRA
Total
2,088.78

252
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
• 
Exchange traded interest rate derivatives
(` crore)
Sr. 
No. Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
i)
The total notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives 
undertaken during the years reported 
Nil
Nil
ii)
The total notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives 
outstanding 
Nil
Nil
iii)
The notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives 
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’
N.A.
N.A.
iv)
Mark to market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding and 
not ‘highly effective’
N.A.
N.A.
• 
Qualitative disclosures on risk exposure in derivatives
	
Overview of business and processes
Derivatives are financial instruments whose characteristics are derived from underlying assets, or from interest rates, exchange 
rates or indices. These include forwards, swaps, futures and options. The notional amounts of financial instruments such as 
foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with the instruments recognised on the Balance 
Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, 
therefore, do not indicate the Bank’s exposure to credit or price risks. The following sections outline the nature and terms of 
the derivative transactions generally undertaken by the Bank. 
	
Interest rate contracts
Forward rate agreements give the buyer the ability to determine the underlying rate of interest for a specified period 
commencing on a specified future date (the settlement date). The underlying rate of interest could be an interest rate curve, 
interest rate index or bond yield. There is no exchange of principal and settlement is effected on the settlement date. The 
settlement amount is the difference between the contracted rate and the market rate prevailing on the settlement date 
discounted for the interest period of the agreement.
Interest rate swaps involve the exchange of interest obligations with the counterparty for a specified period without 
exchanging the underlying (or notional) principal.
Interest rate caps and floors give the buyer the ability to fix the maximum or minimum rate of interest. The writer of 
the contract pays the amount by which the market rate exceeds or is less than the cap rate or the floor rate respectively. 
A combination of interest rate caps and floors can create structures such as interest rate collar, cap spreads and floor spreads. 
Interest rate futures are standardised interest rate derivative contracts traded on a recognised stock exchange to buy or 
sell a notional security or any other interest bearing instrument or an index of such instruments or interest rates at a specified 
future date, at a price determined at the time of the contract.
	
Exchange rate contracts
Forward foreign exchange contracts are agreements to buy or sell fixed amounts of currency at an agreed exchange rate 
on a future date. These instruments are carried at fair value, determined based on either FEDAI rates or market quotations.
Cross currency swaps are agreements to exchange principal amounts denominated in different currencies. Cross currency 
swaps may also involve the exchange of interest payments on one specified currency for interest payments in another specified 
currency for a specified period.
Currency options (including Exchange Traded Currency Option) give the buyer, on payment of a premium, the right but 
not an obligation, to buy or sell specified amounts of currency at an agreed exchange rate on or before a specified future date. 
Currency futures contract is a standardised contract traded on an exchange, to buy or sell a certain underlying currency 
on a certain date in the future, at a specified price. The contract specifies the rate of exchange between one unit of currency 
with another.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
253
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
The Bank’s derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sale activities include the structuring and marketing of 
derivatives to customers to enable them to hedge their market risks (both interest rate and exchange risks), within the regulatory 
framework as applicable from time to time. The Bank deals in derivatives on its own account (trading activity) principally for the 
purpose of generating a profit from short term fluctuations in price yields or implied volatility. The Bank also deals in derivatives 
to hedge the risk embedded in some of its Balance Sheet assets or liabilities.
	
Constituents involved in derivative business
The Treasury front-office enters into derivative transactions with customers and inter-bank counterparties. The Bank has an 
independent back-office and mid-office as per regulatory guidelines. The Bank has credit risk and market risk departments, as 
part of the Risk Management Group, that assesses counterparty credit risk and market risk limits, within the risk architecture 
and processes of the Bank.
	
Derivative policy
The Bank has in place a Derivative policy which covers various aspects that apply to the functioning of the derivative business. 
The derivative business is administered through various market risk limits such as position limits, tenor limits, sensitivity limits, 
scenario based profit and loss limit for option portfolio, stop loss trigger levels and value-at-risk limits that are recommended 
by the Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee (‘RPMC’) to the Board of Directors for approval. All methodologies that are used 
to assess market and credit risks for derivative transactions are specified by the credit risk and market risk units. Limits are 
monitored on a daily basis by the mid-office.
The Bank has a Board approved policy on Customer Suitability & Appropriateness, which forms part of the Derivative policy, to 
ensure that derivative transactions entered into are appropriate and suitable to the customer’s nature of business / operations. 
Before entering into a derivative deal with a customer, the Bank scores the customer on various risk parameters and based 
on the overall score level it determines the kind of product that best suits its risk appetite and the customer’s requirements.
	
Classification of derivatives book
The derivative book is classified into trading and hedging book. Classification of the derivative book is made on the basis of 
the definitions of the trading and hedging specified in the RBI guidelines. The trading book is managed within the trading limits 
recommended by the RPMC and approved by the Board of Directors.
	
Hedging policy
For derivative contracts designated as hedging instruments, the Bank documents, at inception of the hedge, the relationship 
between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, the risk management objective for undertaking the hedge and the 
methods used to assess the hedge effectiveness. Hedge effectiveness is ascertained at the time of inception of the hedge 
and periodically thereafter. Hedge effectiveness is measured by the degree to which changes in the fair value or cash flows 
of the hedged item that are attributable to a hedged risk are offset by changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedging 
instrument using various qualitative and quantitative methods.
The hedging book consists of transactions to hedge Balance Sheet assets or liabilities. The tenor of hedging instrument may be 
less than or equal to the tenor of underlying hedged asset or liability. The Bank as part of its risk management strategy, makes 
use of financial derivative instruments, including foreign exchange forward contracts, for hedging the risk embedded in some 
of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the balance sheet. In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value 
of the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow hedges 
other than for foreign exchange forward contracts, the changes in fair value of effective portion are recognised in Reserves 
and Surplus under ‘Cash flow hedge reserve’ and ineffective portion of an effective hedging relationship, if any, is recognised 
in the Profit and Loss Account. The accumulated balance in the cash flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging relationship, 
is recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at the same time that the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the Profit 
and Loss Account. Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for trading, that are entered into to establish the amount 
of reporting currency required or available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are outstanding at the Balance Sheet 
date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate. The premia or discount arising at the inception of such forward exchange 
contract is amortised as expense or income over the life of the contract.
• 
Provisioning, collateral and credit risk mitigation
The Bank enters into derivative transactions with counterparties based on their business ranking and financial position. 
The Bank sets up appropriate limits upon evaluating the ability of the counterparty to honour its obligations in the event of 

254
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
crystallisation of the exposure. Appropriate credit covenants are stipulated where required, as trigger events to call for collaterals 
or terminate a transaction and contain the risk. Further, to mitigate the current exposure in non-centrally cleared forex and 
derivative transactions, Bank has entered into Credit Support Annex (‘CSA’) agreements with some of the major international 
counterparty banks and few Indian financial institutions.
The Bank, at the minimum, conforms to the RBI guidelines with regard to provisioning requirements. Overdue receivables 
representing crystallised positive mark to market value of a derivative contract are transferred to the account of the borrower 
and treated as non-performing assets, if these remain unpaid for 90 days or more. Full provision is made for the entire amount 
of overdue and future receivables relating to positive marked to market value of non-performing derivative contracts.
 
• 
Quantitative disclosure on risk exposure in derivatives
	
(` crore)
Sr. 
No. Particulars
Currency derivatives
Interest rate derivatives
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
1
Derivatives (notional principal amount)
a) Hedging
7,579.25
- 
-
- 
b) Trading
62,860.03
40,074.83 
519,322.30
317,629.80 
2
Marked to market positions
a) Asset (+)
1,108.41
922.74
3,019.64
3,253.93
b) Liability (-)
(672.91)
(594.51)
(2,764.49)
(3,395.30) 
c) Net 
435.50
328.23
255.15
(141.37)
3
Credit exposure
3,983.65
3,077.28
6,896.91
5,423.27 
4
Likely impact of one percentage change in interest rate 
(100*PV01)**
a) On hedging derivatives
2.82
- 
-
- 
b) On trading derivatives
49.06
32.08 
501.21
187.97 
5
Maximum of 100*PV01 observed during the year**
a) On hedging*
5.05
- 
-
- 
b) On trading
57.78
43.07
527.62
187.97 
6
Minimum of 100*PV01 observed during the year**
a) On hedging*
1.97
- 
-
- 
b) On trading
33.04
18.83 
272.28
0.34 
*   Computed for the month end dates where hedge deals were outstanding.
**  Amounts given are absolute values on a net basis, excluding currency options.
ü  As at March 31, 2022, the notional principal amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts classified as trading amounted to ` 655,187.18 
crore (previous year: ` 496,472.67 crore). There were no foreign exchange contracts classified as hedging outstanding as at March 31, 2022 
(previous year: Nil).
ü  The notional principal amounts of derivatives reflect the volume of transactions outstanding as at the Balance Sheet date and do not represent 
the amounts at risk.
ü  For the purpose of this disclosure, currency derivatives include currency options purchased and sold and cross currency swaps.
ü  For the purpose of this disclosure, interest rate derivatives include interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and interest rate caps and floors.
ü  The Bank has computed the maximum and minimum of PV01 for the year based on the balances as at the end of every month.
ü  In respect of derivative contracts, the Bank has computed the exposure under the Current Exposure Method for counterparty credit risk capital 
computation based on the guidelines issued by RBI on “Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts - Amendments to Prudential Guidelines” 
dated March 30, 2021. However, for the purpose of calculating product-wise derivative exposure as mentioned in point number 3 in table above, 
bank has calculated using Current Exposure Method (‘CEM’) without netting benefits and the balance outstanding as on March 31, 2022.
12.	 Credit default swaps
	
The Bank has not transacted in credit default swaps during the year ended March 31, 2022 (previous year: Nil).

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
255
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
13.	 Asset quality
 
• 
Classification of assets and provisions held as at March 31, 2022:
	
(` crore)
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total 
Standard 
Advances
Substandard
Doubtful 
Loss 
Total Non-
Performing 
Assets
Gross Standard Advances 
and NPAs ^
Opening Balance 
1,128,309.31
8,100.47
5,392.69
1,592.84
15,086.00
1,143,395.31
Add: Additions during the year 
      26,861.43 
Less: Reductions during the 
year* 
      25,806.47 
Closing balance 
1,364,413.25
   8,392.21 
   6,347.08 
 1,401.67 
      16,140.96 
1,380,554.21 
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due 
to: 
i) Upgradation*
        9,485.80 
ii) Recoveries (excluding 
recoveries from upgraded 
accounts) 
        6,890.80 
iii) Technical / Prudential Write-offs 
iv) Write-offs other than those 
under (iii) above 
        9,429.87 
Provisions (excluding Floating 
Provisions) 
Opening balance of provisions 
held 
   5,303.37 
  3,836.02 
  5,102.32
 1,592.84
10,531.18 
  15,834.55 
Add: Fresh provisions made 
during the year 
      17,771.79 
Less: Excess provision reversed / 
Write-off loans  
      16,569.69
Closing balance of provisions 
held 
  6,562.60 
  4,165.31 
  6,166.30 
 1,401.67 
      11,733.28 
 18,295.88 
Net NPAs 
Opening Balance 
  4,264.45
290.37
-
  4,554.82
Add: Fresh additions during the 
year 
        9,089.64 
Less: Reductions during the year 
        9,236.78 
Closing Balance 
   4,226.90 
   180.78 
        - 
        4,407.68 
^   NPAs include investments and foreign exchange and derivatives aggregating to ` 39.99 crore (previous year: ` 86.67 crore) that are classified as 
non-performing by the Bank. 
*  includes those accounts where all overdue have been paid.

256
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
 
• 
Classification of assets and provisions held as at March 31, 2021:
	
(` crore)
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total 
Standard 
Advances
Substandard
Doubtful 
Loss 
Total Non-
Performing 
Assets
Gross Standard Advances and 
NPAs ^
Opening Balance 
990,167.42
7,308.53
4,335.42
1,006.02
12,649.97
1,002,817.39
Add: Additions during the year 
 16,040.01
Less: Reductions during the year* 
 13,603.98
Closing balance 
1,128,309.31
8,100.47
5,392.69
1,592.84
15,086.00
1,143,395.31
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due 
to: 
i) Upgradation*
1,601.63
ii) Recoveries (excluding 
recoveries from upgraded 
accounts) 
2,713.27
iii) Technical / Prudential Write-offs 
-
iv) Write-offs other than those 
under (iii) above 
9,289.08
Provisions (excluding Floating 
Provisions) 
Opening balance of provisions 
held 
4,437.86
 3,973.67
4,127.92
1,006.02
9,107.61
13,545.47
Add: Fresh provisions made 
during the year 
13,027.95
Less: Excess provision reversed / 
Write-off loans  
11,604.38
Closing balance of provisions held 
   5,303.37 
  3,836.02 
  5,102.32
 1,592.84
10,531.18 
  15,834.55 
Net NPAs 
Opening Balance 
3,334.86
207.50
-
  3,542.36
Add: Fresh additions during the 
year 
  3,012.06
Less: Reductions during the year 
  1,999.60
Closing Balance 
  4,264.45
290.37
-
  4,554.82
^  
 NPAs include investments and foreign exchange and derivatives aggregating to ` 86.67 crore (previous year: ` 90.59 crore) that are 
classified as non-performing by the Bank. 
* 
 includes those accounts where all overdue have been paid.
 
• 
Technical or prudential write-offs
	
Technical or prudential write-offs refer to the amount of non-performing assets which are outstanding in the books of 
the branches, but have been written-off (fully or partially) at the head office level. The financial accounting systems of the 
Bank are integrated and there are no write-offs done by the Bank which remain outstanding in the books of the branches. 
Movement in the stock of technically or prudentially written-off accounts is given below:
(` crore) 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Opening balance of technical / prudential write-offs
-
-
Technical / Prudential write-offs during the year
-
-
Recoveries made from previously technically / prudentially written-off accounts 
during the year
-
-
Closing balance of technical / prudential write-offs
-
-

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
257
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
• 
Floating provisions
	
Floating provision of ` 1,451.28 crore (previous year: ` 1,451.28 crore) has been included under “Other Liabilities”. 
Movement in floating provision is given below:
(` crore) 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Opening balance
1,451.28
1,451.28
Provisions made / reinstated during the year
-
-
Draw down made during the year
-
-
Closing balance
1,451.28
1,451.28
	
Floating provisions shall be utilised as per the Board approved policy for contingencies under extraordinary circumstances 
and for making specific provision for impaired accounts in accordance with the RBI guidelines / directives.
Ratios
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Gross non-performing assets to gross advances1
1.17%
1.32%
Gross non-performing advances to gross advances
1.17%
1.31%
Percentage of net non-performing assets2 to net advances3
0.32%
0.40%
Provision coverage ratio4 
72.69%
69.81%
1 
 Gross advances are net of bills rediscounted and interest in suspense.
2 
 Net NPAs are non-performing assets net of specific provisions, claims received from Credit Guarantors, provisions for funded interest 
term loans classified as NPAs and provisions in lieu of diminution in the fair value of restructured assets classified as NPAs.
3 
 Net advances are equivalent to gross advances net of specific loan loss provisions, claims received from Credit Guarantors, provision for 
funded interest term loans classified as NPA and provisions in lieu of diminution in the fair value of restructured assets.
4   
 Provision coverage ratio does not include assets written-off.
	
The Honourable Supreme Court of India (Hon’ble SC), in a public interest litigation (Gajendra Sharma Vs. Union of 
India & Anr), vide an interim order dated September 03, 2020 (“Interim Order”), had directed banks that accounts 
which were not declared NPA till August 31, 2020 shall not be declared as NPA till further orders. Accordingly, the 
Bank did not classify any account which was not NPA as of August 31, 2020 as per the RBI IRAC norms, as NPA 
after August 31, 2020.
	
The Interim Order granted to not declare accounts as NPA stood vacated on March 23, 2021 vide the judgement of 
the Hon’ble SC in the matter of Small Scale Industrial Manufacturers Association vs. UOI & Ors. and other connected 
matters. In accordance with the instructions in paragraph 5 of the RBI circular dated April 07, 2021 issued in this 
connection, the Bank continued with the asset classification of borrower accounts as per the extant RBI instructions 
/ IRAC norms.
• 
 Divergence in the asset classification and provisioning
	
In terms of the RBI guidelines, banks are required to disclose the divergence in asset classification and provisioning 
consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts to the financial statements, wherever the 
additional provisioning assessed / additional gross NPAs identified by RBI exceeds the threshold specified by RBI. The 
threshold for provisioning is 10 per cent of the reported profit before provisions and contingencies for the reference period 
and that for additional gross NPAs is 15 per cent of the published incremental Gross NPAs for the reference period. 
	
There was no divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs for the years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020.

258
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
• 
Details of accounts subjected to restructuring
Agriculture and 
allied activities
Corporates 
(excluding MSME)
Micro, Small and 
Medium 
Enterprises (MSME)
Retail (excluding 
agriculture and 
MSME) 
Total
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2021
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2021
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2021
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2021
March 
31, 2022
March 
31, 2021
Standard
Number of 
borrowers
-
1
-
2
1
1
-
-
1
4
Gross 
Amount 
(` crore)
-
27.50
-
92.46
23.15
26.72
-
-
23.15
146.68
Provision 
held 
(` crore)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Substandard
Number of 
borrowers
169
15
-
-
476
8
1,260
707
1,905
730
Gross 
Amount 
(` crore)
2.77
0.46
-
-
67.25
0.99
104.11
26.49
174.13
27.94
Provision 
held 
(` crore)
-
-
-
-
-
0.78
-
0.06
-
0.84
Doubtful
Number of 
borrowers
3
-
1
2
41
1
93
1
138
4
Gross 
Amount 
(` crore)
0.15
-
4.42
6.80
16.77
6.25
5.92
0.16
27.26
13.21
Provision 
held 
(` crore)
-
-
-
-
0.35
-
-
-
0.35
-
Total
Number of 
borrowers
172
16
1
4
518
10
1,353
708
2,044
738
Gross 
Amount 
(` crore)
2.92
27.96
4.42
99.26
107.17
33.96
110.03
26.65
224.54
187.83
Provision 
held 
(` crore)
-
-
-
-
0.35
0.78
-
0.06
0.35
0.84
• 
 Details of accounts restructured under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector under 
RBI guidelines issued in January 2019:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
No. of accounts restructured
Amount outstanding
No. of accounts restructured
Amount outstanding
2,87,562
 6,874.39
2,82,589
 3,391.35
• 
Provision pertaining to fraud accounts reported during the year:
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
No. of frauds reported
6,543
5,232
Amount involved in fraud (` crore)
505.86
1,640.80
Amount involved in fraud net of recoveries / write-offs as at the end of the year (` crore)
231.74
1,321.08
Provisions held as at the end of the year (` crore)
231.74
1,321.08
Amount of unamortised provision debited from “other reserves” as at the end of the 
year (` crore)
-
-
	
	
Above table represents all frauds reported during the year.
 
 
The information on frauds for the financial year ended March 31, 2021 includes certain large value credits which were already reckoned as NPAs 
in the prior years and these were fully provided for.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
259
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
• 
Details of resolution plan implemented under the Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress 
as per RBI circular dated August 06, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and May 05, 2021 (Resolution 
Framework 2.0) as at March 31, 2022 are given below:
(` crore)
Type of Borrower
Exposure to 
accounts classified 
as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan - 
Position as at the end 
of the previous half-
year i.e. September 
30, 2021 (A)*
Of (A), aggregate 
debt that slipped into 
NPA during the half-
year ended March 
31, 2022
Of (A), amount 
written off during the 
half-year#
Of (A), amount paid 
by the borrowers 
during the half-year**
Exposure to 
accounts classified 
as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan - 
Position as at the end 
of this half-year i.e. 
March 31, 2022^
Personal Loans
   11,588.80 
   1,594.28 
     620.09 
        212.96
    9,781.56 
Corporate persons
 1,834.34 
128.64 
1.61 
193.29 
1,512.41 
Of which, MSMEs 
159.92 
5.71 
0.58 
0.03 
154.18 
Others
2,457.43 
303.17 
21.97 
58.19 
2,096.07 
Total
15,880.57 
2,026.09 
643.67 
464.44 
13,390.04 
* 
Includes restructuring done in respect of requests received as of September 30, 2021 processed subsequently.
#  
Represents debt that slipped into NPA and was subsequently written-off during the half-year ended March 31, 2022.
** 
Amount paid by the borrower during the half-year is net of additions in the borrower account including additions due to interest capitalisation.
^ 
Excludes other facilities to the borrowers aggregating to ` 2,307.65 crore which have not been restructured.
 
Details of Resolution Plan (RP) implemented under Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed 
Assets dated June 07, 2019: 
(` crore)
No. of borrowers
Amount Outstanding
March 31, 2022
-
-
March 31, 2021
-
-
	
Transfer of Assets
• 
Details of non-performing assets (NPAs) transferred during the financial year 2021-2022:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Particulars
To Asset 
Reconstruction 
Companies (ARCs)
To permitted 
transferees
To other transferees
Number of accounts
70,921
65,704
-
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred
2,187.81
449.46
-
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred 
(in years)
3.01
2.01
-
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer)
992.38
188.86
-
Aggregate consideration
1,093.10
35.94
-
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts 
transferred in earlier years
2.67
-
-
	 	
	No excess provisions were reversed to the Profit and Loss Account on account of sale of NPAs.
• 
Details of stressed loan (Non-performing asset and Special Mention Account) transferred during the 
financial year 2020-2021:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Particulars
To Asset 
Reconstruction 
Companies (ARCs)
To permitted 
transferees
To other transferees
Number of accounts
1,67,197
-
-
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred
4,107.60
-
-

260
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Particulars
To Asset 
Reconstruction 
Companies (ARCs)
To permitted 
transferees
To other transferees
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in years)
2.70
-
-
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer)*
3,164.66
-
-
Aggregate consideration
2,051.06
-
-
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts trans-
ferred in earlier years
-
-
-
	
 
*If accounts had been classified as NPA during the period of operation of the Interim Order dated September 03, 2020 of the Hon'ble SC, 
specific provision would have been made for the accounts sold. Accordingly, the net book value would have been ` 2,419.41 crore.
 
 
No excess provisions were reversed to the Profit and Loss Account on account of sale of NPAs.
•	
Pursuant to RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021, Banks are required to 
disclose transfer of "loans not in default and Special Mention Accounts" respectively. The Bank has not transferred any 
loans not in default / Special Mention Accounts during the period from September 24, 2021 to March 31, 2022.
• 
Details of ratings of SRs outstanding as on March 31, 2022 are given below:
(` crore)
Rating
Rating Agency
Recovery rating
Outstanding as at 
March 31, 2022
R2
CRISIL
75% - 100%
182.87
NR2
India Ratings
100% - 150%
366.20
NR3
India Ratings
75% - 100%
614.34
NR4
India Ratings
50% - 75%
218.01
NA*
102.30
Total
1,483.72
	
	
* Pursuant to regulatory norms, the ARC has time to obtain initial rating of SRs from an approved credit rating agency within a period of six 
months from the date of acquisition of assets by it.
• 
Details of ratings of SRs outstanding as on March 31, 2021 are given below:
(` crore)
Rating
Rating Agency
Recovery rating
Outstanding as at 
March 31, 2021
R2
CRISIL
75% - 100%
367.20
NR2
India Ratings
100% - 150%
1,243.49
NR3
India Ratings
75% - 100%
372.77
Total
1,983.46
Acquisition of Assets
• 
During the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, no non-performing financial assets were 
acquired by the Bank.
• 
Pursuant to the RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021, the details 
of loans acquired during the period from September 24, 2021 to March 31, 2022 are given below:
 
•     Details of loans not in default acquired through assignment are given below:
Particulars
                   Value
Aggregate amount of loans acquired (` in crore)
18,094.40
Weighted average residual maturity (in years)
14.99
Weighted average holding period by originator (in years)
1.57
Retention of beneficial economic interest by the originator
10%
Tangible security coverage
100%
	
	
The loans acquired are not rated as these are to non-corporate borrowers. 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
261
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
From the above, 58 loans aggregating to ` 11.45 crore was repurchased by the transferor in compliance with paragraph 
48 of Master Direction - RBI (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021.
 • 	The Bank has not acquired any Special Mention Account.
 •  The RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021 has mandated disclosure of 
transfer of loan assets. Considering the terms ‘loans not in default’ and ‘special mention account’ under this circular 
vis-a-vis loans termed as ‘standard’ as hitherto and the separate processes prescribed therein for transfer of such 
assets, the Bank believes that such disclosure would be more meaningful if disclosed prospectively and therefore 
transfer of loan exposures prior to September 24, 2021 including comparatives of previous year are not considered 
relevant for disclosure.
 •  During the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, there were no standard assets securitised-out by 
the Bank.
 
• 
Securitised assets as per books of SPVs sponsored by the Bank
	
There are no SPVs sponsored by the Bank as at March 31, 2022 and as at March 31, 2021.
 
• 
Off-Balance Sheet SPVs
	
There are no Off-Balance Sheet SPVs sponsored by the Bank, which need to be consolidated as per accounting norms.
14.	 Details of exposures to real estate and capital market sectors, risk category-wise country exposures, 
factoring exposures, single / group borrower exposures, unsecured advances and concentration of 
deposits, advances, exposures and NPAs
 
• 
Details of exposure to real estate sector
	
Exposure is higher of limits sanctioned or the amounts outstanding as at the year end.
(` crore) 
Category
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
a) Direct exposure
133,650.15
    114,575.93 
(i)
Residential mortgages*
     83,773.07 
     71,673.56 
(of which housing loans eligible for inclusion in priority sector advances)
    (29,375.95)
   (27,886.84)
(ii) Commercial real estate
     49,683.48 
     42,587.09 
(iii) Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other securitised 
exposures:
(a) Residential
        160.09 
        227.73 
(b) Commercial real estate
         33.51 
         87.55 
b) Indirect exposure
    36,208.42 
    32,877.30 
Fund based and non-fund based exposures on National Housing Bank (NHB) and 
Housing Finance Companies (HFCs)
    36,208.42
    32,877.30
Total exposure to real estate sector
     169,858.57
     147,453.23
	
	
* includes loans purchased under the direct loan assignment route.
• 
Details of capital market exposure
	
Exposure is higher of limits sanctioned or the amounts outstanding as at the year end.
(` crore) 
Sr. 
No. Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
(i)
Direct investments made in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible 
debentures and units of equity oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is 
not exclusively invested in corporate debt
7,107.55 
6,247.22 
(ii)
Advances against shares, bonds, debentures or other securities or on clean 
basis to individuals for investment in shares (including IPO’s / ESOP’s), 
convertible bonds, convertible debentures and units of equity oriented mutual 
funds
3,067.03 
143.97 

262
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Sr. 
No. Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
(iii)
Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or 
convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds are taken as 
primary security
4,036.47 
5,156.29 
(iv)
Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by collateral security 
of shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity 
oriented mutual funds i.e. where the primary security other than shares / 
convertible bonds / convertible debentures / units of equity oriented mutual 
funds does not fully cover the advances
379.35 
423.41 
(v)
Secured and unsecured advances to stock brokers and guarantees issued on 
behalf of stock brokers and market makers
14,216.38 
9,875.78 
(vi)
Loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares / bonds / 
debentures or other securities or on clean basis for meeting promoter’s 
contribution to the equity of new companies in anticipation of raising resources
4,643.34 
4,154.34 
(vii) Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows / issues
-
-
(viii) Underwriting commitments taken up in respect of primary issue of shares or 
convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual 
funds
-
-
(ix)
Financing to stock brokers for margin trading
-
-
(x)
All exposures to venture capital funds (both registered and unregistered)
17.90 
12.49 
Total exposure to capital market
33,468.02 
26,013.50 
 
• 
Details of risk category wise country exposure
(` crore)
Risk Category
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Exposure (net)
Provision held
Exposure (net)
Provision held
Insignificant
   30,148.36 
- 
     33,231.41 
-
Low
    16,729.52 
- 
     12,744.74 
-
Moderately low
     1,054.54 
           - 
      2,031.36 
-
Moderate
      474.80 
       - 
       625.57 
-
Moderately high
      260.29 
        - 
        2.71 
-
High
        7.06 
        - 
         0.15 
-
Very high
       24.76 
       - 
       26.79 
-
Total
48,699.33
       - 
48,662.73
-
 
• 
Details of factoring exposure 
	
The factoring exposure of the Bank as at March 31, 2022 is ` 7,865.01 crore (previous year: ` 4,358.45 crore).
 
• 
Intra-Group exposure
	
Intra-Group exposures in accordance with RBI guidelines are as follows:	    
(` crore) 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Total amount of intra-group exposures
12,765.40 
11,659.17 
Total amount of top 20 intra-group exposures
12,765.40 
11,659.17 
Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the Bank on borrowers / 
customers
0.57%
0.63%
Details of breach of limits on intra-group exposures and regulatory action thereon, if any
Nil
Nil
• 
Details of Single Counterparty Limit / Limit for Group of Connected Counterparties exceeded by the 
Bank.
	
The RBI has prescribed limits linked to a bank’s eligible capital base in respect of exposures to single counterparty and 
group of connected counterparties. During the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021 the Bank was within 
the limits prescribed by the RBI.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
263
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
• 
Unsecured advances
	
	Advances for which intangible collaterals such as rights, licenses, authority, trademarks, patents, etc. are charged in 
favour of the Bank in respect of projects financed by the Bank, are reckoned as unsecured advances under Schedule 9 
of the Balance Sheet in line with extant RBI guidelines. There are no such advances outstanding as at March 31, 2022 
(previous year: Nil).
• 
Inter-bank Participation with risk sharing
	
The aggregate amount of participation issued by the Bank and reduced from advances as per regulatory guidelines as 
at March 31, 2022 was Nil (previous year: Nil).
• 
Concentration of deposits, advances, exposures and NPAs
 
 
a) 
Concentration of deposits  
 
 
 
 
                    
(` crore, except percentages) 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Total deposits of twenty largest depositors
61,578.97
54,551.06
Percentage of deposits of twenty largest depositors to total deposits of the Bank
3.9%
4.1%
 
 
b) 
Concentration of advances 
 
 
 
 
 
                    
(` crore, except percentages) 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Total advances to twenty largest borrowers
295,918.84
225,412.82
Percentage of advances of twenty largest borrowers to total advances of the Bank
13.8%
12.9%
		
	Advances comprise credit exposure (funded and non-funded credit limits) including derivative transactions computed as per current 
exposure method in accordance with RBI guidelines.
 
 
c) 
Concentration of exposure 
 
 
 
 
                    
(` crore, except percentages) 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Total exposure to twenty largest borrowers / customers
319,497.99
252,112.93
Percentage of exposure of twenty largest borrowers / customers to total 
exposure of the Bank on borrowers / customers
14.4%
13.7%
		
	Exposures comprise credit exposure (funded and non-funded credit limits) including derivative transactions and investment exposure in 
accordance with RBI guidelines.
 
 
d) 
Concentration of NPAs 
 
 
 
 
 
                    
(` crore, except percentages) 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Total gross exposure to top twenty NPA accounts
2,306.92
2,930.96
Percentage of exposures to the twenty largest NPA exposure to total Gross 
NPAs.
14.3%
19.4%
 
 
e) 
Sector-wise advances
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Sector
As at March 31, 2022
As at March 31, 2021
Gross 
advances
Gross non- 
performing 
loans
% of gross 
non-performing 
loans to gross 
advances in 
that sector
Gross 
advances
Gross non- 
performing 
loans
% of gross 
non-performing 
loans to gross 
advances in 
that sector
A
Priority sector
1
Agriculture and allied 
activities
102,210.34
4,157.29
4.07%
92,904.27
3,409.52
3.67%
2
Advances to industries 
eligible as priority sector 
lending
130,568.43
772.65
0.59%
66,235.29
384.89
0.58%

264
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Sr. 
No.
Sector
As at March 31, 2022
As at March 31, 2021
Gross 
advances
Gross non- 
performing 
loans
% of gross 
non-performing 
loans to gross 
advances in 
that sector
Gross 
advances
Gross non- 
performing 
loans
% of gross 
non-performing 
loans to gross 
advances in 
that sector
3
Services
126,753.53
2,584.04
2.04%
69,688.06
1,347.39
1.93%
4
Personal loans
35,235.05
523.70
1.49%
32,616.87
337.72
1.04%
Sub-total (A)
394,767.35
8,037.68
2.04%
261,444.49
5,479.52
2.10%
B
Non-Priority sector
1
Agriculture and allied 
activities
3,408.11
421.79
12.38%
3,399.43
410.75
12.08%
2
Industry
295,034.46
1,927.23
0.65%
265,490.84
2,064.11
0.78%
3
Services
327,552.74
2,758.63
0.84%
294,532.37
3,806.07
1.29%
4
Personal loans
359,751.56
2,995.63
0.83%
318,441.52
3,325.55
1.04%
Sub-total (B)
985,746.87
8,103.28
0.82%
881,864.16
9,606.48
1.09%
Total (A) + (B)
1,380,514.22
16,140.96
1.17%
1,143,308.65
15,086.00
1.32%
 
• 
Details of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs) 
	
The Bank enters into transactions for the sale or purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs). In the case of 
a sale transaction, the Bank sells the fulfilment of priority sector obligation and in the case of a purchase transaction the 
Bank buys the fulfilment of priority sector obligation through RBI trading platform. There is no transfer of risks or loan 
assets in such transactions. The details of purchase / sale of PSLC during the year are as under:                   
(` crore)
Type of PSLCs
For the year ended
 March 31, 2022
For the year ended
 March 31, 2021
PSLC bought 
during the year
PSLC sold 
during the year
PSLC bought 
during the year
PSLC sold 
during the year
Agriculture
726.00
-
3,030.00
-
Small and Marginal farmers
887.25
-
625.00
-
Micro Enterprises
31,280.00
-
18,830.00
-
General
67,707.50
-
61,842.50
2,000.00
Total
100,600.75
-
84,327.50
2,000.00
15.	 Other fixed assets
	
Other fixed assets include amount capitalised relating to software having useful life of five years. Details regarding the same 
are tabulated below:
(` crore) 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Cost
As at March 31 of the previous year
 3,566.70 
        3,236.57 
Additions during the year
 806.03 
          330.13 
Deductions during the year
 (0.01)
              -
Total (a)
 4,372.72 
      3,566.70 
Depreciation
As at March 31 of the previous year
 2,822.87 
       2,473.76 
Charge for the year
 443.58 
        349.11 
On deductions during the year
 (0.01)
              -
Total (b)
 3,266.44 
       2,822.87 
Net value (a-b)
1,106.28
        743.83 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
265
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
16.	 Other assets
•  
Other assets include deferred tax asset (net) of ` 6,229.67 crore (previous year: ` 4,937.76 crore). The break-up of the 
same is as follows:
	
(` crore) 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Deferred tax asset arising out of:
Loan loss and contingencies
5,745.11
4,441.48
Employee benefits 
58.41
67.14
Depreciation 
66.90
53.02
Others
359.25
376.12
Total (a)
6,229.67
4,937.76
Deferred tax liability (b)
-
-
Deferred tax asset (net) (a-b)
6,229.67
4,937.76 
• 
Key items under "Others" in Other assets are as under:
(` crore) 
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Deposit with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB - PSL shortfall
44,738.08
9,320.37
Unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts*
7,923.90
8,472.31
Deferred tax assets
6,229.67
4,937.76
Accounts receivable
4,129.31
3,139.47
Deposits & amounts paid in advance
3,297.55
3,134.56
Advances for capital assets
1,067.48
766.70
Residual items
3.64
5.72
Total
67,389.63
29,776.89
	
* The Bank has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and gross unrealised loss 
on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities.

266
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
17.	 Maturity pattern of key assets and liabilities
	
Assets and liabilities are classified in the maturity buckets as per the guidelines issued by the RBI.
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2022
1 day
2 to 7 
days
8 to 14 days
15 to 30 
days
31 days  to 2 
months
2 months to 
3 months
Over 3 
months to 6 
months
Over 6 
months to 1 
year
Over 1 year 
to 
3 years
Over 3 years 
to 
5 years
Over 
5 years
Total
Loans & advances*
15,887.52
21,695.65
15,157.80
45,647.16
51,173.80
53,279.34
90,228.96 101,559.82 560,217.39 185,260.82 228,712.67 1,368,820.93
Investments*
102,260.15
22,936.74
4,113.47
7,045.41
9,643.29
8,324.59
23,635.54
27,984.84 159,398.09
12,542.99
77,650.58 455,535.69
Deposits*
32,342.12
70,543.76
30,158.67
37,703.12
50,207.34
35,555.31
75,054.08 103,905.16 669,179.97
15,077.04 439,490.87 1,559,217.44
Borrowings*
542.63
16,504.77
3,177.86
15,036.59
20,313.02
8,153.04
15,073.47
26,803.05
48,219.53
17,993.25
13,000.00 184,817.21
Foreign currency 
assets
14,259.58
12,976.59
6,209.09
18,737.58
9,202.72
6,337.86
14,212.97
3,628.29
4,974.93
1,722.78
759.90
93,022.29
Foreign currency 
liabilities
2,494.86
2,843.35
4,739.94
9,502.37
13,118.28
8,912.00
10,304.04
9,451.62
9,134.10
8,555.93
3,420.55
82,477.04
* The amounts represented include Foreign Currency Balances.
  
Classification of assets and liabilities under the maturity buckets is based on the same estimates and assumptions as used by the Bank for compiling the return submitted to the RBI. 
Maturity profile of foreign currency assets and liabilities excludes off-balance sheet items.
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 2021
1 day
2 to 7 
days
8 to 14 days
15 to 30 
days
31 days  to 2 
months
2 months to 
3 months
Over 3 
months to 6 
months
Over 6 
months to 1 
year
Over 1 year 
to 
3 years
Over 3 years 
to 
5 years
Over 
5 years
Total
Loans & advances*
 9,900.05 
20,452.08 
10,506.09 
44,857.71 
49,736.96 
48,183.51 
96,978.08 
109,238.00 
483,407.07 
123,428.17 
136,148.91 1,132,836.63 
Investments*
112,341.38 
43,161.08 
 4,382.04 
 5,714.46 
 9,820.26 
 9,528.83 
16,545.14 
 23,695.50 
144,222.12 
 9,065.84 
 65,251.65 
443,728.30 
Deposits*
13,684.11 
70,664.28 
40,914.97 
30,083.61 
50,474.48 
36,695.33 
78,391.96 
 91,952.08 
532,038.94 
14,701.27 
375,459.19 1,335,060.22 
Borrowings*
   258.26 
36,992.20 
 1,207.28 
 4,011.50 
  7,153.92 
  2,751.16 
11,238.59 
 10,202.85 
 38,696.56 
 8,275.00 
 14,700.00 
135,487.32 
Foreign currency 
assets
13,495.91 
12,932.26 
 2,992.89 
13,794.28 
 4,609.15 
 5,091.85 
11,792.57 
4,328.34 
  6,159.55 
 1,009.88 
262.38 
76,469.06 
Foreign currency 
liabilities
 1,708.83 
 2,839.29 
 1,998.94 
 4,627.61 
 4,122.61 
 3,216.50 
  7,835.14 
6,589.03 
  7,514.11 
872.68 
  7,042.73 
48,367.47 
* The amounts represented include Foreign Currency Balances.
 
 Classification of assets and liabilities under the maturity buckets is based on the same estimates and assumptions as used by the Bank for compiling the return submitted to the RBI. 
Maturity profile of foreign currency assets and liabilities excludes off-balance sheet items.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
267
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
18.	 Provisions and contingent liabilities 
	
Given below is the movement in provisions and a brief description of the nature of contingent liabilities recognised by the Bank.
a) 
Provision for credit card and debit card reward points 
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Opening provision for reward points
638.79
734.15
Provision for reward points made during the year
465.13
375.21
Utilisation / write-back of provision for reward points
(468.01)
(470.57)
Closing provision for reward points
635.91
638.79
b) 
Provision for legal and other contingencies
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Opening provision
     503.55 
     445.35 
Movement during the year (net)
        32.54 
        58.20 
Closing provision
536.09
503.55
c)   Description of contingent liabilities
Sr. 
No.
Contingent liability*
Brief description
1
Claims against the Bank 
not acknowledged as 
debts - taxation
The Bank is a party to various taxation matters in respect of which appeals are pending. The Bank 
expects the outcome of the appeals to be favorable based on decisions on similar issues in the 
previous years by the appellate authorities, based on the facts of the case and taxation laws. 
2
Claims against the Bank 
not acknowledged as 
debts - others
The Bank is a party to various legal proceedings in the normal course of business. The Bank does not 
expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s financial 
conditions, results of operations or cash flows.
3
Partly paid investments
This represents amount remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid investments.
4
Liability on account of 
forward exchange and 
derivative contracts
The Bank enters into foreign exchange contracts, currency options, forward rate agreements, currency 
swaps and interest rate swaps with inter-bank participants on its own account and for customers. 
Forward exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at 
the contracted rate. Currency swaps are commitments to exchange cash flows by way of interest 
/ principal in one currency against another, based on predetermined rates. Interest rate swaps are 
commitments to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash flows. The notional amounts of financial 
instruments such as foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with 
instruments recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future 
cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the 
Bank’s exposure to credit or price risks. The derivative instruments become favorable (assets) or 
unfavorable (liabilities) as a result of fluctuations in market rates or prices relative to their terms. 
5
Guarantees given on 
behalf of constituents, 
acceptances, 
endorsements and other 
obligations
As a part of its commercial banking activities, the Bank issues documentary credit and guarantees 
on behalf of its customers. Documentary credits such as letters of credit enhance the credit standing 
of the Bank’s customers. Guarantees generally represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will 
make payments in the event of the customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
6
Other items for which the 
Bank is contingently liable
These include: a) Credit enhancements in respect of securitised-out loans; b) Bills rediscounted by 
the Bank; c) Capital commitments; d) Underwriting commitments; e) Investment purchases pending 
settlement; f) Amount transferred to the RBI under the Depositor Education and Awareness Fund 
(DEAF).
	
	
	
* Also refer Schedule 12 - Contingent liabilities

268
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
19. Business ratios / information
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Interest income as a percentage to working funds1
7.03%
7.64%
Net interest income as a percentage to working funds
3.96%
4.10%
Net interest income as a percentage to average interest earning assets
4.20%
4.34%
Non-interest income as a percentage to working funds
1.62%
1.59%
Cost of Deposits2
3.56%
4.15%
Operating profit3 as a percentage to working funds
3.53%
3.62%
Return on assets (average)
2.03%
1.97%
Business4 per employee (` in crore)
20.25
19.30
Profit per employee5 (` in crore)
0.28
0.26
Debt-Equity Ratio6
0.33
0.30
Return on Equity Ratio7
16.90%
16.60%
Definitions of certain items in Business ratios / information:
1. Working funds is the daily average of total assets during the year.
2. Cost of Deposits is the ratio of interest expense on deposits to daily average of total deposits.
3. Operating profit is profit for the year before provisions and contingencies and profit / (loss) on sale of building and other fixed assets (net).
4. Business is the total of quarterly average of net advances and deposits (net of inter-bank deposits).
5. Productivity ratios are based on average employee numbers.
6. Debt represents borrowings with residual maturity of more than one year.
7. Return on Equity represents net profit after tax to average equity share capital and reserves.
20.	 Interest income
	
Interest income under the sub-head Income from Investments includes dividend on units of mutual funds and equity and 
preference shares received during the year ended March 31, 2022 amounting to ` 1,623.48 crore (previous year: ` 453.82 
crore).
21.	 Other income
• 
Commission, exchange and brokerage income
ü 	
Commission, exchange and brokerage income is net of correspondent bank charges.
ü 	
Bancassurance business
	
Commission income for the year ended March 31, 2022 includes fees of ` 1,556.51 crore (previous year: ` 1,481.36 
crore) in respect of life insurance business and ` 266.11 crore (previous year: ` 279.05 crore) in respect of general 
insurance and health insurance business.
ü	
Marketing and distribution
	
Commission income for the year ended March 31, 2022 includes income from marketing and distribution of 
` 3,059.05 crore (previous year: ` 2,112.67 crore), which comprises of income for displaying publicity materials at 
the Bank’s branches / ATMs, commission on mutual funds, pension and other investment / saving products and 
sourcing and referral income.
• 
Miscellaneous income
	
Miscellaneous income includes recoveries from written-off accounts amounting to ` 2,765.13 crore (previous year: 
` 2,148.42 crore).
22. 	Other expenditure
	
Other expenditure includes commission paid to sales agents amounting to ` 3,718.81 crore (previous year: ` 2,611.72 crore), 
exceeding 1% of the total income of the Bank.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
269
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
23. Provisions and contingencies
	
The break-up of ‘Provisions and Contingencies’ included in the Profit and Loss Account is given below: 
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Provision for income tax - Current
     13,346.03 
11,644.77
	
	
- Deferred
      (1,291.91)
(1,102.31)
Provision for NPAs1
     10,119.38 
11,450.19
Provision for diminution in value of non-performing investments
       (14.52)
(16.82)
Provision for standard assets
     1,257.85 
866.63
Other provisions and contingencies2
      3,699.12 
3,402.85
Total
     27,115.95 
26,245.31
1.  
Includes loss on sale of NPAs / stressed assets. 
2.  
Includes provisions for tax, legal and other contingencies ` 3,704.83 crore (previous year: ` 3,401.29 crore), provisions / (write-back) for 
securitised-out assets ` 0.14 crore (previous year: ` (2.21) crore) and standard restructured assets ` (5.85) crore (previous year: ` 3.77 crore).
24	 Employee benefits
	
Gratuity
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1 
857.58
725.87
Interest cost 
56.41
45.94
Current service cost 
109.39
100.50
Benefits paid 
(56.13)
(38.21)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:  
Experience adjustment
(65.14)
26.48
Assumption change 
8.32
(3.00)
Present value of obligation as at March 31
910.43
857.58
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets 
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1  
743.24
514.93
Expected return on plan assets 
53.26
40.89
Contributions 
131.14
104.45
Benefits paid
(56.13)
(38.21)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment 
21.96
105.74
Assumption change 
1.97
15.44
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31  
895.44
743.24
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31  
895.44
743.24
Present value of obligation as at March 31 
(910.43)
      (857.58)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 
(14.99)
       (114.34)
Expenses recognised in Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost 
56.41
          45.94 
Current service cost
109.39
        100.50 
Expected return on plan assets
(53.26)
        (40.89)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year 
(80.75)
       (97.70)
Net cost 
31.79
7.85
Actual return on plan assets 
77.19
162.07
Estimated contribution for the next year 
148.57
131.14

270
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Assumptions
Discount rate
6.80% per annum
6.50% per annum
Expected return on plan assets  
6.50% per annum
6.50% per annum
Salary escalation rate
7.00% per annum
7.00% per annum
	
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and 
other relevant factors.
	
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Bank at the beginning of the 
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets are 
given below:
Category of plan assets
% of fair value to total plan assets
as at March 31, 2022
as at March 31, 2021
Government securities
28.80%
27.90%
Debenture and bonds
24.52%
26.04%
Equity shares
40.40%
41.23%
Others
6.28%
4.83%
Total
100.00%
100.00%
 
Experience adjustment
(` crore)
Particulars
Years ended March 31,
2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
Plan assets
   895.44 
   743.24 
514.93
501.71
416.40
Defined benefit obligation
   910.43 
   857.58 
725.87
617.96
542.97
Surplus / (deficit)
 (14.99)
 (114.34)
(210.94)
(116.25)
(126.57)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan 
assets
21.96
105.74
(64.41)
11.70
0.13
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan 
liabilities
(65.14)
26.48
(8.46)
7.12
10.44
	
Pension
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1
89.99
64.15
Interest cost
            5.19 
              3.79 
Current service cost
            1.40 
              1.37 
Past service cost
            7.69 
-
Benefits paid
          (20.43)
           (11.63)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:
Experience adjustment
            6.44 
              31.41 
Assumption change
             (2.26) 
                0.90 
Present value of obligation as at March 31
           88.02 
             89.99 
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value  of the plan 
assets
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1
0.33
9.51
Expected return on plan assets
             0.04 
                0.32 
Contributions
             20.70 
                2.30 
Benefits paid
          (20.43)
             (11.63)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment
          0.39
               (0.20)

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
271
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Assumption change
            (0.15) 
                0.03 
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31
0.88
0.33
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31
             0.88 
                0.33 
Present value of obligation as at March 31
         (88.02)
             (89.99)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31
        (87.14)
           (89.66)
Expenses recognised in Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost
             5.19
             3.79
Current service cost
             1.40 
                1.37 
Past service cost 
            7.69 
-
Expected return on plan assets
           (0.04)
               (0.32)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year
            3.95 
              32.48 
Net cost
           18.19 
37.32
Actual return on plan assets
            0.27 
                0.15 
Estimated contribution for the next year
18.86
13.09
Assumptions
Discount rate
6.80% per annum
6.50% per annum
Expected return on plan assets
6.50% per annum
6.50% per annum
Salary escalation rate
7.00% per annum
7.00% per annum
	
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and 
other relevant factors.
	
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Bank at the beginning of the 
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets are 
given below:
Category of plan assets
% of fair value to total 
plan assets
as at March 31, 2022
% of fair value to total 
plan assets
as at March 31, 2021
Government securities
 34.17%
 42.87%
Debenture and bonds
 3.58%
 35.11%
Others
 62.25%
 22.02%
Total
100.00%
100.00%
 
Experience adjustment
(` crore)
Particulars
Years ended March 31,
2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
Plan assets
      0.88 
      0.33 
9.51
21.95
  31.30 
Defined benefit obligation
      88.02 
      89.99 
64.15
69.54
  73.06 
Surplus / (deficit)
    (87.14)
    (89.66)
(54.64)
(47.59)
(41.76)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan 
assets
   0.39 
   (0.20) 
   0.28 
   0.48 
   0.59 
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan 
liabilities
   6.44
   31.41
   9.06
   3.32
   3.95
	
Amortisation of expenditure on account of enhancement in family pension of employees of banks
	
The Reserve Bank of India, vide its notification dated October 04, 2021 granted Banks an option to amortise the expenditure 
on account of enhancement of family pension, over a period not exceeding five years beginning with the financial year ending 
March 31, 2022, subject to a minimum of one-fifth of the total amount involved being expensed every year. The Bank has not 
availed the said option and has recognised the entire expenditure on account of enhancement of family pension in financial 
year ended March 31, 2022.

272
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
	
Provident fund
	
The guidance note on AS-15, Employee Benefits, states that employer established provident funds, where interest is guaranteed 
are to be considered as defined benefit plans and the liability has to be valued. The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI) has issued 
a guidance note on valuation of interest rate guarantees on exempt provident funds. The actuary has accordingly valued the 
same and the Bank held a provision of Nil as at March 31, 2022 (previous year: Nil), towards the present value of the guaranteed 
interest benefit obligation. The actuary has followed the deterministic approach as prescribed by the guidance note.
	
Assumptions
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Discount rate (GOI security yield)
6.80% per annum
6.50% per annum
Expected guaranteed interest rate 
8.10% per annum
8.50% per annum
	
The Bank does not have any unfunded defined benefit plan. The Bank contributed ` 420.98 crore (previous year: ` 370.13 
crore) to the provident fund, ` 5.72 crore (previous year: ` 4.63 crore) to the National Pension Scheme (for employees who 
opted) and ` 76.37 crore (previous year: ` 75.64 crore) to the superannuation plan.
	
The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘the Code’) relating to employee benefits, during the employment and post-employment, 
has received Presidential assent on September 28, 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Further, the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on November 13, 2020. The effective date from 
which the changes are applicable is yet to be notified and rules for quantifying the financial impact are not yet issued. The 
Bank will assess the impact of the Code and will give appropriate impact in the financial statements in the period in which, the 
Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
25.	 Disclosures on remuneration
 
Qualitative Disclosures
A.	
Information relating to the bodies that oversee remuneration
	
	
Name and composition 
	
The Board of Directors of the Bank has constituted the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (hereinafter, the ‘NRC’) 
for overseeing and governing the compensation policies of the Bank. The NRC is comprised of five non-executive directors 
as of March 31, 2022. Further, four members of the NRC are also members of the Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee 
(hereinafter, the ‘RPMC’) of the Board. 
	
As of March 31, 2022, the NRC is comprised of Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi, Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, Mr. Sandeep Parekh, 
Mr. M.D. Ranganath and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty. Further, Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Parekh 
and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty are also the members of the RPMC. Mr. Sanjiv Sachar is the chairperson of the NRC.
	
	
Mandate of the NRC
	
The primary mandate of the NRC is to oversee and review the implementation of compensation policies of the Bank. 
The NRC periodically reviews the overall Remuneration Policy of the Bank with a view to attract, retain and motivate 
employees. In this capacity it is required to review and approve the design of the total compensation framework, including 
compensation strategy programs and plans, on behalf of the Board of Directors. The compensation structure and pay 
revision for the Group Heads, Material Risk Takers, Senior Management, Risk and Control Staff, Key Management 
Personnel and Whole Time Directors (who are also Material Risk Takers) of the Bank is approved by the NRC and 
subsequently approved by the Board of Directors. The compensation of the Whole Time Directors requires the additional 
approval of the Reserve Bank of India. The NRC co-ordinates with the RPMC to ensure that compensation is aligned 
with prudent risk taking. Further the NRC also reviews the appointments of individuals at the levels of Group Heads, Key 
Management Personnel, Senior Management and Whole Time Directors of the Bank.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
273
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
	
External Consultants:
	
The Bank engaged with the following consultants during the year ended March 31, 2022:
1.	
AON Consulting Private Limited - in respect of the Bank’s annual salary market benchmarking exercise. 
2.	
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP - in respect of the Bank’s benchmarking exercise pertaining to executive  
compensation. 
3.	
Mercer Consulting (India) Private Limited - in the area of job evaluation.
	
	
Scope of the Bank’s Remuneration Policy:
	
The Remuneration Policy of the Bank includes within its scope all business lines and functions, and all permanent staff in 
the Bank’s domestic as well as international offices. The principles articulated in the compensation policy are applicable 
uniformly across the Bank. However any statutory / regulatory provisions applicable in overseas locations take precedence 
over the Remuneration Policy of the Bank.
	
All permanent employees of the Bank except those covered under the long term wage agreement are covered by the 
said Remuneration Policy. The number of employees covered under the compensation policy was 1,41,349 as at March 
31, 2022 (previous year: 1,19,858).
B.	
	Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration processes and the key features and 
objectives of remuneration policy
	
	
I. 
Key Features and Objectives of Remuneration Policy
	
The Bank’s Remuneration Policy (the ‘Policy’) is aligned to business strategy, market dynamics, internal characteristics 
and complexities within the Bank. The ultimate objective of the Policy is to provide a fair and transparent structure 
that helps in acquiring and retaining the talent pool critical to build competitive advantage and brand equity. The 
Policy has been designed basis the principles for sound compensation practices in accordance with regulatory 
requirements and provides a framework to create, modify and maintain appropriate compensation programs and 
processes with adequate supervision and control. 
	
The Bank’s performance management system provides a sound basis for assessing employee performance holistically. 
The Bank’s compensation framework is aligned with the performance management system and differentiates pay 
appropriately amongst its employees based on degree of contribution, performance, skill, experience, grade and 
availability of talent owing to competitive market forces. Further, the Bank also considers compliance to processes, 
regulatory compliance and risk management as an integral part of its performance appraisal process. These factors 
are given due weightage for the purposes of the final performance rating of employees for a given performance year.
	
The NRC considers the aforementioned principles enunciated in the Bank’s compensation policy and ensures that:
(a)	 the compensation is adjusted for all types of prudent risk taking; 
(b)	 compensation outcomes are symmetric with risk outcomes;
(c)	 compensation payouts are sensitive to the time horizon of risk; and 
(d)	 the mix of cash, equity and other forms of compensation are aligned with risk. 
	
Review of Remuneration Policy of the Bank
	
The Remuneration Policy of the Bank was reviewed by the NRC during the year ended March 31, 2021 and changes 
were made to the policy in accordance with the revised guidelines on compensation of Whole Time Directors / 
Chief Executive Officers / Material Risk Takers and Control Function staff issued on dated November 4, 2019. These 
guidelines are applicable for the performance year commencing on April 1, 2020 and shall govern all remuneration 
payouts subsequent to March 31, 2021.

274
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
II.	
Design and Structure of Remuneration
	
The design and structure of remuneration in accordance with the RBI guidelines dated November 4, 2019, pertaining 
to the performance year 2020-2021 and the related payouts made in the financial year ended March 31, 2022 are 
as follows:
a)	
Fixed Pay
	
The Remuneration Policy ensures that the fixed component of the compensation is reasonable, taking into 
account all relevant factors including industry practice. 
	
Elements of Fixed Pay:
	
The fixed pay component of the Bank’s compensation structure typically consists of elements such as base 
salary, allowances, perquisites and retirement benefits. Perquisites extended are in the nature of company 
car, company leased accommodation, club membership and such other benefits or allowances in lieu of such 
perquisites / benefits. Retirement benefits include contributions to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund 
(for employees above certain job bands), National Pension Scheme and Gratuity. The Bank also provides 
pension to certain employees of the erstwhile Lord Krishna Bank (eLKB) under the Indian Banks’ Association 
(‘IBA’) structure.
	
Determinants of Fixed Pay:
	
The fixed pay is primarily determined by taking into account factors such as the job size, performance, 
experience, location, market competitiveness of pay and is designed to meet the following key objectives of:
(a)	 fair compensation given the role complexity and size;
(b)	 fair compensation given the individual’s skill, competence, experience and market pay position; 
(c)	 contribution to post retirement benefits; and
(d)	 compliance with all statutory obligations.
	
The quantum of fixed pay for the Senior Management i.e. Employees in Executive Vice President and above 
grades, Material Risk Takers other than Whole Time Directors, Risk and Control Staff and Key Management 
Personnel are approved by the NRC and the Board. 
	
The quantum of fixed pay for Whole Time Directors is approved by the NRC and the Board, and is subject to 
the approval of the RBI.
b)	
Variable Pay - For Senior Management and Material Risk Takers
	
The performance management system forms the basis for variable pay allocation of the Bank. The Remuneration 
Policy of the Bank ensures that the performance management system is comprehensive and considers both, 
quantitative and qualitative performance measures.  
(i) 	 Composition of Variable pay
	
The variable pay will be in the form of share linked instruments or a mix of cash and share linked instruments. 
The share linked instrument used in the financial year 2021-22 was the Employee Stock Options. All plans 
for grant of options are framed in accordance with the SEBI guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to 
time and are approved by the shareholders of the Bank. These plans provide for the grant of options post 
approval by the NRC. For Whole Time Directors the variable pay is approved by the NRC, Board and the 
Reserve Bank of India.
	
The Bank will ensure that there is a proper balance between Fixed Pay and Variable Pay. In cases where 
compensation by way of share-linked instruments is not permitted by law / regulations, the entire variable 
pay will be in cash. 
(ii) 	 Limits on Variable pay
	
A substantial portion of compensation i.e. at least 50% will be variable and paid on the basis of individual, 
business unit and organization performance. This will be in line with the principle that, at higher levels 
of responsibility, the proportion of variable pay will be higher. The total variable pay shall be limited to a 
maximum of 300% of the fixed pay (for the relative performance period).

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
275
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
In case the variable pay is upto 200% of the fixed pay, a minimum of 50% of the variable pay; and in case 
the variable pay is above 200%, a minimum of 67% of the variable pay shall be via non-cash instruments. 
The non-cash component in 2021-22 comprised of Employee Stock Options.
	
In the event that the employee is barred by statute or regulation from grant of share-linked instruments, 
his / her variable pay will be capped at 150% of fixed pay but shall not be less than 50% of the fixed pay.
(iii) 	 Deferral of Variable pay
	
For senior management including Whole Time Directors (WTDs) and Material Risk Takers (MRTs), de-
ferral arrangements exists for the variable pay. A minimum of 60% of total variable pay is under deferral 
arrangements. If cash component is a part of the variable pay, at least 50% of the cash bonus is deferred. 
In cases where cash component of the bonus is under Rs 25 lakh, deferral arrangements is not necessary.
	
The deferral period is a minimum of three years and is applicable to both cash and non-cash components 
of variable pay. The deferral period for share linked instruments / ESOPs is governed by the ESOP Scheme 
Rules which is approved by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board. In 2021-22, 
the deferment of cash variable pay, where applicable, was 3 years in the case of cash variable pay and 4 
years (vesting period) in the case of Employee Stock Options.
(iv) 	 Vesting of Variable Pay 
	
The deferred portion of the remuneration vests at the end of deferral period and is spread out over the 
course of the deferral period. The first vesting is not before one year from the commencement of the 
deferral period. The vesting is no faster than on a pro rata basis and the frequency of the vesting is more 
than a year in order to ensure appropriate assessment of risk. 
(v) 	 Malus / Clawback Arrangement
	
The Bank believes in sustained business performance in tandem with prudent risk taking. The Bank, 
therefore, has devised appropriate deterrents in order to institutionalize the aforementioned commitment.
	
Malus Arrangement: The provision of a Malus arrangement would entail cancellation of payout for the 
deferred portion of reward (cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument). The 
RBI guidelines define Malus thus “A Malus arrangement permits the bank to prevent vesting of all or part of the 
amount of a deferred remuneration. Malus arrangement does not reverse vesting after it has already occurred”.
	
Clawback Arrangement: The provision of Clawback arrangement would entail return of payout of reward 
(cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument) made in the previous years 
attributable to a given reference year wherein the incident has occurred. The return would be in terms of 
net amount. The RBI guidelines define Clawback thus “A Clawback is a contractual agreement between the 
employee and the bank in which the employee agrees to return previously paid or vested remuneration to the 
bank under certain circumstances”.
	
The Malus and Clawback clause will be actioned when the employee demonstrates behaviour involving 
fraudulent behaviour, moral turpitude, lack of integrity, flagrant breach of company policies and statutory 
norms resulting in financial or non-financial losses. Manifestation of behaviour listed above is presumed to 
have a malafide intent. Illustrative list of conditions are enumerated below. The occurrence of any / some / all 
of the following conditions / events shall trigger a review by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee for 
the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement:
a)	
Substantial Financial Deterioration in profitability or risk parameters
b)	
Reckless, negligent or willful actions or exhibited inappropriate values and behavior
c)	
Fraud that requires a financial restatement
d)	
Reputational harm
e)	
Exposing the bank to substantial risk
f)	
Such other conditions or events, of similar nature as above, as determined by NRC for triggering review 
by NRC for the purpose of application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement. 

276
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
	
In determining the causes for deterioration in financial performance under (a), the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee may take into consideration and have due regard to the fact whether the deterioration was for factors 
within control or whether it was on account of conditions like global market headwinds, industry performance, 
changes in legal / regulatory regime, force majeure events like occurrence of natural disasters, pandemic, other 
socio-economic conditions, etc.
	
While undertaking the review for the concerned person for the application of the Malus or the Clawback 
arrangement based on any trigger events, when determining accountability of the concerned person, the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall be guided by the principles of proportionality, culpability or 
proximity or nexus to the event or misconduct.
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, wherever the assessed divergence in bank’s provisioning for Non-
Performing Assets (NPAs) or asset classification exceeds the prescribed threshold for public disclosure, the 
bank shall not pay the unvested portion of the variable compensation for the assessment year under ‘Malus’ 
arrangement. Further, in such situations, no proposal for increase in variable pay (for the assessment year) 
shall be entertained. In case the bank’s post assessment Gross NPAs are less than 2.0%, these restrictions 
will apply only if criteria for public disclosure are triggered either on account of divergence in provisioning or 
both provisioning and asset classification.
	
The NRC may decide to apply Malus on part, or all of the variable pay. The time horizon for the application of 
Malus / Clawback clause shall be four years from the date of reward.
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall review the act of misconduct / incident to ascertain the 
degree of accountability attributable to a Whole Time Director / Material Risk Taker / Senior Management (Job 
Bands C1 and above) prior to applying the Malus or Clawback arrangement.
	
The criteria for Malus / Clawback will be reviewed by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee annually.
(vi) 	 Approval Process: 
	
The Variable Pay for Senior Management, Material Risk Takers other than Whole Time Directors, Risk 
and control staff is approved by the NRC and the Board. For Whole Time Directors the variable pay is 
approved by the NRC, Board and the Reserve Bank of India.
	
Employees other than Senior Management, Material Risk Takers, Whole Time Directors
	
The Bank has formulated the following variable pay plans:
(i) 	 Annual Bonus Plan 
	
The quantum of variable payout is a function of the performance of the Bank, performance of the business unit, 
performance of the individual employee, job band of the employee and the functional category. Basis these 
key determinants and due adjustment for risk alignment, a payout matrix for variable pay is developed. Market 
trends for specific businesses / functions along with inputs from compensation surveys may also be used in 
finalising the payout. 
	
Bonus pools are designed to meet specific business needs therefore resulting in differentiation in both the 
quantum and the method of payout across functions. Typically higher levels of responsibility receive a higher 
proportion of variable pay vis-à-vis fixed pay. 
(ii) 	 Performance-Linked Plans (PLPs)	
	
PLPs are formulated for employees in sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given 
business / service targets but have limited impact on risk since credit decisions are exercised independent 
of these functions. All PLP payouts are based on a balanced scorecard framework which factors not just 
quantitative, but also qualitative measures, and are subject to achievement of individual targets enumerated in 
the respective scorecards of the employees. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial 
year to provide for any unforeseen performance risks. Employees who are on the PLPs are excluded from the 
Annual Bonus Plan.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
277
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
(iii) 	 Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOPs)
	
Employees in Job Bands D3 and above also receive ESOPs as a vehicle to create a balance between short 
term rewards and long term sustainable value creation. ESOPs play a key role in the attraction and retention 
of key talent. 
	
The NRC grants options after considering parameters such as the incumbent’s grade and performance rating, 
and such other factors as may be deemed appropriate by the NRC. 
	
All plans for grant of options are framed in accordance with the SEBI guidelines, 1999 as amended from time 
to time and are approved by the shareholders of the Bank. These plans provide for the grant of options post 
approval by the NRC.
	
The Bank grants ESOPs to eligible employees. Such ESOPs vest over four tranches spread over a period of 
48 months. 
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, Employee Stock Options is included as part of Variable Pay.
	
Risk, Control and Compliance Staff
	
The Bank has separated the Risk, Control and Compliance functions from the Business functions in order 
to create a strong culture of checks and balances and to eliminate any possible conflict of interest between 
revenue generation and risk management and control. Accordingly, the overall variable pay as well as the 
annual salary increment of the employees in the Risk, Control and Compliance functions is based on their 
performance, functional objectives and goals. The Bank ensures that the mix of fixed to variable compensation 
for these functions is weighted in favour of fixed compensation.                 
	
Guaranteed Bonus
	
Guaranteed Bonuses are not consistent with sound risk management or pay for performance principles of the 
Bank and therefore do not form an integral part of the general compensation practice. 
	
For critical hiring for some select strategic roles, the Bank may consider granting of bonus, based on the 
performance rating upon confirmation, as a prudent way to avoid loading the entire cost of attraction into the 
fixed component of the compensation which could have a long term cost implication for the Bank. For such 
hiring, the said bonus is generally decided by taking into account appropriate risk factors and market conditions. 
	
For hiring at levels of Whole Time Directors / Managing Director / Material Risk Takers and certain employees 
in select strategic roles, a signon bonus, if any, is limited to the first year only and would be in the form of 
Employee Stock Options.
	
Severance Pay
	
The Bank does not grant severance pay other than accrued benefits (such as gratuity, pension) except in cases 
where it is mandated by any statute. 
	
Hedging
	
The Bank does not provide any facility or fund or permit its Whole Time Directors and employees to insure or hedge 
their compensation structure to offset the risk alignment effects embedded in their compensation arrangement. 
	
Statutory Bonus
	
Some employees are also paid statutory bonus as per the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 as amended from time 
to time.
	
	
III.	 Remuneration Processes
	
Fitment at the time of Hire
	
Pay scales at the Bank are set basis the job size, experience, location and the academic and professional credentials 
of the incumbent. 
	
The compensation of new hires is in line with the existing pay ranges and consistent with the compensation levels of 
the existing employees of the Bank at similar profiles. The pay ranges are subject to change basis market trends and 
the Bank’s talent management priorities. While the Bank believes in the internal equity and parity as a key determinant 

278
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
of pay, it does acknowledge the external competitive pressures of the talent market. Accordingly, there could be 
certain key profiles with critical competencies which may be hired at a premium and treated as an exception to the 
overall pay philosophy. Any deviation from the defined pay ranges is treated as a hiring exception requiring approval 
with appropriate justification.
	
Pay Increment / Pay Revision
	
The Bank strives to ensure external competitiveness as well as internal equity without diluting the overall focus on 
optimising cost. In order to enhance the Bank’s external competitiveness, it participates in an annual salary survey of 
the banking sector to understand key market trends as well as get insights on relative market pay position compared 
to peers. The Bank endeavors to ensure that most employees progress to the median of the market in terms of 
fixed pay over time. This coupled with key internal data indicators like performance score, job family, experience, 
job grade and salary budget form the basis of decision making on revisions in fixed pay. 
	
Increments in fixed pay for majority of the employee population are generally undertaken once every financial year. 
However, promotions, confirmations and change in job dimensions could also lead to a change in the fixed pay 
during other times of the financial year.
	
The Bank also makes salary corrections and adjustments during the financial year for competitive pay positioning 
for the purpose of retention of critical skills in the domain of Information Technology, Digital, Information Security, 
Data Science as well as business segments that are strategic focus areas of the bank. However, such pay revisions 
are done on an exception basis.
 
The Fixed Pay for the Material Risk Takers (other than Whole Time Directors), Senior Management, Key Management 
Personnel is approved by the NRC and the Board. The Fixed Pay for the Whole Time Directors is approved by the 
NRC, Board and the Reserve Bank of India.
C.	
Description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the remuneration 
processes, including the nature and type of the key measures used to take account of these risks
	
The Bank takes into account various types of risks in its remuneration processes. The Bank follows a comprehensive 
framework that includes within its ambit the key dimensions of remuneration such as fixed pay, variable pay and long 
term incentives (i.e. Employee Stock Options). 
	
Fixed pay: The Bank conducts a comprehensive market benchmarking study to ensure that employees are competitively 
positioned in terms of fixed pay. The Bank follows a robust salary review process wherein revisions in fixed compensation 
are based on performance. The Bank also makes salary adjustments taking into consideration pay positioning of 
employees vis-à-vis market reference points. Through this approach the Bank endeavors to ensure that the talent risk 
due to attrition is mitigated. Fixed pay could be revised downwards as well, in the event of certain proven cases of 
misconduct by an employee.
	
Variable pay: The Bank has distinct types of variable pay plans as given below:
	
	
(a)	
Quarterly / monthly performance-linked pay (PLP) plans:
	
All quarterly / monthly PLP plans are based on the principle of balanced scorecard framework that includes within 
its ambit both quantitative and qualitative factors including key strategic objectives that ensure future competitive 
advantage for the Bank. PLP plans, by design, have deterrents that play a role of moderating payouts based on the 
non-fulfillment of established quantitative / qualitative risk factors. Deterrents also include risks arising out of non-
compliance, mis-sell etc. Further, a portion of all payouts under the PLP plans is deferred till the end of the financial 
year to provide for any unforeseen performance risks. Employees who are part of the PLP plans are excluded from 
the Annual Bonus Plan.
	
	
(b)	
Variable Pay:
	
The Bank takes into consideration the fact that a portion of the Bank’s profits are directly attributable to various 
types of risks the Bank is exposed to such as credit risk and market risk.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
279
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
The framework developed by the Bank in order to arrive at the quantum of bonus pool is based on the performance 
of the Bank and profitability. The annual variable pay is distributed based on business unit and individual performance 
and job band and role of the individual for non-business functions. The business unit performance is based on 
factors such as growth in revenue, growth in profit, cost to income ratio and achievement vis-à-vis plans and key 
objectives.  Bonus pay out for an individual employee in a particular grade is linked to the performance rating of the 
employee and subject to meeting the Bank’s standards of ethical conduct. 
	
The Bank has devised appropriate Malus and Clawback clauses as a risk mitigant for Whole Time Directors, 
Material Risk Takers, Senior Management (i.e. Employees in the job Bands of Executive Vice President and above). 
Under the Malus clause the incumbent could forego the vesting of the deferred variable pay in full or in part. Under 
the Clawback clause the incumbent is obligated to return all the tranches of variable pay payout pertaining to 
the reference performance year. The deferred variable pay is paid out post review and approval by the NRC and 
the Board.
D.	
Description of the ways in which the Bank seeks to link performance during a performance measurement 
period with levels of remuneration
	
The Bank has a robust performance management system for evaluating the performance of its Whole Time Directors. 
The performance appraisal system is based on a Balanced Scorecard Framework and considers qualitative as well as 
quantitative factors of performance which includes the following parameters:
1.	
Business Performance - This includes business growth, profitability, asset quality and shareholder value
2.	
Stakeholder Relationship - This includes net promoter score and corporate social responsibility
3.	
Audit and Compliance - This includes internal audit reports and compliance with the regulations and 
inspection reports
4.	
Digital Transformation - This includes performance on initiatives required to run the bank and grow the bank
5.	
Organizational Excellence - This includes succession planning and employee engagement
	
While the above parameters form the core evaluation parameters for the Bank and the remuneration of its Whole Time 
Directors, each of the business units are measured on the following from a remuneration standpoint:
a)	
Increase in plan over the previous year;
b)	
Actual growth in revenue over previous year;
c)	
Growth in net revenue (%);
d)	
Achievement of net revenue against plan (%);
e)	
Actual profit before tax; 
f)	
Growth in profit before tax compared to the previous year; 
g)	
Improvement in cost to income over the previous year; and
h)	
Achievement of key strategic objectives.
	
The process by which levels of remuneration in the Bank are aligned to the performance of the Bank, business unit and 
individual employees is articulated below:
	
Fixed Pay
	
The Bank reviews the fixed pay portion of the compensation structure basis merit-based increments and market 
corrections. These are based on a combination of performance rating, job band and the functional category of the 
individual employee. For a given job band, the merit increment is directly related to the performance rating. The Bank 
strives to ensure that most employees progress to the median of the market in terms of fixed pay over time. All other 
things remaining equal, the correction percentage is directly related to the performance rating of the individual.
	
Variable Pay
	
Basis the performance of the business unit, individual performance and role, the Bank has formulated the following 
variable pay plans: 
• 
Variable Pay Plans:
	
For Employees in Job Bands of Vice President and above (includes employees in Senior Management, 
Material Risk Takers, Whole Time Directors) the variable Pay intends to reward short term as well as long term 
sustained performance of the bank and shareholder value creation.

280
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
	
Short term Performance: Short term performance is realised in the form of cash variable pay. The cash variable 
pay is based on performance rating and the job band of the individual and is further enhanced or moderated by the 
business performance multiplier and role. The cash variable pay is computed on the gross salary.  
	
Long term Performance: Employee Stock options are granted to employees based on their performance rating 
and Job band and the value of the same is realised vide long term performance of the bank and creation of 
shareholder value. 
	
For Employees in Job Bands below Vice President:
	
At these levels the variable pay is in the form of Cash variable pay only and is based on the Annual performance. 
The Bank’s annual bonus is computed as a percentage of the gross salary for every job band. The bonus multiple 
is based on performance of the business unit (based on the parameters above), performance rating, job band and 
the functional category of the individual employee. The business performance category determines the multiplier for 
the bonus. All other things remaining equal, for a given job band, the bonus is directly related to the performance 
rating. Employees who are part of the annual cash Variable Pay plan are not part of the Performance Linked Plans 
mentioned below.
• 
Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
	
The Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given 
sales, collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to the 
achievement of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated by 
qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for any 
unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on the plan, 
could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
E. 
Description of the ways in which the Bank seeks to adjust remuneration to take account of the longer term 
performance
	
	For employees in Senior Management, Material Risk Takers and Whole Time Directors the Bank seeks to adjust 
remuneration to take account of the longer term performance in the following way.
(i) 	
Limits on variable pay
	
A substantial portion of compensation i.e. at least 50% will be variable and paid on the basis of individual, business 
unit and organization performance. This will be in line with the principle that, at higher levels of responsibility, the 
proportion of variable pay will be higher. The total variable pay shall be limited to a maximum of 300% of the fixed pay.
	
In case the variable pay is upto 200% of the fixed pay, a minimum of 50% of the variable pay; and in case the 
variable pay is above 200%, a minimum of 67% of the variable pay shall be via non-cash instruments. The non-cash 
component in 2021-22 comprised of Employee Stock Options.
	
In the event that the employee is barred by statute or regulation from grant of share-linked instruments, his / her 
variable pay will be capped at 150% of fixed pay but shall not be less than 50% of the fixed pay.
(ii) 	 Deferral of variable pay
	
For senior management including Whole Time Directors (WTDs) and Material Risk Takers (MRTs), deferral arrangements 
will exist for the variable pay. A minimum of 60% of total variable pay will be under deferral arrangements. If cash 
component is a part of the variable pay, at least 50% of the cash bonus shall be deferred. In cases where cash 
component of the bonus is under Rs 25 lakh, deferral arrangements would not be necessary.
	
The deferral period would be a minimum of three years and will be applicable to both cash and non-cash components 
of variable pay. The deferral period for share linked instruments / ESOPs will be governed by the ESOP Scheme Rules 
which will be approved by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board. In 2021-22 the deferment 
of cash variable pay, where applicable, was 3 years in the case of cash variable pay and 4 years (vesting period) in 
the case of Employee Stock Options.
(iii) 	 Vesting of Variable Pay 
	
The deferred portion of the remuneration will vest at the end of deferral period and will be spread out over the course 
of the deferral period. The first vesting would not be before one year from the commencement of the deferral period. 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
281
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
The vesting would be no faster than on a pro rata basis and the frequency of the vesting would be more than a year 
in order to ensure appropriate assessment of risk. 
(iv) 	 Malus / Clawback Arrangement:
	
The Bank believes in sustained business performance in tandem with prudent risk taking. The Bank, therefore, has 
devised appropriate deterrents in order to institutionalize the aforementioned commitment.
	
Malus Arrangement: The provision of a Malus arrangement would entail cancellation of payout for the deferred portion 
of reward (cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument). The RBI guidelines define Malus 
thus “A Malus arrangement permits the bank to prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of a deferred remuneration. 
Malus arrangement does not reverse vesting after it has already occurred”.
	
Clawback Arrangement: The provision of Clawback arrangement would entail return of payout of reward (cash variable 
pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument) made in the previous years attributable to a given reference 
year wherein the incident has occurred. The return would be in terms of net amount. The RBI guidelines define Clawback 
thus “A Clawback is a contractual agreement between the employee and the bank in which the employee agrees to 
return previously paid or vested remuneration to the bank under certain circumstances”.
	
The Malus and Clawback clause will be actioned when the employee demonstrates behaviour involving fraudulent 
behaviour, moral turpitude, lack of integrity, flagrant breach of company policies and statutory norms resulting in financial 
or non-financial losses. Manifestation of behaviour listed above is presumed to have a malafide intent. Illustrative list of 
conditions are enumerated below. The occurrence of any / some / all of the following conditions / events shall trigger a 
review by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee for the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement:
a) 	
Substantial Financial Deterioration in profitability or risk parameters
b) 	
Reckless, negligent or willful actions or exhibited inappropriate values and behavior
c) 	
Fraud that requires a financial restatement
d) 	
Reputational harm
e) 	
Exposing the bank to substantial risk
f) 	
Such other conditions or events, of similar nature as above, as determined by NRC for triggering review by NRC for 
the purpose of application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement.
	
In determining the causes for deterioration in financial performance under (a), the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
may take into consideration and have due regard to the fact whether the deterioration was for factors within control or 
whether it was on account of conditions like global market headwinds, industry performance, changes in legal / regulatory 
regime, force majeure events like occurrence of natural disasters, pandemic, other socio-economic conditions etc.
	
While undertaking the review for the concerned person for the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement 
based on any trigger events, when determining accountability of the concerned person, the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee shall be guided by the principles of proportionality, culpability or proximity or nexus to the event or misconduct.
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, wherever the assessed divergence in bank’s provisioning for Non-Performing 
Assets (NPAs) or asset classification exceeds the prescribed threshold for public disclosure, the bank shall not pay the 
unvested portion of the variable compensation for the assessment year under ‘Malus’ arrangement. Further, in such 
situations, no proposal for increase in variable pay (for the assessment year) shall be entertained. In case the bank’s post 
assessment Gross NPAs are less than 2.0%, these restrictions will apply only if criteria for public disclosure are triggered 
either on account of divergence in provisioning or both provisioning and asset classification.
	
The NRC may decide to apply Malus on part, or all of the unvested deferred Variable pay. The time horizon for the 
application of Malus / Clawback clause shall be four years from the date of reward.
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall review the act of misconduct / incident to ascertain the degree of 
accountability attributable to a Whole Time Director / Material Risk Taker / Senior Management (C1 and above) prior to 
applying the Malus or Clawback arrangement.
	
The criteria for Malus / Clawback will be reviewed by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee annually.

282
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
	
Employees other than Whole Time Directors, Material Risk Takers and Senior Management
The Bank has formulated the following variable pay plans:
• 
Annual Cash Variable Pay plan:
	
The quantum of variable payout is a function of the performance of the Bank, performance of the individual employee, job 
band of the employee and the functional category. Basis these key determinants and due adjustment for risk alignment, 
a payout matrix for variable pay is developed. Market trends for specific businesses / functions along with inputs from 
compensation surveys may also be used in finalising the payout. 
	
Bonus pools are designed to meet specific business needs therefore resulting in differentiation in both the quantum and 
the method of payout across functions. Typically higher levels of responsibility receive a higher proportion of variable pay 
vis-à-vis fixed pay. 
	
For Employees in Job Bands of Vice President and above the variable Pay intends to reward short term as well as 
long term sustained performance of the bank and shareholder value creation.
	
Short term Performance: Short term performance is realised in the form of cash variable pay. The cash variable pay is 
based on performance rating and the job band of the individual and is further enhanced or moderated by the business 
performance multiplier and role. The cash variable pay is computed on the gross salary.  
	
Long term Performance: Employee Stock options are granted to employees based on their performance rating and 
Job band and the value of the same is realised vide long term performance of the Bank and creation of shareholder value. 
The vesting period for Employee Stock Option is 4 years.
• 
Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
	
The Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given sales, 
collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to the achievement 
of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated by qualitative parameters. 
A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for any unforeseen performance 
risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on the plan, could be paid out monthly 
or quarterly.
F. 
Description of the different forms of variable remuneration (i.e. cash, shares, ESOPs and other forms) that 
the Bank utilises and the rationale for using these different forms
	
The Bank recognises the importance of variable pay in reinforcing a pay for performance culture. Variable pay stimulates 
employees to stretch their abilities to exceed expectations.
• 
Annual Cash Variable Pay
	
These are paid to reward performance for a given financial year. This covers all employees (excluding employees 
under PLPs). This is based on performance of the business unit, performance rating, job band and functional 
category of the individual. For higher job bands the proportion of variable pay to total compensation tends to be 
higher. For Material Risk Takers, Senior Management and Whole Time Directors 50% of the cash variable pay is 
deferred over 3 years in the event the cash variable pay exceeds 25 lakhs.
• 
Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
	
The Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given 
sales, collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to the 
achievement of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated by 
qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for any 
unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on the plan, 
could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
• 
Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP)
	
This is to reward for contribution of employees in creating a long term, sustainable earnings and enhancing 
shareholder value. Only employees in a certain job band and with a specific performance rating are eligible for 
stock options. Performance is the key criteria for granting stock options.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
283
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
 
Quantitative disclosures
	
The quantitative disclosures for the financial year ended March 31, 2022 cover the Bank’s Whole Time Directors and Material 
Risk Takers. The Material Risk Takers are identified in accordance with the revised guidelines on remuneration issued by the 
RBI on November 4, 2019. Hitherto, the quantitative disclosures would cover the Bank’s Whole Time Directors and Key Risk 
Takers as per the erstwhile guidelines on remuneration dated January 13, 2012.
Sr. No.
Subject
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
(a)
Number of meetings held by the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
(NRC) during the financial year and sitting 
fees paid to its members
Number of meetings: 13
Sitting fees paid: ` 0.61 crore
Number of meetings: 28
Sitting fees paid: ` 0.57 crore
(b) (i)
Number of employees having received a 
variable remuneration award during the 
financial year 
75
76
(b) (ii)
Number and total amount of sign-on 
awards made during the financial year 
25,000 ESOPs granted as sign-on 
awards
No stock options granted as sign-on 
awards
(b) (iii)
Number and total amount of guaranteed 
bonuses awarded during the financial year
None
None
(b) (iv)
Details of severance pay, in addition to 
accrued benefits, if any 
None
None
(c) (i)
Total amount of outstanding deferred 
remuneration, split into cash, shares and 
share-linked instruments and other forms 
1.	Deferred Cash variable pay - ` 18.53 
crore
2.	^Employee Stock Options (ESOP) - 
31,66,000 Options
Cash bonus - ` 3.91 crore.
(c) (ii)
Total amount of deferred remuneration 
paid out in the financial year
` 2.44 crore
` 2.68 crore
(d)
Breakdown of amount of remuneration 
awards for the financial year to show fixed 
and variable, deferred and non-deferred 
` 118.35 crore (Fixed*)
` 3.84 crore (variable pay pertaining to 
financial year ended March 31, 2021, 
in relation to employees where there 
was no deferment of cash variable 
pay). The same category of employees 
were granted 4,07,900 ESOPs. 
` 35.50 crore (variable pay pertaining 
to financial year ended March 31, 
2021, in relation to employees where 
there was a deferment of cash variable 
pay) of which ` 17.75 crore was non-
deferred variable pay and  
` 17.75 crore was deferred variable 
pay. The same category of employees 
were granted 27,58,100 ESOPs. 
Number of stock options granted 
during the financial year: 31,66,000
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was awarded 
cash variable pay ` 2.08 crore for the 
performance year 2019 - 2020 paid 
out in the F.Y. 2022 basis RBI letter 
dated – April 29, 2021. The above 
amount is not included in the variable 
pay awarded this year as it pertains to 
the previous year.
` 117.73 crore (Fixed*)
` 29.85 crore (variable pay pertaining 
to financial year ended March 31, 
2020, in relation to employees where 
there was no deferment of pay)
` 1.67 crore (variable pay pertaining to 
financial year ended March 31, 2020, 
in relation to employees where there 
was a deferment of pay), of which ` 
1.00 crore was non-deferred variable 
pay and ` 0.67 crore was deferred 
variable pay.
The Bank’s erstwhile managing 
director, Mr. Aditya Puri, was paid a 
one-time lump sum payment of ` 3.50 
crore on retirement in accordance with 
the approval received from the RBI.
The approval of the RBI on the fixed 
pay revision effective April 1, 2020 and 
the variable pay of the Bank’s Whole 
Time Directors for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2020 is awaited.
Number of stock options granted 
during the financial year: 85,42,800
The approval of the RBI in relation to 
grant of stock options to the Bank’s 
Whole Time Directors for the year 
ended March 31, 2020 is awaited.
(e) (i)
Total amount of outstanding deferred 
remuneration and retained remuneration 
exposed to ex-post explicit and / or 
implicit adjustments
1.	Cash bonus - ` 18.53 crore
2.	^Employee Stock Options (ESOP) - 
31,66,000 Options
Cash bonus - ` 3.91 crore.

284
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Sr. No.
Subject
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
(e) (ii)
Total amount of reductions during the 
financial year due to ex-post explicit 
adjustments
Nil
Nil
(e) (iii)
Total amount of reductions during the 
financial year due to ex-post implicit 
adjustments 
Nil
Nil
(f)
Number of MRTs (Material Risk Takers) 
identified.
79
78
(g) (i)
Number of cases where Malus has been 
exercised.
None
None
(g) (ii)
Number of cases where Clawback has 
been exercised.
None
None
(g) (iii)
Number of cases where both Malus and 
Clawback have been exercised.
 None
None
General 
Quantitative 
Disclosure
The mean pay for the bank as a whole 
(excluding sub-staff) and the deviation 
of the pay of each of its WTDs from the 
mean pay.
The mean pay for the Bank as a whole 
is ` 0.07 crore as of March 31, 2022.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the 
managing director to the mean pay 
of the Bank as a whole is 94:1 as of 
March 31, 2022.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the other 
whole time director to the mean pay 
of the Bank as a whole is 87:1 as of 
March 31, 2022.
The mean pay for the Bank as a whole 
is ` 0.07 crore as of March 31, 2021.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the 
managing director to the mean pay 
of the Bank as a whole is 90:1 as of 
March 31, 2021.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the other 
whole time director to the mean pay 
of the Bank as a whole is 77:1 as of 
March 31, 2021.
*  
Excludes gratuity benefits, since the same is computed at Bank level.
^   
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, Employee Stock Options are to be included as part of variable pay. The number of options reported as 
part of deferred remuneration comprise of Employee Stock Options granted during the financial year 2021-22 (as part of non cash variable pay) 
and are yet to be vested. The first pay out in line with the extant RBI guidelines came into force effective April 01, 2021.
26.	 Segment reporting
	
Business segments 
	
Business segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the target customer profile, the nature of products 
and services, the differing risks and returns, the organisation structure, the internal business reporting system and the guidelines 
prescribed by RBI. The Bank operates in the following segments:
a) 
Treasury
	
The treasury segment primarily consists of net interest earnings from the Bank’s investment portfolio, money market 
borrowing and lending, gains or losses on investment operations and on account of trading in foreign exchange and 
derivative contracts.
b) 
Retail banking
	
The retail banking segment serves retail customers through the Bank’s branch network and other channels. This segment 
raises deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers with the help of specialist product 
groups. Exposures are classified under retail banking taking into account the status of the borrower (orientation criterion), 
the nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum thereof.
	
Revenues of the retail banking segment are derived from interest earned on retail loans, interest earned from other 
segments for surplus funds placed with those segments, subvention received from dealers and manufacturers, fees from 
services rendered, foreign exchange earnings on retail products, etc. Expenses of this segment primarily comprise interest 
expense on deposits, commission paid to retail assets sales agents, infrastructure and premises expenses for operating 
the branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of 
specialist product groups, processing units and support groups.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
285
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
c) 
Wholesale banking
	
The wholesale banking segment provides loans, non-fund facilities and transaction services to large corporates, emerging 
corporates, public sector units, government bodies, financial institutions and medium scale enterprises. Revenues of the 
wholesale banking segment consist of interest earned on loans made to customers, interest / fees earned on the cash 
float arising from transaction services, earnings from trade services and other non-fund facilities and also earnings from 
foreign exchange and derivative transactions on behalf of customers. The principal expenses of the segment consist of 
interest expense on funds borrowed from external sources and other internal segments, premises expenses, personnel 
costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of delivery channels, specialist product groups, processing units 
and support groups.
d) 
Other banking business
	
This segment includes income from parabanking activities such as credit cards, debit cards, third party product distribution, 
primary dealership business and the associated costs.
 
e) 
Unallocated
	
All items which are reckoned at an enterprise level are classified under this segment. This includes capital and reserves, 
debt classified as Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital and other unallocable assets and liabilities such as deferred tax, prepaid expenses, 
etc.
	
Segment revenue includes earnings from external customers plus earnings from funds transferred to other segments. 
Segment result includes revenue less interest expense less operating expense and provisions, if any, for that segment. 
Segment-wise income and expenses include certain allocations. Interest income is charged by a segment that provides 
funding to another segment, based on yields benchmarked to an internally approved yield curve or at a certain agreed 
transfer price rate. Transaction charges are levied by the retail banking segment to the wholesale banking segment for 
the use by its customers of the retail banking segment’s branch network or other delivery channels. Segment capital 
employed represents the net assets in that segment.
	
Geographic segments
	
The geographic segments of the Bank are categorised as domestic operations and foreign operations. Domestic operations 
comprise branches in India and foreign operations comprise branches outside India.
	
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2022 is given below:	
	
Business segments:
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Treasury
Retail
banking
Wholesale 
banking
Other banking 
operations
Total
1
Segment revenue
34,385.12 
115,189.91 
 66,482.93 
21,496.22 
 237,554.18 
2
Unallocated revenue
 (12.18)
3
Less: Inter-segment revenue
80,278.99 
4
Income from operations (1) + 
(2) - (3)
 157,263.01 
5
Segment results
 8,939.51 
 9,223.24 
 25,053.01 
 7,386.51 
 50,602.27 
6
Unallocated expenses
1,586.79 
7
Income tax expense (including 
deferred tax)
 12,054.12 
8
Net profit (5) - (6) - (7) 
 36,961.36 
9
Segment assets
551,767.34 
 619,468.20 
 808,136.61 
 76,591.09 
2,055,963.24 
10
Unallocated assets
 12,571.81 
11
Total assets (9) + (10)
 2,068,535.05 
12
Segment liabilities
 77,273.63 
1,292,339.74 
 413,825.31 
 5,994.76 
1,789,433.44 
13
Unallocated liabilities
 39,008.67 
14
Total liabilities (12) + (13)
 1,828,442.11 

286
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Treasury
Retail
banking
Wholesale 
banking
Other banking 
operations
Total
15
Capital employed (9) - (12) 
(Segment assets - Segment 
liabilities)
474,493.71 
(672,871.54)
394,311.30 
 70,596.33 
 266,529.80 
16
Unallocated (10) - (13)
(26,436.86)
17
Total (15) + (16)
240,092.94 
18
Capital expenditure
 24.69 
 2,393.81 
 229.00 
 148.63 
 2,796.13 
19
Depreciation
 40.48 
 1,295.47 
 149.27 
 114.58 
 1,599.80 
20
Provisions for non - performing 
assets / others*
(14.52)
9,932.56 
 1,954.52 
 3,180.87 
 15,053.43 
21
Unallocated other provisions*
 
 8.40 
	
  * Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
	
Geographic segments:
(` crore)
Particulars
Domestic
International
Revenue
156,402.92
860.09
Assets
2,010,500.52
58,034.53
Capital expenditure
2,795.71
0.42
	
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2021 is given below:	
	
Business segments:
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Treasury
Retail
banking
Wholesale 
banking
Other banking 
operations
Total
1
Segment revenue
32,337.67 
110,210.21 
57,154.30 
19,937.53 
 219,639.71 
2
Unallocated revenue
 
 
 
 
    30.82 
3
Less: Inter-segment revenue
 
 
 
 
 73,607.41 
4
Income from operations 
(1) + (2) - (3)
 
 
 
 
146,063.12 
5
Segment results
 9,030.50 
10,574.80 
17,437.54 
6,207.14 
43,249.98 
6
Unallocated expenses
 
 
 
 
  1,590.99 
7
Income tax expense (including 
deferred tax)
 
 
 
 10,542.46 
8
Net profit (5) - (6) - (7) 
 
 
 
 
 31,116.53 
9
Segment assets
519,641.74 
 521,997.22 
 628,731.57 
 67,116.08 
1,737,486.61 
10
Unallocated assets
 
 
 
 
       9,383.91 
11
Total assets (9) + (10)
 
 
 
 
   1,746,870.52 
12
Segment liabilities
 76,276.60 
1,096,217.82 
 338,115.31 
  5,857.65 
 1,516,467.38 
13
Unallocated liabilities
 
 
 
 
   26,682.31 
14
Total liabilities (12) + (13)
 
 
 
 
1,543,149.69 
15
Capital employed (9) - (12) 
(Segment assets - Segment 
liabilities)
 443,365.14 
(574,220.60)
 290,616.26 
61,258.43 
221,019.23 
16
Unallocated (10) - (13)
 
 
 
 
  (17,298.40)
17
Total (15) + (16)
 
 
 
 
   203,720.83 
18
Capital expenditure
       24.93 
    1,527.55 
       139.94 
       99.72 
       1,792.14 
19
Depreciation
      36.74 
   1,047.40 
      118.18 
     100.09 
      1,302.41 
20
Provisions for non - performing 
assets / others*
    (16.82)
   10,157.54 
    2,279.02 
 3,251.95 
   15,671.69 
21
Unallocated other provisions*
 
 
 
 
         31.16 
	
  * Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
287
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
Geographic segments:
(` crore)
Particulars
Domestic
International
Revenue
  145,131.15 
      931.97 
Assets
   1,703,283.63 
     43,586.89 
Capital expenditure
        1,791.73 
       0.41 
27.	 Liquidity coverage ratio		
 
Quantitative information on Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) for year ended March 31, 2022 is given below: 
(` crore)
Particulars
Quarter ended
March 31, 2022
Quarter ended
December 31, 2021
Quarter ended
September 30, 2021
Quarter ended
June 30, 2021
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
1
Total High Quality Liquid Assets 
(HQLA)
385,997.51
417,489.13
400,953.88
373,545.17
2
Retail deposits and deposits from 
small business customers, 
of which:
954,490.24
80,092.58
927,566.77
77,673.10
896,814.72
75,284.44
852,277.84
71,135.40
(i)
Stable deposits
307,128.86
15,356.44
301,671.49
15,083.57
287,940.72
14,397.04
281,847.60
14,092.38
(ii)
Less stable deposits
647,361.38
64,736.14
625,895.28
62,589.53
608,874.00
60,887.40
570,430.24
57,043.02
3
Unsecured wholesale funding, 
of which:
427,179.99
236,495.87
425,733.31
238,454.69
404,540.27
227,410.53
396,313.06
217,872.62
(i)
Operational deposits 
(all counterparties)
50,091.34
12,318.56
49,151.99
12,082.10
41,056.81
10,080.72
47,120.53
11,571.41
(ii)
Non-operational deposits 
(all counterparties)
361,773.31
208,861.97
364,778.87
214,570.14
356,351.20
210,197.55
342,691.41
199,800.09
(iii) Unsecured debt
15,315.34
15,315.34
11,802.45
11,802.45
7,132.26
7,132.26
6,501.12
6,501.12
4
Secured wholesale funding
1,809.17
553.04
1,691.00
1,702.72
5
Additional requirements, of which
167,534.97
96,527.73
155,825.60
87,313.27
147,989.01
80,983.14
140,451.24
74,898.54
(i)
Outflows related to derivative 
exposures and other collateral 
requirement
84,702.91
84,702.91
75,933.90
75,933.90
69,165.62
69,165.62
63,937.12
63,937.12
(ii)
Outflows related to loss of funding 
on debt products
-
-
-
-
-
-
- 
- 
(iii) Credit and liquidity facilities
82,832.06
11,824.82
79,891.70
11,379.37
78,823.39
11,817.52
76,514.12
10,961.42
6
Other contractual funding 
obligation
27,141.50
27,141.50
24,854.04
24,854.04
23,514.45
23,514.45
22,135.84
22,135.84
7
Other contingent funding 
obligations
634,305.56
29,445.82
603,961.91
28,113.35
595,276.29
27,817.78
437,391.84
19,917.22
8
Total Cash Outflows
471,512.67
456,961.49
436,701.34
407,662.34
9
Secured lending (e.g. reverse repo)
-
-
-
- 
10 Inflows from fully performing 
exposures
63,853.06
33,587.93
60,426.04
32,280.13
59,397.24
31,440.06
59,738.94
31,638.73
11 Other cash inflows
99,723.29
92,944.16
90,398.02
84,455.97
85,086.16
78,694.00
83,566.17
78,654.93
12 Total Cash Inflows
163,576.35
126,532.09
150,824.06
116,736.10
144,483.40
110,134.06
143,305.11
110,293.66
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
13 TOTAL HQLA
385,997.51
417,489.13
400,953.88
373,545.17
14 Total Net Cash Outflows
344,980.58
340,225.39
326,567.28
297,368.68
15 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%)
111.89%
122.71%
122.78%
125.62%
	
   *  The average weighted and unweighted amounts are calculated taking simple average based on daily observation for the respective quarters.

288
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
 
Quantitative information on Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) for year ended March 31, 2021 is given below: 
(` crore)
Particulars
Quarter ended
March 31, 2021
Quarter ended
December 31, 2020
Quarter ended
September 30, 2020
Quarter ended
June 30, 2020
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
1
Total High Quality Liquid Assets 
(HQLA)
387,444.92
383,674.38
388,794.58
340,377.99
2
Retail deposits and deposits from 
small business customers, 
of which:
832,171.74
69,590.69
796,241.80
66,593.38
773,039.10
64,459.71
732,384.63
60,916.81
(i)
Stable deposits
272,529.72
13,626.49
260,616.12
13,030.81
256,883.89
12,844.19
246,433.05
12,321.65
(ii)
Less stable deposits
559,642.02
55,964.20
535,625.68
53,562.57
516,155.21
51,615.52
485,951.58
48,595.16
3
Unsecured wholesale funding, 
of which:
392,556.47
220,016.76
374,118.11
209,243.16
363,230.65
204,604.77
356,330.51
202,266.13
(i)
Operational deposits 
(all counterparties)
46,724.00
11,468.76
42,642.99
10,451.53
39,434.73
9,616.05
43,335.91
10,570.42
(ii)
Non-operational deposits 
(all counterparties)
337,592.54
200,308.07
322,278.94
189,595.45
314,152.61
185,345.41
300,405.14
179,106.25
(iii) Unsecured debt
8,239.93
8,239.93
9,196.18
9,196.18
9,643.31
9,643.31
12,589.46
12,589.46
4
Secured wholesale funding
1,468.48
136.02
572.08
2,536.01
5
Additional requirements, of which
129,797.30
74,882.62
100,431.39
60,570.72
109,923.16
69,254.65
94,309.70
55,993.92
(i)
Outflows related to derivative 
exposures and other collateral 
requirement
65,257.51
65,257.51
53,502.98
53,502.98
62,084.76
62,084.76
48,942.70
48,942.70
(ii)
Outflows related to loss of funding 
on debt products
-
-
-
-
-
-
- 
- 
(iii) Credit and liquidity facilities
64,539.79
9,625.11
46,928.41
7,067.74
47,838.40
7,169.89
45,367.00
7,051.22
6
Other contractual funding 
obligation
25,016.62
25,016.62
22,110.23
22,110.23
19,704.76
19,704.76
17,620.62
17,620.62
7
Other contingent funding 
obligations
86,122.40
2,583.67
80,291.75
2,408.75
75,154.22
2,757.85
78,620.58
2,358.62
8
Total Cash Outflows
393,558.84
361,062.26
361,353.82
341,692.11
9
Secured lending (e.g. reverse repo)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
- 
10 Inflows from fully performing 
exposures
57,894.78
30,583.31
54,243.72
28,833.52
54,736.54
29,395.55
58,619.17
31,164.09
11 Other cash inflows
86,460.73
80,668.22
71,902.59
66,534.28
83,850.84
76,900.67
73,670.94
66,790.62
12 Total Cash Inflows
144,355.51
111,251.53
126,146.31
95,367.80
138,587.38
106,296.22
132,290.11
97,954.71
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
13 TOTAL HQLA
387,444.92
383,674.38
388,794.58
340,377.99
14 Total Net Cash Outflows
282,307.31
265,694.46
255,057.60
243,737.40
15 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%)
137.24%
144.40%
152.43%
139.65%
	
   *  The average weighted and unweighted amounts are calculated taking simple average based on daily observation for the respective quarters.
 
Qualitative disclosure on LCR
The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) is one of the Basel Committee’s key reforms to develop a more resilient banking sector. 
The objective of the LCR is to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of banks. It does this by ensuring 
that banks have an adequate stock of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) that can be converted easily and 
immediately into cash to meet their liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day liquidity stress scenario. The LCR is expected to 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
289
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
improve the banking sector’s ability to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stress, whatever the source, thus 
reducing the risk of spillover from the financial sector to the real economy.
The Liquidity Risk Management of the Bank is governed by the Asset Liability Management (ALM) Policy approved by the Board. 
The Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) is a decision making unit responsible for implementing the liquidity and interest rate risk 
management strategy of the Bank in line with its risk management objectives and ensures adherence to the risk tolerance / 
limits set by the Board. In order to determine cash outflows, the Bank segregates its deposits into various customer segments, 
viz. Retail (which include deposits from individuals), Small Business Customers (those with deposits upto ` 7.5 crore), and 
Wholesale (which would cover all residual deposits). Within Wholesale, deposits that are attributable to clearing, custody, and 
cash management services are classified as Operational Deposits. Other contractual funding, including a portion of other 
liabilities which are expected to run down in a 30 day time frame are included in the cash outflows. These classifications, based 
on extant regulatory guidelines, are part of the Bank’s LCR framework, and are also submitted to the RBI.
The LCR is calculated by dividing a Bank's stock of HQLA by its total net cash outflows over a 30 day stress period. The 
guidelines for LCR were effective January 1, 2015, with the minimum requirement at 60% which have risen in equal annual 
steps to reach 100% on January 1, 2019. This graduated approach was designed to ensure that the LCR could be introduced 
without material disruption to the orderly strengthening of banking systems or the ongoing financing of economic activity. The 
present requirement, as on March 31, 2022 is 100%.
In the Indian context, the run-off factors for the stressed scenarios are prescribed by the RBI, for various categories of liabilities 
(viz., deposits, unsecured and secured wholesale borrowings), undrawn commitments, derivative-related exposures, and 
offset with inflows emanating from assets maturing within the same time period. Given below is a table of run-off factors and 
the average LCR maintained by the Bank quarter-wise over the past two years:
Particulars
Run-off factors
Retail Deposits
5% - 10%
Small Business Customers
5% - 10%
Operational deposits
5% - 25%
Non-financial corporates, sovereigns, central banks, multilateral development banks, and PSEs
40%
Other legal entities
100%
Quarter ended
LCR Maintained
(Average)
LCR Required
March 31, 2022
111.89%
100.00%
December 31, 2021
122.71%
100.00%
September 30, 2021
122.78%
100.00%
June 30, 2021
125.62%
100.00%
March 31, 2021
137.24%
90.00%
December 31, 2020
144.40%
90.00%
September 30, 2020
152.43%
80.00%
June 30, 2020
139.65%
80.00%
	
The average LCR for the quarter ended March 31, 2022 was at 111.89% as against 137.24% for the quarter ended March 31, 
2021, and above the present prescribed minimum requirement of 100%. The average HQLA for the quarter ended March 31, 
2022 was ` 385,997.51 crore, as against ` 387,444.92 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. During the same period 
the composition of government securities and treasury bills in the HQLA was at 89.04% as compared to 89.49% in the 
previous year.
	
For the quarter ended March 31, 2022, derivative exposures (net of cash inflows) / collateral requirements and undrawn 
commitments constituted just about 0.58% and 2.51% respectively of average cash outflow. The Bank has consistently 
maintained a robust funding profile with a significant portion of funding through deposits. As of March 31, 2022 the top 20 
depositors comprised of 4% of total deposits indicating a healthy and stable deposit profile.

290
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
28.	 Related party disclosures
As per AS-18, Related Party Disclosures read with RBI Master Direction on Financial Statements - Presentation and Disclosures, 
the Bank’s related parties are disclosed below:
	
Promoter
 	
Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
	
Subsidiaries
	
HDFC Securities Limited
	
HDB Financial Services Limited
 
Welfare trust of the Bank
	
HDB Employees Welfare Trust
	
Key management personnel
	
Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 
 
Kaizad Bharucha, Executive Director 
	
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
Nagsri Sashidhar, Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Dhruv Sashidhar, Mythra Mahesh, Mahesh Babu Ramamurthy, Havovi 
Bharucha, Huzaan Bharucha, Danesh Bharucha, Daraius Bharucha, Dilnaaz D Bharucha, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories. 
The significant transactions between the Bank and related parties for year ended March 31, 2022 are given below. A specific 
related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in that category:
• 
Interest paid: HDB Financial Services Limited ` 5.47 crore (previous year: ` 12.78 crore); Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited ` 20.43 crore (previous year: ` 10.80 crore). 
• 
Interest received: HDB Financial Services Limited ` 498.75 crore (previous year: ` 439.87 crore).
• 
Rendering of services: Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited ` 463.93 crore (previous year: ` 324.65 crore). 
• 
Receiving of services: HDB Financial Services Limited ` 2,749.25 crore (previous year: ` 2,346.93 crore); Housing 
Development Finance Corporation Limited ` 720.16 crore (previous year: ` 589.87 crore).
• 
Dividend paid: Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited ` 562.00 crore (previous year: Nil).
• 
Dividend received: HDFC Securities Limited ` 830.90 crore (previous year: ` 483.04 crore).
	
The Bank’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2022 are summarised 
as follows:
(` crore)
Items / Related party
Promoter
Subsidiaries
Key 
Management 
personnel 
(KMP)
Relatives of 
KMP & their 
interested 
entities
Total
Deposits taken
2,741.49
1,195.53
4.54
1.43
3,942.99
(5,132.37)
(1,668.62)
(23.02)
(1.43)
(6,825.44)
Deposits placed
0.32
10.62
-
-
10.94
(0.32)
(10.62)
-
-
(10.94)
Advances given
-
6,067.14
0.55
      # 
6,067.69
-
(6,067.14)
(0.73)
(0.01)
(6,067.88)
Fixed assets purchased from
-
-
-
-
-
Fixed assets sold to
-
-
-
-
-
Interest paid to
20.43
5.61
0.98
0.04
27.06
Interest received from
-
498.75
0.02
-
498.77
Income from services rendered to
463.93
72.23
#
#
536.16
Expenses for receiving services from
720.16
2,774.86
-
           -
3,495.02
Equity investments
-
3,826.49
-
-
3,826.49
-
(3,826.49)
-
-
(3,826.49)
Other investments
-
5,105.62
-
-
5,105.62
-
(5,105.62)
-
-
(5,105.62)

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
291
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Items / Related party
Promoter
Subsidiaries
Key 
Management 
personnel 
(KMP)
Relatives of 
KMP & their 
interested 
entities
Total
Dividend paid to
      562.00
-
2.50
#
564.50
Dividend received from
-
830.90
-
-
830.90
Receivable from
65.33
1.19
-
-
66.52
(135.56)
(7.78)
-
-
(143.34)
Payable to
64.14
96.01
-
-
160.15
(64.14)
(101.83)
-
-
(165.97)
Guarantees given
0.39
-
-
-
0.39
(0.40)
-
-
-
(0.40)
Remuneration paid
-
-
    17.16
-
17.16
Loans purchased from
28,205.24
-
-
-
28,205.24
#     Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
•  Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each quarter-
end.
•  Remuneration paid excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year.
•  Bonus and retiral benefits for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key managerial 
personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2022, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect of earlier years 
was ` 2.09 crore.
The Bank being an authorised dealer, deals in foreign exchange and derivative transactions with parties which include its 
promoter. The foreign exchange and derivative transactions are undertaken in line with the RBI guidelines. The notional principal 
amount of foreign exchange and derivative contracts transacted with the promoter that were outstanding as on March 31, 2022 
is `11,178.71 crore (previous year: ` 7,757.49 crore). The contingent credit exposure pertaining to these contracts computed 
in line with the extant RBI guidelines on exposure norms was ` 236.68 crore (previous year: ` 166.45 crore). 
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank purchased debt securities from HDB Financial Services Limited ` 1,316.88 
crore (previous year: ` 3,146.57 crore) issued by it.
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank made investment of Nil (previous year: ` 473.06 crore) in pass through 
certificates in respect of assets securitised out by HDB Financial Services Limited.
The deposit outstanding from HDB Employees Welfare Trust as at March 31, 2022 was ` 20.35 crore (previous year: ` 51.02 
crore). The Bank also paid interest on deposit from HDB Employees Welfare Trust aggregating to ` 2.41 crore (previous year: 
` 3.13 crore). 
The Bank’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2021 are summarised 
as follows:
(` crore)
Items / Related party
Promoter
Subsidiaries
Key 
Management 
personnel 
(KMP)
Relatives of 
KMP & their 
interested 
entities
Total
Deposits taken
3,560.67
1,300.08
60.07
1.00
4,921.82
(3,560.67)
(2,231.42 )
(717.55 )
(18.84)
(6,528.48)
Deposits placed
0.32
10.62
-
-
10.94
(0.47 )
(10.62)
(0.76)
(3.50)
(15.35)
Advances given
-
5,572.73
0.99
#
5,573.72
-
(6,032.37)
(2.32)
(0.02)
(6,034.71)
Fixed assets purchased from
-
-
-
-
-
Fixed assets sold to
-
-
-
-
-
Interest paid to
10.80
14.16
8.22
0.59
33.77
Interest received from
-
440.03
0.05
-
440.08
Income from services rendered to
324.65
66.62
#
#
391.27
Expenses for receiving services from
589.87
2,395.60
0.14
0.38
2,985.99

292
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Items / Related party
Promoter
Subsidiaries
Key 
Management 
personnel 
(KMP)
Relatives of 
KMP & their 
interested 
entities
Total
Equity investments
-
3,826.49
-
-
3,826.49
-
(3,826.49)
-
-
(3,826.49)
Other investments
-
3,138.89
-
-
3,138.89
-
(3,138.89)
-
-
(3,138.89)
Dividend paid to
-
-
-
-
-
Dividend received from
-
483.04
-
-
483.04
Receivable from
138.77
6.27
-
-
145.04
(138.77)
(10.96)
-
-
(149.73)
Payable to
111.05
86.08
-
-
197.13
(199.27)
(171.13)
-
-
(370.40)
Guarantees given
0.40
-
-
-
0.40
(0.41)
-
-
(0.05)
(0.46)
Remuneration paid
-
-
22.48
-
22.48
Loans purchased from
18,979.78
-
-
-
18,979.78
#  Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
•  Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each quarter-
end.
•  Remuneration paid excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year.
•  Bonus and retiral benefits for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key managerial 
personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2021, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect of earlier years 
was ` 2.90 crore. 
•  Related parties are in accordance with AS-18 Related Party Disclosures.
29	 Leases
Operating leases primarily comprise office premises, staff residences and Automated Teller Machines (‘ATM’s), which 
are renewable at the option of the Bank. The details of maturity profile of future operating lease payments are given 
below:                                                                                                                                            
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Not later than one year
1,261.61
1,163.33
Later than one year and not later than five years
4,384.36
3,943.95
Later than five years
5,410.34
5,207.95
Total
11,056.31
10,315.23
The total of minimum lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the 
year
1,347.58
1,390.04
Total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-
cancellable sub-leases
55.67
56.94
Sub-lease amounts recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year
10.85
9.92
Contingent (usage based) lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for 
the year
321.96
324.07
The Bank has sub-leased certain of its properties taken on lease.
The terms of renewal and escalation clauses are those normally prevalent in similar agreements. There are no undue restrictions 
or onerous clauses in the agreements.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
293
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
30. Transfers to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF)
	
The details of amount transferred during the respective year to DEAF are as under:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Opening balance of amounts transferred to DEAF
783.99
617.69
Add: Amounts transferred to DEAF during the year
154.94
169.93
Less: Amounts reimbursed by DEAF towards claims
(7.93)
(3.63)
Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEAF
931.00
783.99
31.	 Penalties levied by the RBI
During the year ended March 31, 2022, RBI by an order dated May 27, 2021, levied a penalty of ` 10 crore for marketing and 
sale of third-party non-financial products to the Bank’s auto loan customers, arising from a whistle blower complaint, which 
revealed, inter alia, contravention of Section 6(2) and Section 8 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The Bank has discontinued 
the sale of said third-party non-financial product since October 2019.
During the year ended March 31, 2021, RBI imposed a penalty of ` 0.10 crore for bouncing of Subsidiary General Ledger 
which led to shortage of balance in certain securities in the Bank’s Constituent Subsidiary General Ledger account.	
32.	 Disclosure for complaints and grievance redress 
 
Summary information on complaints received by the Bank from the customers and from the OBOs (Office 
of Banking Ombudsman)
Sr. 
No. Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Complaints received by the bank from its customers
1
Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
6,263
5,057
2
Number of complaints received during the year
3,68,291
4,67,453
3
Number of complaints disposed during the year
3,67,676
4,66,247
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the bank
78,383
87,073
4
Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
6,878
6,263
Maintainable complaints received by the bank from OBOs
5
Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from OBOs
10,499
25,777
5.1 Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the bank by BOs
4,494
7,593
5.2 Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation / mediation / advisories issued 
by BOs
6,005
18,184
5.3 Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by BOs against the bank
 Nil
 Nil
6
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than those appealed)
 Nil
 Nil
Note: Maintainable complaints refer to complaints on the grounds specifically mentioned in Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021 (Previously BO 
Scheme 2006) and covered within the ambit of the Scheme.
	
	 Pursuant to the RBI guidance, number of complaints for the previous year have been restated.
	
Overall Complaints Summary for the financial years:
Description
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
A
Total Number of Complaints
4,35,152
4,80,667
B
Complaints redressed by the bank within one working Day
66,861
13,214
C Net Reportable complaints (A - B)
3,68,291
4,67,453

294
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
	
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2022:
Grounds of 
complaints 
(i.e. complaints 
relating to)
Number of complaints 
pending at the 
beginning of the year
Number of complaints 
received during the 
year
% increase / 
(decrease) in the 
number of complaints 
received over the 
previous year
Number of 
complaints pending 
at the end of the 
year*
Of 5, number of 
complaints pending 
beyond 30 days
1
2
3
4
5
6
ATM / Debit Cards
2,790
1,46,532
(22%)
2,299
28
Credit Cards
991
76,874
(52%)
731
-
Internet / Mobile / 
Electronic Banking
1,603
68,518
21%
2,559
9
Loans and advances
533
37,738
14%
625
14
Account opening / 
difficulty in operation 
of accounts
80
13,361
49%
146
-
Others
266
25,268
16%
518
7
Total
6,263
3,68,291
(21%)
6,878
58
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2021:
Grounds of 
complaints (i.e. 
complaints relating to)
Number of complaints 
pending at the 
beginning of the year
Number of complaints 
received during the 
year
% increase / 
(decrease) in the 
number of complaints 
received over the 
previous year
Number of 
complaints pending 
at the end of the 
year*
Of 5, number of 
complaints pending 
beyond 30 days
1
2
3
4
5
6
ATM / Debit Cards
2,651
1,86,775
(29%)
2,790
16
Credit Cards
540
1,60,288
(9%)
991
-
Internet / Mobile / 
Electronic Banking
1,315
56,422
64%
1,603
-
Loans and advances 
297
33,167
7%
533
1
Account opening / 
difficulty in operation 
of accounts
20
8,990
(23%)
80
-
Others
234
21,811
(10%)
266
6
Total
5,057
4,67,453
(14%)
6,263
23
	
   *  All these cases were pending within the stipulated turnaround time (TAT) of the Bank.
33.	 Small and micro industries
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from October 2, 2006, certain 
disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. There have been no reported cases of 
delays in payments to micro and small enterprises or of interest payments due to delays in such payments during the years 
ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021. The above is based on the information available with the Bank which has been 
relied upon by the auditors. 
34.	 Overseas assets, NPAs and revenue
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
     (` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Total Assets 
58,034.53
43,586.89
Total NPAs
195.26
188.35
Total Revenue
860.09
931.97

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
295
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
35.	 Corporate social responsibility
 The details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities are given below:
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
1
Amount required to be spent by the Bank 
during the year
733.86
627.86
2
Amount of expenditure incurred
736.87
634.90
3
Shortfall at the end of the year
-
-
4
Details of unspent CSR amount for the 
preceding three financial years
-
-
5
Reason for shortfall
-
-
6
Nature of CSR activities
-	 Rural Development
-	 Promotion of Education
-	 Skill Training & Livelihood Enhancement
-	 Financial Literacy & Inclusion
-	 Healthcare & Hygiene
-	 Rural Development
-	 Promotion of Education
-	 Skill Training & Livelihood Enhancement
-	 Financial Literacy & Inclusion
-	 Healthcare & Hygiene
7
Details of related party transactions, e.g. 
contribution to a trust controlled by the 
Bank in relation to CSR expenditure as per 
relevant Accounting Standard
-
-
8
Where a provision is made with respect 
to a liability incurred by entering into a 
contractual obligation, the movements in 
the provision
-
-
36.	 Investor education and protection fund
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by 
the Bank during the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021.
37.	 Disclosure on remuneration to Non-Executive Directors
Remuneration by way of sitting fees to the Non-Executive Directors for attending meetings of the Board and its committees 
during the year ended March 31, 2022 amounted to ` 4.48 crore (previous year: ` 3.73 crore).
Further, in accordance with RBI guidelines, remuneration to all Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairperson for the 
year ended March 31, 2022 amounted to ` 1.65 crore (previous year: ` 0.70 crore).
38.	 Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
1
Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium (excluding GST)
1,636.66
1,413.97
2
Arrears in payment of DICGC Premium
-
-
39.	  Implementation of IFRS converged Indian Accounting Standards 
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs, in its press release dated January 18, 2016, had issued a roadmap for implementation of 
Indian Accounting Standards (IND-AS) for scheduled commercial banks, insurers / insurance companies and non-banking 
financial companies, which was subsequently confirmed by the RBI through its circular dated February 11, 2016. This roadmap 
required these institutions to prepare IND-AS based financial statements for the accounting periods beginning April 1, 2018 
with comparatives for the periods beginning April 1, 2017. The implementation of IND-AS by banks requires certain legislative 
changes in the format of financial statements to comply with the disclosures required under IND-AS. In April 2018, the RBI 
deferred the implementation of IND-AS by a year by when the necessary legislative amendments were expected. The legislative 

296
Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
amendments recommended by the RBI are under consideration by the Government of India. Accordingly, the RBI, through 
its circular dated March 22, 2019, deferred the implementation of IND-AS until further notice. 
The Bank, being an associate of Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (the ‘Corporation’), submits its consolidated 
financial information (‘fit for consolidation information’), prepared in accordance with the recognition and measurement 
principles of IND-AS as specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, to the Corporation for the purposes of 
the consolidated financial statements / results of the Corporation. The results of the Bank upon its first time adoption of and 
transition to IND-AS, based on the updated regulations and accounting standards / guidance and business strategy at the 
date of actual transition, could differ from those reported in the fit for consolidation information.
40. COVID-19
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic had led to a nation-wide lockdown in April-May 2020. This was followed by localised 
lockdowns in areas with a significant number of COVID-19 cases. Following the easing of lockdown measures, there was an 
improvement in economic activity in the second half of fiscal 2021. Since then India experienced two waves of the COVID-19 
pandemic following the discovery of mutant coronavirus variants, leading to the reimposition of regional lockdowns which 
were subsequently lifted. 
The impact of COVID-19, including changes in customer behaviour and pandemic fears, as well as restrictions on business 
and individual activities, led to significant volatility in global and Indian financial markets and a significant decrease in global and 
local economic activities. The disruptions following the outbreak, impacted loan originations, the sale of third party products, 
the use of credit and debit cards by customers and the efficiency in collection efforts resulting in increase in customer defaults 
and consequent increase in provisions there against.
India is emerging from the COVID-19 pandemic. The extent to which any new wave of COVID-19 will impact the Bank's results 
will depend on ongoing as well as future developments, including, among other things, any new information concerning the 
severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, and any action to contain its spread or mitigate its impact whether government mandated 
or elected by us.
41. Refund / Adjustment of ‘interest on interest’
In accordance with the instructions in the paragraph 5 of the RBI circular dated April 07, 2021, the Bank refunded / adjusted 
'interest on interest' of ` 268.09 crore to all eligible borrowers during the year ended March 31, 2022.
42. Disclosure under Rule 11 (e) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances to its constituents including foreign entities with 
permission to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like in other entities identified by such constituents. Similarly, 
the Bank accepts deposits from its constituents, who may instruct the Bank to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security 
or the like against such deposit in other entities identified by such constituents.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
297
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
These transactions are part of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted after exercising proper due diligence 
including adherence to “Know Your Customer” guidelines as applicable in respective jurisdiction.
Other than the nature of transactions described above, the Bank has not advanced / lent / invested / provided guarantee or 
security to or in any other person with an understanding to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to or in any 
other person. Similarly, other than the nature of transactions described above, the Bank has not received any funds from any 
other person with an understanding that the Bank shall lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to or in any 
other person.
43.	 Comparative figures
Figures for the previous year have been regrouped and reclassified wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s 
presentation. The previous year comparative numbers were audited by MSKA & Associates, Chartered Accountants.
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Atanu Chakraborty
Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part Time Chairman of the Board
Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 
105047W
ICAI Firm Registration Number:                   
107122W/W100672
M. D. Ranganath
Malay Patel
Independent Director
Independent Director
Swapnil Kale
Sanjay Khemani
Lily Vadera
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner
Partner
Independent Director
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812
Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022
Company Secretary

298
Independent Auditor's Report
To the Members of HDFC Bank Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of HDFC Bank Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Bank”) 
and its subsidiaries (the Bank and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), which comprise the consolidated Balance 
Sheet as at March 31, 2022, the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year 
then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”). 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, based on consideration of reports 
of other auditors on separate financial statements and on the other financial information of subsidiaries, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 
Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Accounting Standards prescribed under section 
133 of the Act read with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 as amended and other accounting principles generally accepted in 
India, of their consolidated state of affairs of the Group as at March 31, 2022, of consolidated profit and its consolidated cash flows 
for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. 
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are 
relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements in India in terms of Code of Ethics issued by Institute of Chartered 
Accountant of India (“ICAI”), and the relevant provisions of the Act and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion. 
Key Audit Matters 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2022. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
299
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Identification of Non - Performing advances (NPA) and provision on advances
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Reserve Bank of India’s (“RBI”) guidelines on Income recognition, 
asset classification and provisioning (“IRACP”) prescribe the prudential 
norms for identification and classification of non-performing assets 
(“NPA”) and the minimum provision required for such assets.
The Bank is required to have Board approved policy as per IRACP 
guidelines for NPA identification and provision. 
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to determine 
the identification and provision required against NPAs by applying 
quantitative as well as qualitative factors. The risk of identification of 
NPAs is affected by factors like stress and liquidity concerns in certain 
sectors. 
The provision on NPA is estimated based on ageing and classification 
of NPAs, recovery estimates, nature of loan product, value of security 
and other qualitative factors and is subject to the minimum provisioning 
norms specified by RBI and approved policy of the Bank in this regard. 
Additionally, the Bank makes provisions on exposures that are not 
classified as NPAs including advances to certain sectors and identified 
advances or group advances that can potentially slip into NPA. These 
are classiﬁed as contingency provisions.
The Management of the Bank also makes an assessment of the impact 
on borrowers’ accounts which were restructured as per RBI Circulars 
issued to provide relief to the borrowers. 
Since the identification of NPAs and provisioning for advances require 
significant level of estimation and given its significance to the overall 
audit including possible observation by RBI which could result into 
disclosure in the financial statements, we have ascertained identification 
and provisioning for NPAs as a key audit matter.
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls (including 
application controls) over approval, recording, monitoring and recovery 
of loans, monitoring overdue / stressed accounts, identification of NPA, 
provision for NPA and valuation of security including collateral. 
Testing of Application controls include testing of automated controls, 
reports and system reconciliations.
Evaluated the governance process and tested controls over calculations 
of provision on non-performing advances, basis of provisioning in 
accordance with the Board approved policy.
Selected the borrowers based on quantitative and qualitative risk factors 
for their assessment of appropriate classification as NPA including 
computation of overdue ageing to assess its correct classification and 
provision amount as per extant IRACP norms and Bank policy. 
Performed other substantive procedures including but not limited to 
the following:
• Selected samples of performing loans and assessed independently 
as to whether those should be classified as NPA;
• For samples selected examined the security valuation, financial 
statements and other qualitative information;
• Considered the accounts reported by the Bank and other Banks as 
Special Mention Accounts (“SMA”) in RBI’s Central Repository of 
Information on Large Credits (CRILC) to identify stress;
• For selected samples assessed independently accounts that can 
potentially be classified as NPA and Red Flagged Accounts;
• Performed inquiries with the credit and risk departments to ascertain 
if there were indicators of stress or an occurrence of an event of 
default in a particular loan account or any product category which 
needed to be considered as NPA;
• Held specific discussions with the management of the Bank on 
sectors where there is perceived credit risk and the steps taken to 
mitigate the risks to identified sectors;
• Selected and tested samples of accounts which were restructured 
under MSME restructuring circular and Resolution Framework for 
COVID-19 related stress circular for their compliance with the RBI 
directions;
• Assessed the adequacy of disclosures against the relevant 
accounting standards and RBI requirements relating to NPAs.

300
Independent Auditor's Report
Evaluation of litigations included in contingent liabilities 
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank has material open tax litigations which involve significant 
judgement to determine the possible outcome of these disputes.
Significant management judgement is needed in determining whether 
an obligation exists and whether a provision should be recognised as 
at the reporting date, in accordance with the accounting criteria set 
under Accounting Standard 29 - Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and 
Contingent Assets (‘AS 29’), or whether it needs to be disclosed as a 
contingent liability. Further significant judgements are also involved in 
measuring such obligations, the most significant of which are:
• Assessment of liability: Judgement is involved in the determination 
of whether an outflow in respect of identified material matters are 
probable and can be estimated reliably;
• Adequacy of provisions: The appropriateness of assumptions and 
judgements used in the estimation of significant provisions; and
• Adequacy of disclosures of provision for liabilities and charges, and 
contingent liabilities.
The Bank’s assessment is supported by the facts of matter, their own 
judgement, experience, and advices from legal and independent tax 
consultants wherever considered necessary. 
Since the assessment of these open tax litigations requires significant 
level of judgement in interpretation of law, we have included this as a 
key audit matter.
Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
Testing the design and operating effectiveness of the Bank’s key 
controls over the estimation, monitoring and disclosure of provisions 
and contingent liabilities.
Our substantive audit procedures included and were not limited to the 
following:
• Obtained an understanding of the Bank’s process for determining 
tax liabilities, tax provisions and contingent liabilities pertaining to 
legal matters and taxation matters;
• Obtained list of cases/matters in respect of which litigations were 
outstanding as at reporting date;
• For significant legal matters, we sought external confirmations and 
also corroborated with management’s documented conclusions on 
the assessment of outstanding litigations against the Bank;
• For significant taxation matters, we involved our tax specialist to gain 
an understanding of the current status of the litigations, including 
understanding of various orders / notices received by the Bank and 
the management’s grounds of appeals before the relevant appellate 
authorities;
• Evaluated the merit of the subject matter under consideration 
with reference to the grounds presented therein and available 
independent legal / tax advice; and
• Agreed underlying tax balances to supporting documentation, 
including correspondence with tax authorities.
• Assessed the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
301
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Information Technology (“IT”) Systems and Controls 
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank has a complex IT architecture to support its day-to-day 
business operations. High volume of transactions are processed and 
recorded on single or multiple applications.  
The reliability and security of IT systems plays a key role in the business 
operations of the Bank. Since large volume of transactions are 
processed daily, the IT controls are required to ensure that applications 
process data as expected and that changes are made in an appropriate 
manner.  
Appropriate IT general controls and application controls are required to 
ensure that such IT systems are able to process the data, as required, 
completely, accurately and consistently for reliable financial reporting. 
We have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as key audit matter because 
of the high level automation, significant number of systems being used 
by the management and the complexity of the IT architecture and its 
impact on the financial reporting system. 
Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
For testing the IT general controls, application controls and IT dependent 
manual controls, we involved specialists as part of the audit. The team 
also assisted in testing the accuracy of the information produced by the 
Bank’s IT systems. 
Obtained 
a 
comprehensive 
understanding 
of 
IT 
applications 
implemented at the Bank. It was followed by process understanding, 
mapping of applications to the same and understanding financial risks 
posed by people-process and technology.  
Key IT audit procedures includes testing design and operating 
effectiveness of  key controls operating over user access management 
(which includes user access provisioning, de-provisioning, access 
review, password configuration review,  segregation of duties and 
privilege access), change management (which include change release 
in production environment are compliant to the defined procedures 
and segregation of environment  is ensured), program development 
(which include review of data migration activity),  computer operations 
(which includes testing of key controls pertaining to Backup, Batch 
processing (including interface testing), incident management and data 
centre security), System interface controls. This included testing that 
requests for access to systems were appropriately logged, reviewed 
and authorized.
In addition to the above, the design and operating effectiveness of 
certain automated controls, that were considered as key internal system 
controls over financial reporting were tested. Using various techniques 
such as inquiry, review of documentation / record / reports, observation 
and re-performance. We also tested few controls using negative testing 
technique. We had taken adequate samples of instances for our test.  
Tested compensating controls and performed alternate procedures, 
where necessary. In addition, understood where relevant, changes 
made to the IT landscape during the audit period. 
Information Other than the Consolidated Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information in the Basel 
III - Pillar 3 disclosures and graphical representation of financial highlights (but does not include the financial statements and our 
auditor’s reports thereon), which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, and the Annual Report, which is expected 
to be made available to us after that date. 
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing 
so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other 
information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other 
information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate 
the matter to those Charged with Governance.

302
Independent Auditor's Report
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial statements in term 
of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated financial performance 
and consolidated cash flows of the Group in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the 
Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and circulars, guidelines and 
directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India  from time to time (the “RBI Guidelines”) as applicable to the Bank. The respective 
Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI Guidelines for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for preventing and 
detecting frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgements and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the Board 
of Directors of the Bank, as aforesaid. 
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are 
responsible for assessing the ability of the respective entity to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate 
the respective entity or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
The respective Board of Directors of the entities included in the Group are responsible for overseeing the respective entity’s financial 
reporting process. 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Standards on Auditing 
(“SAs”) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout 
the audit. We also:
• 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control. 
• 
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Bank 
has internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls.
• 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by Management.
• 
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
ability of the Group to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
303
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
• 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, 
and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves 
fair presentation.
• 
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the 
Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated financial statements of which 
we are the independent auditors. For the other entities included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been 
audited by other auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits 
carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. 
We communicate with Those Charged with Governance of the Bank and such other entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. 
We also provide Those Charged with Governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with Those Charged with Governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance 
in the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2022 and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter 
or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matter 
• 
We did not audit the financial statements of two subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total assets of ` 7,226,709 
Lacs as at March 31, 2022, total revenues of ` 1,346,577 Lacs and net cash flows amounting to ` 45,344 Lacs for the year 
ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements. These financial statements have been audited by 
other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial 
statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, and our report in 
terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, is based solely on the 
reports of the other auditors.
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is 
not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors 
and the financial statements certified by the Management.
• 
The audit of consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2021 was conducted by MSKA & Associates, 
Chartered Accountants, the statutory auditor of the Bank, who had expressed an unmodified opinion on those financial 
statements. Accordingly, we, M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants, do not express any opinion on the figures reported 
in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended / as at March 31, 2021.
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statement is not modified in respect of the above matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
1.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and the consideration of the report of the other auditors on 
separate financial statements as noted in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph, we report, to the extent applicable, that: 
a.	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements;

304
Independent Auditor's Report
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of the other auditors;
c.	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and the Consolidated Statement of Cash 
Flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of 
preparation of the consolidated financial statements; 
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 to the extent they are not inconsistent 
with the guidelines prescribed by RBI; 
e.	
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Bank as on March 31, 2022 taken on record 
by the Board of Directors of the Bank and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies, none of the 
directors of the Group companies, are disqualified as on March 31, 2022 from being appointed as a director in terms of 
Section 164(2) of the Act; 
f.	
With respect to the adequacy of internal financial controls with reference to the consolidated financial statements of the 
Group and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure A”;
g.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations 
given to us:
i.	
The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated financial 
position of the Group - Refer Schedule 12, Schedule 17(D)(17) and Schedule 18(12)(d)(1) & (2) to the consolidated 
financial statements;
ii.	
Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements, as required under the applicable law or accounting 
standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts - Refer 
Schedule 17(D)(7) & 17(D)(17) and Schedule 18(12)(d) to the consolidated financial statements in respect of such 
items as it relates to the Group; and
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Bank and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India.
iv.	
1.	
The Management of the Bank has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other  than as 
disclosed in the notes to accounts, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed 
funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank and its subsidiary companies to 
or in any other persons / entities, including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary has, whether directly or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank, and its subsidiary companies 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
2.	
The Management of the Bank has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other  than as 
disclosed in the notes to accounts, no funds have been received by the Bank and its subsidiary companies 
from any persons / entities, including foreign entities, that the Bank and its subsidiary companies  have directly 
or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries; 
3.	
Based on the audit procedures which we have considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances 
and according to the information and explanations provided to us by the Management of Bank in this regard, 
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations made by the Management 
of Bank under sub-clause (1) and (2) contain any material misstatement.
v.	
The Bank and its subsidiary companies has paid dividend during the year which is in compliance with section 123 
of the Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
305
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
h.	
With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditor’s Report under Section 197(16) of the Act: 
	
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and based on the report of the statutory 
auditors of subsidiary companies, the remuneration paid by the subsidiary companies to its directors is within the limit 
laid down under Section 197 of the Act and the rules thereunder. Further, the Bank is a banking company as defined 
under Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Accordingly, the requirements prescribed under Section 197 of the Companies Act, 
2013 do not apply to the Bank.
For MSKA & Associates
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105047W
ICAI Firm Registration Number:                                                                           
107122W/W100672
Swapnil Kale
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
Partner
Membership Number: 117812
Membership Number: 044577
UDIN: 22117812AHEKRY1875
UDIN: 22044577AHEOTN5398
Mumbai, 
April 16, 2022
Mumbai, 
April 16, 2022

306
Independent Auditor's Report
ANNEXURE A TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT OF EVEN DATE ON THE CONSOLIDATED 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF HDFC BANK LIMITED
[Referred to in paragraph 1(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the Independent Auditor’s Report 
of even date to the Members of HDFC Bank limited on the consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2022] 
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Bank as of and for the year ended March 31, 2022, we 
have audited the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of HDFC Bank Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as “the Bank”) and its subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Board of Directors of the Bank, its subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible 
for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control with reference to consolidated financial 
statements criteria established by the respective companies considering the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (“the ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to the respective Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and 
errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as 
required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of 
the Bank, its subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated in India, based on our audit. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued 
by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of 
internal financial controls. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and 
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal 
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgement, including the assessment of the 
risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports 
referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of the Bank, its subsidiary companies, which are companies 
incorporated in India.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls With Reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
A Bank's internal financial control with reference to consolidated financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A Bank's internal financial control with reference to 
consolidated financial statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in 
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Bank; (2) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
307
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Bank are being made only in accordance 
with authorizations of management and directors of the Bank; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Bank's assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated 
financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls With Reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not 
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements to 
future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to consolidated financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the Bank, its subsidiary companies, 
which are companies incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements and such internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements were 
operating effectively as at March 31, 2022, based on the internal control with reference to consolidated financial statements criteria 
established by the respective companies considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note 
issued by the ICAI.
Other Matters
Our aforesaid reports under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to two subsidiary companies, which are companies 
incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated in India. 
For MSKA & Associates
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105047W
ICAI Firm Registration Number:                                                                           
107122W/W100672
Swapnil Kale
Sanjay Khemani
Partner
Partner
Membership Number: 117812
Membership Number: 044577
UDIN: 22117812AHEKRY1875
UDIN: 22044577AHEOTN5398
Mumbai, 
April 16, 2022
Mumbai, 
April 16, 2022
         

308
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at March 31, 2022
` in crore
Schedule
As at
March 31, 2022
As at
March 31, 2021
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital
1 
 554.55 
 551.28 
Reserves and surplus
2 
 246,771.62 
 209,258.90 
Minority interest
2A
 720.41 
 632.76 
Deposits
3 
 1,558,003.03 
 1,333,720.87 
Borrowings
4 
 226,966.50 
 177,696.75 
Other liabilities and provisions
5 
 89,918.19 
 77,646.07 
Total
 2,122,934.30 
 1,799,506.63 
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India
6 
 130,030.71 
 97,370.35 
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice
7 
 25,355.02 
 23,902.16 
Investments
8 
 449,263.86 
 438,823.11 
Advances
9 
 1,420,942.28 
 1,185,283.52 
Fixed assets
10 
 6,283.28 
 5,099.56 
Other assets
11 
 90,910.36 
 48,879.14 
Goodwill on Consolidation 
 148.79 
 148.79 
Total
 2,122,934.30 
 1,799,506.63 
Contingent liabilities
12 
 1,400,197.64 
 975,280.66 
Bills for collection
 56,968.05 
 44,748.14 
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
17 & 18
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Atanu Chakraborty
Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part Time Chairman of the Board
Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 
105047W
ICAI Firm Registration Number:                   
107122W/W100672
M. D. Ranganath
Malay Patel
Independent Director
Independent Director
Swapnil Kale
Sanjay Khemani
Lily Vadera
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner
Partner
Independent Director
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812
Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022
Company Secretary

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
309
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
For the year ended March 31, 2022
` in crore
Schedule
 Year ended
 March 31, 2022 
Year ended
 March 31, 2021 
I  INCOME
Interest earned
13
 135,936.41 
 128,552.40 
Other income
14
 31,758.99 
 27,332.88 
Total                                                                                                          
 167,695.40 
 155,885.28 
II  EXPENDITURE
Interest expended
15 
 58,584.33 
 59,247.59 
Operating expenses
16 
 40,312.43 
 35,001.26 
Provisions and contingencies [Refer Schedule 18 (12)]
 30,647.74 
 29,779.66 
Total                                                                                                                        
 129,544.50 
 124,028.51 
III PROFIT
Consolidated Net Profit for the year before minorities' interest
 38,150.90 
 31,856.77 
Less : Minorities' Interest
 98.15 
 23.56 
Consolidated Net Profit for the year attributable to the group
 38,052.75 
 31,833.21 
Add: Brought forward consolidated profit attributable to the group
 78,594.20 
 61,817.68 
Total                                                                                                                        
 116,646.95 
 93,650.89 
IV  APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 9,444.38 
 7,879.70 
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year
 3,592.40 
 -   
Transfer to General Reserve
 3,696.14 
 3,111.65 
Transfer to Capital Reserve
 666.47 
 2,291.68 
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve Account
 233.13 
 61.66 
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 -   
 1,712.00 
Transfer to / (from) Minority Interest (opening adjustment)
 (48.34)
 -   
Balance carried over to consolidated balance sheet
 99,062.77 
 78,594.20 
Total
 116,646.95 
 93,650.89 
V  EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE (Face value ` 1 per share)
 ` 
 ` 
Basic 
 68.77 
 57.88 
Diluted 
 68.31 
 57.61 
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Consolidated financial statements 
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Account.
17 & 18
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Atanu Chakraborty
Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part Time Chairman of the Board
Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 
105047W
ICAI Firm Registration Number:                   
107122W/W100672
M. D. Ranganath
Malay Patel
Independent Director
Independent Director
Swapnil Kale
Sanjay Khemani
Lily Vadera
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner
Partner
Independent Director
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812
Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022
Company Secretary

310
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
For the year ended March 31, 2022
` in crore
 Year ended 
March 31, 2022
 Year ended 
March 31, 2021
Cash flows from operating activities:
Consolidated profit before income tax 
 50,775.24 
 42,772.58 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation on fixed assets
 1,680.73 
 1,385.01 
(Profit) / loss on revaluation of investments
 (1,546.40)
 1,485.32 
Amortisation of premium on held to maturity investments
 821.32 
 765.47 
(Profit) / loss on sale of fixed assets
 3.25 
 0.29 
Provision / charge for non performing assets
 13,286.95 
 13,927.01 
Provision for standard assets and contingencies
 5,418.21 
 5,283.07 
Employee Stock Options Expense
 341.24 
 -   
 70,780.55 
 65,618.75 
Adjustments for:
Increase in investments
 (10,849.22)
 (50,156.64)
Increase in advances
 (248,946.13)
 (155,681.07)
Increase in deposits
 224,282.15 
 187,513.74 
(Increase) / decrease in other assets
 (40,044.70)
 8,307.68 
Increase / (decrease) in other liabilities and provisions 
 7,655.94 
 (104.56)
 2,878.59 
 55,497.90 
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds)
 (14,838.16)
 (13,021.45)
Net cash flow (used in) / from operating activities
 (11,959.57)
 42,476.45 
Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchase of fixed assets 
 (2,236.24)
 (1,696.15)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets
 19.91 
 15.28 
Net cash flow used in investing activities
 (2,216.33)
 (1,680.87)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Increase in minority interest
 135.83 
 56.12 
Proceeds from issue of share capital, net of issue expenses
 2,609.76 
 1,760.10 
Proceeds from issue of Additional Tier I and Tier II capital bonds
 8,312.75 
 356.50 
Redemption of Tier II capital bonds
 (3,650.00)
 (1,105.00)
Net proceeds / (repayments) in other borrowings
 44,308.08 
 (8,389.07)
Dividend paid during the year
 (3,592.40)
 -   
Net cash flow from / (used in) financing activities
 48,124.02 
 (7,321.35)
Effect of exchange fluctuation on translation reserve
 165.10 
 (141.83)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
 34,113.22 
 33,332.40 
Cash and cash equivalents as at April 1st
 121,272.51 
 87,940.11 
Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31st
 155,385.73 
 121,272.51 
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Atanu Chakraborty
Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part Time Chairman of the Board
Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 
105047W
ICAI Firm Registration Number:                   
107122W/W100672
M. D. Ranganath
Malay Patel
Independent Director
Independent Director
Swapnil Kale
Sanjay Khemani
Lily Vadera
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner
Partner
Independent Director
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812
Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022
Company Secretary

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
311
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 1 - Capital 
` in crore
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
Authorised capital
6,50,00,00,000 (31 March, 2021 : 6,50,00,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 1/- each	
 650.00 
 650.00 
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital
5,54,55,40,976 (31 March, 2021 : 5,51,27,76,482) Equity Shares of ` 1/- each	
 554.55 
 551.28 
Total
 554.55 
 551.28 
Schedule 2 - Reserves and Surplus
` in crore
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
I	
Statutory reserve
	
Opening balance
 43,483.53 
 35,603.83 
	
Additions during the year
 9,444.38 
 7,879.70 
	
Total
 52,927.91 
 43,483.53 
II	
General reserve
	
Opening balance
 16,785.79 
 13,674.14 
	
Additions during the year
 3,696.14 
 3,111.65 
	
Total
 20,481.93 
 16,785.79 
III 	 Balance in profit and loss account
 99,062.77 
 78,594.20 
IV 	 Share premium account
	
Opening balance
 60,512.68 
 58,755.53 
	
Additions during the year
 2,606.48 
 1,757.15 
	
Total
 63,119.16 
 60,512.68 
V 	 Amalgamation reserve
 
 
	
Opening balance
 1,063.56 
 1,063.56 
	
Additions during the year
 -   
 -   
	
Total
 1,063.56 
 1,063.56 
VI 	 Capital reserve
	
Opening balance
4,956.45
 2,664.77 
	
Additions during the year
 666.47 
 2,291.68 
	
Total
5,622.92
 4,956.45 
VII	 Investment reserve 
	
Opening balance
 61.66 
 -   
	
Additions during the year
 239.87 
 61.66 
	
Deductions during the year 
 (6.74)
 -   
	
Total
 294.79 
 61.66 
VIII Investment fluctuation reserve 
	
Opening balance
 3,619.00 
 1,907.00 
	
Additions during the year
 -   
 1,712.00 
	
Total
 3,619.00 
 3,619.00 
IX	 Foreign currency translation account
	
Opening balance
182.03 
 323.86 
	
Additions / (deductions) during the year
165.12  
 (141.83)
	
Total
347.15
 182.03 
X 	 Cash flow hedge reserve
	
Opening balance
 -   
 -   
	
Additions / (deductions) during the year
 (108.09)
 -   
	
Total
 (108.09)
 -   

312
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
` in crore
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
XI 	 Employees stock options reserve
	
Opening balance
 -   
 -   
	
Additions / (deductions) during the year
 340.52 
 -   
	
Total
 340.52 
 -   
	
Total
 246,771.62 
 209,258.90 
Schedule 2A - Minority Interest
` in crore
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
Minority interest at the date on which parent subsidiary relationship came into existence
 27.60 
 27.60 
Subsequent increase
 692.81 
 605.16 
Total
 720.41 
 632.76 
Includes reserves of Employee Welfare Trust of ` 158.86 crore (previous year : ` 150.12 crore)
Schedule 3 - Deposits
` in crore
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
A 	 I    	Demand deposits
	
	
(i)	
From banks
 5,550.83 
 3,870.19 
	
	
(ii) 	 From others
 232,654.39 
 207,206.05 
	
Total
 238,205.22 
 211,076.24 
	
II   	Savings bank  deposits
 511,737.21 
 403,492.47 
	
III  	Term deposits
	
	
(i)  	 From banks
 9,801.89 
 10,645.84 
	
	
(ii) 	 From others
 798,258.71 
 708,506.32 
	
Total
 808,060.60 
 719,152.16 
	
Total
 1,558,003.03 
 1,333,720.87 
B 	 I	
Deposits of branches in India
 1,547,880.73 
 1,327,832.43 
	
II 	 Deposits of branches outside India
 10,122.30 
 5,888.44 
	
Total
 1,558,003.03 
 1,333,720.87 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
313
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Schedule 4 - Borrowings
` in crore
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
I   	 Borrowings in India 
	
(i) 	 Reserve Bank of India
 9,020.00 
 9,020.00 
	
(ii) 	 Other banks
 9,975.09 
 11,504.27 
	
(iii) 	 Other institutions and agencies
 88,651.96 
 69,351.56 
	
(iv) 	Upper and lower tier II capital and innovative perpetual debts
 17,627.00 
 21,127.00 
	
(v) 	 Bonds and Debentures (excluding subordinated debt)
 43,986.21 
 38,975.21 
	
Total
 169,260.26 
 149,978.04 
II   	Borrowings outside India
 57,706.24 
 27,718.71 
	
Total
 226,966.50 
 177,696.75 
Secured borrowings included in I & II above:` 32,519.01 crore (previous year : ` 35,132.83 crore) except borrowings of ` 24,204.49 crore (previous year: 
` 44,625.92 crore) under repurchase transactions (including tri-party repo) and transactions under Liquidity Adjustment Facility.
Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities and Provisions
` in crore
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
I    	 Bills payable
 13,093.74 
 12,424.19 
II   	 Interest accrued
 8,241.11 
 8,123.58 
III 	 Others (including provisions)
 61,792.07 
 51,572.44 
IV 	 Contingent provisions against standard assets
 6,791.27 
 5,525.86 
	
Total
 89,918.19 
 77,646.07 
Schedule 6 - Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India
` in crore
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
I  	 Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)
 11,239.51 
 10,722.18 
II 	 Balances with Reserve Bank of India:
	
(a) 	 In current accounts
 81,777.20 
 59,442.17 
	
(b) 	 In other accounts
 37,014.00 
 27,206.00 
	
Total
 118,791.20 
 86,648.17 
	
Total
 130,030.71 
 97,370.35 

314
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 7 - Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
` in crore
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
I	
In India
 	
(i) 	 Balances with banks:
          	 (a) 	 In current accounts
 627.61 
 989.78 
          	 (b) 	 In other deposit accounts
 2,730.83 
 1,617.09 
	
Total
 3,358.44 
 2,606.87 
	
(ii) 	 Money at call and short notice:
	
	
(a) With banks
 -   
 -   
	
	
(b) With other institutions
 491.33 
 -   
	
Total
 491.33 
 -   
	
Total
 3,849.77 
 2,606.87 
II  	 Outside India
     	(i) 	 In current accounts 
 7,362.22 
 11,034.48 
     	(ii) 	 In deposit accounts 
 2,020.43 
 390.96 
    	 (iii)  	Money at call and short notice 
 12,122.60 
 9,869.85 
	
Total
 21,505.25 
 21,295.29 
	
Total
 25,355.02 
 23,902.16 
Schedule 8 - Investments
` in crore
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
A 	 Investments in India in
     	(i)   	Government securities
 367,723.10 
 352,015.86 
     	(ii)   	Other approved securities
 -   
 -   
     	(iii)  	Shares
 513.89 
 449.44 
     	(iv)  	Debentures and bonds
 59,628.36 
 58,674.72 
	
(v)  	Others (Units, CDs, CPs, PTCs and security receipts)
 18,776.09 
 25,314.97 
	
Total
 446,641.44 
 436,454.99 
B   	Investments outside India in
  	
(i)   	Government securities (including Local Authorities)
 227.58 
 593.61 
  	
(ii)  	Other investments
     		
(a)  Shares
 2.64 
 3.50 
     		
(b)  Debentures and bonds
 2,392.20 
 1,771.01 
	
Total
 2,622.42 
 2,368.12 
	
Total
 449,263.86 
 438,823.11 
C 	 Investments
I 	
Investments in India
      (i)   	Gross value of investments
 447,049.34 
 437,300.54 
      (ii) 	 Aggregate of provisions for depreciation
 (407.90)
 (845.56)
      (iii) 	 Net investment  
 446,641.44 
 436,454.98 
II 	 Investments outside India 
      (i)   	Gross value of investments
 2,625.15 
 2,375.21 
      (ii) 	 Aggregate of provisions for depreciation  
 (2.73)
 (7.08)
      (iii) 	 Net investment  
 2,622.42 
 2,368.13 
	
Total
 449,263.86 
 438,823.11 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
315
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Schedule  9 - Advances
` in crore
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
A  	 (i)  	 Bills purchased and discounted
 29,052.42 
 34,542.78 
	
(ii)  	Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand
 433,411.25 
 255,977.82 
	
(iii)	 Term loans
 958,478.61 
 894,762.92 
	
Total
 1,420,942.28 
 1,185,283.52 
B 	 (i) 	 Secured by tangible assets*
 940,971.29 
 800,068.60 
    	 (ii) 	 Covered by bank / government guarantees
 48,387.03 
 39,375.84 
   	 (iii) 	 Unsecured
 431,583.96 
 345,839.08 
	
Total
 1,420,942.28 
 1,185,283.52 
    * Includes advances against stock and book debts of ` 175,547.78 crore (previous year: ` 131,211.86 crore)
C 	 I 	
Advances in India
	
    	 (i) 	 Priority sector
 390,181.51 
 258,611.15 
	
   	 (ii) 	 Public sector
 135,693.81 
 119,908.27 
	
   	 (iii) 	 Banks
 6,886.30 
 8,538.39 
	
   	 (iv) 	Others
 845,365.56 
 766,615.86 
	
Total
 1,378,127.18 
 1,153,673.67 
C	 II 	 Advances outside India
    	 	
(i) 	 Due from banks
 4,909.88 
 5,527.65 
	
	
(ii) 	 Due from others
             	
(a) 	 Bills purchased and discounted
 254.83 
 6.35 
             	
(b) 	 Syndicated loans 
 541.89 
 834.79 
             	
(c) 	 Others
 37,108.50 
 25,241.06 
	
Total
 42,815.10 
 31,609.85 
	
Total
 1,420,942.28 
 1,185,283.52 
(Advances are net of provisions)

316
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule  10 - Fixed Assets
` in crore
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
A 	 Premises (including land)
	
Gross block
	
At cost on 31 March of the preceding year
 2,055.77 
 1,891.07 
	
Additions during the year
 166.72 
174.52
	
Deductions during the year
 (13.02)
 (9.82)
	
Total  
 2,209.47 
2,055.77
	
Depreciation
      	As at 31 March of the preceding year
 694.75 
637.60
      	Charge for the year
 72.07 
 66.48 
	
On deductions during the year
 (11.31)
 (9.33)
	
Total  
 755.51 
694.75
	
Net block
 1,453.96 
 1,361.02 
B 	 Other fixed assets (including furniture and fixtures)
	
Gross block
	
At cost on 31 March of the preceding year
 13,110.25 
 11,701.61 
	
Additions during the year
 2,721.22 
 1,698.51 
	
Deductions during the year
 (512.42)
 (289.87)
	
Total  
 15,319.05 
 13,110.25 
	
Depreciation
 
 
	
As at 31 March of the preceding year
 9,371.71 
 8,328.23 
	
Charge for the year
 1,609.02 
 1,318.27 
	
On deductions during the year
 (491.00)
 (274.79)
	
Total  
 10,489.73 
 9,371.71 
	
Net block
 4,829.32 
 3,738.54 
C 	 Assets on lease (plant and machinery)
	
Gross block
	
At cost on 31 March of the preceding year
 454.69 
 454.69 
	
Additions during the year
 -   
 -   
	
Total  
 454.69 
 454.69 
     	Depreciation
      As at 31 March of the preceding year
 410.45 
 410.45 
      Charge for the year
 -   
 -   
	
Total  
 410.45 
 410.45 
     	Lease adjustment account
      As at 31 March of the preceding year
 44.24 
 44.24 
      Charge for the year
 -   
 -   
	
Total  
 44.24 
 44.24 
      Unamortised cost of assets on lease
 - 
 - 
	
Total  
 6,283.28 
 5,099.56 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
317
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Schedule 11 - Other Assets
` in crore
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
I	
Interest accrued
 13,470.33 
 11,892.89 
II 	 Advance tax / tax deducted at source (net of provisions)
 4,289.17 
 3,526.95 
III   	Stationery and stamps
 42.08 
 43.49 
IV	 Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims
 51.22 
 51.26 
V	
Bond and share application money pending allotment
 -   
 22.50 
VI	 Security deposit for commercial and residential property
 592.37 
 568.79 
VII	 Deferred Tax Assets
 7,143.82 
 5,541.64 
VIII	 Others*
 65,321.37 
 27,231.62 
	
Total
 90,910.36 
 48,879.14 
*Includes deposits placed with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB on account of shortfall in lending to priority sector of ` 44,738.08 crore (previous year: ` 9,320.37 crore)
Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities
` in crore
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
I   	 Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts  - taxation
 1,343.95 
 1,272.71 
II  	 Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts - others
 218.90 
 318.09 
III 	 Liability for partly paid investments
 -   
 -   
IV 	 Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts
 655,187.18 
 496,472.67 
V 	 Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts
 593,778.58 
 361,579.46 
VI  	Guarantees given on behalf of constituents - 	in India
 83,391.03 
 75,119.53 
                                                                          - outside India
 352.43 
 180.09 
VII 	 Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
 61,563.97 
 37,653.63 
VIII	 Other items for which the bank is contingently liable	
 4,361.59 
 2,684.48 
	
Total
 1,400,197.63 
 975,280.66 
Schedule 13 - Interest Earned
` in crore
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2021
I   	 Interest / discount on advances / bills
 106,295.34 
 102,299.13 
II 	 Income from investments
 25,907.06 
 23,211.62 
III 	 Interest on balance with RBI and other inter-bank funds
 2,630.78 
 2,414.30 
IV 	 Others
 1,103.23 
 627.35 
	
Total
 135,936.41 
 128,552.40 

318
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 14 - Other Income
` in crore
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2021
I	
Commission, exchange and brokerage
 21,875.50 
 18,024.59 
II  	 Profit / (loss) on sale of investments (net)
 785.20 
 5,389.01 
III 	 Profit / (loss) on revaluation of investments  (net)
 1,546.40 
 (1,485.32)
IV 	 Profit / (loss) on sale of building and other assets (net)
 70.76 
 46.57 
V  	 Profit / (loss) on exchange / derivative transactions (net)
 3,907.91 
 2,438.41 
VI 	 Miscellaneous income
 3,573.22 
 2,919.62 
	
Total
 31,758.99 
 27,332.88 
Schedule 15 - Interest Expended
` in crore
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2021
I   	 Interest on deposits
 48,901.00 
 50,126.03 
II  	 Interest on RBI / inter-bank borrowings
 9,518.48 
 9,064.43 
III	
Other interest
 164.85 
 57.13 
	
Total
 58,584.33 
 59,247.59 
Schedule 16 - Operating Expenses
(` crore)
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Year ended 
March 31, 2021
I    	 Payments to and provisions for employees
 15,897.03 
 13,676.67 
II   	 Rent, taxes and lighting
 1,760.26 
 1,808.88 
III  	 Printing and stationery
 548.06 
 444.83 
IV  	Advertisement and publicity
 262.54 
 102.25 
V  	 Depreciation on bank's property
 1,680.73 
 1,385.01 
VI  	Directors' fees / remuneration, allowances and expenses
 7.78 
 5.68 
VII 	 Auditors' fees and expenses
 6.26 
 4.63 
VIII	 Law charges
 282.35 
 154.80 
IX  	Postage, telegram, telephone etc.
 636.87 
 540.24 
X   	Repairs and maintenance
 1,772.27 
 1,649.11 
XI  	Insurance
 1,910.45 
 1,724.91 
XII 	 Other expenditure*
 15,547.83 
 13,504.25 
	
Total
 40,312.43 
 35,001.26 
*Includes professional fees, commission to sales agents, card and merchant acquiring expenses and system management fees.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
319
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Schedule 17 - Significant accounting policies 
appended to and forming part of the consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended March 31, 
2022
A	
Background
HDFC Bank Limited (‘HDFC Bank’ or ‘the Bank’), 
incorporated in Mumbai, India is a publicly held banking 
company engaged in providing a range of banking and 
financial services including retail banking, wholesale 
banking and treasury operations. The Bank is governed 
by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the Companies 
Act, 2013. The Bank has overseas branch operations in 
Bahrain, Hong Kong, Dubai and Offshore Banking Unit at 
International Financial Service Centre (IFSC), GIFT City, 
India. The financial accounting systems of the Bank are 
centralised and, therefore, accounting returns are not 
required to be submitted by branches of the Bank. 
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFSL) and HDFC 
Securities Limited (HSL) are subsidiaries of the Bank. 
HDBFSL is a non-deposit taking non-banking finance 
company. HSL is a financial services provider along with 
broking as a core product.
B	
Principles Of Consolidation
	
The consolidated financial statements comprise the 
financial statements of the Bank and its subsidiaries 
constituting the ‘Group’. The Bank consolidates its 
subsidiaries in accordance with Accounting Standard (‘AS’) 
21, Consolidated Financial Statements, specified under 
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, on a line-by-line 
basis by adding together the like items of assets, liabilities, 
income and expenditure. Capital reserve / Goodwill 
on consolidation represent the difference between the 
Bank’s share in the net worth of the subsidiary and the 
cost of acquisition at the time of making the investment in 
the subsidiary.
C	
Basis of Preparation
	
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
and presented under the historical cost convention and 
accrual basis of accounting, unless otherwise stated and 
are in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles in India (‘GAAP’), statutory requirements 
prescribed under the Third Schedule of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949, circulars and guidelines issued by 
the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) from time to time (RBI 
guidelines), Accounting Standards (‘AS’) specified under 
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with 
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, in so far as they apply 
to banks.
	
Use of estimates
	
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in 
conformity with GAAP requires the management to make 
estimates and necessary assumptions in the reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities (including contingent 
liabilities) as of the date of the financial statements and 
the reported income and expenses for the reporting 
year. Management believes that the estimates used in 
the preparation of the financial statements are prudent 
and reasonable. Actual results could differ from these 
estimates. Any revision in the accounting estimates is 
recognised prospectively in the current and future periods.
	
Basis of consolidation 
	
The consolidated financial statements present the accounts 
of HDFC Bank Limited with its following subsidiaries:
Name
Relation
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership 
interest**
HDFC Securities 
Limited
Subsidiary
India
95.96%
HDB Financial 
Services Limited
Subsidiary
India
94.96%
HDB Employee 
Welfare Trust
*
India
	
The financial statements of HDBFSL and HSL have been 
prepared in accordance with notified Indian Accounting 
Standards ('Ind-AS') with effect from April 1, 2018. The 
financial statements used for consolidation are special 
purpose financial statements prepared in accordance with 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (‘GAAP’) 
specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 
read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 
and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021. 
* 	
The accounts of HDB Employee Welfare Trust, a trust 
established for providing general welfare measures 
such as medical relief and educational assistance to 
the employees of the Bank and their dependents has 
been entirely consolidated.
** 	
Denotes HDFC Bank’s direct interest.
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022 the Bank’s 
shareholding in HDB Financial Services Limited 
decreased from 95.1% to 94.9% on account of the 
stock options exercised by minority stakeholders.
  	
During the year ended March 31, 2022 the Bank’s 
shareholding in HDFC Securities Limited decreased 
from 96.3% to 95.9% on account of the stock options 
exercised by minority stakeholders.

320
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
	
The audited financial statements of the subsidiary 
companies, entity controlled by the Bank have been drawn 
up to the same reporting date as that of the Bank, i.e. 
March 31, 2022.
D	
Principal Accounting Policies 
1	
Investments
	
HDFC Bank Limited 
	
Classification:
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, investments are 
classified on the date of purchase into “Held for Trading” 
(‘HFT’), “Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Held to Maturity” 
(‘HTM’) categories (hereinafter called “categories”). 
Subsequent shifting amongst the categories is done 
in accordance with the RBI guidelines. Under each of 
these categories, investments are further classified under 
six groups (hereinafter called “groups”) - Government 
Securities, Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures 
and Bonds, Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures 
and Other Investments. 
	
Purchase and sale transactions in securities are accounted 
on settlement date except in the case of equity shares 
which are accounted on trade date.
	
Basis of classification:
	
Investments that are held for resale within 90 days from 
the date of purchase are classified under HFT category. 
Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity are 
classified under HTM category. Investments in the equity 
of subsidiaries / joint ventures are categorised as HTM. 
Investments which are not classified in either of the above 
categories are classified under AFS category.
	
Acquisition cost:
	
Brokerage, commission, etc. and broken period interest 
on debt instruments are recognised in the Profit and Loss 
Account and are not included in the cost of acquisition.
	
Disposal of investments:
	
Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid 
three categories is recognised in the Profit and Loss 
Account. Cost of investments is based on the weighted 
average cost method. The profit from sale of investment 
under HTM category, net of taxes and transfer to statutory 
reserve is appropriated from the Profit and Loss Account 
to “Capital Reserve”.
	
Short sale:
	
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central 
Government dated securities. The short position is 
categorised under HFT category and netted off from 
investments. The short position is marked to market and 
loss, if any, is charged to the Profit and Loss Account 
while gain, if any, is ignored. Profit / Loss on short sale is 
recognised on settlement date. 
	
Valuation:
	
Investments classified under AFS and HFT categories 
are marked to market individually and depreciation 
/ appreciation is aggregated for each group and net 
depreciation in each group is provided and net appreciation 
is ignored.
	
Traded investments are valued based on the trades / 
quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or prices 
published by Financial Benchmarks India Pvt Ltd. 
(FBIL) with Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives 
Association (FIMMDA) as the calculating agent. Investments 
denominated in foreign currencies are valued based on the 
prices provided by market information providers such as 
Bloomberg, Refinitiv, etc.
	
The market value of unquoted government of India securities, 
state government securities and special bonds such as oil 
bonds, fertilizer bonds etc. issued by the government of 
India, is computed as per the prices published by FBIL with 
FIMMDA as the calculating agent.
	
The valuation of other unquoted fixed income securities (viz. 
other approved securities and bonds and debentures), and 
preference shares, is done with appropriate mark-up, i.e. 
applicable FIMMDA published credit spread over the Yield 
to Maturity (YTM) rates for government of India securities as 
published by FBIL with FIMMDA as the calculating agent.
	
Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-up 
value, if the latest Balance Sheet is available or at ` 1 for 
each company. 
	
Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest net asset value 
declared by the respective schemes of the mutual fund. 
	
Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of deposits 
being discounted instruments, are valued at carrying cost. 
	
Investments in Security receipts (SR) and unquoted 
units of Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT) are valued 
as per the net asset value provided by the issuing Asset 
Reconstruction Company and InvIT trust respectively. 
	
Investments in unquoted Venture Capital Fund (VCF) are 
categorised, at the discretion of the Bank, under HTM 
category for an initial period of three years and valued at 
cost during this period. Such investments are transferred 
to the AFS category after the said period of three years. 
Investments in AFS category are valued at NAV shown by 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
321
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
the VCF in its financial statements. Units are valued based 
on the latest audited financials of the VCF if available or at 
` 1 per VCF as per the RBI guidelines.
	
Pass Through Certificates (PTC) including Priority Sector-
PTCs are valued by using FIMMDA credit spread as 
applicable for the NBFC category, based on the credit rating 
of the respective PTC over the YTM rates for government 
of India securities published by FBIL with FIMMDA as the 
calculating agent. 
	
Net depreciation, if any, compared to the acquisition cost, 
in any of the six groups, is charged to the Profit and Loss 
Account. The net appreciation, if any, in any of the six groups 
is not recognised except to the extent of depreciation 
provided earlier. The book value of individual securities is 
not changed on such revaluation of investments.
	
Investments classified under HTM category are carried 
at their acquisition cost and not marked to market. Any 
premium on acquisition is amortised over the remaining 
maturity period of the security on a constant yield to 
maturity basis. Such amortisation of premium is adjusted 
against interest income from investments. Any diminution, 
other than temporary, in the value of investments in HTM 
category is provided for.
	
Non-performing investments are identified and provision 
are made thereon based on the RBI guidelines. The 
provision on such non-performing investments are not set 
off against the appreciation in respect of other performing 
investments. Interest on non-performing investments is not 
recognised until received.
	
Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions:
	
Repurchase (Repo) and reverse repurchase (Reverse 
Repo) transactions are reflected as borrowing and lending 
transactions respectively. 
	
Borrowing cost on repo transactions is accounted as 
interest expense and revenue on reverse repo transactions 
is accounted as interest income.
	
HDFC Securities Limited
	
Investments that are readily realisable and are intended 
to be held for not more than one year from the date, on 
which such investments are made, are classified as current 
investments. All other investments are classified as long 
term investments. Current investments are carried at cost 
or fair value, whichever is lower. Long-term investments are 
carried at cost. However, provision for diminution is made 
to recognise a decline, other than temporary, in the value 
of the investments, such reduction being determined and 
made for each investment individually.
	
HDB Financial Services Limited
	
Investments expected to mature after twelve months are 
taken as long term / non-current investment and stated 
at cost. Provision is recognised only in case of diminution, 
which is other than temporary in nature. Investments 
maturing within three months from the date of acquisition 
are classified as cash equivalents if they are readily 
convertible into cash. All other investments are recognised 
as short term / current investments and are valued at lower 
of cost and net realisable value. 	
2 	
Advances
	
HDFC Bank Limited
	
Classification:
	
Advances are classified as performing and non-performing 
based on the RBI guidelines and are stated net of bills 
rediscounted, inter-bank participation with risk, specific 
provisions, interest in suspense for non-performing 
advances, claims received from Credit Guarantors, 
provisions for funded interest term loan and provision for 
diminution in the fair value of restructured assets. 
	
Provisioning:
	
Specific loan loss provisions in respect of non-performing 
advances are made based on management’s assessment 
of the degree of impairment of advances, subject to the 
minimum provisioning prescribed by the RBI. 
	
The specific provision for retail non-performing assets are 
also based on the nature of product and delinquency levels. 
	
Specific loan loss provisions in respect of non-performing 
advances are included under Provisions and Contingencies. 
	
Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance 
with the Bank’s policy. Recoveries from bad debts written-
off are included under other income. 
	
In relation to derivative contracts, with non-performing 
borrowers, the Bank makes provision for the entire amount 
of overdue and future receivables relating to positive 
marked to market value of the said derivative contracts.
	
The Bank maintains general provision for standard assets 
including credit exposures computed as per the current 
marked to market values of interest rate and foreign 
exchange derivative contracts and gold. In the case of 
overseas branches, general provision on standard assets 
is maintained at the higher of the levels stipulated by the 
respective overseas regulator or RBI. Provision for standard 
assets is included under other liabilities.
	
In addition to the above, the Bank on a prudent basis 
makes provisions on advances or exposures which are not 
NPAs, but has reasons to believe on the basis of the extant 

322
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
environment or specific information or basis regulatory 
guidance / instructions, of a possible slippage of a specific 
advance or a group of advances or exposures or potential 
exposures. These are classified as contingent provisions 
and included under other liabilities.
	
Provisions made in addition to the Bank’s policy for specific 
loan loss provisions for non-performing assets, possible 
slippage of specific exposures and regulatory general 
provisions are categorised as floating provisions. Creation 
of floating provisions is considered by the Bank up to a level 
approved by the Board of Directors. Floating provisions 
are used only for contingencies under extraordinary 
circumstances and for making specific provisions for non-
performing accounts. Floating provisions are included 
under other liabilities.
	
Further to the provisions required to be held according 
to the asset classification status, provisions are held for 
individual country exposures (other than for home country 
exposure). Countries are categorised into risk categories 
as per Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. 
(‘ECGC’) guidelines and provisioning is done in respect of 
that country where the net funded exposure is one percent 
or more of the Bank’s total assets. Provision for country risk 
is included under other liabilities.
	
In accordance with the RBI guidelines on the prudential 
framework for resolution of stressed assets and the 
resolution frameworks for COVID-19 related stress and 
its Board approved policy, the Bank has implemented 
resolution plans for eligible borrowers. The asset 
classification and necessary provisions thereon are done 
in accordance with the said RBI guidelines.
	
HDB Financial Services Limited
	
Classification:
	
Receivables under financing activity are classified as 
standard, sub-standard and doubtful assets as per the 
Company policy approved by the Board and as per RBI 
guidelines. The rates applied for making provisions on non-
performing assets (NPA) are higher than those required by 
the relevant RBI guidelines. Interest on non-performing 
assets is transferred to an interest suspense account and 
not recognised in the Profit and Loss Account until received. 
Receivables under financing activity are recognised on 
disbursement of loan and in case of new asset financing 
on the transfer of ownership.
	
Provisioning:
	
The Company assesses all receivables for their recoverability 
and accordingly recognises provision for non-performing 
and doubtful assets as per approved Company policies 
and guidelines. The Company ensures provisions made 
are not lower than as stipulated by RBI guidelines.
	
The Company provides 0.40% on standard assets as 
stipulated by RBI guidelines.
	
Loan origination costs:
	
Brokerage, commission, incentive to employee, etc. paid at 
the time of acquisition of loans are charged to expenses.
3	
Securitisation and transfer of assets
	
HDFC Bank Limited
	
Assets transferred through securitisation and direct 
assignment of cash flows are de-recognised in the Balance 
Sheet when they are sold (true sale criteria being fully met 
with) and consideration is received. Sales / transfers that do 
not meet true sale criteria are accounted for as borrowings. 
For a securitisation or direct assignment transaction, the 
Bank recognises profit upon receipt of the funds and loss 
is recognised at the time of sale.
	
On sale of stressed assets, if the sale is at a price below 
the net book value (i.e., funded outstanding less specific 
provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the Profit and 
Loss Account and if the sale is for a value higher than the 
net book value, the excess provision is credited to the 
Profit and Loss Account in the year when the sum of cash 
received by way of initial consideration and / or redemption 
or transfer of security receipts issued by SC / RC exceeds 
the net book value of the loan at the time of transfer.
	
In respect of stressed assets sold under an asset 
securitisation, where the investment by the bank in security 
receipts (SRs) backed by the assets sold by it is more than 
10 percent of such SRs, provisions held are higher of the 
provisions required in terms of net asset value declared 
by the Securitisation Company (‘SC’) / Reconstruction 
Company (‘RC’) and provisions as per the extant norms 
applicable to the underlying loans, notionally treating the 
book value of these SRs as the corresponding stressed 
loans assuming the loans remained in the books of 
the Bank. 
	
The Bank invests in Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) 
issued by other Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs). These 
are accounted at acquisition cost and are classified as 
investments. The Bank also buys loans through the direct 
assignment route which are classified as advances. These 
are carried at acquisition cost unless it is more than the 
face value, in which case the premium is amortised based 
on effective interest rate method.
	
The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank 
participation with and without risk. In the case of participation 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
323
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
with risk, the aggregate amount of the participation issued 
by the Bank is reduced from advances. In case where 
the Bank is assuming risk by participation, the aggregate 
amount of the participation is classified under advances. 
In the case of issue of participation certificate without 
risk, the aggregate amount of participation issued by the 
Bank is classified under borrowings and where the Bank 
is acquiring participation certificate, the aggregate amount 
of participation acquired is shown as due from banks 
under advances.
	
HDB Financial Services Limited	
	• 
Prior to Issuance of RBI Circular dated August 21, 
2012
a)	
On receivables being assigned / securtised, the 
assets are de-recognised as all the rights, title, 
future receivables & interest thereof are assigned 
to the purchaser.
b)	
Gains arising on assignment of receivables 
will be recognised at the end of the tenure of 
assignment contract as per the RBI guidelines, 
while loss, if any is recognised upfront.
• 
Post Issuance of RBI Circular dated August 21, 2012
a)	
Securitised receivables are de-recognised in the 
Balance Sheet when they are sold i.e. they meet 
true sale criteria.
b)	
Gains arising out of securitisation of assets are 
recognised over the tenure of the securities 
issued by Special Purpose Vehicle Trust (SPV).
c)	
The excess interest spread on the securitisation 
transactions are recognised in the Profit and 
Loss Account only when it is redeemed in cash 
by the SPV after adjusting for overdue receivable 
for more than 90 days. Losses, if any, are 
recognised upfront.
4	
Fixed assets and depreciation
	
HDFC Bank Limited
	
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation as adjusted for impairment, if any. Cost 
includes cost of purchase and all expenditure like site 
preparation, installation costs and professional fees 
incurred on the asset before it is ready to use. Subsequent 
expenditure incurred on assets put to use is capitalised only 
when it increases the future benefit / functioning capability 
from / of such assets. 
	
Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of 
the fixed asset on a straight-line basis. The management 
believes that the useful life of assets assessed by the 
Bank, pursuant to Part C of Schedule II to the Companies 
Act, 2013, taking into account changes in environment, 
changes in technology, the utility and efficacy of the asset 
in use, fairly reflects its estimate of useful lives of the fixed 
assets. The estimated useful lives of key fixed assets are 
given below:
Asset
Estimated useful 
life as assessed 
by the Bank
Estimated useful 
life specified 
under Schedule II 
of the Companies 
Act, 2013
Owned Premises
61 years
60 years
Automated Teller 
Machines (ATMs)
10 years
15 years
Electrical equipments 
and installations
6 to 10 years
10 years
Office equipments
3 to 6 years
5 years
Computers
3 years
3 years
Modems, routers, 
switches, servers, 
network and related 
IT equipments
3 to 6 years
6 years
Motor cars
4 years
8 years
Furniture and fittings
16 years
10 years
 • 
Improvements to lease hold premises are amortised 
over the remaining primary period of lease.
• 
Software and system development expenditure is 
depreciated over a period of 5 years.
• 
Point of sales terminals are depreciated over a period 
of 4 years.
• 
For assets purchased and sold during the year, 
depreciation is provided on pro-rata basis. 
• 
Whenever there is a revision of the estimated useful 
life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable amount 
is charged over the revised remaining useful life of the 
said asset.
• 
Profit on sale of immovable property net of taxes and 
transfer to statutory reserve, are transferred to capital 
reserve account.
• 
Assets (other than POS terminals) costing less than 
` 5,000 individually, are fully depreciated in the year 
of purchase.
	
HDFC Securities Limited
	
Tangible fixed assets are stated at acquisition cost, net of 
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment 
losses, if any. Cost comprises purchase price and expenses 
directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working 
condition for the intended use. Subsequent expenditure 
related to an item of fixed asset are added to its book value 

324
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
only if it increases the future benefits from the existing asset 
beyond its previously assessed standard of performance.
	
Items of fixed assets that have been retired from active 
use and are held for disposal are stated at the lower of 
their net book value and net realisable value and are shown 
separately in the financial statements.
	
Gains or losses arising from disposal or retirement of tangible 
fixed assets are measured as the difference between the 
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset and are recognised net, within “Other Income” or 
“Other Expenses”, as the case maybe, in the Profit and 
Loss Account in the year of disposal or retirement.
	
Capital work-in-progress are fixed assets which are not yet 
ready for their intended use. Such assets are carried at cost 
comprising direct cost and related incidental expenses.
	
Depreciation is provided on a pro-rata basis to fully 
depreciate the assets using the straight-line method over 
the estimated useful lives of the assets.
	
For the following categories of assets, depreciation on 
tangible fixed assets has been provided on the straight-
line method as per the useful life prescribed in Schedule II 
to the Companies Act, 2013:
Asset
Estimated useful life
Computer hardware 
3 years
Office equipments
5 years
Furniture and fixtures
10 years
Leasehold improvements Over the remaining period of the lease 
or estimated life, whichever is shorter 
Electricals
10 years
Office premises
60 years
	
For the following categories of assets, the Company has 
assessed useful life based on technical advice, taking 
into account the nature of the asset, the estimates usage 
of asset, the operating condition of asset, anticipated 
technological changes and utility in the business, as below:
Asset
Estimated useful life
Vehicles
4 years
Network & servers
4 years
• 
All tangible and intangible assets costing less than 
` 5,000 individually are fully depreciated in the year 
of purchase.
• 
Useful lives are reviewed at each financial year end and 
adjusted if required.
• 
Intangible assets are stated at acquisition cost, 
net of accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any.
• 
Cost of an intangible asset includes purchase price, 
non-refundable taxes and duties and any other directly 
attributable expenditure on making the asset ready 
for its intended use and net of any trade discounts 
and rebates. Subsequent expenditure on an intangible 
asset is charged to the Profit and Loss Account as an 
expense unless it is probable that such expenditure will 
enable the intangible asset increase the future benefits 
from the existing asset beyond its previously assessed 
standard of performance and such expenditure can 
be measured and attributed to the intangible asset 
reliably, in which case, such expenditure is capitalised.
• 
Expenditure on software development eligible for 
capitalisation are carried as intangible assets under 
development where such assets are not yet ready for 
their intended use.
• 
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis 
over their estimated useful lives. The amortisation 
period and the amortisation method are reviewed 
at least at each reporting date. If the expected 
useful life of the asset is significantly different from 
previous estimates, the amortisation period is 
changed accordingly.
• 
Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal 
of an intangible asset are determined as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and recognised as income or 
expense in the Profit and Loss Account in the year 
of disposal.
	
The estimated useful lives of intangible assets used for 
amortisation are:
Asset
Estimated useful life
Computer software licenses
5 years
Electronic trading platform (Website)
5 years
Bombay Stock Exchange card 
10 years
	
HDB Financial Services Limited	
	
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment, if any. The cost of fixed 
assets comprise purchase price and any attributable cost 
of bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended 
use. Subsequent expenditure incurred on assets put to 
use is capitalised only when it increases the future benefit 
/ functioning capability from / of such assets.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
325
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of the 
fixed assets on a straight line basis in the manner prescribed 
in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013. The estimated 
lives used and differences from the lives prescribed under 
Schedule II are noted in the table below: 
Asset
Estimated useful 
life as assessed by 
the Company
Estimated useful 
life under Schedule 
II of Companies 
Act, 2013
Building
60 years 
60 years 
Leasehold 
improvements
Tenure of lease 
agreements
Tenure of lease 
agreements
Motor cars
4 years
8 years
Computers
2-5 years
3 years
Furniture and 
fixtures
3-7 years
10 years
Office equipments
3 years
5 years
• 
Improvements to lease hold premises are charged 
off over the primary period of lease or its useful life, 
whichever is lower.
• 
Items costing less than ` 5,000 are fully depreciated 
in the year of purchase.
• 
The Company has estimated Nil residual value at the 
end of the useful life for all block of assets.
• 
For assets purchased and sold during the year, 
depreciation is being provided on pro-rata basis by 
the Company.
	
Software and system development expenditure are 
capitalised at cost of acquisition including cost attributable 
to bring the same in working condition and the useful life 
of the same is estimated of 3 years with zero residual 
value. Any expenses on such software for support and 
maintenance payable annually are charged to the Profit 
and Loss Account.
5	
Impairment of assets
	
The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether 
there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. 
Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent the 
carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated 
recoverable amount.
6	
Translation of foreign currency items
	
HDFC Bank Limited
	
Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic 
operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing 
on the date of the transaction. Income and expenditure 
items of integral foreign operations (representative offices) 
are translated at the weekly average closing rates and 
of non-integral foreign operations (foreign branches and 
offshore banking units) at the monthly average closing rates.
	
Foreign currency monetary items of domestic and integral 
foreign operations are translated at the closing exchange 
rates notified by Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association 
of India (FEDAI) as at the Balance Sheet date and the 
resulting net revaluation profit or loss arising due to a net 
open position in any foreign currency is recognised in the 
Profit and Loss Account.
	
Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency 
assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations 
are translated at closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI 
at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss 
arising from exchange differences are accumulated in the 
Foreign Currency Translation Account until disposal of the 
non-integral foreign operations in accordance with AS - 11, 
The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates and the 
extant RBI guidelines.
	
Foreign currency denominated contingent liabilities on 
account of foreign exchange and derivative contracts, 
guarantees, letters of credit, acceptances and 
endorsements are reported at closing rates of exchange 
notified by FEDAI as at the Balance Sheet date.
	
HDFC Securities Limited
	
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the rates 
of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction. 
Exchange differences, if any arising out of transactions 
settled during the year are recognised in the Profit and 
Loss Account. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies as at the Balance Sheet date are 
translated at the closing exchange rate on that date. The 
exchange differences, if any, are recognised in the Profit 
and Loss Account and related assets and liabilities are 
accordingly restated in the Balance Sheet.
7	
Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
	
HDFC Bank Limited
	
Foreign exchange spot and forward contracts, both 
deliverable and non-deliverable, outstanding as at the 
Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are revalued 
at the closing spot and forward rates respectively as 
notified by FEDAI and at interpolated rates for contracts of 
interim maturities. 
	
The USD-INR exchange rate for valuation of contracts 
having longer maturities i.e. greater than one year, is derived 
using the USD-INR spot rate as well as relevant INR yield 
curve and USD yield curve. For other currency pairs, the 
forward points (for rates / tenors not published by FEDAI) 
are obtained from Refinitiv or Bloomberg for valuation of the 

326
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
forex deals. Valuation is considered on present value basis. 
For this purpose, the forward profit or loss on the deals 
are discounted till the valuation date using the discounting 
yields. The resulting profit or loss on valuation is recognised 
in the Profit and Loss Account. Foreign exchange contracts 
are classified as assets when the fair value is positive 
(positive marked to market value) or as liabilities when the 
fair value is negative (negative marked to market value).
	
Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for 
trading, that are entered into to establish the amount of 
reporting currency required or available at the settlement 
date of a transaction and are outstanding at the Balance 
Sheet date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate. 
The premium or discount arising at the inception of such 
forward exchange contract is amortised as expense or 
income over the life of the contract.
	
The Bank recognises all derivative contracts at fair value, on 
the date on which the derivative contracts are entered into 
and are re-measured at fair value as at the Balance Sheet 
date. Derivatives are classified as assets when the fair value 
is positive (positive marked to market value) or as liabilities 
when the fair value is negative (negative marked to market 
value). 
	
The Bank as part of its risk management strategy, makes 
use of financial derivative instruments, including foreign 
exchange forward contracts, for hedging the risk embedded 
in some of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the 
balance sheet. The Bank identifies the hedged item (asset 
or liability) at the inception of the transaction itself. Hedge 
effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception of 
the hedge and at the reporting date thereafter.
	
In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of 
the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognised 
in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow 
hedges, the changes in fair value of effective portion are 
recognised in Reserves and Surplus under ‘Cash flow 
hedge reserve’ and ineffective portion of an effective 
hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in the Profit 
and Loss Account. The accumulated balance in the cash 
flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging relationship, is 
recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at the same time 
that the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the 
Profit and Loss Account.
	
HDB Financial Services Limited
	
Derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges, 
the hedging instrument is measured at fair value and any 
gain or loss that is determined to be an effective hedge is 
recognised within equity i.e., Cash flow Hedge Reserve. 
Amounts recognised in equity are transferred to the Profit 
and Loss Account in the same period as the cash flows of 
hedged items affect the Profit and Loss Account. When a 
derivative contract expires or is sold or if a hedge no longer 
meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative 
profit or loss in the Cash Flow Hedge Reserve is retained 
in equity until the hedged cash flow is recognised in the 
Profit and Loss Account. However, if hedged cash flows 
are no longer expected to occur, the profit or loss against 
the corresponding derivative contract, accumulated in the 
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve, is immediately released through 
the Profit and Loss Account. Changes in the fair values 
of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting are recognised immediately in the Profit and 
Loss Account.
8	
Revenue recognition
	
HDFC Bank Limited 
• 
Interest income is recognised in the Profit and Loss 
Account on an accrual basis, except in the case of non-
performing assets and overdue interest on retail EMI 
based performing advances, which are recognised 
when realised. In case of domestic advances, where 
interest is collected on rear end basis, such interest 
is accounted on receipt basis in accordance with the 
RBI communication.
• 
Interest income on investments in PTCs and loans 
bought out through the direct assignment route is 
recognised at their effective interest rate.
• 
Income on non-coupon bearing discounted 
instruments is recognised over the tenor of the 
instrument on a constant yield basis.
• 
Loan processing fee is recognised as income when 
due. Syndication / Arranger fee is recognised as 
income when a significant act / milestone is completed.
• 
Gain / loss on sell down of loans is recognised in line 
with the extant RBI guidelines.
• 
Dividend on equity shares, preference shares and on 
mutual fund units is recognised as income when the 
right to receive the dividend is established. 
• 
Guarantee commission, commission on letter of credit, 
annual locker rent fees and annual fees for credit cards 
are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period 
of contract. Other fees and commission income are 
recognised when due, where the Bank is reasonably 
certain of ultimate collection. 
• 
Fees paid / received for priority sector lending 
certificates (PSLC) is recognised on straight-line basis 
over the period of the certificate.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
327
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
HDFC Securities Limited
• 
Income from services rendered as a broker is 
recognised upon rendering of the services.
• 
Fees for subscription based services are received 
periodically but are recognised as earned on a pro-
rata basis over the term of the contract.
• 
Commissions from distribution of financial products 
are recognised upon allotment of the securities to the 
applicant or as the case may be, issue of the insurance 
policy to the applicant.
• 
Commissions and fees recognised as aforesaid 
are exclusive of goods and service tax, securities 
transaction tax, stamp duties and other levies by SEBI 
and stock exchanges.
• 
Interest is earned on delayed payments from clients 
and amounts funded to them as well as term deposits 
with banks.
• 
Interest income is recognised on a time proportion 
basis taking into account the amount outstanding 
from customers or on the financial instrument and the 
rate applicable.
• 
Dividend income is recognised when the right to 
receive the dividend is established.
	
HDB Financial Services Limited
• 
Interest income is recognised in the Profit and 
Loss Account on an accrual basis. In case of Non-
Performing Assets (NPA), interest income is recognised 
upon realisation as per the RBI Guidelines. Interest 
accrued and not realised before the classification of 
the asset as an NPA is reversed and credited to the 
interest suspense account.
• 
Income from BPO services and other financial charges 
are recognised on an accrual basis, except in case 
of cheque bouncing charges, late payment charges, 
foreclosure charges and application money, which are 
accounted as and when received.
• 
Upfront / processing fees are recovered and 
recognised at the time of disbursement of loan.
9	
Employee benefits
	
HDFC Bank Limited
	
Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS):
	
The Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘the Scheme’) 
provides for the grant of options to acquire equity shares 
of the Bank to its employees and whole time directors. 
The options granted to employees vest as per their vesting 
schedule and these may be exercised by the employees 
within a specified period. 
	
The Bank follows the intrinsic value method to account for 
its stock-based employee compensation plans in respect of 
options granted up to March 31, 2021. Compensation cost 
is measured by the excess, if any, of the market price of 
the underlying stock over the exercise price as determined 
under the option plan. The market price is the closing 
price on the stock exchange where there is highest trading 
volume on the working day immediately preceding the date 
of grant. Compensation cost, if any is amortised over the 
vesting period.
	
Effective April 01, 2021, the fair value of share-linked 
instruments on the date of grant for all instruments granted 
after March 31, 2021 is recognised as an expense in 
accordance with the RBI guidelines on Compensation of 
Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material 
Risk Takers and Control Function staff. The fair value of the 
stock-based employee compensation is estimated using 
Black-Scholes model. The compensation cost is amortised 
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the option 
with a corresponding credit to Employee Stock Options 
Reserve. On exercise of the stock options, corresponding 
balance in Employee Stock Options Reserve is transferred 
to Share Premium. In respect of the options which expire 
unexercised, the balance standing to the credit of Employee 
Stock Options Reserve is transferred to General Reserve.
	
Gratuity:
	
The Bank has an obligation towards gratuity, a defined 
benefit retirement plan covering all eligible employees. 
The plan benefit vests upon completion of five years of 
service and is in the form of lump sum amount, without an 
upper limit, equivalent to 15 days’ basic salary payable for 
each completed year of service to all eligible employees on 
resignation, retirement, death while in employment or on 
termination of employment. The Bank makes contributions 
to a recognised Gratuity Trust administered by trustees and 
whose funds are managed by insurance companies. In 
respect of erstwhile Lord Krishna Bank (eLKB) employees, 
the Bank makes contribution to a fund set up by eLKB and 
administered by the Board of Trustees. 
	
The defined gratuity benefit plans are valued by an 
independent actuary as at the Balance Sheet date using 
the projected unit credit method as per the requirement of 
AS-15, Employee Benefits, to determine the present value 
of the defined benefit obligation and the related service 
costs. The actuarial calculations entails assumptions about 
demographics, early retirement, salary increases and 
interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is recognised in the 
Profit and Loss Account.

328
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
	
Superannuation:
	
The Bank has a Superannuation Plan under which 
employees of the Bank, above a prescribed grade, are 
entitled to receive retirement benefits either through salary 
or under a defined contribution plan. For those opting for 
a defined contribution plan, the Bank contributes a sum 
equivalent to 13% of the employee’s eligible annual basic 
salary (15% for the whole time directors and for certain 
eligible employees of the erstwhile Centurion Bank of 
Punjab (eCBoP staff) to a Trust administered by trustees 
and whose funds are managed by insurance companies. 
The Bank has no liability towards future superannuation 
fund benefits other than its contribution, and recognises 
such contribution as an expense in the year incurred.
	
Provident fund:
	
The Bank is covered under the Employees Provident Fund 
and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and accordingly 
all employees of the Bank are entitled to receive benefits 
under the provident fund. The Bank contributes an amount, 
on a monthly basis, at a determined rate (currently 12% 
of employee’s basic salary). Of this, the Bank contributes 
an amount equal to 8.33% of employee’s basic salary up 
to a maximum salary level of ` 15,000/- per month, to the 
Pension Scheme administered by the Regional Provident 
Fund Office. The balance amount of the 12% employer’s 
share is contributed to an exempted Trust set up by the 
Bank and administered by a Board of Trustees. The Bank 
recognises such contributions as an expense in the year in 
which it is incurred. Interest payable to the members of the 
exempted trust shall not be lower than the statutory rate 
of interest declared by the Central Government under the 
Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions 
Act, 1952 and shortfall, if any, shall be made good by 
the Bank.
	
The guidance note on implementing AS-15, Employee 
Benefits, states that benefits involving employer established 
provident funds, which require interest shortfalls to be 
provided, are to be considered as defined benefit plans. 
Actuarial valuation of this Provident Fund interest shortfall 
is done as per the guidance note issued in this respect by 
The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI) and provision towards 
this liability is made.
	
The overseas branches of the Bank make contribution to the 
respective applicable government social security scheme 
calculated as a percentage of the employees’ salaries. 
The Bank’s obligations are limited to these contributions, 
which are expensed when due, as such contribution is in 
the nature of defined contribution.
	
Pension:
	
In respect of pension payable to certain eLKB employees 
under the Lord Krishna Bank (Employees) Pension 
Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme, the Bank 
contributes 10% of basic salary to a pension trust set up 
by the Bank and administered by the Board of Trustees and 
an additional amount towards the liability shortfall based on 
an independent actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet 
date, which includes assumptions about demographics, 
early retirement, salary increases and interest rates.
	
In respect of certain eLKB employees who had moved to 
a Cost to Company (CTC) based compensation structure 
and had completed less than 15 years of service, the 
contribution which was made until then, is maintained as a 
fund and will be converted into annuity on separation after a 
lock-in-period of two years. For this category of employees, 
liability stands frozen and no additional provision is required 
except for interest as applicable to Provident Fund, which 
is provided for.
	
In respect of certain eLKB employees who moved to a CTC 
structure and had completed service of more than 15 years, 
pension would be paid on separation based on salary 
applicable as on the date of movement to CTC structure. 
Provision thereto is made based on an independent 
actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet date.
	
National Pension Scheme (NPS):
	
In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the 
NPS, the Bank contributes certain percentage of the basic 
salary of employees to the aforesaid scheme, a defined 
contribution plan, which is managed and administered by 
pension fund management companies. The Bank has no 
liability other than its contribution, and recognises such 
contributions as an expense in the year incurred.
	
HDFC Securities Limited
	
Short term
	
Short term employee benefits include salaries and 
performance incentives. A liability is recognised for the 
amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus 
or target based incentives if the Company has a present 
legal or informal obligation to pay this amount as a result of 
past service provided by the employee, and the obligation 
can be estimated reliably. These costs are recognised as an 
expense in the Profit and Loss Account at the undiscounted 
amount expected to be paid over the period of services 
rendered by the employees to the Company.
	
Post-employment
	
The Company offers its employees long term benefits by 
way of defined-contribution and defined-benefit plans, of 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
329
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
which some have assets in special funds or securities. The 
plans are financed by the Company and in the case of 
some defined contribution plans by the Company along 
with its employees.
     	 Defined-contribution plans
	
These are plans in which the Company pays pre-defined 
amounts to separate funds and does not have any legal 
or informal obligation to pay additional sums. These 
comprise of contributions to the National Pension Scheme, 
Employees’ Provident Fund, Family Pension Fund and 
Superannuation Fund. The Company’s payments to the 
defined-contribution plans are reported as expenses during 
the period in which the employees perform the services 
that the payment covers.
	
Defined-benefit plans
	
Expenses for defined-benefit gratuity plan are calculated 
as at the Balance Sheet date by an independent actuary 
in a manner that distributes expenses over the employee’s 
working life. These commitments are valued at the present 
value of the expected future payments, with consideration 
for calculated future salary increases, using a discount rate 
corresponding to the interest rate estimated by the actuary 
having regard to the interest rate on government bonds with 
a remaining term that is almost equivalent to the average 
balance working period of employees. The fair values of 
the plan assets are deducted in determining the net liability. 
When the fair value of plan assets exceeds the commitments 
computed as aforesaid, the recognised asset is limited to 
the net total of any cumulative past service costs and the 
present value of any economic benefits available in the form 
of reductions in future contributions to the plan. 
	
Actuarial losses or gains are recognised in the Profit and 
Loss Account in the year in which they arise.
	
Other long term employee benefits
	
Compensated absences which accrue to employees and 
which can be carried to future periods and are expected 
to be availed in more than twelve months immediately 
following the year in which the employee has rendered 
service are reported as expenses during the year in which 
the employees perform the services that the benefit covers 
and the liabilities are reported at the undiscounted amount 
of the benefits. 
	
Share-based payment transactions
a.	
The cost of equity-settled instrument is determined by 
the fair value at the date when the grant is made using 
an appropriate valuation model.
b.	
That cost is recognised, together with a corresponding 
increase in share-based payment reserves in equity, 
over the period in which the performance and /
or service conditions are fulfilled. The cumulative 
expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at 
each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the 
extent to which the vesting period has expired and 
the Company’s best estimate of the number of equity 
instruments that will ultimately vest.
c.	
When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, 
the minimum expense recognised is the expense 
had the terms had not been modified, if the original 
terms of the award are met. An additional expense is 
recognised for any modification that increases the total 
fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or 
is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at 
the date of modification. Where an award is cancelled 
by the entity or by the counter-party, any remaining 
element of the fair value of the award is expensed 
immediately through the Profit and Loss Account.
	
HDB Financial Services Limited 
	
Gratuity
	
The Company provides for gratuity to all employees. The 
benefit is in the form of lump sum payments to vested 
employees on resignation, retirement, or death while 
in employment or on termination of employment of an 
amount equivalent to 15 days basic salary payable for 
each completed year of service. Vesting occurs upon 
completion of five years of service. The Company makes 
annual contributions to fund administered by trustees and 
managed by insurance companies. The defined benefit 
plan are valued by an independent external actuary as 
at the Balance Sheet date using the projected unit credit 
method to determine the present value of defined benefit 
obligation and the related service costs. Under this method, 
the determination is based on actuarial calculations, which 
include assumptions about demographics, early retirement, 
salary increases and interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is 
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
	
Provident fund
	
In accordance with the applicable law, all employees of 
the Company are entitled to receive benefits under the 
Provident Fund Act, 1952. The Company contributes an 
amount, on a monthly basis, at a determined rate to the 
Pension Scheme administered by the Regional Provident 
Fund Commissioner ('RPFC') and the Company has no 
liability for future provident fund benefits other than its 
annual contribution. Since it is a defined contribution plan, 
the contributions are accounted for on an accrual basis and 
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.

330
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
     	 Employee Stock Option Plan
	
The Company has adopted fair value method for options 
granted post March 31, 2021. All the options granted if any 
prior to March 31, 2021 are valued at intrinsic value method. 
Compensation cost is measured by the excess, if any, of 
the fair value of the underlying stock over the exercise 
price as determined under the option plan. The fair value 
of options have been estimated on the dates of each grant 
using the Black-Scholes model. 
10	 Debit and credit card reward points
	
HDFC Bank Limited
	
The Bank estimates the probable redemption of debit 
and credit card reward points and cost per point using an 
actuarial method by employing an independent actuary, 
which includes assumptions such as mortality, redemption 
and spends. Provisions for liabilities on the outstanding 
reward points are made based on an independent actuarial 
valuation as at the Balance Sheet date and included in 
other liabilities and provisions.
11   Bullion
	
HDFC Bank Limited
	
The Bank imports bullion including precious metal bars on 
a consignment basis. The imports are typically on a back-
to-back basis and are priced to the customer based on 
the price quoted by the supplier. The difference between 
the price recovered from customers and cost of bullion 
is accounted at the time of sale to the customers and 
reported as “Other Income’’.
	
The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending 
basis and the interest thereon is accounted as interest 
expense / income respectively.
12	 Lease accounting
	
Lease payments including cost escalation for assets taken 
on operating lease are recognised in the Profit and Loss 
Account over the lease term on a straight-line basis in 
accordance with the AS-19, Leases.
13	 Income tax
	
Income tax expense comprises current tax provision (i.e. 
the amount of tax for the period determined in accordance 
with the Income Tax Act, 1961, the rules framed there 
under and considering the material principles set out in 
Income Computation and Disclosure Standards) and the 
net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during the 
year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for 
the future tax consequences of timing differences between 
the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their 
respective tax bases, and operating loss carried forward, 
if any. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using 
the enacted or substantively enacted tax rates as at the 
Balance Sheet date. 
	
Current tax assets and liabilities and deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are off-set when they relate to income taxes 
levied by the same taxation authority, when the entity has 
a legal right to off-set and when the entity intends to settle 
on a net basis.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent there 
is reasonable certainty that the assets can be realised 
in future. In case of unabsorbed depreciation or carried 
forward loss under taxation laws, deferred tax assets are 
recognised only if there is virtual certainty of realisation 
of such assets. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each 
Balance Sheet date and appropriately adjusted to reflect the 
amount that is reasonably / virtually certain to be realised.
14	 Earnings per share
	
The Group reports basic and diluted earnings per equity 
share in accordance with AS-20, Earnings per Share. Basic 
earnings per equity share has been computed by dividing 
net profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders by 
the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential 
dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to 
issue equity shares were exercised or converted to equity 
during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share are 
computed using the weighted average number of equity 
shares and the dilutive potential equity shares outstanding 
during the period except where the results are anti-dilutive.
15	 Share issue expenses
	
HDFC Bank Limited
	
Share issue expenses are adjusted against Share Premium 
Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
16	 Segment information 
	
The disclosure relating to segment information is in 
accordance with AS-17, Segment Reporting and as per 
guidelines issued by RBI.
17	 Accounting for provisions, contingent liabilities 
and contingent assets
	
In accordance with AS-29, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities 
and Contingent Assets, the Group recognises provisions 
when it has a present obligation as a result of a past event, 
it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying 
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation 
and when a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation 
can be made. 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
331
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
Provisions are determined based on management estimate 
required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, 
supplemented by experience of similar transactions. These 
are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and adjusted to 
reflect the current management estimates. 
	
A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
• 
a possible obligation arising from a past event, the 
existence of which will be confirmed by the occurrence 
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future 
events not within the control of the Group; or
• 
a present obligation arising from a past event which is 
not recognised as it is not probable that an outflow of 
resources will be required to settle the obligation or a 
reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation cannot 
be made.
	
When there is a possible obligation or a present obligation 
in respect of which the likelihood of outflow of resources is 
remote, no provision or disclosure is made. 
	
Contingent assets, if any, are not recognised in the financial 
statements since this may result in the recognition of 
income that may never be realised.
18	 Cash and cash equivalents 
	
Cash and cash equivalents include cash including 
foreign currency notes and gold in hand, balances with 
RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and 
short notice.
19	 Corporate social responsibility 
	
Expenditure towards corporate social responsibility, in 
accordance with Companies Act, 2013, is recognised in 
the Profit and Loss Account.

332
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Schedule 18 - Notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Amounts in notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2022 are denominated in 
rupee crore to conform to extant RBI guidelines, except where stated otherwise.
1	
Dividend
	
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), vide its notification dated April 22, 2021 mentioned that banks may pay dividend on equity 
shares from the profits for the financial year ended March 31, 2021, subject to the quantum of dividend being not more than 
fifty per cent of the amount determined as per the dividend payout ratio prescribed by RBI. Accordingly, the Bank has paid 
dividend of ` 6.50 per equity share of ` 1/- each aggregating to ` 3,592.40 crore, for the financial year ended March 31, 2021.
2	
Proposed scheme of amalgamation
	
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 04, 2022, approved a composite Scheme of amalgamation ("Scheme"), 
for the amalgamation of: (i) HDFC Investments Limited and HDFC Holdings Limited, into and with Housing Development 
Finance Corporation Limited ("HDFC Limited"); and thereafter (ii) HDFC Limited into HDFC Bank Limited, and their respective 
shareholders and creditors, under Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws including the 
rules and regulations. The share exchange ratio shall be 42 equity shares of face value of ` 1/- each of the Bank for every 25 
equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each of HDFC Limited. The Scheme is subject to the receipt of requisite approvals from 
statutory and regulatory authorities, and the respective shareholders and creditors, under applicable law.
	
As per the scheme, the appointed date for the amalgamation of HDFC Limited with and into the Bank shall be the effective 
date of the scheme. Upon the scheme becoming effective, the Bank will issue equity shares to the shareholders of HDFC 
Limited as on the record date. The equity shares held by HDFC Limited in the Bank will be extinguished as per the scheme.
3	
Change in accounting policy
	
The RBI, vide its clarification dated August 30, 2021 on Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive 
Officers / Material Risk Takers and Control Function Staff, advised Banks that the fair value of share-linked instruments on the 
date of grant should be recognised as an expense for all instruments granted after the accounting period ending March 31, 
2021. Accordingly, the Group has changed its accounting policy from the intrinsic value method to the fair value method for 
all employee stock options granted after March 31, 2021. The fair value is estimated on the date of grant using Black-Scholes 
model and is recognised as compensation expense over the vesting period. As a result, ‘Employees cost’ for the year ended 
March 31, 2022 is higher by ` 341.24 crore with a consequent reduction in profit after tax by the said amount.
4	
Capital infusion
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has allotted 3,27,64,494 equity shares (previous year: 2,94,90,022 equity 
shares) aggregating to face value of ` 3.27 crore (previous year: ` 2.95 crore) on exercise of stock options. Accordingly, the 
share capital increased by ` 3.27 crore (previous year: ` 2.95 crore) and the share premium increased by ` 2,606.48 crore 
(previous year: ` 1,757.15 crore).
	
The details of the movement in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank are given below: 	
	
	
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Opening balance
551.28
548.33
Addition pursuant to stock options exercised 
3.27
2.95
Closing balance
554.55
551.28

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
333
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
5	
Earnings per equity share
 	
Basic and diluted earnings per equity share have been calculated based on the consolidated net profit after tax attributable 
to the Group of ` 38,052.75 crore (previous year: ` 31,833.21 crore) and the weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the year of 5,53,32,03,566 (previous year: 5,49,96,68,151). 
	
Following is the reconciliation between the basic and diluted earnings per equity share:
Particulars
For the years ended
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Nominal value per share (`)
1.00
1.00
Basic earnings per share (`)
68.77
57.88
Effect of potential equity shares (per share) (`)
(0.46)
 (0.27)
Diluted earnings per share (`)
68.31
57.61
	
Basic earnings per equity share has been computed by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders 
by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share has been 
computed by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders by the weighted average number of 
equity shares and dilutive potential equity shares outstanding during the year, except where the results are anti-dilutive. The 
dilutive impact is on account of stock options granted to employees by the Bank. There is no impact of dilution on the profits 
in the current year and previous year.
	
Following is the reconciliation of the weighted average number of equity shares used in the computation of basic and diluted 
earnings per share:
Particulars
For the years ended
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing basic earnings per equity 
share
5,53,32,03,566
5,49,96,68,151
Effect of potential equity shares outstanding
3,77,30,419
2,57,50,092
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing diluted earnings per equity 
share
5,57,09,33,985
5,52,54,18,243
6	
Reserves and Surplus 
       Statutory Reserve
	
The Bank and a subsidiary have made an appropriation of ` 9,444.38 crore (previous year: ` 7,879.70 crore) out of profits for 
the year ended March 31, 2022 to the Statutory Reserve pursuant to the requirements of Section 17 of the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949 and RBI guidelines dated September 23, 2000.
	
General Reserve
	
The Bank has made an appropriation of ` 3,696.14 crore (previous year: ` 3,111.65 crore) out of profits for the year ended 
March 31, 2022 to the General Reserve.
	
Capital Reserve
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has appropriated ` 666.47 crore (previous year: ` 2,291.68 crore), being the 
profit from sale of investments under HTM category and profit on sale of immovable properties, net of taxes and transfer to 
statutory reserve, from the Profit and Loss Account to the Capital Reserve.
	
Investment Reserve Account
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has appropriated ` 233.13 crore (net) (previous year: ` 61.66 crore (net)) from 
Profit and Loss Account to Investment Reserve Account as per the RBI guidelines.
	
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank made transfer of Nil (previous year: ` 1,712.00 crore) to Investment Fluctuation 
Reserve. As per RBI guidelines, banks were required to create an Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR) equivalent to 2.00% of 

334
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
their HFT and AFS investment portfolios by March 31, 2021. The balance in the IFR as at March 31, 2022 is 2.28% (previous 
year: 2.00%) of the Bank’s HFT and AFS investment portfolios.
	
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank and a subsidiary has recognised ` (108.09) crore (previous year: Nil) as Cash 
Flow Hedge Reserve on derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedge.
	
Employee Stock Option Reserve
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Group has recognised ` 340.52 crore (previous year: Nil) as Employee Stock 
Option Reserve on account of fair valuation of share-linked instruments.
	
Draw down from Reserves
	
The Bank has not undertaken any drawdown from reserves during the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021. 
7	
Accounting for employee share based payments
	
HDFC Bank Limited
	
The shareholders of the Bank approved the grant of equity share options under Plan “C” in June 2005, Plan “D” in June 2007, 
Plan “E” in June 2010, Plan “F” in June 2013 and Plan “G” in July 2016. Under the terms of each of these Plans, the Bank may 
issue to its employees and Whole Time Directors, Equity Stock Options (‘ESOPs’) each of which is convertible into one equity 
share. All the plans were framed in accordance with the SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme & Employee Stock Purchase 
Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to time and as applicable at the time of the grant. The accounting for the 
stock options has been in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweaty Equity) Regulations, 2021 and RBI guidelines to the extent applicable.
	
Plans C, D, E, F and G provide for the issuance of options at the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee of the Board (‘NRC’) at the closing price on the working day immediately preceding the date when options are 
granted. This closing price is the closing price of the Bank’s equity share on an Indian stock exchange with the highest trading 
volume as of the working day preceding the date of grant.	
	
The vesting conditions applicable to the options are at the discretion of the NRC. These options are exercisable on vesting, 
for a period as set forth by the NRC at the time of the grant. The period in which the options may be exercised cannot exceed 
five years from date of expiry of vesting period. During the financial year 2021-22, certain modifications were made in the 
subsisting ESOP Plans pursuant to the approval of the shareholders of the Bank as to allow any employee of the Bank moving 
/ getting transferred to a subsidiary company, to be so entitled to the stock options already granted to such an employee as 
continuity of service for Long Term Incentives earned during the course of his / her service with the Bank.
	
Activity in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans
 
• 
Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2022:
Particulars
Number of
options
Weighted average
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of year
16,81,68,760
1,063.79
Granted during the year
2,56,28,600
1,427.29
Exercised during the year
3,27,64,494
796.52
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year
29,26,850
1,196.30
Options outstanding, end of year
15,81,06,016
1,175.65
Options exercisable
6,53,21,116
1,036.49

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
335
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
 
• 
Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2021:
Particulars
Number of
options
Weighted average
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of year
14,28,65,602
899.03
Granted during the year
5,74,66,600
1,235.80
Exercised during the year
2,94,90,022
596.85
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year
26,73,420
1,107.22
Options outstanding, end of year
16,81,68,760
1,063.79
Options exercisable
6,44,53,260
834.48
 
• 
 The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2022:
Plan
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Number of
shares arising
out of options
Weighted average
life of options
(in years)
Weighted average
exercise price (`)
Plan F
417.75 to 731.08
1,75,64,766
1.07
666.77
Plan G
882.85 to 1,516.95
14,05,41,250
2.70
1,239.25
 
• 
 The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2021:
Plan
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Number of
shares arising
out of options
Weighted average
life of options
(in years)
Weighted average
exercise price (`)
Plan C
417.75
9,700
0.32
417.75
Plan F
417.75 to 731.08
3,49,74,270
1.48
610.67
Plan G
882.85 to 1,235.80
13,31,84,790
3.18
1,182.83
	
In accordance with the RBI clarification dated August 30, 2021, the Bank has estimated the fair value of the options granted 
after March 31, 2021 using Black-Scholes model. This is recognised as compensation expense over the vesting period of the 
options with effect from April 01, 2021. 
	
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2022 are given below:
Particulars
March 31, 2022
Dividend yield
0.21% to 0.52%
Expected volatility
23.86% to 38.70%
Risk - free interest rate
4.38% to 6.07%
Expected life of the options
1 to 6 Years
	
HDFC Securities Limited
	
	The Shareholders of the Company approved a stock option scheme (viz. ESOS - II) in February 2017 (“Company Options”). 
Under the terms of the scheme, the Company issues stock options to employees, whole time director, managing director and 
directors (excluding Independent Directors) of the Company, each of which is convertible into one equity share.
	
Scheme ESOS - II provides for the issuance of options at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board of 
Directors (the “Compensation Committee”) in February 2017 at a price of ` 1,136/- per share, in June 2019 at a price of ` 4,844/- 
per share, in December 2020 at a price of ` 5,458/- per share, in September 2021 at a price of ` 6,098/- per share and later 
in January 2022 at a price of ` 8,051/- per share, being the fair market value of the share arrived by considering the average 
price of the two independent valuation reports. Method of settlement of these options are equity shares of the Company. 
	
Such options vest at definitive dates, save for specific incidents, prescribed in the scheme as framed / approved by the 
Compensation Committee. Such options are exercisable for a period following the vesting at the discretion of the 
Compensation Committee. 

336
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
	
Method used for accounting for shared based payment plan
	
The company uses fair value to account for the compensation cost of stock options to employees of the company.
	
Activity in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Options Plan
 
• 
  Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2022:
Particulars
Company 
options
Weighted average
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of the year
2,28,650
5,237
Granted during the year
1,10,500
6,858
Exercised during the year
62,400
5,017
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year
23,250
5,445
Options outstanding, end of the year
2,53,500
5,979
Options exercisable
3,500
5,344
 
• 
Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2021:
Particulars
Company 
options
Weighted average
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of the year
1,10,000
4,254
Granted during the year
1,67,500
5,458
Exercised during the year
36,600
3,375
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year
12,250
4,994
Options outstanding, end of the year
2,28,650
5,237
Options exercisable
3,950
2,028
 
• 
 The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2022:
Plan
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Number of
shares arising
out of options
Weighted average 
remaining contractual 
life of options (in 
years)
Weighted average
exercise price (`)
Company Options
1,136 - 8,051
2,53,500
6.62
5,979
 
• 
 The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2021:
Plan
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Number of
shares arising
out of options
Weighted average 
remaining contractual 
life of options 
(in years)
Weighted average
exercise price (`)
Company Options
1,136 - 5,458
2,28,650
6.70
5,237
        Fair value methodology
	
The fair value of options used to compute proforma net income and earnings per equity share have been estimated on dates 
of each grant using the Black-Scholes model. The shares of the Company are not listed on any stock exchange. Accordingly, 
the Company has considered the volatility of the Company’s stock price as an average of the historical volatility of similar listed 
enterprises for the purpose of calculating the fair value to reduce any Company specific variations. The various assumptions 
considered in the pricing model for the stock options granted by the Company.
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Dividend yield
4.91%
2.28%
Expected volatility
45.00%
45.00%
Risk-free interest rate
5.22% to 6.24%
4.47% to 5.64%
Expected life of the options
3 to 6 years
3 to 6 years
       HDB Financial Services Limited
	
In accordance with resolution approved by the shareholders, the Company has reserved shares, for issue to employees 
through ESOP scheme. On the approval of Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC), each ESOP scheme is issued. 
The NRC has approved stock option schemes ESOP-10 on October 13, 2017, ESOP-11 on January 15, 2019, ESOP-12 on 
October 5, 2020, ESOP-13 on January 14, 2021, ESOP-13A on August 31, 2021 and ESOP-14 on October 27, 2021. Under 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
337
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
the term of the schemes, the Company may issue stock options to employees and directors of the Company, each of which 
is convertible into one equity share.
	
Such options vest at a definitive date, save for specific incidents, prescribed in the scheme as framed / approved by the NRC. 
Such options are exercisable for a period following vesting at the discretion of the NRC, subject to a maximum of four years 
from the date of vesting.
	
Method used for accounting for shared based payment plan
	
The company uses fair value to account for the compensation cost of stock options to employees of the company.
        Activity in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans 
 
• 
   Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2022:
Particulars
Options
Weighted average
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of year
31,76,650
 313.22 
Granted during the year
22,94,730
432.48
Exercised during the year
12,54,815
301.93
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year
1,47,250
317.09
Options outstanding, end of year
40,69,315
383.81
Options exercisable, end of year
4,13,245
300.52
 
• 
  Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2021:
Particulars
Options
Weighted average
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding, beginning of year
21,51,580
 237.62 
Granted during the year
27,79,450
 320.33 
Exercised during the year
16,05,560
 229.62 
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year
1,48,820
 255.07 
Options outstanding, end of year
31,76,650
 313.22 
Options exercisable, end of year
1,19,430
249.41
 
• 
 The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2022:
Plan
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Number of
shares arising
out of options
Weighted average 
remaining contractual 
life of options (in 
years)
Weighted average
exercise price (`)
ESOP-10
213.00
42,000
2.53
213.00
ESOP-11
274.00
1,06,430
3.79
274.00
ESOP-12
300.00
7,02,910
4.52
300.00
ESOP-13
348.00
9,33,155
5.64
348.00
ESOP-13A
409.00
50,000
6.42
409.00
ESOP-14
433.00
22,34,820
6.58
433.00
 
• 
 The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2021:
Plan
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Number of
shares arising
out of options
Weighted average 
remaining contractual 
life of options 
(in years)
Weighted average
exercise price (`)
ESOP-10
213.00
48,150
3.59
213.00
ESOP-11
274.00
3,94,000
4.58
274.00
ESOP-12
300.00
15,58,900
5.07
300.00
ESOP-13
348.00
11,75,600
5.94
348.00
	
Fair value methodology
	
The fair value of options has been estimated on the dates of each grant using the Black-Scholes model. The shares of Company 
are not listed on any stock exchange. Accordingly, the Company had considered the volatility of the Company’s stock price 

338
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
based on historical volatility of similar listed enterprises. The various assumptions considered in the pricing model for the stock 
options granted by the Company are:
Particulars
ESOP-13A
ESOP-14
Dividend yield
0.00%
0.00%
Expected volatility
59.89%
56.24%
Risk-free interest rate
5.35%
5.41%
Expected life of the option
4.10 years
4.10 years
8	
Other liabilities
	
The Bank has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and 
gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other liabilities as at 
March 31, 2022 include unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 7,464.74 crore (previous year: 
` 8,127.65 crore).
9	
Investments
	
HDFC Bank Limited
	
The details of securities that are kept as margin are as under:
	
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Face value as at March 31,
2022
2021
I.
Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards:
a) Collateral and funds management - Securities segment
5,300.00
2,120.00
b) Collateral and funds management - Tri-party Repo
59,013.79
62,361.84
c) Default fund - Forex Forward segment
235.10
150.00
d) Default fund - Forex Settlement segment
51.05
51.05
e) Default fund - Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) segment
65.65
48.00
f)  Default fund - Securities segment
65.00
65.00
g) Default fund - Tri-party repo segment
55.00
50.00
II.
Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards:
a) Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
50,539.64
51,725.77
b) Repo transactions
49,971.80
49,959.91
III.
Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 
(NSCCIL) towards NSE Currency Derivatives segment.
107.72
107.72
IV.
Securities kept as margin with Indian Clearing Corporation Limited towards BSE 
Currency Derivatives segment.
161.00
161.00
V.
Securities kept as margin with Metropolitan Clearing Corporation of India towards 
MCX Currency Derivatives segment.
13.00
13.00
	
HDFC Securities Limited
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Face value as at March 31,
2022
2021
I.
Mutual funds marked as lien with stock exchange for margin requirement
200.00
200.00
	
HDB Financial Services Limited
	
The Company has not placed any securities as margin during the year (previous year: Nil).

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
339
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
10	 Other fixed assets
	
Other fixed assets include amount capitalised relating to software, Bombay Stock Exchange card and electronic trading 
platform. Details regarding the same are tabulated below:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Cost
As at March 31 of the previous year
3,673.81
3,329.61
Additions during the year
829.99
344.20
Deductions during the year
(0.01)
-
Total (a)
4,503.79
3,673.81
Depreciation
As at March 31 of the previous year
2,905.62
2,542.30
Charge for the year
460.21
363.32
On deductions during the year
(0.01)
-
Total (b)
3,365.83
2,905.62
Net value (a-b)
1,137.96
768.19
11	 Other assets
	
Other assets include deferred tax asset (net) of ` 7,143.82 crore (previous year: ` 5,541.64 crore). The break-up of the same 
is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Deferred tax asset arising out of:
Loan loss and contingencies 
6,611.16
5,008.70
Employee benefits
74.34
79.15
Depreciation
87.73
72.96
Others
370.59
380.83
Total (a)
7,143.82
5,541.64
Deferred tax liability (b)
-
-
Deferred tax asset (net) (a-b)
7,143.82
5,541.64
• 
The Bank has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and 
gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other assets 
as at March 31, 2022 include unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 7,923.90 crore 
(previous year: ` 8,472.31 crore).
12	 Provisions and contingent liabilities
	
Given below is the movement in provisions and a brief description of the nature of contingent liabilities recognised by the Bank.
	
a)	
Provision for credit card and debit card reward points 
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Opening provision for reward points
638.79
734.15
Provision for reward points made during the year
465.13
375.21
Utilisation / write-back of provision for reward points
(468.01)
(470.57)
Closing provision for reward points
635.91
638.79
	
b)	
Provision for legal and other contingencies
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Opening provision
     503.55 
     445.35 
Movement during the year (net)
        32.54 
        58.20 
Closing provision
536.09
503.55

340
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
c)   	Provision pertaining to fraud accounts reported during the year
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
No. of frauds reported
6,543
5,232
Amount involved in fraud (` crore)
505.86
1,640.80
Amount involved in fraud net of recoveries / write-offs as at the end of the year (` crore)
231.74
1,321.08
Provisions held as at the end of the year (` crore)
231.74
1,321.08
Amount of unamortised provision debited from “other reserves” as at the end of the 
year (` crore)
-
-
	
	 	
	
Above table represents all frauds reported during the year.
	
	 	
	
The information on frauds for the financial year ended March 31, 2021 includes certain large value credits which were already reckoned 
	
	
as NPAs in the prior years and these were fully provided for.
	
d)   Description of contingent liabilities
Sr. 
No.
Contingent liability*
Brief description
1
Claims against the Group not 
acknowledged as debts - taxation
The Group is a party to various taxation matters in respect of which appeals are pending. 
The Group expects the outcome of the appeals to be favorable based on decisions on 
similar issues in the previous years by the appellate authorities, based on the facts of 
the case and taxation laws.
2
Claims against the Group not 
acknowledged as debts - others
The Group is a party to various legal proceedings in the normal course of business. 
The Group does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows.
3
Partly paid investments
This represents amount remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid investments.
4
Liability on account of forward 
exchange and derivative contracts
The Group enters into foreign exchange contracts, currency options, forward rate 
agreements, currency swaps and interest rate swaps with inter-bank participants on 
its own account and for customers. Forward exchange contracts are commitments 
to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at the contracted rate. Currency swaps 
are commitments to exchange cash flows by way of interest / principal in one currency 
against another, based on predetermined rates. Interest rate swaps are commitments 
to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash flows. The notional amounts of financial 
instruments such as foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for 
comparison with instruments recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily 
indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the 
instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Bank’s exposure to credit or price risks. 
The derivative instruments become favorable (assets) or unfavorable (liabilities) as a 
result of fluctuations in market rates or prices relative to their terms.
5
Guarantees given on behalf 
of constituents, acceptances, 
endorsements and other obligations
As a part of its commercial banking activities, the Bank issues documentary credit and 
guarantees on behalf of its customers. Documentary credits such as letters of credit 
enhance the credit standing of the Bank’s customers. Guarantees generally represent 
irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of the customer 
failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
6
Other items for which the Group is 
contingently liable
These include: a) Credit enhancements in respect of securitised-out loans; b) Bills 
rediscounted by the Bank; c) Capital commitments; d) Underwriting commitments; e) 
Investment purchases pending settlement; f) Amount transferred to the RBI under the 
Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF).
	 	
*	 Also refer Schedule 12 - Contingent liabilities

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
341
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
13	 Disclosure of resolution plan implemented
	
HDFC Bank Limited
Details of resolution plan implemented under the Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related stress as per 
RBI circular dated August 06, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and May 05, 2021 (Resolution Framework 2.0) 
as at March 31, 2022 are given below:
(` crore)
Type of Borrower
Exposure to accounts 
classified as 
Standard consequent 
to implementation 
of resolution plan - 
Position as at the end 
of the previous half-
year i.e. September 
30, 2021 (A)*
Of (A), aggregate debt 
that slipped into NPA 
during the half-year 
ended March 31, 2022
Of (A), amount written 
off during the half-
year#
Of (A), amount paid by 
the borrowers during 
the half-year**
Exposure to accounts 
classified as 
Standard consequent 
to implementation 
of resolution plan - 
Position as at the end 
of this half-year i.e. 
March 31, 2022^
Personal Loans
   11,588.80 
   1,594.28 
     620.09 
        212.96
    9,781.56 
Corporate persons
 1,834.34 
128.64 
1.61 
193.29 
1,512.41 
Of which, MSMEs 
159.92 
5.71 
0.58 
0.03 
154.18 
Others
2,457.43 
303.17 
21.97 
58.19 
2,096.07 
Total
15,880.57 
2,026.09 
643.67 
464.44 
13,390.04 
*	 Includes restructuring done in respect of requests received as of September 30, 2021 processed subsequently.
# 	Represents debt that slipped into NPA and was subsequently written-off during the half-year ended March 31, 2022.
**	Amount paid by the borrower during the half-year is net of additions in the borrower account including additions due to interest capitalisation.
^	 Excludes other facilities to the borrowers aggregating to ` 2,307.65 crore which have not been restructured.
Details of accounts restructured under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector under RBI 
guidelines issued in January 2019:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
No. of accounts restructured
Amount outstanding
No. of accounts restructured
Amount outstanding
2,87,562
 6,874.39
2,82,589
 3,391.35
	
HDB Financial Services Limited 
Disclosure pursuant to Reserve Bank of India Circular dated August 06, 2020 pertaining to Resolution Framework for COVID-19- 
related Stress read with RBI circular dated May 05, 2021 pursuant to Resolution Framework - 2.0: Resolution of Covid-19 related 
stress of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and Disclosure pursuant to Reserve Bank of India Circular dated 
May 05, 2021 pertaining to Resolution Framework - 2.0: Resolution of Covid-19 related stress of Individuals and Small Businesses.
Details of resolution plan implemented as at March 31, 2022 are given below:
(` crore)
Type of Borrower
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan - 
Position as at the 
end of September 30, 
2021 (A)
Of (A), aggregate 
debt that slipped 
into NPA during six 
month period ended 
March 31, 2022 
Of (A), amount
written off during
six month ended 
March 31, 2022
Of (A), amount paid by 
the borrowers
during the six month 
ended March 31, 2022
Exposure to accounts 
classified as 
Standard consequent 
to implementation of 
resolution plan -
Position as at the end 
of March 31, 2022
Personal Loans
327.79
49.19
-
21.58
257.02
Corporate persons*
53.38
-
-
7.57
45.81
Of which, MSMEs
53.38
-
-
7.57
45.81
Others
0.33
-
-
0.02
0.31
Total
381.50
49.19
-
29.17
303.14
	
	 * As defined in Section 3(7) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. 

342
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Disclosure pursuant to Reserve Bank of India Circular Resolution Framework - 2.0: Resolution of Covid-19 
related stress of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) - Revision in the threshold for aggregate 
exposure issued vide circular dated June 04, 2021 read with circular dated January 01, 2019.
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Type of borrower
Year
(A) 
Number of accounts where 
resolution plan has been 
implemented under this window
(B) 
Exposure to accounts 
mentioned at (A) before 
implementation of the plan
MSMEs
Current Year
49,823
3,711.08
Previous Year
56,950
3,619.06
14	 Disclosure on transfer of assets and securitisation transactions
	
Transfer of Assets
	
HDFC Bank Limited
	
• 
Details of non-performing assets (NPAs) transferred during the financial year 2021-2022:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Particulars
To Asset 
Reconstruction 
Companies (ARCs)
To permitted 
transferees
To other transferees
Number of accounts
70,921
65,704
-
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred
2,187.81
449.46
-
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in years)
3.01
2.01
-
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer)
992.38
188.86
-
Aggregate consideration
1,093.10
35.94
-
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts transferred in 
earlier years
2.67
-
-
	
	 No excess provisions were reversed to the Profit and Loss Account on account of sale of NPAs.
	
• 
Details of stressed loan (Non-performing asset and Special Mention Account) transferred during the 
	
	
financial year 2020-2021:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Particulars
To Asset 
Reconstruction 
Companies (ARCs)
To permitted 
transferees
To other transferees
Number of accounts
1,67,197
-
-
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred
4,107.60
-
-
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in years)
2.70
-
-
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer)*
3,164.66
-
-
Aggregate consideration
2,051.06
-
-
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts transferred in 
earlier years
-
-
-
	
	 *If accounts had been classified as NPA during the period of operation of the Interim Order dated September 03, 2020, of the Hon'ble SC, specific 
provision would have been made for the accounts sold. Accordingly, the net book value would have been ` 2,419.41 crore.
	
	 No excess provisions were reversed to the Profit and Loss Account on account of sale of NPAs.
•  
Pursuant to RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021, Banks are required to 
disclose transfer of "loans not in default and Special Mention Accounts" respectively. The Bank has not transferred any 
loans not in default / Special Mention Accounts during the period from September 24, 2021 to March 31, 2022.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
343
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
HDB Financial Services Limited
	
• 
Details of non-performing assets (NPAs) transferred during the financial year 2021-2022:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Particulars
To Asset 
Reconstruction 
Companies (ARCs)
To permitted 
transferees
To other transferees
Number of accounts
80
-
-
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred
14.41
-
-
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in years)
6.73
-
-
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer)
8.76
-
-
Aggregate consideration
7.50
-
-
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts transferred in 
earlier years
-
-
-
	
During the year excess provisions of ` 5.65 crore reversed to the Profit and Loss Account on account of sale of stressed loans.
 •  Details of stressed loans (Non-performing asset and Special Mention Account) transferred during the 
financial year 2020-2021:
	
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Particulars
To Asset 
Reconstruction 
Companies (ARCs)
To permitted 
transferees
To other transferees
Number of accounts
28,959
-
-
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred
644.23
-
-
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in years)
2.23
-
-
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer)
97.20
-
-
Aggregate consideration
310.88
-
-
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts transferred in 
earlier years
-
-
-
	
During the year excess provisions of ` 113.47 crore reversed to the Profit and Loss Account on account of sale of stressed loans.
• 
The company has not transferred any special mention account and loans not in default during the period from September 
24, 2021 to March 31, 2022.
	
Security Receipts (SRs) Ratings
	
HDFC Bank Limited
	
• 
Details of ratings of SRs outstanding as on March 31, 2022 are given below:
(` crore)
Rating
Rating Agency
Recovery rating
Outstanding as at 
March 31, 2022
R2
CRISIL
75% - 100%
182.87
NR2
India Ratings
100% - 150%
366.20
NR3
India Ratings
75% - 100%
614.34
NR4
India Ratings
50% - 75%
218.01
NA*
102.30
Total
1,483.72
	
	 * Pursuant to regulatory norms, the ARC has time to obtain initial rating of SRs from an approved credit rating agency within a period of six months 
from the date of acquisition of assets by it.

344
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
	
• 
Details of ratings of SRs outstanding as on March 31, 2021 are given below:
(` crore)
Rating
Rating Agency
Recovery rating
Outstanding as at 
March 31, 2021
R2
CRISIL
75% - 100%
367.20
NR2
India Ratings
100% - 150%
1,243.49
NR3
India Ratings
75% - 100%
372.77
Total
1,983.46
	
HDB Financial Services Limited
	
• 
Details of ratings of SRs are given below:
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Rating Agency
Rating*
Rating Agency
Rating
EARC TRUST SC - 411 Series I
Indian rating and research NR3 - (75% - 100%)
NA
unrated
	
	 * Rating Band awarded by SEBI approved Ratings agencies to Security Receipts issued by above mentioned trust(s) set up by Edelweiss Asset 
Reconstruction Company Ltd (EARC).
	
Acquisition of Assets 
	
HDFC Bank Limited
• 	
During the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, no non-performing financial assets were 
acquired by the Bank.
• 
Pursuant to the RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021, the 
details of loans acquired during the period from September 24, 2021 to March 31, 2022 are given below:
 
•     Details of loans not in default acquired through assignment are given below:
Particulars
Value
Aggregate amount of loans acquired (` in crore)
18,094.40
Weighted average residual maturity (in years)
14.99
Weighted average holding period by originator (in years)
1.57
Retention of beneficial economic interest by the originator
10%
Tangible security coverage
100%
	
	The loans acquired are not rated as these are to non-corporate borrowers. 
	
	From the above, 58 loans aggregating to ` 11.45 crore was re-purchased by the transferor in compliance with 
paragraph 48 of Master Direction - RBI (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021.
• 	
The Bank has not acquired any Special Mention Account.
• 	
The RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021 has mandated disclosure of 
transfer of loan assets. Considering the terms ‘loans not in default’ and ‘special mention account’ under this circular 
vis-a-vis loans termed as ‘standard’ as hitherto and the separate processes prescribed therein for transfer of such 
assets, the Bank believes that such disclosure would be more meaningful if disclosed prospectively and therefore 
transfer of loan exposures prior to September 24, 2021 including comparatives of previous year are not considered 
relevant for disclosure.
	
HDB Financial Services Limited
The company has not acquired any stressed loan and loan not in default during the period from September 24, 2021 to March 
31, 2022.
	
Details of securitisation transactions 
	
HDFC Bank Limited
 
• 
During the years ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, there were no standard assets securitised-out by the Bank.
 
• 
Securitised assets as per books of SPVs sponsored by the Bank	
	
	
There are no SPVs sponsored by the Bank as at March 31, 2022 and as at March 31, 2021.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
345
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
HDB Financial Services Limited
The outstanding amount of securitised assets as per books of the Special Purpose Entities (SPEs) and 
total amount of exposures retained by the originator as on the date of balance sheet to comply with the 
Minimum Retention Requirement (MRR) are below: 
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Sr. No. Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
1. 
No of SPEs holding assets for securitisation transactions originated by the 
originator (only the SPVs relating to outstanding securitization exposures to be 
reported here) 
 5.00
8.00
2. 
Total amount of securitised assets as per books of the SPEs  
1,223.15
2,078.13
3. 
Total amount of exposures retained by the originator to comply with MRR as on 
the date of balance sheet 
a) Off-balance sheet exposures 
	
First loss 
62.64
98.71
	
Others 
-
-
b) On-balance sheet exposures 
	
First loss 
190.47
262.81
	
Others 
-
-
4. 
Amount of exposures to securitisation transactions other than MRR  
a) Off-balance sheet exposures 
 NIL
NIL
i) 	 Exposure to own securitisations 
First loss 
Others 
ii) 	Exposure to third party securitisations 
First loss 
Others 
b) On-balance sheet exposures 
 NIL
NIL
i) 	 Exposure to own securitisations 
First loss 
Others 
ii) 	Exposure to third party securitisations 
First loss 
Others 
5. 
Sale consideration received for the securitised assets and gain / loss on sale on 
account of securitisation 
 NIL
NIL
6. 
Form and quantum (outstanding value) of services provided by way of liquidity 
support, post-securitisation asset servicing, etc. 
 NIL
NIL
7.
Performance of facility provided - Credit enhancement, liquidity support, servicing 
agent, etc. 
Fixed Deposit
a) 	Amount paid 
17.12
62.85
b) Repayment received 
17.12
62.85
c) Outstanding amount
172.96
221.09
Corporate Guarantee
a) Amount paid 
-
-
b) Repayment received 
-
-
c)  Outstanding amount 
	
` 36.07 crore corporate guarantee is released due to closure of some  
securitization deals
62.64
98.71
8. 
Average default rate of portfolios observed in the past 
 1.86%
1.42%
9. 
Amount and number of additional / top up loan given on same underlying asset 
0.09
18.86
10.
Investor complaints
(a) Directly / Indirectly received and; 
 NIL
NIL
(b) Complaints outstanding 
 NIL
NIL

346
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
15	 Commission, exchange and brokerage income
	
Commission, exchange and brokerage income is net of correspondent bank charges. 
16	 Provisions and contingencies
	
The break-up of ‘Provisions and Contingencies’ included in the Profit and Loss Account is given below: 
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Provision for income tax - Current
14,324.66
              12,336.79 
             - Deferred
(1,602.18)
              (1,397.41)
Provision for NPAs1
12,500.86
              13,574.54 
Provision for diminution in value of non-performing investments
6.18
                 (17.32) 
Provision for standard assets
1,264.03
875.22
Other provisions and contingencies2
4,154.19
                4,407.85 
Total
30,647.74
            29,779.67 
1. 	 Includes loss on sale of NPAs / stressed assets.	
2. 	 Includes provisions for tax, legal and other contingencies ` 4,159.90 crore (previous year: ` 4,406.30 crore), provisions / (write back) for securitised-
out assets ` 0.14 crore (previous year: ` (2.21) crore) and standard restructured assets ` (5.85) crore (previous year: ` 3.77 crore).
17	 Employee benefits
	
Gratuity
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1 
1,017.22
851.66
Interest cost 
62.82
52.16
Current service cost 
129.44
114.56
Benefits paid 
(76.95)
(49.15)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:  
Experience adjustment
(49.72)
41.30
Assumption change 
7.78
6.69
Present value of obligation as at March 31
1,090.59
 1,017.22 
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1
834.44 
577.97 
Expected return on plan assets
57.01
44.05
Contributions
163.30
138.48
Benefits paid
(76.95)
(49.15)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment
22.14
107.65
Assumption change
1.97
15.44
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31
1,001.91
834.44
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31
1,001.91
834.44
Present value of obligation as at March 31
(1,090.59)
(1,017.22)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31
(88.68)
(182.78)
Expenses recognised in Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost
62.82
52.16
Current service cost
129.44
114.56
Expected return on plan assets
(57.01)
(44.05)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year
(66.05)
(75.10)

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
347
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Net cost
69.20
47.57
Actual return on plan assets
81.12
167.14
Estimated contribution for the next year
182.17
163.64
Assumptions (HDFC Bank Limited)
Discount rate
6.80% per annum
6.50% per annum
Expected return on plan assets
6.50% per annum
6.50% per annum
Salary escalation rate
7.00% per annum
7.00% per annum
Assumptions (HDFC Securities Limited)
Discount rate
6.05% per annum
6.20% per annum
Expected return on plan assets
6.05% per annum
6.20% per annum
Salary escalation rate
10.02% per annum
7.86% per annum
Assumptions (HDB Financial Services Limited)
Discount rate
4.77% per annum
3.86% per annum
Expected return on plan assets
4.77% per annum
3.86% per annum
Salary escalation rate
6.00% - 11.00% per 
annum
5.00% - 9.00% per 
annum
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and 
other relevant factors.
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Group at the beginning of the 
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets are 
given below:
Category of plan assets as at March 31, 2022
HDFC Bank Limited
HDFC Securities 
Limited
HDB Financial Services 
Limited
Government securities
28.80%
59.00%
51.71%
Debenture and bonds
24.52%
28.00%
34.77%
Equity shares
40.40%
9.00%
-
Others
6.28%
4.00%
13.52%
Total
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
Category of plan assets as at March 31, 2021
HDFC Bank Limited
HDFC Securities 
Limited
HDB Financial Services 
Limited
Government securities
27.90%
57.00%
57.27%
Debenture and bonds
26.04%
30.00%
36.84%
Equity shares
41.23%
9.00%
-
Others
4.83%
4.00%
5.89%
Total
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
	
Experience adjustment
(` crore)
Particulars
Years ended March 31,
2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
Plan assets
1,001.91
834.44
 577.97 
547.75
457.35
Defined benefit obligation
1,090.59
1,017.22
 851.66 
702.86
614.06
Surplus / (deficit)
(88.68)
(182.78)
 (273.69)
(155.11)
(156.71)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan 
assets
22.14
107.65
 (59.42)
12.04
(2.35)
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan 
liabilities
(49.72)
41.30
 16.69 
10.46
13.69

348
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
	
Pension (HDFC Bank Limited)
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1
89.99
64.15
Interest cost
            5.19 
              3.79 
Current service cost
            1.40 
              1.37 
Past service cost
            7.69 
-
Benefits paid
          (20.43)
           (11.63)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:
Experience adjustment
            6.44 
              31.41 
Assumption change
             (2.26) 
                0.90 
Present value of obligation as at March 31
           88.02 
             89.99 
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1
0.33
9.51
Expected return on plan assets
             0.04 
                0.32 
Contributions
             20.70 
                2.30 
Benefits paid
          (20.43)
             (11.63)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment
          0.39
               (0.20)
Assumption change
            (0.15) 
                0.03 
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31
0.88
0.33
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31
             0.88 
                0.33 
Present value of obligation as at March 31
         (88.02)
             (89.99)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31
        (87.14)
           (89.66)
Expenses recognised in Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost
             5.19
             3.79
Current service cost
             1.40 
                1.37 
Past service cost 
            7.69 
-
Expected return on plan assets
           (0.04)
               (0.32)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year
            3.95 
              32.48 
Net cost
           18.19 
37.32
Actual return on plan assets
            0.27 
                0.15 
Estimated contribution for the next year
18.86
13.09
Assumptions
Discount rate
6.80% per annum
6.50% per annum
Expected return on plan assets
6.50% per annum
6.50% per annum
Salary escalation rate
7.00% per annum
7.00% per annum
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and 
other relevant factors.
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Bank at the beginning of the 
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets are 
given below:
Category of plan assets
% of fair value to total 
plan assets
as at March 31, 2022
% of fair value to total 
plan assets
as at March 31, 2021
Government securities
34.17%
 42.87%
Debenture and bonds
3.58%
 35.11%
Others
62.25%
 22.02%
Total
100.00%
100.00%

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
349
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
Experience adjustment
(` crore)
Particulars
Years ended March 31,
2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
Plan assets
      0.88 
        0.33 
9.51
21.95
      31.30 
Defined benefit obligation
      88.02 
      89.99 
64.15
69.54
      73.06
Surplus / (deficit)
    (87.14)
     (89.66)
(54.64)
(47.59)
   (41.76)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan 
assets
   0.39 
(0.20)
0.28
0.48
0.59
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan 
liabilities
   6.44
31.41
9.06
3.32
3.95
	
Amortisation of expenditure on account of enhancement in family pension of employees of banks
The Reserve Bank of India, vide its notification dated October 04, 2021 granted Banks an option to amortise the expenditure 
on account of enhancement of family pension, over a period not exceeding five years beginning with the financial year ending 
March 31, 2022, subject to a minimum of one-fifth of the total amount involved being expensed every year. The Bank has not 
availed the said option and has recognised the entire expenditure on account of enhancement of family pension in financial 
year ended March 31, 2022.
	
Provident fund
The guidance note on AS-15, Employee Benefits, states that employer established provident funds, where interest is guaranteed 
are to be considered as defined benefit plans and the liability has to be valued. The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI) has issued 
a guidance note on valuation of interest rate guarantees on exempt provident funds. The actuary has accordingly valued the 
same and the Bank held a provision of Nil as at March 31, 2022 (previous year: Nil), towards the present value of the guaranteed 
interest benefit obligation. The actuary has followed the deterministic approach as prescribed by the guidance note.
	
Assumptions:
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Discount rate (GOI security yield)
6.80% per annum
6.50% per annum
Expected guaranteed interest rate 
8.10% per annum
8.50% per annum
The Group does not have any unfunded defined benefit plan. The Group contributed ` 630.61 crore (previous year: ` 542.78 
crore) to the provident fund and ` 6.08 crore (previous year: ` 4.96 crore) to the National Pension Scheme (for employees who 
opted). The Bank contributed ` 76.37 crore (previous year: ` 75.64 crore) to the superannuation plan.
	
Leave encashment
HDFC Securities Limited
The actuarial liability of compensated absences of accumulated privileged and sick leaves of the employees of the entity is 
given below:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Privileged leave
6.93
6.16
Sick leave
1.14
1.00
Total actuarial liability
8.07
7.16
Assumptions
Discount rate
6.05% per annum
6.20% per annum
Salary escalation rate
10.02% per annum
7.86% per annum
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and 
other relevant factors.

350
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
18	 Segment reporting
	
Business segments 
Business segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the target customer profile, the nature of products 
and services, the differing risks and returns, the organisation structure, the internal business reporting system and the guidelines 
prescribed by RBI. The Group operates in the following segments:
(a)	 Treasury	
	
The treasury segment primarily consists of net interest earnings from the Bank’s investment portfolio, money market 
borrowing and lending, gains or losses on investment operations and on account of trading in foreign exchange and 
derivative contracts.
(b)	 Retail banking
	
The retail banking segment serves retail customers through the Bank’s branch network and other channels. This segment 
raises deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers with the help of specialist product 
groups. Exposures are classified under retail banking taking into account the status of the borrower (orientation criterion), 
the nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum thereof.
	
Revenues of the retail banking segment are derived from interest earned on retail loans, interest earned from other 
segments for surplus funds placed with those segments, subvention received from dealers and manufacturers, fees from 
services rendered, foreign exchange earnings on retail products, etc. Expenses of this segment primarily comprise interest 
expense on deposits, commission paid to retail assets sales agents, infrastructure and premises expenses for operating 
the branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of 
specialist product groups, processing units and support groups.
(c)    Wholesale banking
	
The wholesale banking segment provides loans, non-fund facilities and transaction services to large corporates, emerging 
corporates, public sector units, government bodies, financial institutions and medium scale enterprises. Revenues of the 
wholesale banking segment consist of interest earned on loans made to customers, interest / fees earned on the cash 
float arising from transaction services, earnings from trade services and other non-fund facilities and also earnings from 
foreign exchange and derivative transactions on behalf of customers. The principal expenses of the segment consist of 
interest expense on funds borrowed from external sources and other internal segments, premises expenses, personnel 
costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of delivery channels, specialist product groups, processing units 
and support groups.
(d)	 Other banking business
	
This segment includes income from parabanking activities such as credit cards, debit cards, third party product 
distribution, primary dealership business and the associated costs. This segment also includes Bank’s subsidiaries.
(e)	 Unallocated
	
All items which are reckoned at an enterprise level are classified under this segment. This includes capital and reserves, 
debt classified as Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital and other unallocable assets and liabilities such as deferred tax, prepaid 
expenses, etc.
Segment revenue includes earnings from external customers plus earnings from funds transferred to other segments. Segment 
result includes revenue less interest expense less operating expense and provisions, if any, for that segment. Segment-wise 
income and expenses include certain allocations. Interest income is charged by a segment that provides funding to another 
segment, based on yields benchmarked to an internally approved yield curve or at a certain agreed transfer price rate. 
Transaction charges are levied by the retail banking segment to the wholesale banking segment for the use by its customers 
of the retail banking segment’s branch network or other delivery channels. Segment capital employed represents the net 
assets in that segment.
	
Geographic segments
The geographic segments of the Bank are categorised as domestic operations and foreign operations. Domestic operations 
comprise branches in India and foreign operations comprise branches outside India.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
351
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2022 is given below:	
	
Business segments:
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Treasury
Retail
banking
Wholesale 
banking
Other banking 
operations
Total
1
Segment revenue
      34,385.12 
     115,189.91 
     66,482.93 
      31,928.60 
     247,986.56 
2
Unallocated revenue
             (12.18)
3
Less: Inter-segment revenue
         80,278.98 
4
Income from operations (1) + 
(2) - (3)
     167,695.40 
5
Segment results
       8,939.51 
          9,223.24 
     25,053.01 
        9,244.42 
         52,460.18 
6
Unallocated expenses
           1,586.79 
7
Income tax expense (including 
deferred tax)
         12,722.49 
8
Net profit (5) - (6) - (7) 
         38,150.90 
9
Segment assets
   551,767.34 
     619,468.20 
  808,136.61 
   130,990.31 
   2,110,362.46 
10
Unallocated assets
         12,571.84 
11
Total assets (9) + (10)
   2,122,934.30 
12
Segment liabilities
   77,273.63 
   1,292,339.74 
  413,825.31 
      52,440.34 
   1,835,879.02 
13
Unallocated liabilities
         39,008.70 
14
Total liabilities (12) + (13)
   1,874,887.72 
15
Capital employed (9) - (12) 
(Segment assets - Segment 
liabilities)
   474,493.71 
   (672,871.54)
   394,311.30 
      78,549.97 
     274,483.44 
16
Unallocated (10) - (13)
     (26,436.86) 
17
Total (15) + (16)
     248,046.58 
18
Capital expenditure
             24.69 
          2,393.82 
          229.00 
           240.43 
           2,887.94 
19
Depreciation
             40.48 
          1,295.47 
          149.27 
           195.51 
1,680.73
20
Provisions for non - performing 
assets / others*
           (14.52)
          9,932.56 
       1,954.52 
        6,044.29 
         17,916.85 
21
Unallocated other provisions*
                  8.40 
*	 Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
	
Geographic segments:
(` crore)
Particulars
Domestic
International
Revenue
166,835.31
860.09
Assets
2,064,899.77
58,034.53
Capital expenditure
2,887.52
0.42
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2021 is given below:	
	
Business segments:
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Treasury
Retail
banking
Wholesale 
banking
Other banking 
operations
Total
1
Segment revenue
32,337.67
110,210.21
57,154.30
29,759.68
229,461.86
2
Unallocated revenue
30.82
3
Less: Inter-segment revenue
73,607.41
4
Income from operations (1) + 
(2) - (3)
155,885.27
5
Segment results
9,030.50
10,574.80
17,437.54
7,344.29
44,387.13
6
Unallocated expenses
1,590.99

352
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Treasury
Retail
banking
Wholesale 
banking
Other banking 
operations
Total
7
Income tax expense 
(including deferred tax)
10,939.37
8
Net profit (5) - (6) - (7) 
31,856.77
9
Segment assets
519,641.74
521,997.22
628,731.57
119,752.20
1,790,122.73
10
Unallocated assets
9,383.91
11
Total assets (9) + (10)
1,799,506.64
12
Segment liabilities
76,276.60
1,096,217.82
338,115.31
51,771.65
1,562,381.38
13
Unallocated liabilities
26,682.31
14
Total liabilities (12) + (13)
1,589,063.69
15
Capital employed (9) - (12) 
(Segment assets - Segment 
liabilities)
443,365.14
(574,220.60)
290,616.26
67,980.54
227,741.34
16
Unallocated (10) - (13)
(17,298.39)
17
Total (15) + (16)
210,442.95
18
Capital expenditure
24.93
1,527.55
139.94
180.60
1,873.02
19
Depreciation
36.74
1,047.40
118.18
182.69
1,385.01
20
Provisions for non - performing 
assets / others*
(16.82)
10,157.54
2,279.02
6,389.39
18,809.13
21
Unallocated other provisions*
31.16
*	 Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
	
Geographic segments:
(` crore)
Particulars
Domestic
International
Revenue
       154,953.30 
           931.97 
Assets
   1,755,919.75 
     43,586.89 
Capital expenditure
           1,872.61 
                0.41 
19	  Related party disclosures
As per AS-18, Related Party Disclosures read with RBI Master Direction on Financial Statements – Presentation and Disclosures, 
the Group’s related parties are disclosed below:
	
Promoter
	
Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
	
Key management personnel         
	
Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
	
Kaizad Bharucha, Executive Director  
	
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
Nagsri Sashidhar, Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Dhruv Sashidhar, Mythra Mahesh, Mahesh Babu Ramamurthy, Havovi 
Bharucha, Huzaan Bharucha, Danesh Bharucha, Daraius Bharucha, Dilnaaz D Bharucha, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories.
A specific related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in that 
category. Transactions between the Bank and Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited exceed 10% of all related 
party transactions in that category.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
353
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
The Group’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2022 are summarised 
as follows:
(` crore)
Items / Related party
Promoter
Key Management 
personnel (KMP)
Relatives of KMP 
& their interested 
entities
Total
Deposits taken
2,741.49
4.54
1.43
2,747.46
(5,132.37)
(23.02)
(1.43)
(5,156.82)
Deposits placed
0.32
-
-
0.32
(0.32)
-
-
(0.32)
Advances given
-
0.55
         # 
0.55
-
(0.73)
(0.01)
(0.74)
Fixed assets purchased from
-
-
-
-
Fixed assets sold to
-
-
-
-
Interest paid to
20.43
0.98
0.04
21.45
Interest received from
-
0.02
-
0.02
Income from services rendered to
463.93
#
#
463.93
Expenses for receiving services from
720.16
-
-
720.16
Equity investments
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other investments
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Dividend paid to
           562.00
              2.50
#
564.50
Dividend received from
-
-
-
-
Receivable from
65.33
-
-
65.33
(135.56)
-
-
(135.56)
Payable to
64.14
-
-
64.14
(64.14)
-
-
(64.14)
Guarantees given
0.39
-
-
0.39
(0.40)
-
-
(0.40)
Remuneration paid
-
17.16
-
17.16
Loans purchased from
28,205.24
-
-
28,205.24
#     	 Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
•  
Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each 
quarter-end.
•  
Remuneration paid excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year.
•  
Bonus and retiral benefits for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key managerial 
personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2022, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect of earlier years 
was ` 2.09 crore.
	
The Bank being an authorised dealer, deals in foreign exchange and derivative transactions with parties which include its 
promoter. The foreign exchange and derivative transactions are undertaken in line with the RBI guidelines. The notional principal 
amount of foreign exchange and derivative contracts transacted with the promoter that were outstanding as on March 31, 2022 
is ` 11,178.71 crore (previous year: ` 7,757.49 crore). The contingent credit exposure pertaining to these contracts computed 
in line with the extant RBI guidelines on exposure norms was ` 236.68 crore (previous year: ` 166.45 crore). 

354
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
	
The Group’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2021 are summarised 
as follows:
(` crore)
Items / Related party
Promoter
Key Management 
personnel (KMP)
Relatives of KMP 
& their interested 
entities
Total
Deposits taken
3,560.67
60.07
1.00
3,621.74
(3,560.67)
(717.55 )
(18.84)
(4,297.06)
Deposits placed
0.32
-
-
0.32
(0.47 )
(0.76)
(3.50)
(4.73)
Advances given
-
0.99
#
0.99
-
(2.32)
(0.02)
(2.34)
Fixed assets purchased from
-
-
-
-
Fixed assets sold to
-
-
-
-
Interest paid to
10.80
8.22
0.59
19.61
Interest received from
-
0.05
-
0.05
Income from services rendered to
324.65
#
#
324.65
Expenses for receiving services from
589.87
0.14
0.38
590.39
Equity investments
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other investments
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Dividend paid to
-
-
-
-
Dividend received from
-
-
-
-
Receivable from
138.77
-
-
138.77
(138.77)
-
-
(138.77)
Payable to
111.05
-
-
111.05
(199.27)
-
-
(199.27)
Guarantees given
0.40
-
-
0.40
(0.41)
-
(0.05)
(0.46)
Remuneration paid
-
22.48
-
22.48
Loans purchased from
18,979.78
-
-
18,979.78
#	 	
Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
•  
Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each 
quarter-end.
•  
Remuneration paid excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year.
•  
Bonus and retiral benefits for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key managerial 
personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2021, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect of earlier years 
was ` 2.90 crore. 
 
 •       Related parties are in accordance with AS-18 Related Party Disclosures.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
355
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
20	 Additional information pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013
Additional information to consolidated accounts at March 31, 2022 (Pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013)
(` crore)
Name of entity
Net assets as of March 31, 2022
Profit or (loss) for the year ended 
March 31, 2022
As % of 
consolidated net 
assets**
Amount***
As % of 
consolidated profit 
or loss
Amount***
Parent:
HDFC Bank Limited
97.08%
240,092.94
97.13%
36,961.33
Subsidiaries*:
1. HDFC Securities Limited
0.66%
1,644.71
2.62%
995.94
2. HDB Financial Services Limited
3.97%
9,823.61
2.68%
1,020.19
Minority Interest in all subsidiaries
0.29%
720.42
0.26%
98.15
*	 The subsidiaries are domestic entities.
**	Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities including minority interest.
***	Amounts are before inter-company adjustments.
Additional information to consolidated accounts at March 31, 2021 (Pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013)
(` crore)
Name of entity
Net assets as of March 31, 2021
Profit or (loss) for the year ended 
March 31, 2021
As % of 
consolidated net 
assets**
Amount***
As % of 
consolidated profit 
or loss
Amount***
Parent:
HDFC Bank Limited
97.10%
203,720.83
97.75%
31,116.53
Subsidiaries*:
1. HDFC Securities Limited
0.70%
1,477.40
2.26%
720.52
2. HDB Financial Services Limited
4.16%
8,721.96
1.58%
502.83
Minority Interest in all subsidiaries
0.30%
632.76
0.07%
23.56
*	 The subsidiaries are domestic entities.
**	Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities including minority interest.
***	Amounts are before inter-company adjustments.
21	 Leases
Operating leases primarily comprise office premises, staff residences and Automated Teller Machines (‘ATM’s), which 
are renewable at the option of the Group. The details of maturity profile of future operating lease payments are given 
below:                                                                                                                                            
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Not later than one year
1,331.50
1,229.52
Later than one year and not later than five years
4,573.70
4,145.21
Later than five years
5,480.08
5,279.17
Total
11,385.28
10,653.90
The total of minimum lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the 
year
1,425.62
1,466.00
Total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-
cancellable sub-leases
55.84
57.18
Sub-lease amounts recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year
10.92
10.04
Contingent (usage based) lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for 
the year
321.96
324.07

356
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
The Bank has sub-leased certain of its properties taken on lease.
The terms of renewal and escalation clauses are those normally prevalent in similar agreements. There are no undue restrictions 
or onerous clauses in the agreements.
22	 Penalties levied by the RBI
	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, RBI by an order dated May 27, 2021, levied a penalty of ` 10 crore for marketing and 
sale of third-party non-financial products to the Bank’s auto loan customers, arising from a whistle blower complaint, which 
revealed, inter alia, contravention of Section 6(2) and Section 8 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The Bank has discontinued 
the sale of said third-party non-financial product since October 2019.
	
During the year ended March 31, 2021, RBI imposed a penalty of ` 0.10 crore for bouncing of Subsidiary General Ledger which 
led to shortage of balance in certain securities in the Bank’s Constituent Subsidiary General Ledger account.	
23	 Small and micro industries
	
HDFC Bank Limited
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from October 2, 2006, certain 
disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. There have been no reported cases of 
delays in payments to micro and small enterprises or of interest payments due to delays in such payments during the years 
ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021. The above is based on the information available with the Bank which has been 
relied upon by the auditors.
	
HDFC Securities Limited
On the basis of the information available with the Company and the intimation received from ‘suppliers’ regarding their status 
under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 the amount unpaid as at March 31, 2022 was ` 0.11 
crore (previous year: ` 0.28 crore).
	
HDB Financial Services Limited
As per the confirmation received from the suppliers covered under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 
2006, the amount unpaid as at March 31, 2022 was Nil (previous year: ` 0.01 crore). The above is based on the information 
available with the Company which has been relied upon by the auditors.
24	 Corporate social responsibility
	
HDFC Bank Limited
The details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities are given below:
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
1
Amount required to be spent by the Bank 
during the year
733.86
627.86
2
Amount of expenditure incurred
736.87
634.90
3
Shortfall at the end of the year
-
-
4
Details of unspent CSR amount for the 
preceding three financial years
-
-
5
Reason for shortfall
-
-
6
Nature of CSR activities
-	 Rural Development
-	 Promotion of Education
-	 Skill Training & Livelihood Enhancement
-	 Financial Literacy & Inclusion
-	 Healthcare & Hygiene
-	 Rural Development
-	 Promotion of Education
-	 Skill Training & Livelihood Enhancement
-	 Financial Literacy & Inclusion
-	 Healthcare & Hygiene
7
Details of related party transactions, e.g. 
contribution to a trust controlled by the 
Bank in relation to CSR expenditure as per 
relevant Accounting Standard
-
-

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
357
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
8
Where a provision is made with respect 
to a liability incurred by entering into a 
contractual obligation, the movements in 
the provision
-
-
	
HDFC Securities Limited
The details of CSR activities are given below:
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
1
Amount required to be spent by the 
company during the year
13.00
10.20
2
Amount of expenditure incurred
13.00
10.85
3
Details of unspent CSR amount for the 
preceding three financial years
-
-
4
Total of previous years shortfall
-
-
5
Reason for shortfall
-
-
6
Nature of CSR activities
Healthcare, Education, Eradicating Hunger, Promotion of National Sports, Olympic 
Sports and Paralympic sports
7
Details of related party transactions, e.g. 
contribution to a trust controlled by the 
Company in relation to CSR expenditure 
as per relevant Accounting Standard 
-
-
8
Where a provision is made with respect 
to a liability incurred by entering into a 
contractual obligation, the movements in 
the provision
-
-
	
HDB Financial Services Limited
The details of CSR activities are given below:
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
1
Amount required to be spent by the 
company during the year
24.70
30.83
2
Amount of expenditure incurred
25.83
23.52
3
Shortfall at the end of the year
-
7.31#
4
Details of unspent CSR amount for the 
preceding three financial years
2.28
-
5
Reason for shortfall
-
Series of lockdown owing to the pandemic 
caused delays in achieving project 
milestones for most CSR projects, thus 
disturbing the pay-out schedule planned 
for the year
6
Nature of CSR activities
Healthcare services, Basic education, Livelihoods enhancement and Natural resource 
management.
7
Details of related party transactions, e.g. 
contribution to a trust controlled by the 
Company in relation to CSR expenditure 
as per relevant Accounting Standard
-
-
8
Where a provision is made with respect 
to a liability incurred by entering into a 
contractual obligation, the movements in 
the provision
-
-
	
	 # 	` 7.31 crore reported as unspent in financial year 2020-21 was transferred to Unspent CSR Account, out of which ` 5.03 crore has been disbursed 
	
towards ongoing projects during the year.

358
Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
25	 COVID-19
	
HDFC Bank Limited
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic had led to a nation-wide lockdown in April-May 2020. This was followed by localised 
lockdowns in areas with a significant number of COVID-19 cases. Following the easing of lockdown measures, there was an 
improvement in economic activity in the second half of fiscal 2021. Since then India experienced two waves of the COVID-19 
pandemic following the discovery of mutant coronavirus variants, leading to the reimposition of regional lockdowns which 
were subsequently lifted. 
The impact of COVID-19, including changes in customer behaviour and pandemic fears, as well as restrictions on business 
and individual activities, led to significant volatility in global and Indian financial markets and a significant decrease in global and 
local economic activities. The disruptions following the outbreak, impacted loan originations, the sale of third party products, 
the use of credit and debit cards by customers and the efficiency in collection efforts resulting in increase in customer defaults 
and consequent increase in provisions there against.
India is emerging from the COVID-19 pandemic. The extent to which any new wave of COVID-19 will impact the bank's results 
will depend on ongoing as well as future developments, including, among other things, any new information concerning the 
severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, and any action to contain its spread or mitigate its impact whether government mandated 
or elected by us.
	
HDFC Securities Limited
The COVID-19 pandemic continues to have a considerable impact on economic activities across the various parts of the 
country and across the globe. The Government of India and various state governments have introduced a series of initiatives 
over the past year including lockdowns in order to contain the impact of the virus. 
Stock broking and depository services have been declared as essential services all through the year and accordingly, the 
Company has faced no business stoppage / interruption on account of the lockdown. As of March 31, 2022, based on facts 
and circumstances existing as of that date, the Company does not anticipate any material uncertainties which affects its 
liquidity position and also ability to continue as a going concern.
26	 Refund / Adjustment of ‘interest on interest’
In accordance with the instructions in the paragraph 5 of the RBI circular dated April 07, 2021, the Group refunded / adjusted 
'interest on interest' of ` 302.45 crore to all eligible borrowers during the year ended March 31, 2022.
27	 Additional disclosure
Additional statutory information disclosed in the separate financial statements of the Bank and subsidiaries have no material 
bearing on the true and fair view of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the information pertaining to such items which 
are not material have not been disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
28	 Disclosure under Rule 11 (e) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances to its constituents including foreign entities with 
permission to lend  / invest  / provide guarantee or security or the like in other entities identified by such constituents. Similarly, 
the Bank accepts deposits from its constituents, who may instruct the Bank to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security 
or the like against such deposit in other entities identified by such constituents. These transactions are part of Bank’s normal 
banking business, which is conducted after exercising proper due diligence including adherence to “Know Your Customer” 
guidelines as applicable in respective jurisdiction.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
359
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Other than the nature of transactions described above, the Bank has not advanced / lent / invested / provided guarantee or 
security to or in any other person with an understanding to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to or in any 
other person. Similarly, other than the nature of transactions described above, the Bank has not received any funds from any 
other person with an understanding that the Bank shall lend or invest or provide guarantee or security or the like to or in any 
other person.
29	 Comparative figures
Figures for the previous year have been regrouped and reclassified wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s 
presentation. The previous year comparative numbers were audited by MSKA & Associates, Chartered Accountants.
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board
For MSKA & Associates
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Atanu Chakraborty
Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part Time Chairman of the Board
Independent Director
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 
105047W
ICAI Firm Registration Number:                   
107122W/W100672
M. D. Ranganath
Malay Patel
Independent Director
Independent Director
Swapnil Kale
Sanjay Khemani
Lily Vadera
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Partner
Partner
Independent Director
Managing Director & CEO
Membership Number: 117812
Membership Number: 044577
Kaizad Bharucha
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022
Company Secretary

360
Basel III - Pillar 3 Disclosures
As at March 31, 2022
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide its circular under reference DBR.No.BP.BC.1/21.06.201/2015-16 dated July 1, 2015 on 'Basel 
III Capital Regulations' (‘Basel III circular’), as amended from time to time, read together with the circular under reference DBR.
No.BP.BC.80/21.06.201/2014-15 dated March 31, 2015 on 'Prudential Guidelines on Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards 
- Amendments', circular under reference DBR.BP.BC.No.106/21.04.098/2017-18 dated May 17, 2018 on ‘Standards - Net Stable 
Funding Ratio (NSFR) - Final Guidelines’ and subsequent amendments thereof, requires banks to make Pillar 3 disclosures including 
leverage ratio, liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding ratio under the Basel III Framework. These disclosures are available 
on HDFC Bank's website under the ‘Regulatory Disclosures’ section. The link to this section is given below: 
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/resources/regulatory-disclosures
The Regulatory Disclosures section contains the following disclosures:
• 
Qualitative and quantitative Pillar 3 disclosures:
	
Scope of application 
	
Capital adequacy 
	
Credit risk  
	
Credit risk: Portfolios subject to the standardised approach
	
Credit risk mitigation: Disclosures for standardised approach
	
Securitisation exposures 
	
Market risk in trading book  
	
Operational risk  
	
Asset Liability Management (‘ALM’) risk management 
	
General disclosures for exposures related to counterparty credit risk
	
Equities: Disclosure for banking book positions
• 
Composition of capital and reconciliation requirements.
• 
Main features and full terms and conditions of regulatory capital instruments.
• 
Leverage ratio disclosures.
• 
Liquidity coverage ratio disclosure.
• 
Net stable funding ratio disclosure.

361
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
Statement Pursuant to section 129
of the Companies Act, 2013
Form AOC - 1: Pursuant to the first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
Statement containing salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries, associate companies and joint ventures
Part A: Subsidiaries
(` in crore)
Sr. No.
Name of the subsidiary
HDFC Securities Limited
HDB Financial Services Limited
1.
The date since when subsidiary was acquired
September 28, 2005
August 31, 2007
2.
Reporting period for the subsidiary 
concerned, if different from the holding 
company’s reporting period
Reporting period of the subsidiary is the 
same as that of the holding company i.e. 
April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022
Reporting period of the subsidiary is the 
same as that of the holding company i.e. 
April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022
3.
Reporting currency and exchange rate as on 
the last date of the relevant financial year in 
the case of foreign subsidiaries
Not applicable as this is a domestic 
subsidiary
Not applicable as this is a domestic 
subsidiary
4.
Share capital
15.83
790.44
5.
Reserves & surplus
1,628.88
9,033.16
6.
Total assets
7,873.02
64,394.07
7.
Total liabilities
6,228.31
54,570.47
8.
Investments
216.35
2,299.38
9.
Turnover
1,974.34
11,491.43
10.
Profit before taxation
1,327.40
1,352.64
11.
Provision for taxation
331.46
332.46
12.
Profit after taxation
995.94
1,020.18
13.
Proposed dividend 
Nil*
Nil
14.
Extent of shareholding (in percentage)
95.96%
94.96%
* The Company paid interim dividend of ` 864.62 crore during the year.
Notes:
1.	
There are no subsidiaries that are yet to commence operations.
2.	
No subsidiaries were liquidated or sold during the year.
Part B: Associate Companies and Joint Ventures
Not Applicable
For and on behalf of the Board
Atanu Chakraborty
Umesh Chandra Sarangi
Part Time Chairman of the Board
Independent Director
M. D. Ranganath
Malay Patel
Independent Director
Independent Director
Lily Vadera
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Independent Director
Managing Director & CEO
Kaizad Bharucha
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
Santosh Haldankar
Mumbai, April 16, 2022
Company Secretary

362
To 
The Members of HDFC Bank Limited (“the Bank”)
We have examined the compliance of conditions of corporate governance by the Bank for the year ended March 31, 2022, as 
prescribed in Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 and Para C, D and E of Schedule V 
to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 ('SEBI Listing 
Regulations'). 
We state that the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management, and our examination 
was limited to procedures and implementation thereof adopted by the Bank for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of the 
Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Bank. 
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Bank has complied 
with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the aforesaid provisions of SEBI Listing Regulations. 
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor the efficiency or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Bank. 
For BNP & Associates
        Company Secretaries
     [Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
Avinash Bagul
Partner
 FCS No.: 5578 
CP No.: 19862
UDIN: F005578D000459121
Place: Mumbai
Date: June 3, 2022
Certificate on Corporate Governance

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
363
Certificate under SEBI Listing Regulations
To,
The Members,
HDFC Bank Limited,
HDFC Bank House, 
Senapati Bapat Marg,
Lower Parel (West),
Mumbai – 400013.
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of HDFC Bank Limited 
[CIN.: L65920MH1994PLC080618] (hereinafter called the ‘Bank’) having its Registered Office at HDFC Bank House, Senapati 
Bapat Marg, Lower Parel (West), Mumbai – 400013 and also the information provided by the Bank, its officers and the authorised 
representatives for the purpose of issuance of the Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34 (3) read with Schedule V Para-C 
Sub clause 10 (i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 2015 (LODR), as 
amended vide notification no SEBI/LAD/NRO/GN/2018/10 dated May 9, 2018 issued by SEBI.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications [including Directors Identification Number (DIN) 
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in] as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Bank and its officers, we 
hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Bank as stated below for the Financial Year ended on March 31, 2022 
have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of the Bank by Securities and Exchange Board 
of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.
S. No.
Name of the Director
DIN
Date of Appointment in the Bank*
1.     
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty
01469375
May 5, 2021
2.     
Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad
00008064
March 3, 2020
3.     
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar
02013812
July 21, 2018
4.     
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi
02040436
March 1, 2016
5.     
Mrs. Lily Vadera
09400410
November 26, 2021
6.     
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
02490648
December 24, 2013
7.     
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni#
02551389
September 20, 2016
8.     
Mr. Sandeep Pravin Parekh
03268043
January 19, 2019
9.     
Mr. Malay Yogendra Patel
06876386
March 31, 2015
10.   
Mr. Dwarakanath Ranganath Mavinakere
07565125
January 31, 2019
11.   
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
01641411
March 30, 2021
12
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan
08614396
October 27, 2020
	*Date of appointment is taken from MCA.
#Ceased to be the Director of the Bank with effect from February 18, 2022
  

364
Certificate under SEBI Listing Regulations
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Bank. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to the 
future viability of the Bank nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
                                                                              [Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
                                                                                                          	
    Avinash Bagul
Partner
FCS No.: 5578 
CP No.: 19862
UDIN:F005578D000459218
Place: Mumbai	 	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
         
Date: June 3, 2022	

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
365
Report on Corporate Governance
[Report on Corporate Governance pursuant to the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 {“the SEBI Listing Regulations”} and forming a part of the report of the Board of Directors]
Shareholders
Regulators
Board of Directors
Nomination &
Remuneration
Committee
Managing Director
Executive Director
Stakeholders’
Relationship
Committee
Audit  
Committee
Risk Policy &
Monitoring 
Committee
Other
Committees
Corporate Governance Framework
External and 
Internal Auditors
• 
The Board of Directors of the Bank are the ultimate 
custodians of governance.
• 
The Board of Directors are accountable to various 
stakeholders such as shareholders, regulatory authorities 
including Reserve Bank of India, Securities and Exchange 
Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, etc.
• 
The Bank has an engaged, experienced, diverse and a 
well-informed Board. Through the governance framework 
in the Bank, the Board along with its Committees, each 
with defined roles, undertakes its responsibilities towards 
all its stakeholders.
• 
The joint Statutory Auditors have a reporting responsibility 
to the Audit Committee.
• 
The Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer is 
responsible for the overall affairs of the Bank, under the 
superintendence, guidance and control of the Board 
of Directors.
• 
The Executive Director, under the guidance of the Managing 
Director, has over-sight over various business functions.
Philosophy on Code of Corporate Governance
The Bank believes in adopting and adhering to the best 
recognized corporate governance practices and continuously 
benchmarking itself against each such practice. The Bank 
understands and respects its role and responsibility towards its 
shareholders and strives hard to meet their expectations.
The Bank believes that best board governance practices, 
transparent disclosures and shareholder empowerment are 
necessary for creating shareholder value. The Bank has infused 
the philosophy of corporate governance into all its activities. 
The philosophy on corporate governance is an important tool 
for shareholder protection and maximization of their long-
term values. The cardinal principles such as independence, 
accountability, responsibility, transparency, fair and timely 
disclosures, credibility, sustainability, etc. serve as the means 
for implementing the philosophy of corporate governance in 
letter and in spirit.
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~

366
Report on Corporate Governance
Board of Directors
The composition of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“Board”) 
is governed by the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, SEBI Listing Regulations and 
other applicable laws.
As on the date of this report, the Board consists of eleven (11) 
Directors as follows:
Sr. 
No. Category
Name of Director
1 Executive
Directors
i. Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (Managing Director & 
Chief Executive Officer) 
ii.	 Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
2 Non-Executive
Directors
Mrs. Renu Karnad (Nominee of Housing 
Development Finance Corporation Limited, 
Promoter of the Bank)
3 Independent
Directors
i. Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (Part-time Chairman & 
Independent Director) 
ii.	 Mr. Sanjiv Sachar
iii.	Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi
iv.	Mr. Sandeep Parekh 
v.	 Mr. Malay Patel
vi.	Mr. M. D. Ranganath
vii.	Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
viii.Mrs. Lily Vadera
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, was appointed as the Part-time Chairman 
& Independent Director of the Bank with effect from May 5, 2021, 
pursuant to the approval granted by the Reserve Bank of India, 
and by the shareholders of the Bank at the 27th Annual General 
Meeting held on July 17, 2021.
Mrs. Lily Vadera was appointed as an Independent Director of 
the Bank for a period of five (5) years from November 26, 2021 
to November 25, 2026 (both days inclusive), not liable to retire 
by rotation and the same was approved by the shareholders of 
the Bank through Postal Ballot on March 27, 2022.
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as Non-
Executive (Non-Independent) Director of Bank with effect from 
February 18, 2022. 
Further, at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on April 
16, 2022, Mrs. Renu Karnad has been re-appointed as the Non-
Executive Director (Nominee of Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited, Promoter of the Bank) on the Board of the 
Bank, for a period of five (5) years with effect from September 3, 
2022, subject to the approval of the shareholders at the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting.
All the Directors have made necessary disclosures regarding 
their directorship and committee positions occupied by them in 
other companies. None of the directors are related to each other.
Details of directorships, memberships and chairpersonships of 
the committees of other companies for the current Directors of 
the Bank are as follows:
Name of Director
Directorships 
on the Board 
of other 
companies*
Memberships of 
committees of other 
companies*
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty
2
-
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
-
-
Mrs. Lily Vadera
-
-
Mr. Malay Patel
2
1
Mr. M. D. Ranganath
-
-
Mrs. Renu Karnad
11 (1)**
5 (3)
Mr. Sandeep Parekh
1
-
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar
1
-
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan
-
-
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
6
-
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi
1
-
* The figures in brackets indicate chairpersonships.
**Mrs. Karnad tendered her resignation from Unitech Limited with effect 
from March 24, 2022, and completion of necessary formalities is awaited, 
including placing the same before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, for 
its kind consideration.
Note: For the purpose of considering the limit of the directorships 
and limits of committees on which the directors are members / 
chairpersons, all public limited companies (whether listed or not), 
private limited companies, foreign companies and companies 
under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 have been 
included. Further, chairpersonships / memberships of only the 
Audit Committee and the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 
in these companies have been considered.
Profile of Board of Directors
The profile of the Directors of the Bank as on the date of this 
report are as under:
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (DIN 01469375) 
[Part-time Chairman and Independent Director]
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, aged sixty-two (62) years, served the 
Government of India, for a period of thirty-five (35) years, as 
a member of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) in Gujarat 
cadre. He has mainly worked in areas of Finance & Economic 
Policy, Infrastructure, Petroleum & Natural Gas. In the Union 
Government, he held various posts such as Secretary to 
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance- Department of 
Economic Affairs (DEA) during FY 2019-20. As Secretary (DEA), 
he co-ordinated economic policy making for all ministries/
departments and managed entire process of formulation 
of budget making for Union of India, including its passage in 
Parliament. He was responsible for fiscal management policies, 
policies for public debt management and development & 
management of financial markets.
Mr. Chakraborty also handled financial stability and currency, 
domestic & foreign related issues as well. He managed flow of 
funds with multilateral and bilateral financial institutions and had 
multiple interfaces with them. He also headed a multi-disciplinary 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
367
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
task force that produced the National Infrastructure Pipeline 
(NIP). He has also served as Secretary to the Union Government 
for Disinvestment (Department of Investment and Public Asset 
Management) wherein he was responsible for both policy as well 
as execution of the process of disinvestment of Government of 
India’s stake in state owned enterprises.
During the period 2002-07, Mr. Chakraborty served as Director 
and subsequently as Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance 
(Department of Expenditure). During this period, he appraised 
projects in the Infrastructure sector as well as looked after 
subsidies of Government of India. He had also updated and 
modernized the Government’s Financial & Procurement rules. 
Mr. Chakraborty has also discharged varied roles in the Gujarat 
State Government including heading the Finance Department 
as its Secretary. He had been responsible for piloting the private 
sector investment legislation in the State. In the State Govt., 
he has worked on the ground in both public governance and 
development areas.
Mr. Chakraborty has also served on the Board of World Bank as 
alternate Governor as well as on the Central Board of Directors of 
the Reserve Bank of India. He was also the Chairman of National 
Infrastructure Investment Fund (NIIF) as also on the Board of 
many listed companies. Mr. Chakraborty was the CEO/MD 
of the Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited group of 
companies as well as Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals 
Limited. Mr. Chakraborty had published articles in reputed 
journals in the areas of public finance, risk sharing in Infrastructure 
projects and gas infrastructure. Mr. Chakraborty graduated as 
a Bachelor in Engineering (Electronics & Communication) from 
NIT Kurukshetra. He holds a Diploma in Business Finance (ICFAI, 
Hyderabad) and a Master’s degree in Business Administration 
from the University of Hull, UK.
Mr. Chakraborty is an Independent Director in BAE Systems 
India (Services) Private Limited and Association of City Gas 
Distribution Entities.
Mr. Chakraborty does not hold any shares in the Bank as on 
March 31, 2022.
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (DIN: 08614396)
[Managing Director & CEO]
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, aged fifty-seven (57) years, has an 
overall experience of thirty (30) years. He has completed his 
graduation in Science with specialization in Physics, is a 
Chartered Accountant by profession and holds a Master’s 
degree in Economics of Money, Banking & Finance from the 
University of Sheffield, United Kingdom.
Mr. Jagdishan joined the Bank in the year 1996 as a Manager 
in the Finance function. He became Business Head - Finance 
in 1999 and was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in the year 
2008. He played a critical role in supporting the growth trajectory 
of the Bank, and led the finance function with a pivotal role in 
aligning the organization in achieving the strategic objectives 
over the years.
Prior to his appointment as Managing Director & Chief Executive 
Officer of the Bank, he was the Group Head of the Bank in 
addition to overseeing the functions of Finance, Human 
Resources, Legal & Secretarial, Administration, Infrastructure, 
Corporate Communications and Corporate Social Responsibility.
Mr. Jagdishan is not a director in any other company.
Mr. Jagdishan along with his relatives, holds 16,79,943 equity 
shares in the Bank as on March 31, 2022.
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha (DIN: 02490648) 
[Executive Director]
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, aged fifty-seven (57) years, holds a 
Bachelor of Commerce degree from University of Mumbai and 
is a career banker with over thirty five (35) years of experience. 
He has been associated with the Bank since 1995. In his current 
position as Executive Director, he is responsible for Wholesale 
Banking covering areas of Corporate Banking, PSUs, Capital & 
Commodities Markets, Financial Institutions, Custody, Mutual 
Funds, Global Capability Centre & Financial Sponsors coverage, 
and Banks coverage.
As Executive Director, in his earlier position, he was responsible 
for Corporate Banking, Emerging Corporate Group, Business 
Banking, Healthcare Finance, Agri Lending, Tractor Financing, 
Commercial Vehicle Finance, Commercial Equipment Finance, 
Infrastructure Finance, Department for Special operations and 
inclusive banking initiatives group.  
In his previous position as Group Head - Credit & Market Risk, 
he was responsible for the Risk Management activities in the 
Bank viz., Credit Risk, Market Risk, Debt Management, Risk 
Intelligence and Control functions.
Prior to joining the Bank, he worked in SBI Commercial and 
International Bank in various areas including Trade Finance and 
Corporate Banking.
He has represented HDFC Bank as a member of the working 
group on banking related committees.
Mr. Bharucha is not a director in any other company.
Mr. Bharucha, along with his relatives, holds 26,02,695 equity 
shares in the Bank as on March 31, 2022.
Mr. Malay Patel (DIN: 06876386) 
[Independent Director]
Mr. Malay Patel, aged forty-five (45) years, is a Major in 
Engineering (Mechanical) from Rutgers University, Livingston, 

368
Report on Corporate Governance
NJ, USA, and an A.A.B.A. in business from Bergen County 
College, Fairlawn, NJ, USA. He is a director on the Board of Eewa 
Engineering Company Private Limited, a company in the plastics 
/ packaging industry with exports to more than 50 countries. 
He has been involved in varied roles such as export / import, 
procurement, sales and marketing, etc. in Eewa Engineering 
Company Private Limited.
Mr. Malay Patel has special knowledge and practical experience 
in matters relating to small scale industries in terms of Section 
10-A (2 a) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 
Mr. Patel is also on the Board of the following public limited 
company(ies):
Listed Public Limited Companies
Other Public Limited Companies
-
HDFC Securities Limited 
(Independent Director)
Mr. Patel does not hold any shares in the Bank as on March 
31, 2022.
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi (DIN: 02040436)
[Independent Director]
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi, aged seventy (70) years, holds a 
Master’s degree in Science (Botany) from Utkal University (gold 
medalist). 
Mr. Sarangi has over three decades of experience in Indian 
Administrative Service and brought in significant reforms in 
modernizing of agriculture, focus on agro processing and export. 
As the erstwhile Chairman of National Bank for Agricultural 
and Rural Development (NABARD) from December 2007 to 
December 2010, Mr. Sarangi focused on rural infrastructure, 
accelerated initiatives such as microfinance, financial inclusion, 
watershed development and tribal development.
Mr. Sarangi has specialized knowledge and experience in 
agriculture and rural economy pursuant to Section 10-A (2)(a) of 
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
Mr. Sarangi is not a director in any other listed or public 
limited company.
Mr. Sarangi does not hold any shares in the Bank as on March 
31, 2022.
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar (DIN: 02013812) 
[Independent Director]
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, aged sixty-four (64) years, is a Fellow Associate 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and former 
Senior Partner of Egon Zehnder, the world’s largest privately 
held executive search firm. 
Mr. Sachar set up the Egon Zehnder practice in India in 1995 and 
played a key role in establishing the firm as a market leader in the 
executive search space across various country segments. Over 
the course of his two decades at Egon Zehnder, Mr. Sachar has 
mentored senior executives across industry sectors that today 
are either Board members, CEOs or CFOs of large corporates 
in India and overseas. Mr. Sachar has also been the co-founder 
of the chartered accountancy and management consulting 
firm, Sachar Vasudeva & Associates and co-founded executive 
search firm, Direct Impact. 
Mr. Sachar is also on the Board of the following public 
company(ies):
Listed Public Limited Companies
Other Public Limited Companies
KDDL Limited  
(Independent Director)
-
Mr. Sachar does not hold any shares in the Bank as on March 
31, 2022.
Mr. Sandeep Parekh (DIN: 03268043) 
[Independent Director]
Mr. Sandeep Parekh, aged fifty (50) years, holds an LL.M. 
(Securities and Financial Regulations) degree from Georgetown 
University and an LL.B. degree from Delhi University. He is the 
managing partner of Finsec Law Advisors, a financial sector 
law firm based in Mumbai. He was an Executive Director at 
the Securities & Exchange Board of India during 2006-08, 
heading the Enforcement and Legal Affairs departments. He 
is a faculty at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad. 
He has worked for law firms in Delhi, Mumbai and Washington, 
D.C. Mr. Parekh focuses on securities regulations, investment 
regulations, private equity, corporate governance and financial 
regulations. He is admitted to practice law in New York. He was 
recognized by the World Economic Forum as a “Young Global 
Leader” in 2008. He was Chairman and member of various SEBI 
and RBI Committees and sub-Committees and is presently a 
member of SEBI’s Mutual Fund Advisory Committee. 
Mr. Parekh is not a director in any other listed or public 
limited company.
Mr. Parekh does not hold any shares in the Bank as on 
March 31, 2022.
Mr. M. D. Ranganath (DIN: 07565125) 
[Independent Director]
Mr. M.D. Ranganath, aged sixty (60) years, holds Master’s 
degree in technology from IIT, Madras and a Bachelor’s degree 
in Engineering from the University of Mysore. He is a PGDM from 
IIM, Ahmedabad and a member of CPA, Australia.
Mr. Ranganath has over twenty eight (28) years of experience 
in the Global IT services and financial services industry. He 
is currently President of Catamaran Ventures. He was Chief 
Financial Officer of Infosys Limited, a globally listed IT services 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
369
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
company, till November, 2018. During his tenure of 18 years at 
Infosys, he was an integral part of the growth and transformation 
of Infosys into a globally respected IT services company and 
effectively played leadership roles in a wide spectrum of areas- 
Strategy, Finance, Merger & Acquisition (M&A), Consulting, Risk 
Management, and Corporate planning- culminating in the role 
of Chief Financial Officer. Prior to Infosys, he worked at ICICI 
Limited for 8 years and executed responsibilities in credit, 
treasury, equity portfolio management and corporate planning.
In the years 2017 and 2018, Mr. Ranganath was the recipient of 
the Best CFO Asia award in the technology sector, by Institutional 
Investor publication, based on poll of buy-side and sell-side 
investor community.
Mr. Ranganath is not a director in any other company.
Mr. Ranganath does not hold any shares in the Bank as on 
March 31, 2022.
Mrs. Renu Karnad (DIN: 00008064) 
[Non-Executive Non-Independent Director]
Mrs. Renu Karnad, aged sixty-nine (69) years, is the Managing 
Director of Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited 
since 2010. She holds a Master’s degree in Economics from 
the University of Delhi and a Bachelor’s degree in Law from 
the University of Mumbai. She is also a Parvin Fellow-Woodrow 
Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Princeton 
University, USA. Mrs. Karnad brings with her rich experience and 
knowledge of the mortgage sector, having been associated with 
real estate and mortgage industry in India for over 40 years. Over 
the years, she has been the recipient of numerous awards and 
accolades, such as the ‘Outstanding Woman Business Leader’ 
award granted by CBNC-TV18 India Business Leader Awards 
2012, induction in the Hall of Fame, Fortune India magazine’s 
most powerful women from 2011 to 2019, ‘Top Ten Powerful 
Women to watch out for in Asia’ by Wall Street Journal Asia in 
2006, etc.
Mrs. Karnad is on the Board of the following public companies:
Listed Public Limited Companies
Other Public Limited Companies
Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited  
(Managing Director)
HDFC ERGO General Insurance 
Company Limited  
(Non-Executive Director)
HDFC Asset Management 
Company Limited  
(Non-Executive Director) 
Bangalore International Airport 
Limited  
(Independent Director)
HDFC Life Insurance Company 
Limited  
(Non-Executive Director)
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals 
Limited  
(Non-Executive Director)
Unitech Limited  
(Nominee of the Central 
Government)*
*(Mrs. Karnad tendered her resignation from Unitech Limited with effect 
from March 24, 2022 and completion of necessary formalities is awaited, 
including placing the same before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, for 
its kind consideration.)
Mrs. Karnad, along with her relatives, holds 5,95,320 equity 
shares in the Bank as on March 31, 2022.
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari (DIN 01641411)
[Independent Director]
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari aged fifty-six (56) years is a US 
Board certified Pediatric Cardiologist, and completed her MBBS 
at Osmania Medical College followed by post-graduation at 
AIIMS, Delhi and Yale University in the US. With over thirty (30) 
years of experience, she has lived and worked in the US and 
India. In addition to being a clinician, Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari is a 
medical entrepreneur and co-founder at: 
(a) 	 Teleradiology Solutions (India’s first and largest teleradiology 
company that has provided over 5 million diagnostic reports 
to patients and hospitals globally including for the Tripura 
state government), 
(b) 	 Telrad Tech which builds AI enabled tele health software and
(c) 	 RXDX healthcare - a chain of multi-specialty neighbourhood 
clinics in Bangalore. 
She has also incubated other start-up companies in the tele-
health space such as Healtheminds - a tele-counselling 
platform. She is active in the social arena in India where she 
runs 2 trust funds. ‘People4people’ has put up over 450 
playgrounds in government schools and Telrad Foundation 
provides teleradiology and telemedicine services to poor areas 
in Asia that do not have access to high quality medical care. Her 
other interests include teaching - she has been running India’s 
e-teaching program for postgraduates in Pediatric Cardiology for 
over a decade. In 2019, she helped the Kerala National health 
mission Hridayam launch e-classes in pediatric cardiology for 
pediatricians in the state.
She has over 200 academic presentations and publications to 
her credit and is an inspirational speaker having given over 200 
lectures, including several TEDx talks. Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari is 
the recipient of several prestigious awards and honours including: 
WOW (Woman of Worth) 2019 award, Outlook Business; 50 
most powerful women of India, March 2016; Amazing Indian 
award- Times Now 2014; Top 20 women Health care achievers 
in India, Modern Medicare 2009; Yale University- Outstanding 
Fellow Teacher of the Year Award, 1995, amongst others.
Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari is on the Board of the following public 
company(ies):
Listed Public Limited Companies
Other Public Limited Companies
Glaxosmithkline Pharmaceuticals 
Limited  
(Independent Director)
-

370
Report on Corporate Governance
Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari does not hold any shares in the Bank as 
on March 31, 2022.
Mrs. Lily Vadera (DIN: 09400410) 
[Independent Director]
Mrs. Lily Vadera, aged sixty-one (61) years, is a M.A in International 
Relations. With over 33 years of experience in Central banking, 
she retired as Executive Director from the Reserve Bank of India 
(RBI) in October 2020. As the Executive Director of the RBI, she 
was in-charge of the Department of Regulation (DoR) where 
she dealt with the regulatory framework for various entities 
in financial sector, covering all categories of banks and non-
banking finance companies. 
She was instrumental in putting in place a framework for a 
regulatory sandbox to provide an enabling environment for 
fintech players to foster innovation in financial services and 
played a significant role in the amalgamation of banks in stress. 
She represented the Reserve Bank of India and played an 
important role as a member of the Insolvency Law Committee 
set up by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA).
Mrs. Lily Vadera is not a director in any other company.
Mrs. Lily Vadera does not hold any shares in the Bank as on 
March 31, 2022.
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS & LAST 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM)
The Board / Committee Meetings are convened by giving 
appropriate notice well in advance of the meetings. The Directors 
/ Committee Members are provided with appropriate information 
in the form of agenda items in a timely manner, to enable them 
to deliberate on each agenda item and make informed decisions 
and provide appropriate directions to the Management. While 
the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws do not 
prescribe a minimum number of meetings to be attended by 
directors, the Board/ Committee Members endeavor to attend 
and participate in all Board meetings, unless he/she is unable 
to attend the meeting on account of reasonable cause for which 
leave of absence is requested, which is considered by the Board 
/ respective Committee for approval.
Video-conferencing facility is also provided at the Board / 
Committee meetings in case any director is unable to attend the 
meeting physically but wishes to participate through electronic 
mode in the meetings. 
At the Board / Committee meetings, presentations and deep dive 
sessions are made covering important areas of the Bank such 
as annual plans and strategies, cyber security and information 
technology, COVID-19 - impact on the economy, India’s growth 
story post 2nd wave of COVID-19 pandemic and operational and 
business continuity measures of the Bank, customer grievances 
and customer services framework, credit portfolio quality,  IT 
Strategic Initiatives, Board awareness session on cyber security, 
Sustainable Livelihood (SLI), Compliance and Risk Management 
strategy, rewards strategy, Enterprise-Wide Risk Management 
(ERM) Framework, Global Economic Crisis including Russia 
Ukraine conflict, etc. 
Directors are also encouraged to attend relevant programs and 
seminars conducted by reputed external organizations. There 
have been no instances wherein the Board had not accepted 
the recommendations of any Committee.
During the financial year under review, fourteen (14) Board 
meetings were held. The meetings were held on April 17, 2021, 
April 29, 2021, May 20, 2021, May 22, 2021, June 18, 2021, July 
17, 2021, August 14, 2021, September 17, 2021, October 16, 
2021, November 26, 2021, January 15, 2022, February 18, 2022, 
March 16, 2022, and March 28, 2022.
Details of attendance at the Board meetings held during the 
financial year under review and attendance at the last virtual 
AGM are as follows:
Name of the Director
Board
Meetings
attended
during the year
Attendance
at last virtual
AGM (July 17,
2021)
Independent Directors
Mr.      Atanu      Chakraborty# 
12  
Present 
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar
14
Present
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi
14
Present
Mr. Sandeep Parekh
14
Present
Mr. Malay Patel
14
Present
Mr. M. D. Ranganath
14
Present
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 
13
Present
Mrs. Lily Vadera*
4
NA
Non-executive Directors
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni**
12
Present
Mrs. Renu Karnad
14
Present
Executive Directors
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
14
Present
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan
14
Present
# 	 Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was appointed as Part-time Non-Executive 
Chairman and Independent Director of the Bank with effect from 
May 5, 2021.
* 	 Mrs. Lily Vadera was appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank for 
a period of five (5) years from November 26, 2021 to November 25, 2026 
(both days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation.
** 	Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as Non-Executive 
(Non-Independent) Director of the Bank with effect from February 18, 2022. 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
371
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS
Managing Director and other Executive Directors
The details of the remuneration paid to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, 
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Kaizad 
Bharucha, Executive Director, during the financial year 2021-22 
are as under: 
(Amount in `)
Particulars
Mr. Sashidhar 
Jagdishan
Mr. Kaizad 
Bharucha
Basic
2,52,45,000
2,63,55,572
Allowances and Perquisites
3,31,20,966
2,83,16,961
Provident Fund
30,29,400
31,62,666
Superannuation
37,86,756
   39,53,328
Performance Bonus
        -
     4,46,25,564
Number of stock options 
granted (Number of ESOPs)
        -
        -
Notes:
1.	
Mr. Aditya Puri retired as the Managing Director of the 
Bank at the end of business hours on October 26, 2020. 
Mr. Aditya Puri was paid cash variable pay of ` 7,11,00,000 
for the performance period April 01, 2020 to October 26, 
2020. The same was approved by Reserve Bank of India 
(“RBI”) vide its letter dated March 23, 2022. Basis RBI 
approval, 40% of the above-mentioned cash variable pay 
was paid in the financial year 2021 – 2022 and the balance 
60% of the cash variable pay will be deferred over a period 
of three years and will be paid in three equal instalments. 
	
Also Mr. Aditya Puri, was paid cash variable pay of 
` 4,33,69,066 for the performance period April 01, 2019 
to March 31, 2020. The same was approved by RBI vide 
their letter dated April 29, 2021. Since the cash variable 
pay approved by RBI was less than 50% of his fixed pay 
the entire amount was credited to him in the financial year 
2021 – 2022. 
	
Accordingly, the total cash variable pay, paid to Mr. Aditya 
Puri in financial year 2021 - 2022 is as follows.
A.	
40% of the cash variable pay for the Performance Year 
2020 - 2021 : ` 2,84,40,000
B.	
100% of the cash variable pay for the Performance 
Year 2019 - 2020 : ` 4,33,69,066
C.	
Tranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
Performance Year 2018-19: ` 68,83,979 
D.	
Tranche 3 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
Performance Year 2017-18:  ` 57,36,649 
	
Total Payout in the financial year 2021 - 2022 
(A+B+C+D): ` 8,44,29,694 
2.	
The Annual remuneration paid to the Executive Director, 
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha includes the payment of arrears for 
financial year 2020 - 2021 which was approved by the RBI 
vide their letter dated March 23, 2022. 
3.	
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was paid cash variable pay of 
` 3,52,00,000 for the performance period April 01, 2020 
to March 31, 2021. The same was approved by RBI vide 
its letter dated March 23, 2022. Basis RBI approval, 50% 
of the above mentioned cash variable pay was paid in the 
financial year 2021 - 2022 and the balance 50% of the cash 
variable pay will be deferred over a period of three years 
and will be paid in three equal instalments.
	
Also, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was paid cash variable pay of 
` 2,08,40,895 for the performance period April 01, 2019 
to March 31, 2020. The same was approved by RBI vide 
their letter dated April 29, 2021. Since the cash variable 
pay approved by RBI was less than 50% of his fixed pay 
the entire amount was credited to him in the financial year 
2021 - 2022. 
	
Accordingly, the total cash variable payment made to 
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha in financial year 2021 - 2022 is 
as follows:
A.	
50% of the cash variable pay for the Performance Year 
2020 – 2021 : ` 1,76,00,000
B.	
100% of the cash variable pay for the Performance 
Year 2019 - 2020 : ` 2,08,40,895
C.	
Tranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
Performance Year 2018-19 : ` 33,08,079 
D.	
Tranche 3 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
Performance Year 2017-18: ` 28,76,590   
Total Payout (A+B+C+D): ` 4,46,25,564
Employee Stock Options:
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was granted a total quantum of 1,20,730 
employee stock options for the performance year 2020-21 on 
April 12, 2022 basis approval received from the Reserve Bank 
of India vide its letter dated March 23, 2022. 
The employee stock options have not been issued at discount 
and the same have been granted at the closing market price 
prevailing on the day prior to the date of grant on the National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited. The vesting schedule for the 
stock options is 
a.	
25% of options after expiry of twelve months from date 
of grant, 
b.	
25% options after expiry of twenty-four months from the 
date of grant, 
c.	
25% of options after expiry of thirty-six months from the 
date of grant and
d.	
 the balance options after expiry of forty-eight months from 
date of grant. 

372
Report on Corporate Governance
The options so vested are to be exercised within 2 years from 
the respective dates of vesting.
The criteria for evaluation of performance of Whole-Time 
Directors include Business Performance, Stakeholder 
Relationship, Audit and Compliance, Digital Transformation and 
Organization Excellence.
Pursuant to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the appointment 
and tenure of Whole-Time Directors is subject to the approval 
of RBI.
The Bank provides for gratuity in the form of lump-sum payment 
on retirement or on death while in employment or on termination 
of employment of an amount equivalent to 15 (fifteen) days basic 
salary payable for each completed year of service.
The Bank makes annual contributions to funds administered by 
trustees and managed by insurance companies for amounts 
notified by the said insurance companies. The Bank accounts for 
the liability for future gratuity benefits based on an independent 
external actuarial valuation carried out annually.
Perquisites (evaluated as per Income Tax Rules, 1962 wherever 
applicable and at actual cost to the Bank otherwise) such as the 
benefit of the Bank’s furnished accommodation, gas, electricity, 
water and furnishings, club fees, personal accident insurance, 
use of car and telephone at residence, medical reimbursement, 
leave and leave travel concession and other benefits like 
Provident Fund, Superannuation and Gratuity are provided in 
accordance with the rules of the Bank in this regard.
Service Contracts and the notice period are as per the terms of 
agreement entered into by the Bank with Chairman and Whole-
Time Directors. No severance fee is payable by the Bank on 
termination of these contracts.
No sitting fees were paid to Mr. Jagdishan and Mr. Bharucha for 
attending meetings of the Board and / or its Committees.
DETAILS OF REMUNERATION / SITTING FEES 
PAID TO NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Criteria for remuneration/sitting fees paid to Non-
Executive Director
All the non-executive directors including the independent directors 
and the Chairman receive sitting fees and reimbursement of out 
of pocket expenses for attending each meeting of the Board and 
its various Committees. No stock options are granted to any of 
the non- executive directors.
Pursuant to the provisions of Companies Act, 2013, the Non-
Executive Directors are paid sitting fees of ` 50,000 or ` 100,000 
per meeting for attending Committee & Board meetings 
respectively. The Board of Directors increased the sitting fees of 
certain key Committee meetings to ` 100,000 per meeting with 
effect from April 1, 2021, namely, Audit Committee, Risk Policy & 
Monitoring Committee, Nomination & Remuneration Committee, 
Credit Approval Committee and IT Strategy Committee. 
Subsequently, sitting fees payable for attending Independent 
Directors Meeting and Customer Service Committee meeting 
was increased to ` 1,00,000 with effect from August 14, 2021 
and November 26, 2021 respectively. 
The details of sitting fees and remuneration paid to Non-Executive 
Directors during the financial year 2021-22 are as under:
(Amount in `)
Director
Sitting Fees
Remuneration to 
NEDs
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty1
36,50,000
31,70,698.96
Mr. Malay Patel
55,50,000
20,00,000
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi
51,00,000
20,00,000
Mrs. Renu Karnad
56,50,000
20,00,000
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar
58,00,000
20,00,000
Mr. Sandeep Parekh
43,50,000
20,00,000
Mr. M. D. Ranganath
64,50,000
20,00,000
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
21,00,000
20,00,000
Mrs. Lily Vadera2
6,00,000
6,90,217
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni3
55,00,000
17,72,222
Total
4,47,50,000
1,96,33,137.96
1	 During the year, Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was paid remuneration of 
` 31,70,698.96, (i.e. ` 35,00,000 per annum) on proportionate basis for 
the period from May 5, 2021 to March 31, 2022 as he was appointed as 
the Part-time Chairman and Independent Director of the Bank with effect 
from May 5, 2021. The remuneration of the Chairman has been approved 
by the Reserve Bank of India.
2	 Mrs. Lily Vadera was appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank 
with effect from November 26, 2021
3	 Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as Non-Executive (Non-
Independent) Director of the Bank with effect from February 18, 2022
Note: Pursuant to the guidelines issued by RBI on Corporate 
Governance in Banks - Appointment of Directors and Constitution 
of Committees of the Board (“RBI Guidelines”) dated April 26, 
2021 and read with the relevant shareholders’ resolution passed 
at the 27th  Annual General Meeting of the Bank held on July 17, 
2021, the Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) of the Bank, other 
than the Part-time Chairman, were paid compensation in the 
form of fixed remuneration of ` 20,00,000 (Rupees Twenty Lakhs 
Only) each for F.Y. 2021-22. This is in addition to the sitting fees 
and reimbursement of out of pocket expenses for given to them 
for attending Committee & Board meetings.
There were no other pecuniary relationships or transactions 
of Non-Executive Directors vis-a-vis the Bank (except banking 
transactions in the ordinary course of business and on arm’s 
length basis) during FY 2021-22.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
373
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
COMPOSITION OF COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS, TERMS OF REFERENCE AND ATTENDANCE AT 
THE MEETINGS
The Board has constituted various Committees of Directors to take informed decisions in the best interest of the Bank. These 
Committees monitor the activities as per the scope defined in their Charter and terms of reference.
The Board’s Committees are as follows as on the date of this Report:
Non-Executive Directors
Executive Directors
Atanu      
Chakraborty
Sanjiv 
Sachar
Umesh 
Chandra 
Sarangi
Sandeep 
Parekh
Malay  
Patel
M. D. 
Ranganath
Sunita 
Maheshwari
Lily  
Vadera
Renu 
Karnad
Sashidhar 
Jagdishan
Kaizad 
Bharucha
Audit
Nomination and
Remuneration
Stakeholders’
Relationship
Corporate Social 
Responsibility &
ESG
Risk Policy and
Monitoring
Fraud Monitoring
Customer Service
Credit Approval
Digital
Transactions
Monitoring
IT Strategy*
Wilful Defaulters’
Identification
Review
Non-Cooperative
Borrowers Review
Premises
* 	 	 Includes external IT consultant in addition to the above members.	
 Chairperson of the Committee    
 Member of the Committee

374
Report on Corporate Governance
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of  
Reference / Roles and 
Responsibilities:
a) Overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process and disclosure of financial information to ensure that the financial 
statement is correct, sufficient and credible;
b) Recommending appointment and removal of external auditors and fixing of their fees;
c) Reviewing with management the annual financial statements and auditor’s report before submission to the Board 
with special emphasis on accounting policies and practices, compliance with accounting standards, disclosure of 
related party transactions and other legal requirements relating to financial statements;
d) Reviewing the adequacy of the Audit and Compliance functions, including their policies, procedures, techniques and 
other regulatory requirements; and
e) Any other terms of reference as may be included from time to time in the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI Listing 
Regulations, including any amendments / re-enactments thereof from time to time.
The Charter of the Audit Committee has been formulated in accordance with certain United States regulatory standards 
as the Bank’s American Depository Receipts are also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Composition:
Mr. M. D. Ranganath (Chairman), Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi and Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, all of whom are independent 
directors. Mr. M. D. Ranganath and Mr. Sanjiv Sachar are the members of Audit Committee having financial expertise.
Mr. Santosh Haldankar, Company Secretary of the Bank, acts as the Secretary of the Committee.
Meetings:
The Committee met sixteen (16) times during the year on:
April 6, 2021, April 16, 2021, May 19, 2021, June 1, 2021, June 17, 2021, June 18, 2021, July 16, 2021, August 12, 
2021, September 16, 2021, October 16, 2021, November 25, 2021, December 7, 2021, January 14, 2022, February 
17, 2022, March 15, 2022 and March 28, 2022.
NOMINATION & REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of  
Reference / Roles and 
Responsibilities:
a)	Scrutinizing the nominations of the directors with reference to their qualifications and experience, for identifying
   ‘Fit and Proper’ persons, assessing competency of the persons and reviewing compensation levels of the Bank’s 
employees vis-à-vis other banks and the banking industry in general.
   The NRC has formulated a Policy for Appointment and Fit and Proper Criteria of Directors, which inter-alia provides 
for criteria to assess the competency of the persons nominated, which includes:
• Academic qualifications,
• Previous experience,
• track record, and
• integrity of the candidates.
   For assessing the integrity and suitability, features like criminal records, financial position, civil actions undertaken 
to pursue personal debts, refusal of admission to and expulsion from professional bodies, sanctions applied by 
regulators or similar bodies and previous questionable business practices are considered.
b)	The Committee also formulates criteria for evaluation of performance of individual directors including independent 
directors, the Board of Directors and its Committees. 
The criteria for evaluation of performance of directors (including independent directors) include personal attributes 
such as attendance at meetings, communication skills, leadership skills and adaptability and professional attributes 
such as understanding of the Bank’s core business and strategic objectives, industry knowledge, independent 
judgment, adherence to the Bank’s Code of Conduct, Ethics and Values etc.
c)	To carry out any other function as is mandated by the Board from time to time and / or enforced by any statutory 
notification, amendment or modification, as may be applicable.
Composition:
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar (Chairman), Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi and Mr. Atanu 
Chakraborty.
All the members of the Committee are independent directors.
Details of re-constitution:
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was inducted as member on the Committee with effect from June 9, 2021.
Meetings:
The Committee met thirteen (13) times during the year on:
April 16, 2021, April 22, 2021, May 19, 2021, June 1, 2021, June 15, 2021, June 28, 2021, July 16, 2021, 
July 27, 2021, August 24, 2021, October 20, 2021, November 25, 2021, January 13, 2022 and February 15, 2022.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
375
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
STAKEHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of  
Reference / Roles and 
Responsibilities:
The Committee approves and monitors transfer, transmission, splitting and consolidation of shares and considers 
requests for dematerialization of shares. Allotment of shares to the employees on exercise of stock options granted 
under the various Employees Stock Option Schemes which are made in terms of the powers delegated by the Board 
in this regard, are placed before the Committee for ratification. The Committee also monitors redressal of grievances 
from shareholders relating to transfer of shares, non-receipt of Annual Report, dividends, etc.
The Committee shall oversee the various aspects of interests of all stakeholders including shareholders and other 
security holders.
The powers to approve share transfers and dematerialization requests have been delegated to executives of the 
Bank to avoid delays that may arise due to non-availability of the members of the Committee. Mr. Santosh Haldankar, 
Company Secretary of the Bank is the Compliance Officer responsible for expediting the share transfer/transmission/
deletion formalities.
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank received 82 complaints from the shareholders. The Bank had 
attended to all the complaints except 1 complaint which was pending as was received during the end of quarter. This 
complaint was responded and was closed subsequently, all other complaints were closed to the satisfaction of the 
shareholder as on March 31, 2022.
Besides, 2,308 letters were received from the shareholders relating to change of address, nomination requests, 
updation of email IDs and PAN No(s), updation of complete bank account details viz. Core Banking account no., 
IFSC and / MICR code, Mandate for crediting dividend by National Automated Clearing House (NACH) and National 
Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT), Issuance of Duplicate Share Certificate and claim of shares from Unclaimed Suspense 
account queries relating to the annual reports, non-receipt of share certificate upon sub-division of Bank’s shares from 
the face value of ` 2/- each to the face value of ` 1/- each, amalgamation, request for re-validation of dividend warrants 
and various other investor related matters. These letters have also been responded to.
Composition:
Mr. Malay Patel (Chairman), Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi, Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mrs. Renu Karnad, Mr. Kaizad 
Bharucha and Mrs. Lily Vadera
Details of re-constitution:
• 
Mr. Malay Patel was appointed as the Chairman and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was inducted as a member of the 
Committee with effect from September 17, 2021. 
• 
Mrs. Lily Vadera was inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from June 10, 2022.
Meetings:
The Committee met four (4) times during the year on:
April 9, 2021, July 13, 2021, October 18, 2021 and January 12, 2022.
RISK POLICY & MONITORING COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of  
Reference / Roles and 
Responsibilities:
The Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee (RPMC) has been formed as per the guidelines of Reserve Bank of India on 
Asset Liability Management / Risk Management Systems. The RPMC is a Board level committee, which supports the 
Board by supervising the implementation of the risk strategy. It guides the development of policies, procedures and
systems for managing risk. It ensures that these are adequate and appropriate to changing business conditions, the 
structure and needs of the Bank and the risk appetite of the Bank.
The RPMC monitors the compliance of risk parameters/aggregate exposures with the appetite set by the Board. It 
ensures that frameworks are established for assessing and managing various risks faced by the Bank, systems are 
developed to relate risk to the Bank‘s capital level and methods are in place for monitoring compliance with internal 
risk management policies and processes. The Committee ensures that the Bank has a suitable framework for Risk 
Management and oversees the implementation of the risk management policy.
Further, the functions of the Committee also include review of the enterprise-wide risk frameworks viz. Risk 
Appetite framework (RAF), Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), stress testing framework, etc. 
The Committee also reviews the cyber security framework in the Bank from time to time.
Further, as per RBI guidelines, the Chief Risk Officer of the Bank regularly interacts with the members of the Committee 
without the presence of management at the meetings of the Committee.
Composition:
Mrs. Lily Vadera (Chairperson), Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mrs. Renu Karnad, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, 
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty.
Details of re-constitution:
• 
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was inducted as member on the Committee with effect from June 9, 2021.
• 
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni ceased to be a Chairman and member of the Committee with effect from September 17, 
2021. 
• 
Mr. Sandeep Parekh was inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021. 
• 
Mrs. Lily Vadera was inducted as Chairperson and member of the Committee with effect from January 15, 2022.

376
Report on Corporate Governance
Meetings:
The Committee met nine (9) times during the year on:
April 15, 2021, May 18, 2021, June 17, 2021, July 15, 2021, September 15, 2021, October 18, 2021, 
January 13, 2022, February 16, 2022 and March 14, 2022.
CREDIT APPROVAL COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of  
Reference / Roles and 
Responsibilities:
The Committee considers credit appetite proposals on the customers of the Bank within such authority as delegated to 
it by the Board from time to time. This facilitates quick response to the needs of the customers and timely disbursement 
of loans.
Composition:
Mr. Malay Patel, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Mrs. Renu Karnad and Mr. Sandeep Parekh
Details of re-constitution:
• 
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni ceased to be a member of the Committee pursuant to his resignation as director of the 
Bank with effect from February 18, 2022. 
• 
Mr. Sandeep Parekh was inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from June 10, 2022.
Meetings:
The Committee met thirty (30) times during the year on:
April 26, 2021, April 28, 2021, May 18, 2021, June 7, 2021, June 16, 2021, June 23, 2021, July 6, 2021, 
July 15, 2021, August 11, 2021, August 12, 2021, August 31, 2021, September 16, 2021, September 22, 
2021, September 27, 2021, October 19, 2021, November 24, 2021, November 27, 2021, December 8, 2021, 
December 11, 2021, December 20, 2021, December 28, 2021, January 13, 2022, January 24, 2022, 
February 16, 2022, February 19, 2022, February 28, 2022, March 19, 2022, March 23, 2022, March 24, 2022 and 
March 29, 2022.
PREMISES COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of  
Reference / Roles and 
Responsibilities:
The Committee approves purchases and leasing of land parcel for proposed buildings & premises for the use of Bank’s 
branches, back offices, ATMs, residential training centre(s), currency chests, guest house etc., (including relocation 
and renewals) and of residential premises for Bank employees in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the 
Board from time to time.
Composition:
Mrs. Renu Karnad (Chairperson), Mr. Sandeep Parekh and Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
Details of re-constitution:
Mrs. Renu Karnad was designated as the Chairperson, Mr. Malay Patel ceased to be the member and Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita 
Maheshwari was inducted as the member of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021
Meetings:
The Committee met four (4) times during the year on:
April 9, 2021, July 14, 2021, October 18, 2021, and January 12, 2022.
FRAUD MONITORING COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of  
Reference / Roles and 
Responsibilities:
Pursuant to the directions of the RBI, the Bank has constituted a Fraud Monitoring Committee, exclusively dedicated 
to the monitoring and following up of cases of fraud involving amounts of ` 1 crore and above.
The objectives of this Committee are the effective detection of frauds and immediate reporting of the frauds and 
actions taken against the perpetrators of frauds with the concerned regulatory and enforcement agencies. The terms 
of reference of the Committee are as under:
a)	Identify the systemic lacunae, if any, that facilitated perpetration of the fraud and put in place measures to plug the 
same;
b)	Identify the reasons for delay in detection, if any and report to top management of the Bank and RBI;
c)	Monitor progress of Central Bureau of Investigation / Police Investigation and recovery position;
d)	Ensure that staff accountability is examined at all levels in all the cases of frauds and staff side action, if required, is 
completed quickly without loss of time;
e)	Review the efficacy of the remedial action taken to prevent recurrence of frauds, such as strengthening of internal 
controls; and
f)	 Put in place other measures as may be considered relevant to strengthen preventive measures against frauds.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
377
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Composition:
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi (Chairman), Mrs. Renu Karnad, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan and Mr. 
Sanjiv Sachar
Details of re-constitution:
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi was designated as the Chairman, Mr. Malay Patel and Mr. Sandeep Parekh ceased to 
be the members, Mrs. Renu Karnad and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha were inducted as the members of the Committee with 
effect from September 17, 2021.
Meetings:
The Committee met four (4) times during the year on:
April 9, 2021, July 13, 2021, October 19, 2021 and January 12, 2022
CUSTOMER SERVICE COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of  
Reference / Roles and 
Responsibilities:
The Committee has been constituted to monitor and bring about continuous improvements in the quality of services 
rendered to the customers and also to ensure implementation of directives received from the Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI) in this regard. The terms of reference of the Committee are to formulate comprehensive deposit policy 
incorporating the issues arising out of the demise of a depositor for operation of his account, the product approval 
process, annual survey of depositor satisfaction and the triennial audit of such services. The Committee is constituted 
to bring about continuous improvements in the quality of customer services provided by the Bank. The Committee 
would also oversee the functioning of the Standing Committee on Customer Service, and also bring out innovative 
measures for enhancing the customer experience and quality of customer service thereby enhancing the customer 
satisfaction level across all categories of clientele, at all times.
Composition:
Mr Umesh Chandra Sarangi (Chairman), Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari, 
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty.
Details of re-constitution:
• 
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni ceased to be a member of the Committee pursuant to his resignation as director of the 
Bank with effect from February 18, 2022.
• 
 Mr. Malay Patel ceased to be the member of the Committee and Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi was designated as 
the Chairman, Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty were inducted as 
the members of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
Meetings:
The Committee met five (5) times during the year on:
April 9, 2021, June 17, 2021, July 14, 2021, October 19, 2021 and January 12, 2022
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & ESG (CSR & ESG) COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of  
Reference / Roles and 
Responsibilities:
The CSR & ESG Committee of the Board has been constituted to identify, execute and monitor CSR projects and 
assist the Board and the Bank in fulfilling its corporate social responsibility objectives and achieving the desired results. 
The Committee shall also ensure legal and regulatory compliance from a CSR perspective and reporting as well as 
communication to all the stakeholders on the Bank’s CSR initiatives.
The terms of reference of the Committee are:
• To formulate the Bank’s CSR Strategy, Policy and Goals
• To monitor the Bank’s CSR policy and performance
• To review the CSR projects / initiatives from time to time
• To ensure legal and regulatory compliance from a CSR viewpoint
• To ensure reporting and communication to the Bank’s stakeholders on the Bank’s CSR
• To monitor the Bank’s ESG Framework, strategy, goals and disclosures
Composition:
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari (Chairperson), Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, Mr. Malay Patel, Mrs. Renu Karnad and Mr. Kaizad 
Bharucha.
Details of re-constitution:
•     Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari was inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from June 9, 2021.
•    Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi ceased to be the Chairman and member of the Committee and Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita 
Maheshwari was elected as the Chairperson of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.

378
Report on Corporate Governance
Meetings:
The Committee met five (5) times during the year on:
April 15, 2021, July 15, 2021, October 19, 2021, January 13, 2022 and February 16, 2022
IT STRATEGY COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of  
Reference / Roles and 
Responsibilities:
The Bank has in place an IT Strategy Committee to look into various technology related aspects. The functions of the 
Committee are to formulate IT strategy and related policy documents, ensure that IT strategy is aligned with business 
strategy, review IT risks, etc.
The terms of reference of the Committee are:
• Approving IT strategy and related policy documents and reviewing the same from time to time.
• Ensuring that the management has put an effective strategic planning process in place.
• Approving the Bank’s IT strategy and budget to ensure it aligns with the business needs.
• Approving re-allocation of resources within IT to facilitate meeting priorities and business needs.
• Reviewing and approving IT implementation plans.
Composition:
This Committee consists of an external IT consultant, Prof. H. Krishmurthy in addition to the Board members viz. 
Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Mr. Atanu Chakraborty and Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
Details of re-constitution:
• Mr. Atanu Chakraborty and Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan were inducted as members of the Committee with effect from 
June 9, 2021.
• Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari was inducted as member on the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
• Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni ceased to be a member of the Committee pursuant to his resignation as director of the 
Bank with effect from February 18, 2022. 
Meetings:
The Committee met nine (9) times during the year on:
April 8, 2021, May 7, 2021, May 18, 2021, July 14, 2021, August 11, 2021, October 20, 2021, November 24, 2021, 
January 14, 2022 and February 15, 2022.
DIGITAL TRANSACTION MONITORING COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of  
Reference / Roles and 
Responsibilities:
In order to promote digital transactions of the Bank and to provide directions in terms of strategy and action plans 
including monitoring the progress of achievement in the digital transactions space, the Bank has constituted the Digital 
Transaction Monitoring Committee.
The terms of reference to the Committee, inter-alia include the following:
a)	Framing of the Bank-level strategy and action plans for achieving the target of digital transactions in an organized 
manner, as may be set by the Government, regulatory authorities, Indian Banks’ Association, etc. from time to time.
b)	Monitoring the progress of achievement in digital transactions in line with the Bank’s strategy and action plans.
c)	To review and explore new opportunities for increasing the digital transactions of the Bank from time to time and give 
the necessary directions in implementing and improving high level of digitalization in Bank.
d)	Reviewing the Digital Banking strategy of the Bank as and when required thereby providing direction on focus areas.
e)	Reviewing the progress made on the initiatives relating to Digital Banking covering performance initiatives as 
determined by the Board of Directors and Government of India from time to time.
f)	 To review the customer services rendered on digital platform from time to time.
g)	Any other terms of reference as may be specified by the Government, regulatory authorities, Indian Banks’ 
Association, etc. from time to time.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
379
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Composition:
Mr. Malay Patel, Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mr. M.D. Ranganath and Mrs. Lily Vadera.
Details of re-constitution:
• 
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni ceased to be a member of the Committee pursuant to his resignation as director of the 
Bank with effect from February 18, 2022. 
• 
Mrs. 
Lily 
Vadera 
was 
inducted 
as 
member 
of 
the 
Committee 
with 
effect 
from 
June 10, 2022.
Meetings:
The Committee met four (4) times during the year on:
April 15, 2021, July 14, 2021, October 18, 2021, and January 14, 2022.
REVIEW COMMITTEE FOR WILFUL DEFAULTERS’ IDENTIFICATION
Brief Terms of  
Reference / Roles and 
Responsibilities:
The Board has constituted a Review Committee for Wilful Defaulters’ Identification to review the orders passed by the 
Committee of Executives for Identification of Wilful Defaulters and provide the final decision with regard to identified 
Wilful defaulters and any other matters as may be decided by the Board from time to time.
Composition:
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (Chairman), Mr Umesh Chandra Sarangi, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Parekh, 
Mr. Malay Patel and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
Details of re-constitution:
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar ceased to be a member and Mr. Malay Patel, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha were inducted as the members 
of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
Meetings:
No meetings of the Committee were held during the year.
REVIEW COMMITTEE FOR NON-COOPERATIVE BORROWERS
Brief Terms of  
Reference / Roles and 
Responsibilities:
The Board has constituted a Review Committee to review matters related to Non-Co-Operative Borrowers which are 
handled by the Internal Committee of Executives appointed for this purpose and any other related matters as may be 
decided by the Board from time to time.
Composition:
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (Chairman), Mr Umesh Chandra Sarangi, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Parekh, 
Mr. Malay Patel, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
Details of re-constitution:
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar ceased to be a member and Mr. Malay Patel, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha were inducted as the members 
of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
Meetings:
No meetings of the Committee were held during the year.
Meeting of the Independent Directors
The Independent Directors of the Bank held two (2) meetings.  All Independent Directors as on the date of the meeting were present 
at the meeting held on April 29, 2021. In the meeting held on September 9, 2021, leave of absence was granted to Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita 
Maheshwari and all other Independent Directors as on the date of the meeting were present.

380
Report on Corporate Governance
ATTENDANCE AT THE COMMITTEE MEETINGS HELD DURING FINANCIAL YEAR 2021-22
Fraud Monitoring Committee 
[Total four meetings held]
Name
No. of meetings 
attended
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi
4
Mrs. Renu Karnad (from September 17, 2021)
2
Mr. Malay Patel (upto September 17, 2021)
2
Mr. Sandeep Parekh (upto September 17, 2021)
2
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha (from September 17, 2021)
2
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 
4
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar
4
Customer Service Committee 
[Total five meetings held]
Name
No. of meetings 
attended
Mr Umesh Chandra Sarangi (from September 17, 2021)
2
Mr. Sandeep Parekh
5
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan
5
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari (from September 17, 2021)
2
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha (from September 17, 2021)
2
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (from September 17, 2021)
2
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni (upto February 18, 2022)
5
Mr. Malay Patel (upto September 17, 2021)
3
Credit Approval Committee
[Total Thirty meetings held]
Name
No. of meetings 
attended
Mr. Malay Patel
30
Mrs. Renu Karnad 
26
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
27
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni (upto February 18, 2022)
24
Digital Transactions Monitoring Committee
[Total four Meeting Held]
Name
No. of meetings 
attended
Mr. Malay Patel
4
Mr. Sandeep Parekh 
4
Mr. M.D. Ranganath
4
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni (upto February 18, 2022)
4
Audit Committee
[Total Sixteen meetings held]
Name
No. of meetings 
attended
Mr. M.D. Ranganath
16
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi
16
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar
16
Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
[Total thirteen meetings held]
Name
No. of meetings 
attended
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar 
13
Mr. Sandeep Parekh
13
Mr. M.D. Ranganath 
13
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi 
13
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty  (from June 9, 2021)
9
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 
[Total Four meetings held]
Name
No. of meetings 
attended
Mr. Malay Patel 
4
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi
4
Mr. Sandeep Parekh
4
Mrs. Renu Karnad 
4
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha (from September 17, 2021)
2
Corporate Social Responsibility and ESG Committee
[Total five meetings held]
Name
No. of meetings 
attended
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari (from June 9, 2021)
4
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi (upto September 17, 2021)
2
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar 
5
Mr. Malay Patel
5
Mrs. Renu Karnad 
5
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
5
Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee 
[Total nine meetings held]
Name
No. of meetings 
attended
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni (upto September 17, 2021)
5 
Mr. M. D. Ranganath 
9 
Mrs. Renu Karnad 
9 
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar 
9 
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 
9 
Mrs. Lily Vadera (from January 15, 2022)
2 
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (from June 9, 2021)
7 
Mr. Sandeep Parekh (from September 17, 2021)
4 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
381
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Premises Committee
[Total Four meetings held]
Name
No. of meetings 
attended
Mrs. Renu Karnad  
4
Mr. Sandeep Parekh
4
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari (from September 17, 2021)
2
Mr. Malay Patel (upto September 17, 2021)
2
IT Strategy Committee
[Total Nine meetings held]
Name
No. of meetings 
attended
Mr. M.D. Ranganath
9
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni (upto February 18, 2022)
9
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (from June 9, 2021)
6
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (from June 9, 2021)
6
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 
(from September 17, 2021)
3
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
Following are the details of general body meetings for the previous three (3) financial years:
Sr.
No.
Particulars 
of meeting
Venue
Day, Date & 
Time
Number
of Special 
Resolutions 
passed, if any
Nature of Special Resolutions
1
25th Annual 
General 
Meeting
Birla Matushri
Sabhagar,
19, New Marine 
Lines, Mumbai – 
400020
Friday,
July 12, 2019 
at 2:30 p.m.
1 (One)
Issue of Unsecured Perpetual Debt Instruments (part of Additional 
Tier I capital), Tier II Capital Bonds and Long Term Bonds (financing of 
infrastructure and affordable housing) on a private placement basis.*
2
26th Annual 
General 
Meeting
Held through Video-
Conferencing
or Other Audio-
Visual Means
Saturday,
July 18, 2020
at 2:30 p.m.
2 (Two)
1.	Re-appointment of Mr. Malay Patel (DIN 06876386) as an Independent 
Director.
2.	Issue Unsecured Perpetual Debt Instruments (part of Additional Tier 
I capital), Tier II Capital Bonds and Long Term Bonds (financing of 
infrastructure and affordable housing) on a private placement basis.*
3
27th Annual 
General 
Meeting
Held through Video-
Conferencing
or Other Audio-
Visual Means
Saturday,
July 17, 2021
at 2:30 p.m.
6 (six)
1.	Re-appointment of Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi (DIN 02040436) as an 
independent Director.
2.	Issue Unsecured Perpetual Debt Instruments (part of Additional Tier 
I capital), Tier II Capital Bonds and Long Term Bonds (financing of 
infrastructure and affordable housing) on a private placement basis*
3.	Amendment to the ESOS-Plan D-2007 as approved by the Members
4.	Amendment to the ESOS-Plan E-2010 as approved by the Members
5.	Amendment to the ESOS-Plan F-2013 as approved by the Members
6.	Amendment to the ESOS-Plan G-2016 as approved by the Members
*	 The Registrar and Transfer Agent of the Bank, for all such issues, was Datamatics Business Solutions Limited.  
POSTAL  BALLOT
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 110 and all other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Act read with Rule 22 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, Regulation 44 of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the “SEBI 
Listing Regulations”), Secretarial Standard on General Meetings 
(“SS-2”) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India, including any statutory modification(s), clarification(s), 
substitution(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in 
force, guidelines prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
(the “MCA”), Government of India, for holding general meetings 
/ conducting postal ballot process through electronic voting 
(remote e-voting) vide General Circular Nos. 14/2020 dated 
April 8, 2020, 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, 22/2020 dated 
June 15, 2020, 33/2020 dated September 28, 2020, 39/2020 
dated December 31, 2020, 10/2021 dated June 23, 2021 
and 20/2021 dated December 8, 2021 (the “MCA Circulars”) 
in view of COVID-19 pandemic and any other applicable laws 
and regulations, the approval of the Members of the Bank for 
below mentioned resolutions were obtained through Postal 
Ballot Notices dated February 18, 2022 and March 28, 2022 
via. remote e-voting.

382
Report on Corporate Governance
Particulars 
Postal Ballot Notice 
Dated February 18, 
2022
Postal Ballot Notice 
Dated March 28, 2022
Resolution(s) 
1. Appointment of Mrs. 
Lily Vadera (DIN: 
09400410) as an 
Independent Director 
of the Bank - Special 
Resolution
1. Approval and adoption 
of Employee Stock 
Incentive Plan 2022 - 
Special Resolution
2. Approval of Related 
Party Transactions with 
Housing Development 
Finance Corporation 
Limited- Ordinary 
Resolution
3. Approval of Related 
Party Transactions with 
HDB Financial Services 
Limited - Ordinary 
Resolution
4. Approval of Related 
Party Transactions 
with HDFC Securities 
Limited - Ordinary 
Resolution
5. Approval of Related 
Party Transactions with 
HDFC Life Insurance 
Company Limited- 
Ordinary Resolution
6. Approval of Related 
Party Transactions 
with HDFC ERGO 
General Insurance 
Company Limited - 
Ordinary Resolution
Remote e-voting
Central Depository 
Services (India) Limited
National Securities 
Depository Limited
Scrutinizer
The Board of Directors had appointed Mr. B. 
Narasimhan of M/s. B.N. & Associates, Practising 
Company Secretaries and in his absence, Mr. 
V. V. Chakradeo of M/s. V. V. Chakradeo & 
Co., Practicing Company Secretaries, as the 
Scrutinizer, for conducting the Postal Ballot 
process in a fair and transparent manner.
Cut-off Date
Monday, February 21, 
2022
Friday, April 08, 2022
Dispatch Date of 
Notice 
Wednesday, February 
23, 2022
Monday, April 11, 
2022
Remote e-voting 
period 
Commenced on 
Saturday, February 26, 
2022 at 9:00 A.M. IST 
and ended on Sunday, 
March 27, 2022 at 
5:00 P.M. IST.
Commenced on 
Friday, April 15, 2022 
at 9:00 A.M. IST and 
ended on Saturday, 
May 14, 2022 at 5:00 
P.M. IST.
Accordingly, the Postal Ballots were conducted by the scrutinizer 
and a report was submitted to the Authorized Officer, Mr. Santosh 
Haldankar, Sr. Vice President (Legal) & Company Secretary of 
the Bank. The results of the voting conducted through Postal 
Ballots are as under:
For all resolutions as specified in the Postal Ballot Notice 
dated February 18, 2022:
There were a total of 20,49,142 shareholders of the Bank as on the 
record date i.e. February 21, 2022, out of which 78,888 Members 
comprising of 3,76,83,99,916 equity shares representing  67.98 % 
of the share capital participated in the e-voting process. A 
snapshot of the voting results of the postal ballot is as follows:
Resolutions
% of votes 
polled on 
outstanding  
shares
% of votes in 
favour on votes 
polled
% of votes 
against on votes 
polled
Resolution No. 1
67.820
99.969
0.031
Resolution No. 2
46.504
99.999
0.001
Resolution No. 3
46.505
99.998
0.002
Resolution No. 4
46.503
99.998
0.002
Resolution No. 5
46.505
99.998
0.002
Resolution No. 6
46.505
99.998
0.002
Note: Invalid votes, inter alia, were caused by Members not 
voting on any resolution before submitting their votes, corporate 
voters not submitting requisite documents, etc.
Accordingly, the Resolutions as set out in the Postal Ballot Notice 
dated February 18, 2022 was passed with requisite majority on 
March 27, 2022.
For resolution(s) as specified in the Postal Ballot Notice 
dated March 28, 2022:
There were total of 22,34,937 shareholders of the Bank as on 
the record date i.e. April 08, 2022, out of which 12,412 Members 
comprising of 3,74,20,95,251 equity shares representing 64.48% 
of the share capital participated in the e-voting process. 
A snapshot of the voting results of the postal ballot is as follows:
Resolutions
% of votes 
polled on 
outstanding  
shares
% of votes in 
favour on votes 
polled
% of votes 
against on votes 
polled
Resolution No. 1
67.248
88.838
11.162
Accordingly, the Resolution as set out in the Postal Ballot Notice 
dated March 28, 2022 was passed with requisite majority on 
May 14, 2022.
DISCLOSURES
Material Subsidiary
The Bank has two (2) subsidiaries viz: HDB Financial Services 
Limited and HDFC Securities Limited, neither of which qualifies 
to be a material subsidiary within the meaning of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. However, as a good corporate governance 
practice, the Bank has formulated a policy for determining 
material subsidiary. The policy is available on the Bank’s website 
at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-
governance/codes-and-policies.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
383
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Related Party Transactions 
During the year, the Bank has entered into transactions with the 
related parties in the ordinary course of business. The Bank has 
not entered into any materially significant transactions with the 
related parties, which could lead to a potential conflict of interest 
between the Bank and these parties. Transactions with related 
parties were placed before the Audit Committee for approval. 
There were no material transactions with related parties, which 
were not in the ordinary course of business, nor were there any 
material transactions, which were not at an arm’s length basis. 
The Shareholders of the Bank have approved the material related 
party transactions to be entered into by the Bank in the F.Y. 
2022-23 through Postal Ballot on March 27, 2022 as per SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
Details of related party transactions entered into during the year 
ended March 31, 2022 are given in, Note No. 28 in Schedule 
18, forming part of ‘Notes to Accounts’ in accordance with 
Accounting Standard (AS) – 18.
The Bank has put in place a policy to deal with related party 
transactions and the same has been uploaded on the Bank’s 
web-site at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/
corporate-governance/codes-and-policies
Commodity Price Risks and Foreign Exchange 
Risks and Hedging activities
Being in the business of banking, as per the extant regulations, 
the Bank does not deal in any commodity, though, it can be 
exposed to the commodity price risks in its capacity as lender / 
banker to its customers. Currently, the Bank has open exposure 
in Precious Metals i.e, Gold / Silver and such open exposures in 
Gold / Silver are primarily on account of positions created from 
short term deposits under the Gold Monetisation Scheme (GMS) 
raised from Customers and trading positions in Gold / Silver. 
These positions are managed similar to other foreign exchange 
exposures using spot, outright forwards and swap transactions 
in Gold/Silver and monitored as part of the trading portfolio within 
the stipulated trading risk limits viz. Net overnight open position 
limit, Intraday open position limit, Value-at-Risk limit, Stop Loss 
Trigger Level etc. that are defined in the Treasury Limits Package. 
In addition, Bank is authorized by Reserve Bank of India to 
import gold and silver and the exposure arising out of import 
of gold and silver on consignment basis is covered on back to 
back basis. The spot, forward and swap contracts, outstanding 
as on the Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are revalued 
at the closing spot and forward rates respectively as notified by 
FEDAI (Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India) and at 
interpolated rates for contracts of interim maturities. The USD/ 
INR rate for valuation of contracts having longer maturities i.e. 
greater than one (1) year is implied from the applicable INR and 
USD swap curves. For other pairs, where the rates / tenors 
are not published by FEDAI, the spot and forward points are 
obtained from Refinitiv or Bloomberg for valuation of the foreign 
exchange deals. The foreign exchange profit or loss is arrived on 
present value basis thereafter, as directed by FEDAI, whereby the 
forward profits or losses on the deals, as computed above, are 
discounted till the valuation date using the applicable discounting 
yields. The resulting profit or loss on valuation is recognized in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Given below are the exposure details of the Bank under the Gold 
Monetisation Scheme deposits as of March 31, 2022.
Total open exposure of the Bank to commodities i.e. Gold (in 
INR) as on March 31, 2022: Nil
Note: As part of trading position in Gold, the Treasury Gold Desk 
has open position in Gold of 219.74 ounce, which is equivalent 
to ` 32,112,061.92 as on March 31, 2022, and was within the 
NOOP limit prescribed for XAU.
Accounting Treatment
The financial statements have been prepared and presented 
under the historical cost convention and accrual basis of 
accounting, unless otherwise stated and are in accordance 
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (‘GAAP’), 
statutory requirements prescribed under the Third Schedule 
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, circulars and guidelines 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) from time to time 
(RBI guidelines), Accounting Standards (‘AS’) specified under 
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with 
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, in so far as they apply 
to banks.
Credit Ratings
The details of all credit ratings obtained by the Bank for all debt 
instruments are furnished in the Directors’ Report which may 
be referred to.
Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism
The details of establishment of whistle blower policy / vigil 
mechanism are furnished in the Directors’ Report which may 
be referred to. None of the Bank’s personnel have been denied 
access to the Audit Committee.
Appointment / Resignation of Director
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari was appointed as an Independent 
Director of the Bank for a period of five (5) consecutive years with 
effect from March 30, 2021 and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was also 
appointed as the Part-time Chairman and Independent Director 

384
Report on Corporate Governance
of the Bank for a period of three (3) consecutive years with effect 
from May 5, 2021. The said appointments were approved by the 
shareholders of the Bank at the 27th Annual General Meeting 
held on July 17, 2021.
Subsequently, Mrs. Lily Vadera was appointed as an Independent 
Director of the Bank for a period of five (5) consecutive years with 
effect from November 26, 2021 and the said appointment was 
approved by the shareholders of the Bank through Postal Ballot 
on March 27, 2022.
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as Non-
Executive (Non-Independent) Director of the Bank with effect 
from February 18, 2022.
Further, Mrs. Renu Karnad is proposed to be re-appointed as 
Non-Executive Director (Nominee of Housing Development 
Finance Corporation Limited, promoter of the Bank) on the 
Board of the Bank for a period of five (5) consecutive years with 
effect from September 3, 2022, subject to the approval of the 
shareholders at the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
Familiarization of Independent Directors
The details of familiarization programmes imparted to 
Independent Directors are available on the website of the Bank 
at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate- 
governance/familiarization-of-independent-directors
Strictures and Penalties for last three financial 
years:
During the last three financial years, the Reserve Bank of India 
and other regulatory / statutory authorities have imposed the 
following penalties / strictures / prohibitions / restrictions on 
the Bank:
FY 2021-22
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) by an order dated May 27, 2021, 
levied a penalty of `10 crores (Rupees ten crores only) for 
marketing and sale of third-party non-financial products to 
the Bank’s auto loan customers, arising from a whistle blower 
complaint, which revealed, inter alia, contravention of Section 
6(2) and Section 8 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The 
Bank has discontinued the sale of said third-party non-financial 
product since October 2019. The penalty was paid by the Bank.
FY 2020-21
A. 	 Penalties:
• 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has vide its letter dated 
December 04, 2020 imposed a monetary penalty 
of `10 lacs on the Bank for bouncing of SGL, which 
lead to shortage of balance in certain securities in the 
Bank’s CSGL account on November 19, 2020. The 
Bank has since enhanced its review mechanism so 
as to ensure that such incidents do not recur.
• 
SEBI issued final order on January 21, 2021, levying 
a penalty of `1 crore on the Bank, in the matter of 
invocation of securities pledged by BMA Wealth 
Creators (BRH Wealth Kreators) for availing credit 
facilities. SEBI has also directed the Bank to transfer 
sale proceeds of ` 158.68 crores on invocation of 
securities, along with interest to escrow account with 
a nationalised bank by marking lien in favour of SEBI. 
The Bank had challenged SEBI's order before SAT 
and SAT, vide its interim order, have stayed operation 
of SEBI’s order. SAT, vide its final order dated February 
18, 2022, allowed the Bank’s appeal and quashed 
SEBI’s Order.
B. 	 Restrictions imposed:
	
RBI has issued an Order dated December 02, 2020 
(“Order”) to HDFC Bank Limited (the “Bank”) with regard 
to certain incidents of outages in the internet banking/ 
mobile banking/ payment utilities of the Bank over the 
past 2 years, including the outages in the Bank’s internet 
banking and payment system on November 21, 2020 
due to a power failure in the primary data centre. RBI, 
vide above order, advised the Bank (a) to stop all digital 
business generating activities planned under its ‘Digital 
2.0’ and proposed Business generating applications digital 
also imposed restrictions and (b) to stop sourcing of new 
credit card customers. The Bank has initiated remedial 
activities including fixing of staff accountability and the 
same were communicated to the RBI. Basis the Bank’s 
submission, RBI vide its letter dated August 17, 2021, has 
relaxed the restriction placed on sourcing of new credit 
cards customers and further vide its letter dated March 11, 
2022 has lifted the restrictions on the business generating 
activities planned under the Bank’s Digital 2.0 program.
FY 2019-20
RBI has, vide its order dated June 13, 2019, imposed a monetary 
penalty of ` 10 million on the Bank for non-compliance with 
directions issued by RBI on Know Your Customer (KYC)/ Anti-
Money Laundering (AML) Norms and on reporting of frauds. The 
penalty has been imposed in exercise of powers vested in RBI 
under the provisions of Section 47A(1)(c) read with Section 46(4)(i) 
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. In the instant case, the Bank 
had made a reference to the Custom Authorities for verification of 
Bill of Entry submitted by certain importers. Examination of these 
customers revealed violations of RBI directions on ‘KYC/AML 
norms’ and on reporting of frauds. The penalty was paid by the 
Bank. The Bank has taken necessary measures to strengthen its 
internal control mechanisms so as to ensure that such incidents 
do not recur.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
385
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has also, vide its order dated 
January 29, 2020, imposed a monetary penalty of ` 10 million 
on the Bank for failure to undertake on-going due diligence in 
case of 39 current accounts opened for bidding in Initial Public 
Offer (IPO). The penalty has been imposed by RBI in exercise 
of the powers conferred under the provisions of Section 47A(1)
(c) read with Section 46(4)(i) of the Banking Regulation Act, 
1949. The penalty was paid by the Bank. The Bank has since 
strengthened its internal control mechanisms so as to ensure 
that such incidents do not recur.
A chart or a matrix setting out the skills /expertise 
/ competence of the Board of Directors:
The Board of Directors have identified the following core skills 
/ expertise / competencies / special knowledge or practical 
experience, as required in the context of the Bank’s business 
and sector(s) for it to function effectively. The same are in line 
with the relevant provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
and relevant circulars issued by the Reserve Bank of India from 
time to time:
(i)	
Accountancy,
(ii)	
Agriculture and Rural Economy,
(iii)	
Banking,
(iv)	 Co-operation,
(v)	
Economics
(vi)	 Finance,
(vii)	 Law,
(viii)	 Small-Scale Industry,
(ix)	 Information Technology,
(x) 
Payment & Settlement Systems,
(xi)	 Human Resources,
(xii)	 Risk Management,
(xiii)	 Business Management,
(xiv)	 Any other matter the special knowledge of, and practical 
experience in, which would, in the opinion of the Reserve 
Bank, be useful to the Bank’s business / sectors.
Sr. 
No. Name
Designation
Expertise / Competence
1
Mr. Atanu 
Chakraborty
Part-time
Chairman and 
Independent
Director
Finance, Economy, Public Policy, 
Administration and Infrastructure, 
Banking, Risk management, Payment 
& Settlement system, Business 
Management
2
Mr. Kaizad 
Bharucha
Executive 
Director
Banking Business, Credit & Risk 
Management, Business Management
3
Mrs. Lily 
Vadera
Independent 
Director
Banking
4
Mr. Malay 
Patel
Independent 
Director
Small Scale Industries, Business 
Management
Sr. 
No. Name
Designation
Expertise / Competence
5
Mr. M. D. 
Ranganath
Independent 
Director
Finance, Accountancy, Information 
Technology, 
Risk 
Management, 
Business Management
6
Mrs. Renu 
Karnad
Non-Executive 
Director
Risk Management, Housing & Real 
Estate, Financial, Accounting & 
Audit, Consumer Behaviour, Sales 
& Marketing, Legal and Strategy 
Management, Economics, Business 
Management
7
Mr. 
Sandeep 
Parekh
Independent 
Director
Law (with focus on securities market 
and financial regulations), Payment 
& Settlement system, Business 
Management
8
Mr. Sanjiv 
Sachar
Independent 
Director
Human 
Resource 
Management, 
Economics, Finance, Accountancy, 
Business Management
9
Mr. 
Sashidhar 
Jagdishan
Managing 
Director & 
Chief
Executive 
Officer
Economics of Money, Banking and 
Finance, 
Accountancy, 
Business 
Management
10
Dr. (Mrs.) 
Sunita 
Maheshwari
Independent 
Director
Medicine, Healthcare, Entrepreneurship, 
General Administration, Small Scale 
Industries, Business Management
11
Mr. Umesh 
Chandra 
Sarangi
Independent 
Director
Agriculture and Rural Economy, Co-
operation, Business Management
Details of utilization of funds raised through 
preferential allotment or qualified institutions 
placement as specified under Regulation 32 (7A)
During the year under review, the Bank has not raised any 
funds through Preferential Allotment or Qualified Institutions 
Placement as specified under Regulation 32(7A) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
Disclosures in  relation  to  the  Sexual  Harassment 
of  Women  at  Workplace  (Prevention,  Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013
Details of the number of complaints received, disposed, and 
pending during the year 2021-22 pertaining to the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace are as under:
Number of complaints received during the year 2021-2022
51
Number of complaints disposed during the year 2021-2022
48
Number of cases pending as on March 31, 2022
3*
*The three pending cases as on March 31, 2022 were reported to the Internal 
Committee in March 2022. Two of these cases have already been closed 
in Q1 of F.Y. 2022 – 2023. For the remaining one case, case inquiry has 
concluded and the final inquiry report is expected shortly.

386
Report on Corporate Governance
COMPLIANCE WITH MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS
The Bank has complied with all the applicable mandatory 
requirements of the Code of Corporate Governance as 
prescribed under the SEBI Listing Regulations
Reg.
No.
Particulars
Status of
compliance
17
Requirements pertaining to the Board of Directors Compliant
17A
Maximum number of Directorships
Compliant
18
Requirements pertaining to the Audit Committee
Compliant
19
Requirements pertaining to Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee
Compliant
20
Requirements pertaining to Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee
Compliant
21
Requirements pertaining to Risk Management 
Committee
Compliant
22
Requirements pertaining to Vigil Mechanism
Compliant
23
Requirements pertaining to Related Party 
Transactions
Compliant
24
Corporate governance requirements with respect 
to subsidiary of listed entity
Compliant
24A
Requirements pertaining to Secretarial Audit and 
Secretarial Compliance Report
Compliant
25
Obligations with respect to independent Directors Compliant
26
Obligations with respect to employees including 
senior management, key managerial persons, 
directors and promoters
Compliant
27
Other corporate governance requirements
Compliant
46
Requirements pertaining to the dissemination of 
certain information under a separate section on 
the website
Compliant
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
The Bank has put in place a mechanism for performance 
evaluation of the Directors. The details of the same have been 
included in the Directors’ Report.
COMPLIANCE WITH NON-MANDATORY 
REQUIREMENTS
a)	
Board of Directors
The Bank maintains the expenses relating to the office of the 
Part-time Chairman and reimburses all the expenses incurred 
in performance of his duties. 
b)	
Shareholder’s Rights
The Bank publishes its results on its website at www.hdfcbank.com 
which is accessible to the public at large. The same are also 
available on the websites of the Stock Exchanges on which the 
Bank’s shares are listed.
A half-yearly declaration of financial performance including 
summary of the significant events is presently not being sent 
separately to each  shareholder. The Bank’s results for each 
quarter are published in an English newspaper having a nation-
wide circulation and in a Marathi newspaper having a nation-
wide circulation in Maharashtra. Hence, half-yearly results are 
not sent to the shareholders individually.
c)	
Audit Qualifications
During the period under review, there is no audit qualification in 
the Bank’s financial statements. The Bank continues to adopt 
best practices to ensure regime of unmodified audit opinion.
d)	
Separate posts of Chairperson and Managing 
Director/ Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty is the Part-time Chairman and 
Independent Director of the Bank and Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 
is the Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer of the Bank.
e)	
Reporting of Internal Auditor
The Internal Auditor of the Bank reports to the Audit Committee 
of the Bank.
OWNERSHIP RIGHTS
The Bank seeks to protect and facilitate the exercise of the rights 
of its shareholders including the following:
• 
To carry out transmission / transposition and deletion 
of name on the share certificates(s) and receive the duly 
endorsed share certificates within the period prescribed in 
the SEBI Listing Regulations.
• 
To receive notice of general meetings, annual report, 
the balance sheet and profit and loss account and the 
auditor’s report.
• 
To attend and speak in person, at general meetings.
• 
To appoint proxy to attend and vote at the general meetings. 
In case the member is a body corporate, to appoint a 
representative to attend and vote at the general meetings 
of the company on its behalf.
• 
Proxy can vote on a poll. In case of vote on poll, the number 
of votes of a shareholder is proportionate to the number 
of equity shares held by him. In case of the 28th Annual 
General Meeting of the Bank which will be conducted by 
Video-Conferencing /Other Audio-Visual Means pursuant 
to the relevant MCA circulars, physical attendance of the 
shareholders has been dispensed with and accordingly, the 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
387
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
facility for appointment of proxies for attending and voting 
on behalf of shareholders will not be available at the 28th 
Annual General Meeting of the Bank.
• 
In terms of Section 12 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
as amended with effect from January 18, 2013 vide the 
Banking Laws Amendment Act, 2012, no person holding 
shares in a banking company shall, in respect of any shares 
held by him, exercise voting rights on poll in excess of ten 
(10) per cent of the total voting rights of all the shareholders 
of the banking company, provided that RBI may increase, in 
a phased manner, such ceiling on voting rights from ten (10) 
percent to twenty-six (26) per cent. The notification dated 
July 21, 2016 issued by RBI and notified in the Gazette of 
India dated September 17, 2016 states that the current level 
of ceiling on voting rights is at twenty-six (26) per cent.
• 
To requisition an extraordinary general meeting of the 
company by shareholders who collectively hold not less 
than 1/10th of the total paid-up capital of the company.
• 
To move amendments to resolutions proposed at 
general meetings.
• 
To receive dividend and other corporate benefits like rights, 
bonus shares, etc. as and when declared / announced.
• 
To inspect various registers of the company, minutes books 
of general meetings and to receive copies thereof after 
complying with the procedure prescribed in the Companies 
Act, 2013 as amended from time to time.
• 
To make nomination in respect of shares held by 
the shareholder.
• 
To participate in and be sufficiently informed of the decisions 
concerning fundamental corporate changes.
• 
To be informed of the rules, including voting procedures 
that govern general shareholder meetings.
• 
To have adequate mechanism to address the grievances 
of the shareholders.
• 
To ensure protection of minority shareholders from abusive 
actions by, or in the interest of, controlling shareholders 
acting either directly or indirectly, and effective means 
of redress. 
The rights mentioned above are prescribed in the Companies 
Act, 2013, the SEBI Listing Regulations and Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949, wherever applicable, and should be followed only 
after careful reading of the relevant sections. These rights are 
not necessarily absolute.
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION:
The Bank’s share capital consists of one class of equity shares 
having face value of ` 1 each and the Bank has not issued any 
other class of shares.
SHAREHOLDERS HOLDING MORE THAN 1% OF THE 
SHARE CAPITAL OF THE BANK AS AT MARCH 31, 2022
Sr. 
No. Name of the Shareholder
No. of Shares 
held
% to share 
capital
1
JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA*
1,02,81,15,525
18.54
2
Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited
86,46,15,834
15.59
3
HDFC Investments Limited
30,00,00,000
5.41
4
LICI ASM NON PAR
16,01,17,638
2.89
5
Europacific Growth Fund
9,68,86,630
1.75
6
ICICI Prudential Bluechip Fund
7,66,17,637
1.38
7
UTI-NIFTY Exchange Traded Fund
6,32,56,598
1.14
8
HDFC Trustee Company Ltd. A/c. 
HDFC Top 100 Fund
5,89,74,568
1.06
* 	
One (1) American Depository Share (ADS) represents three (3) underlying 
equity shares of the Bank.

388
Report on Corporate Governance
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS AT MARCH 31, 2022
Share Range From
Share Range To
No. of Shares
% To Capital
No. of Holders
% Tot No. of Holders
1
2,500
21,35,12,859
3.85
22,27,914
98.75
2,501
5,000
5,42,34,088
0.98
14,836
0.66
5,001
10,000
4,34,04,892
0.78
6,148
0.27
10,001
15,000
2,16,13,580
0.39
1,757
0.08
15,001
20,000
1,58,90,590
0.29
908
0.04
20,001
25,000
1,28,87,626
0.23
572
0.02
25,001
50,000
4,84,14,689
0.87
1,348
0.06
50,001
1,00,000
6,08,76,031
1.10
862
0.04
1,00,001
9,99,99,99,999
5,07,47,06,621
91.51
1,816
0.08
TOTAL 
5,54,55,40,976
100.00
 22,56,161
100.00
22,33,831 Folios comprising of 5,53,38,32,585 equity shares forming 99.79% of the share capital are in demat form. 
22,330 Folios comprising of 1,17,08,391 equity shares forming 0.21 % of the share capital are in physical form.
Note: Other than the stock options granted to the employees of the Bank which will result in an addition to the equity share capital 
of the Bank on the exercise of the stock options and subsequent allotment of equity shares, the Bank has no outstanding warrants 
or other convertible instruments as on March 31, 2022 which could have an impact on the equity share capital of the Bank.
SHARE PRICE / CHART
BSE Limited
The National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited
New York Stock Exchange
Month
High (`)
Low (`)
Monthly 
Volumes
High (`)
Low (`)
Monthly 
Volumes
HIGHEST 
(US$)
LOWEST 
(US$)
Monthly 
Volumes
April- 21
1,503.45
1,353.10
67,40,055
1,503.65
1,353.00
23,57,70,297
78.14
67.73
4,00,44,800
May- 21
1,520.65
1,377.55
66,08,154
1,520.45
1,377.30
15,84,12,762
77.17
68.36
2,72,91,100
June- 21
1,526.35
1,451.00
44,16,797
1,527.00
1,455.00
10,91,33,234
77.62
73.00
2,49,47,400
July- 21
1,545.10
1,404.15
47,97,455
1,545.35
1,404.00
15,03,89,347
75.24
68.50
2,68,43,000
August- 21
1,583.00
1,413.40
50,16,079
1,583.35
1,410.00
13,47,11,410
79.39
70.63
2,74,12,900
September- 21
1,635.60
1,528.70
65,05,770
1,635.50
1,528.95
12,86,05,303
79.17
71.80
3,82,19,600
October- 21
1,724.30
1,560.05
52,39,421
1,725.00
1,560.00
12,52,13,820
78.43
71.61
3,54,14,800
November- 21
1,622.20
1,461.50
60,97,597
1,622.00
1,462.00
12,99,24,758
73.98
65.34
3,25,98,925
December- 21
1,555.60
1,414.00
67,42,415
1,555.05
1,414.10
11,28,38,990
68.40
61.35
3,01,70,500
January - 22
1,576.00
1,435.25
51,72,458
1,576.65
1,435.00
15,64,01,807
72.20
64.00
3,37,59,500
February- 22
1,539.40
1,408.10
67,54,893
1,539.95
1,407.15
12,96,36,002
70.16
61.86
2,86,76,200
March- 22
1,517.80
1,292.00
78,83,941
1,518.80
1,292.00
21,45,62,417
63.56
54.25
5,52,01,000

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
389
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
HDFC Bank Share price versus BSE - Sensex
Nifty
HDFC Bank Share price versus NSE - Nifty

390
Report on Corporate Governance
Categories of shareholders as at March 31, 2022
Details of Shareholding
Promoters (*)
ADS (#)
Foreign Institutional Investors
Overseas Corporate Bodies, Foreign Bodies, Foreign 
National and Non Resident Indians
Financial Institutions, Banks, Mutual Funds and Central 
Government
Life Insurance Corporation of India
Subsidiaries of Life Insurance Corporation of India
Other Insurance Corporations
Indian Companies
Others
0.26%
0.14%
1.70%
2.62%
0.21%
9.71%
21%
18.54%
29.01%
16.81%
CATEGORIES OF SHAREHOLDERS AS AT MARCH 31, 2022
No of shares
% to Capital
Promoters (*)
1,16,46,25,834
21.00
ADS (#)
1,02,81,15,525
18.54
Foreign Institutional Investors
1,60,88,81,315
29.01
Overseas Corporate Bodies, Foreign Bodies, Foreign National and Non Resident Indians
74,60,686
0.14
Financial Institutions, Banks, Mutual Funds and Central Government
93,19,65,879
16.81
Life Insurance Corporation of India
1,46,19,904
0.26
Subsidiaries of Life Insurance Corporation of India
14,54,97,734
2.62
Other Insurance Corporations
1,18,57,498
0.21
Indian Companies
9,41,01,444
1.70
Others
53,84,15,157
9.71
TOTAL
5,54,55,40,976
100.00
(*) None of the equity shares held by the Promoters are under pledge.
(#) JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA is the Depository for the ADS (1,028,115,525 underlying equity shares)
HDFC Bank's Share price versus NYSE - Composite

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
391
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL CALENDER
[April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023]
Board Meeting for consideration 
of accounts
April 16, 2022
Dispatch of Annual Reports by 
electronic mode
around June 22, 2022
Date, Time and Venue of the 
28th AGM
AGM will be held on July 16, 
2022 at 2:30 P.M. through video 
conferencing
Record date for purpose of 
determining eligibility of dividend
May 13, 2022
Dividend declaration date
July 16, 2022
Expected date of payment of 
dividend
July 18, 2022 onwards (both 
physical and electronic mode)
Board Meeting for considering 
unaudited results for first three 
quarters of FY 2022-23
Within 25 days from the end of each 
quarter
LISTING
Listing on Indian Stock Exchanges:
The equity shares of the Bank are listed at the following Stock 
Exchanges and the annual fees for 2021-22 have been paid:
Sr. 
No.
Name and Address of The Stock 
Exchange
Stock Code
1
BSE Limited, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy 
Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, 
Mumbai 400 023
500180
2
The National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited, Exchange Plaza, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra 
(East), Mumbai 400051
HDFCBANK
Names of Depositories in India for dematerialization of 
equity shares (ISIN No. INE040A01034)
• 
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL)
• 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL)
International Listing:
Sr. 
No.
Security 
Description
Name and address 
of the stock 
exchange
Name & address of 
depository
1.
The American 
Depository Shares 
(ADS) (CUSIP No. 
40415F101)
The New York 
Stock Exchange 
(Ticker - HDB) 11, 
Wall Street, New 
York, NY
10005
J.P. Morgan Chase 
Bank, N.A. J.P. 
Morgan Depositary 
Receipts, 383 
Madison Ave, Floor
11, New York, NY, 
10179
The Depository for ADS is represented in India by: JP Morgan 
Chase Bank N.A., India Sub Custody, JP Morgan Chase Bank 
NA, 6th Floor, Paradigm “B” Wing, Behind Toyota Showroom, 
Mindspace, Malad (West), Mumbai - 400 064.
Note: Annual listing fees of the New York Stock Exchange has 
been duly paid.
CODE OF CONDUCT
The Bank has framed and adopted a Code of Conduct, which is 
approved by the Board. The Code is applicable to all directors 
and senior management personnel of the Bank. This Code has 
been posted on the Bank’s website at https://www.hdfcbank.
com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and-
policies. All the Directors and senior management personnel 
have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct / Ethics as 
approved and adopted by the Board.
CODE FOR PREVENTION OF INSIDER TRADING
The Bank has adopted a share dealing code for the prevention of 
insider trading in the shares of the Bank as well as in other listed 
and proposed to be listed companies. The share dealing code, 
inter-alia, prohibits dealing in securities of the Bank by insiders 
while in possession of unpublished price sensitive information.
SHARE TRANSFER PROCESS AND SYSTEM
The Bank’s shares which are in compulsory dematerialized 
(Demat) list are transferable through the depository system. 
Requests for transmission / transposition or for deletion of 
name in case of physical share certificates are processed by 
the Registrar and Transfer Agent, Datamatics Business Solutions 
Limited and are approved by the Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee of the Bank or authorized officials of the Bank. 
The service requests of such nature are generally processed 
within a period of fifteen (15) days from the date of receipt of the 
relevant documents by Datamatics Business Solutions Limited.
Please note that as per the amended SEBI Listing Regulations, 
with effect from April 1, 2019, any requests for transfer of 
securities shall not be processed unless the securities are held 
in dematerialized form.
FEES FOR STATUTORY AUDITORS
For the details of total fees for all services paid by the Bank and 
its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the joint Statutory 
Auditors and all entities in the network firm / network entity of 
which the joint Statutory Auditors is a part, kindly refer to the 
Directors’ Report.

392
Report on Corporate Governance
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
The quarterly and half-yearly unaudited / audited financial results 
are normally published in the newspapers, viz., the Business 
Standard in English and Mumbai Sakal / Navshakti in Marathi 
(regional language). The results are also displayed on the Bank’s 
website at www.hdfcbank.com.
The shareholders can visit the Bank’s website for financial 
information, shareholding information, dividend policy, key 
shareholders’ agreements, if any, Memorandum and Articles 
of Association of the Bank, etc. The website also gives a link 
to www.sec.gov where the investors can view statutory filings 
of the Bank with the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
USA. The information relating to the Bank’s financial results 
and shareholding pattern are displayed on the websites of the 
Stock Exchanges on which the Bank’s shares are listed. Other 
information such as official news/press releases, stock exchange 
disclosures and presentations made to investors and analysts, 
etc. are regularly displayed on the Bank’s website.
DEBENTURE TRUSTEES
The SEBI Listing Regulations require companies, which have 
listed their debt securities, to disclose the names of their 
debenture trustees with contact details in their Annual Report. 
The following are the debenture trustees for the privately placed 
bonds of the Bank:
1.	
IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited, Asian Building, 17 R 
Kamani Marg, Ballard Estate, Mumbai 400001. Tel: 022 
4080 7000
2.	
Axis Trustee Services Limited, The Ruby, 2nd Floor, SW, 29, 
Senapati Bapat Marg, Dadar West, Mumbai- 400 028. Tel: 
022 6230 0451 
3. 
Vistra ITCL (India) Limited (Formerly known as IL&FS 
Trust Company Limited), The IL&FS Financial Centre, Plot 
C-22/G Block, 7th Floor, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra 
(East), Mumbai 400051. Tel: 022 6930 0000
SHAREHOLDERS’ HELPDESK
Dividend payments and all other investor related activities 
are attended to and processed at the office of Registrar and 
Transfer Agent.
For any documents or for any grievances / complaints, 
shareholders / investors may contact at the following address:
Mr. Sunny Abraham / Ms. Manisha Parkar / 
Mr. Tukaram Thore 
Datamatics Business Solutions Limited 
Plot No. B 5, Part B Crosslane, MIDC, Marol, Andheri (East), 
Mumbai 400 093
Tel : +91-022 - 66712213-14
E-mail  :  hdinvestors@datamaticsbpm.com 
Timings : 10:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (Monday to Friday except 
public holidays)
Shareholders’ Helpdesk Timings : 10:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. 
Between Monday to Friday (except on Bank holidays) 
Telephone : +91-022-3976 0012
Email : shareholder.grievances@hdfcbank.com
For IEPF Related matters : Mr. Santosh Haldankar (Nodal 
Officer), Mr. Dhanjit Thaivalappil and Mr. Sushant Date (Deputy 
Nodal Officers):
Tel : +91-022-3976 0012
E-mail : shareholder.grievances@hdfcbank.com
Queries relating to the Bank’s financial performance may be 
addressed to: shareholder.grievances@hdfcbank.com
Name of the Compliance Officer of the Bank: Mr. Santosh 
Haldankar, Senior Vice President-Legal & Company Secretary 
Telephone:  +91-022-3976 0000
BANKING CUSTOMER HELPDESK
In the event of any queries / complaints, banking customers can 
directly approach the Branch Manager or can call / write to the 
Bank using the following contact details:
Call at: Our customer care (PhoneBanking) numbers 
18002026161 / 18602676161
In the event of any queries / complaints, banking customers can 
directly approach the Branch Manager or can call / write to the 
Bank using the following contact details:
Write to:
For Credit Cards:
For Regular Post:
Manager, HDFC Bank Cards Division,PO BOX # 8654
Thiruvanmiyur PO Chennai - 600 041 
For Courier:
Manager, HDFC Bank Cards Division,# 8, Lattice Bridge Road, 
Thiruvanmiyur,
Chennai - 600 041
For products (other than Credit Cards ) :
HDFC Bank Limited 
Empire Plaza I, 1st Floor, 
LBS Marg, Chandan Nagar,
Vikhroli West, Mumbai - 400 083,
Email:  support@hdfcbank.com

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
393
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Contact us online:
Fill up the “Complaint Form” available at the following website 
link: https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-
governance/codes-and-policies
For grievances other than shareholder grievances please send 
your communication to the following email addresses:
1)	
Depository Services: dphelp@hdfcbank.com
2)	
Retail Banking / ATM / Debit Cards / Mutual Fund: 
support@hdfcbank.com
3)	
Loans, Advances / Advance against shares: 
loansupport@hdfcbank.com
4)	
Credit  Cards:  customerservices.cards@hdfcbank.com
Visit us at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/need-help/
customer-care for more information
PLANT LOCATIONS
Being in the banking business, the Bank does not have plants. 
However, the Bank has 6,342 branches in 3,188 cities / towns 
as on March 31, 2022. The locations of the branches are also 
displayed on the Bank’s website.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Atanu Chakraborty 
Part-time Chairman and Independent Director
June 10, 2022
DECLARATION
I confirm that for the year under review, all directors and 
senior management have affirmed their adherence to the 
provisions of the Code of Conduct of Directors and senior 
management personnel.
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Managing Director and CEO
June 10, 2022

394
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1.	
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
	
L65920MH1994PLC080618
2.	
Name of the Listed Entity
	
HDFC Bank Limited
3.	
Year of incorporation
	
1994
4.	
Registered office address
	
HDFC Bank House, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013
5.	
Corporate address
	
HDFC Bank House, Shiv Sagar Estate, Dr Annie Besant Road, Worli, Mumbai - 400018
6.	
E-mail
	
investors.helpdesk@hdfcbank.com 
7.	
Telephone
	
022 66521000
8.	
Website
	
www.hdfcbank.com 
9.	
Financial year for which reporting is being done
	
FY 2021-22
10.	 Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
	
BSE Limited; National Stock Exchange of India Limited, American Depository Shares (ADS) listed on The New York 
Stock Exchange (Depository for ADS is represented in India by J P Morgan Chase Bank N.A.). 
11.	 Paid-up Capital
	
Please refer the Director’s Report (Section: Issuance of Equity Shares and Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOP)) 
appended to the Integrated Report for FY 22.
12.	 Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person who may be contacted in case of any 
queries on the BRSR report
	
Name: Nusrat Pathan
	
Telephone number: 022 39227260 
	
e-mail ID: nusrat.pathan@hdfcbank.com 
13.	 Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the 
entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its consolidated 
financial statements, taken together). 
	
Please refer ‘About the Report’ section of this report. 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
395
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
II.	 Products/services
14.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. 
No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1.
Financial and Insurance Service
Banking activities by Central, 
Commercial and Saving banks
100%
15.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
S. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1
HDFC Bank operates in three business verticals -Wholesale, Retail 
and Treasury. All the products and services are offered under these 
segments. For details, please refer to the 'Business Segments' 
section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
64191
100
III.	 Operations
16.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
N.A.
6,342 branches and 18,130 ATMs / Cash Deposit & Withdrawal Machines 
(CDMs) across 3,188 cities / towns. In addition, we have 15,341 business 
correspondents, which are primarily manned by Common Service Centres 
(CSC).
-
International
N.A.
Branches and Representative Offices in Manama (Bahrain), Hong Kong, 
Dubai, DIFC, Abu Dhabi and Nairobi (Kenya).
-
17.	 Markets served by the entity:
a.	
Number of locations
Location
Number
National (No. of States)
All states and UTs in India
International (No. of Countries)
5
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
	
	
	
N.A.
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
The Bank caters to a diverse customer base - including individuals, government, MSMEs, large corporates, 
farmers, start-ups etc.

396
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
IV.	 Employees
18.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year:
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S.
No.
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
Please refer Our Culture 
details on the ‘Social-
People’ section of the 
Integrated Report for 
FY 22
Please refer Our Culture 
details on the ‘Social-
People’ section of the 
Integrated Report for 
FY 22
81%
Please refer Our 
Culture details on the 
‘Social-People’ section 
of the Integrated 
Report for FY 22
19%*
2.
Other than
Permanent (E)
Please refer Our Culture 
details on the ‘Social-
People’ section of the 
Integrated Report for 
FY 22
Please refer Our Culture 
details on the ‘Social-
People’ section of the 
Integrated Report for 
FY 22
81%
Please refer Our 
Culture details on the 
‘Social-People’ section 
of the Integrated 
Report for FY 22
19%
3.
Total 
employees
(D + E)
Please refer Our Culture 
details on the ‘Social-
People’ section of the 
Integrated Report for 
FY 22
Please refer Our Culture 
details on the ‘Social-
People’ section of the 
Integrated Report for 
FY 22
81%
Please refer Our 
Culture details on the 
‘Social-People’ section 
of the Integrated 
Report for FY 22
19%*
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
5.
Other than
Permanent (G)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
6.
Total workers
(F + G)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers:
S.
No.
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
Not available
2.
Other than
Permanent (E)
Not available
3.
Total differently 
abled 
employees
(D + E)
Please refer Diversity 
and Inclusion details 
on the ‘Social-
People’ section of the 
Integrated Report for 
FY 22 for a qualitative 
response
Not available
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
5.
Other than
Permanent (G)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
6.
Total workers
(F + G)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
	
	
*Includes sales officers and other non-supervisory staff

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
397
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
19.	 Participation / Inclusion / Representation of women
Total
(A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
11
3
27.27%
Key	Management Personnel
4
0
0
20.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
FY  2021-22
(Turnover rate in current FY)
FY 2020-21 
(Turnover rate in previous FY)
FY 2019-20 
(Turnover rate in the  year prior to 
the previous FY)
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent 
Employees
Please refer "Our Culture" details in 
the ‘Social-People’ section of the 
Integrated Report for FY 22
Please refer Social - People section of 
Integrated Report for FY 21.
Please refer ‘Our People’ section of 
Sustainability Report for FY 20.
Permanent 
Workers
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
V.	 Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
21.	 (a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
S. 
No.
Name of the holding /
subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares  held by 
listed entity
Does the entity indicated at column A, 
participate in the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed entity? (Yes/No)
1.
HDFC Securities Limited 
(HSL)
Subsidiary
As on March 31, 2022, 
the Bank held 95.96% 
stake in HSL.
No
2.
HDB Financial Services 
Limited (HDBFSL)
Subsidiary
As on March 31, 2022, 
the Bank held 94.96% 
stake in HDBFSL.
No
VI.	 CSR Details
	
22.	 (i) 	 Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: Yes
(ii)	 Turnover (in `) 1,57,26,301 Lakh (Turnover represents Total Income)
(iii)	 Net worth (in `): 2,33,61,381 Lakh

398
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
VII.	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
23.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place 
(Yes/No)
FY  2021-22
Current Financial Year
FY  2020-21
Previous Financial Year
(If Yes, then provide web-
link for grievance redress 
policy)
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes, Our whistleblower 
policy: https://www.
hdfcbank.com/content/
bbp/repositories/723fb80a-
2dde-42a3-9793-
7ae1be57c87f/?path=/
Footer/About%20Us/
Corporate%20Governance/
Codes%20and%20
Policie/pdf/Whistleblower-
Policy-2019.pdf 
0
0
-
0
0
-
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Yes, Our whistleblower 
policy: https://www.
hdfcbank.com/content/
bbp/repositories/723fb80a-
2dde-42a3-9793-
7ae1be57c87f/?path=/
Footer/About%20Us/
Corporate%20Governance/
Codes%20and%20
Policie/pdf/Whistleblower-
Policy-2019.pdf 
0
0
-
0
0
-
Shareholders
Whistleblower policy (same 
as above)
2
Fraudulent 
Loans, Improper 
business 
practices
Employees and 
workers
Whistleblower policy (same 
as above)
101
28
Major categories 
of complaints 
include 
behavioural, 
corruption/ 
bribery, 
fraudulent 
loans, improper 
business 
practices, 
improper working 
conditions, 
misappropriation 
of customer 
funds and 
POSH related 
complaints
68
2
Major categories 
of complaints 
include 
behavioural 
issue, corruption, 
false claim, 
fraudulent 
loans,improper 
business 
practices, 
misappropriation 
of Bank's assets 
and funds, Posh 
Related and 
other unethical 
HR practices

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
399
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place 
(Yes/No)
FY  2021-22
Current Financial Year
FY  2020-21
Previous Financial Year
(If Yes, then provide web-
link for grievance redress 
policy)
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Customers
Whistleblower policy (Same 
as above)
15
5
Broad categories 
of complaints 
include 
behaviorial 
issue, fraudulent 
loans, improper 
business 
practices and 
others
2
Account status 
related, Improper 
business 
practices
Value Chain 
Partners
Whistleblower policy (same 
as above)
5
1
Behavioural 
issue, Improper 
business 
practices
2
Improper 
business 
practices, 
Pending Bills 
Related
Other (Ex-
Employee, 
Off Role Staff, 
Third Party, 
Ex-Employee 
of Customer)
24
6
Broadly 
comprised of 
behavioural 
issue, corruption/ 
bribery, fraudulent 
loans, improper 
business 
practices and 
others
14
0
Broadly 
comprised of 
behavioural 
issue, corruption/ 
bribery, improper 
business 
practices and 
others"
Total
147
40
86
2
24.	 Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental 
and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, 
approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk or 
opportunity (R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, 
approach to adapt	
or mitigate
Financial implications of the risk 
or opportunity (Indicate positive	
or negative
implications)
Please refer section on ‘Materiality Assessment’, ‘External Environment’, ‘Risk Management’ and ‘Business Continuity Plan’ Section 
of the Integrated Report for FY 22.

400
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the 
NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure
Questions
P
1
P
2
P
3
P
4
P
5
P
6
P
7
P
8
P
9
Policy and management processes
1. a. Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle 
and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
b. Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
c. Web Link of the Policies, if available
Note 
5
Note 
4
Note 
4, 5
Note 
4
Note 
4, 5
Note 
4
Note 
1
Note 
3
Note 
2, 5
2. Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. 
(Yes / No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3. Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? 
(Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
4. Name of the national and international codes/certifications/
labels/ standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, 
Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, 
ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped to each 
principle.
Note 
7
Note 
6
5. 	Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with 
defined timelines, if any.
Y
Y
Y
6. 	Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, 
goals and targets along-with reasons in case the same are
     not met.
Please 
refer #
Please 
refer **
Please 
refer @

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
401
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Disclosure
Questions
P
1
P
2
P
3
P
4
P
5
P
6
P
7
P
8
P
9
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.	Statement by director responsible for the business 
responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, 
targets and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding 
the placement of this disclosure)
Please refer to 'Message from the MD & CEO' section of the Integrated 
Report for FY 22.
8. 	Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation 
and oversight of the Business Responsibility policy(ies)
Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, 
HDFC Bank
9. 	Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ 
Director responsible for decision making on sustainability 
related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details
Yes. Please refer ‘Governance’ section of this report
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Performance against above policies and follow up action
Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director / Committee 
of the Board / Any other Committee
Committees of the Board
Frequency (Annually / Half yearly / Quarterly / Any other - please 
specify)
Annually
Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to the principles, and, rectification of any non-compliances
Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director / Committee 
of the Board / Any other Committee
Commi-
ttee 
of the 
Board
Frequency (Annually / Half yearly / Quarterly / Any other - please 
specify)
Annually
11. Has the entity carried out independent assessment / 
evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
 Y***
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
The entity does not consider the Principles  material to its 
business (Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate 
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Any other reason (please specify)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
** 	‘Environment’ section of this report	
# 	 ‘Social -People’ and ‘Governance’ section of this report.
@ 	Communities’ section of this report.
*** All policies of the Bank are evaluated internally
All policies have been developed as a result of detailed consultations and research on the best practices adopted by banks and organisations across 
the industry and as per the requirements of HDFC Bank

402
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Web-link for the policy
Note 1:
These policies of the Bank are internal documents/guidelines and are not accessible to the public
Note 2:
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/useful-links/our-corporate-commit (Corporate Commitment)
Note 3:
https://www.hdfcbank.com/csr/pdf/CSR_Policy.pdf
Note 4:
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/api/contentstream-id/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/1cb20550-41e0-4320-9a30-
94e763d31392? (Environment Policy) 
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/api/contentstream-id/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/f0ac1d94-7b3f-4b7a-ad10-
d84cd154eaed? (ESG Policy Framework)
Note 5:
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/api/contentstream-id/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/0ae5b219-aac3-4f26-976c-
0a27797d548d? (Conduct Philosophy- Code of Conduct)
Note 6:
Our information security system is based on ISO 27001: 13 and NIST 800-53, Information security risk management as per ISO 
31000. ISO 22301: 2019 certified BCP.
Note 7:
Some of our large office buildings and branches are IGBC certified
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key 
processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are 
expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed 
by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally and ethically responsible.
PRINCIPLE 1	 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is 
Ethical, Transparent and Accountable
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Segment
Total number 
of trainings 
and awareness 
programmes held
Topic/Principles covered under the training and its impact
% age of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
Board of Directors
Not available
Please refer Culture of Transparency and Accountability details in the 
‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Not available
Key Managerial 
Personnel
5
Please refer Culture of Transparency and Accountability details in the 
‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22
 50%
Employees other 
than BoD and KMPs
4171
Please refer Culture of Transparency and Accountability details in the 
‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22
 90%
Workers
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
2.	
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by 
the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial 
year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in 
Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on 
the entity’s website):

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
403
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
NGRBC Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Amount (In INR)
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Monetary
Penalty/Fine
 1
RBI
`10 Crore
Please refer to the Strictures 
and Penalties section as part 
of the Corporate Governance 
section of the Integrated 
Annual Report for FY 22
No, the penalty 
was paid by the 
Bank
Settlement
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Compounding 
fee
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Non-Monetary
Imprisonment
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Punishment
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal / Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory / enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
 Not Applicable
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
 Yes. Please refer ‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2021-22
 (Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21
 (Previous Financial Year)
Directors
None
None
KMPs
Employees
Workers
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2021-22
(Current Financial Year)
FY  2020-2021
(Previous Financial Year)
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number	of complaints received in 
relation to issues of Conflict of Interest 
of the Directors
Nil
N.A.
Nil
N.A.
Number	of complaints received in 
relation to issues of Conflict of Interest 
of the KMPs
Nil
N.A.
Nil
N.A.
7. 	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest. NA

404
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
	
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
	
None
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered 
under the training
%age of value chain partners covered (by value 
of business done with such partners) under the 
awareness programmes
None
N.A.
N.A.
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No) 
If Yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes. Please refer section on ‘Corporate Governance’ appended to this report (sub-section: Related Party Transactions).
PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the 
entity, respectively.
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Year
Details of improvements in 
environmental and social impacts
R&D
Not applicable given the sector
N.A.
N.A.
Capex
Not Applicable being a financial 
services sector
N.A.
N.A.
1.	
a. 	 Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? 
 
	
No, Being in the Financial Services sector, material purchase for operations is not significant except for paper. For 
procurement of equipment, the Bank ensures that energy efficiency standards are considered during the purchase 
of electronic equipment such as computers, laptops, lighting devices, AC’s etc.
b. 	 If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? N.A.
2.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end 
of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	
Please refer ‘Environment’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
3.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether 
the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution 
Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Not applicable	
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
	
Not applicable

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
405
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of 
your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other 
means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
	
Not applicable
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2021-22
Current Financial Year
FY 2020-21
Previous Financial Year
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, 
and safely disposed, as per the following format:
FY 2021-22
Current Financial Year
FY 2020-21
Previous Financial Year
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely
Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely
Disposed
Plastics 
(including
packaging)
N.A.
N.A.
E-waste
Please refer 'Environment section' of the Integrated 
Report for FY 22
Please refer 'Environment section' of the Integrated 
Report for FY 21
Hazardous
waste
N.A.
N.A.
Other waste
N.A.
N.A.
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
	
Not applicable
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those 
in their value chains
Essential Indicators	
1. 	
a. 	 Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total (A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B / A)
Number 
(C)
% (C / A)
Number 
(D)
% (D / A)
Number 
(E)
% (E / A)
Number 
(F)
% (F / A)
Permanent employees
Male
114,582
114,582
100%
114,582
100%
Please refer to the note at the bottom of this table
Female
26,997
26,997
100%
26,997
100%
Please refer to the note at the bottom of this table
Other than Permanent employees
Male
Please refer Our 
Culture details 
on the ‘Social-
People’ section 
of the Integrated 
Report for FY 22
Nil

406
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Category
% of employees covered by
Total (A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B / A)
Number 
(C)
% (C / A)
Number 
(D)
% (D / A)
Number 
(E)
% (E / A)
Number 
(F)
% (F / A)
Female
Please refer Our 
Culture details 
on the ‘Social-
People’ section 
of the Integrated 
Report for FY 22
Nil
Total
Please refer Our 
Culture details 
on the ‘Social-
People’ section 
of the Integrated 
Report for FY 22
Nil
	
	 *All employees are covered under Health and accident insurance (within India). Medical expenses and Insurance related to Maternity claims are covered 
under Health Insurance coverage
	
b. 	 Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Cate
gory
% of workers covered by
Total (A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B / A)
Number 
(C)
% (C / A)
Number 
(D)
% (D / A)
Number 
(E)
% (E / A)
Number 
(F)
% (F / A)
Permanent employees
Male
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Female
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Total
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Other than Permanent Workers
Male
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Female
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Total
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
2.	 	 Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
Benefits
FY 2021-22
Current Financial Year
FY 2020-21
Previous Financial Year
No. of employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % of 
total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % of 
total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
141,579
0
Y
120,093
0
Y
Gratuity
141,579
0
Y
120,093
0
Y
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by 
the entity in this regard. 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
407
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
	
Please refer Diversity and Inclusion details on the ‘Social-People’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22. We assess 
all our premises and install ramps wherever feasible.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
No 
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave: 
	
Please refer Diversity and Inclusion details on the ‘Social-People’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Gender
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
Please refer Diversity and
Inclusion details on the
‘Social-People’ section of
the Integrated Report for
FY 22
Please refer Diversity and
Inclusion details on the
‘Social-People’ section of
the Integrated Report for
FY 22
N.A.
N.A.
Female
N.A.
N.A.
Total
N.A.
N.A.
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and worker? 
If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief. 
	
Please refer ‘Governance’ section of this report
Yes/No
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Not applicable
Other than Permanent Workers
Not applicable
Permanent Employees
Yes. Details of the grievance mechanism can be found in the Governance 
section of the Integrated Report
Other than Permanent Employees
Yes, covered under whistleblower policy
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the  listed entity:
Category
FY 2021-22
Current Financial Year
FY 2020-21
Previous Financial Year
Total employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (B)
% (B / A)
Total employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (D)
% (D / C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
1,41,576
252
0.18%
1,20,093 
262
0.22%
 Male
1,14,582
177
0.15%
98,347
187
0.19%
Female
26,997
75
0.28%
21,746
75
0.34%
Total Permanent 
Workers
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.

408
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Male
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Female
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
8.	
	Details of training given to employees and workers: 
	
Please refer Learning and development details in the ‘Social-People’ section of the of the Integrated Report FY 2022 for details 
on training given to our employees. 
Cate
gory
FY 2021-22 
Current Financial Year
FY 2020-21
Previous Financial Year
Total (A)
On Health and safety 
measures
On Skill upgradation
Total (D)
On Health and safety 
measures
On Skill upgradation
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
No. (E)
% (E / D)
No. (F)
% (F / D)
Employees: 
Male
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Female
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Total
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Workers: 
Male
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Female
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Total
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker: 
	
Please refer Learning and development details in the ‘Social-People’ section of the Integrated Report for FY22
Employees
FY 2021-22
Current Financial Year
FY 2020-21
Previous Financial Year
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D /C)
 Male
Please refer 
Learning and 
development 
details in the 
‘Social-People’ 
section of the 
Integrated Report 
for FY22
Please refer 
Learning and 
development 
details in the 
‘Social-People’ 
section of the 
Integrated Report 
for FY22
100%
Please refer 
‘Social - People' 
section of 
Integrated Report 
for FY 21
Please refer 
‘Social - People' 
section of 
Integrated Report 
for FY 21. 
 100%
Female
Please refer 
Learning and 
development 
details in the 
‘Social-People’ 
section of the 
Integrated Report 
for FY22
Please refer 
Learning and 
development 
details in the 
‘Social-People’ 
section of the 
Integrated Report 
for FY22
 100%
  Please refer 
‘Social - People' 
section of 
Integrated Report 
for FY 21. 
  Please refer 
‘Social - People' 
section of 
Integrated Report 
for FY 21. 
 100%
Workers
Male
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Female
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Total
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
9.	
Health and safety management system:
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ 
No). If yes, the coverage such system?
	
No

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
409
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity?
	
Not applicable
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to  remove themselves 
from such risks. (Y/N)
	
Not applicable
d.	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/ No) 
	
Yes
10.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2021-22
Current Financial Year
FY 2021-20
Previous Financial Year
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-
person hours worked)
Employees
N.A.
N.A.
Workers
N.A.
N.A.
Total recordable	work-related injuries
Employees
N.A.
N.A.
Workers
N.A.
N.A.
No. of fatalities
Employees
N.A.
N.A.
Workers
N.A.
N.A.
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health 
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
N.A.
N.A.
Workers
N.A.
N.A.
11.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
	
Please refer to Employee Well Being section on ‘Social-People’ in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
12.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2021-22
Current Financial Year
FY 2020-21
Previous Financial Year
Filed during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Filed during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Working 
Conditions
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Health & Safety
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
13.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory 
authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
 Not applicable
Working Conditions
 Not applicable
14.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
	
Please refer to Employee Well Being section on ‘Social-People’ in the Integrated Report for FY 22.

410
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of 
	
Employees (Y/N) - Yes 
	
Workers (Y/N) - Not applicable 
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been  deducted and deposited 
by the value chain partners.
	
The Bank works towards greater integration of environmental & social considerations in its procurement practices. The 
Bank also sets clear expectations with vendors and suppliers to abide by labour laws, human rights and regulations in 
their regions of business.
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill-health 
/ fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in 
suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
	
Not applicable
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management 
of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
	
Yes. Please refer ‘Social-People’ section of the Integrated Report of FY 22.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
 Not applicable
Working Conditions
 Not applicable
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
	
Not applicable 
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
Please refer to our response in the next question.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of  engagement with each 
stakeholder group.
Stakeholder group
Whether identified 
as Vulnerable & 
Marginalized Group 
(Yes/No)
Channels of Communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community, Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement of 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly others - 
please specify
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including 
key topics and 
concerns raised during 
such engagement

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
411
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Communities
The Bank has identified 
women, people with 
disabilities, children, 
youth, farmer 
communities, as 
its disadvantaged, 
vulnerable and 
marginalized 
stakeholders.
Please refer Modes of Engagement details on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ section 
in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Investors (other than 
shareholders)
No
Please refer Modes of Engagement details on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ section 
in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Shareholders
No
Please refer Modes of Engagement details on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ section 
in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Employees and workers
No
Please refer Modes of Engagement details on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ section 
in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Customers
No
Please refer Modes of Engagement details on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ section 
in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Value Chain Partners
No
Please refer Modes of Engagement details on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ section 
in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Other (Ex-Employee, Off 
Role Staff, Third Party, Ex-
Employee of Customer)
No
Please refer Modes of Engagement details on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ section 
in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
Please refer section on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and 
social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on 
these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
	
Please refer section on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ and ‘Materiality’ in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups.
	
Please refer section on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ and ‘Social – Communities’ the Integrated Report for FY 22, and 
Director’s Report (sub-section on Semi-Urban and Rural) appended to this report.
PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, 
in the following format:
Category
FY 2021-22
Current Financial Year
FY 2020-21
Previous Financial Year
Total (A)
No. of employees 
/ workers
covered (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. of employees 
/ workers
covered (D)	
% (D / C)
Employees

412
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Permanent
Please refer 
Employee Count 
Information in 
‘Social-People’ 
Section of the 
Integrated  Report 
for FY22.
31,459
22%
Please refer to 
‘Social-People’ 
Section of the 
Integrated  Report 
for FY21.
N.A.
N.A.
Other 
permanent
Not available
Please refer 
Employee Count 
Information in 
‘Social-People’ 
Section of the 
Integrated  Report 
for FY22.
Not available
Not available
Total 
Employees
31,459
22%
Please refer 
Employee Count 
Information in 
‘Social-People’ 
Section of the 
Integrated  Report 
for FY21.
Not available
Not available
Workers
Permanent
 N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Other than 
permanent
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Total Workers
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
	
Not applicable
3.	
Details of remuneration / salary / wages, in the following format:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of
respective category
Board of Directors (BoD)
Please refer to Section 
1 of Annexure 5 to the 
Director's Report
Please refer to Section 
1 of Annexure 5 to the 
Director's Report
Key Managerial Personnel
Employees other than BoD and 
KMP
Workers
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No) 
	
Yes, Please refer ‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues. 
	
Please refer ‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
413
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
FY 2021-22
Current Financial Year
FY 2020-21
Previous Financial Year
Filed during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Filed during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Sexual 
Harassment
Please refer 
Culture of 
Transparency and 
Accountability 
details in the 
‘Governance’ 
section of the 
Integrated Report 
for FY 22
Please refer 
Culture of 
Transparency and 
Accountability 
details in the 
‘Governance’ 
section of the 
Integrated Report 
for FY 22
-
Please refer 
‘Corporate 
Governance’ 
section of 
Integrated Report 
for FY 21. 
Please refer 
‘Corporate 
Governance’ 
section of 
Integrated Report 
for FY 21. 
-
Discrimination	
at workplace
Please refer 
Culture of 
Transparency and 
Accountability 
details in the 
‘Governance’ 
section of the 
Integrated Report 
for FY 22
Please refer 
Culture of 
Transparency and 
Accountability 
details in the 
‘Governance’ 
section of the 
Integrated Report 
for FY 22
-
Please refer 
‘Social-People’ 
section of 
Integrated Report 
for FY 21. 
Please refer 
‘Social-People’ 
section of 
Integrated Report 
for FY 21. 
-
Child Labour
Please refer 
Culture of 
Transparency and 
Accountability 
details in the 
‘Governance’ 
section of the 
Integrated Report 
for FY 22
Please refer 
Culture of 
Transparency and 
Accountability 
details in the 
‘Governance’ 
section of the 
Integrated Report 
for FY 22
-
Please refer 
‘Social-People’ 
section of 
Integrated Report 
for FY 21.
Please refer 
‘Social-People’ 
section of 
Integrated Report 
for FY 21.
-
Forced Labour/
Involuntary 
Labour
-
-
Wages
-
Not applicable
Not applicable
-
Other human
rights related 
issues
Please refer 
Culture of 
Transparency and 
Accountability 
details in the 
‘Governance’ 
section of the 
Integrated Report 
for FY 22
Please refer 
Culture of 
Transparency and 
Accountability 
details in the 
‘Governance’ 
section of the 
Integrated Report 
for FY 22
-
Please refer 
‘Social-People’ 
section of 
Integrated Report 
for FY 21.
Please refer 
‘Social-People’ 
section of 
Integrated Report 
for FY 21.
-
7.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases. 
	
Please refer ‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
8.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, some of our large projects incorporate human rights due diligence (including child, forced labour) as part of the SEMS 
(Social & Environmental Management System) annexure. Please refer to more details on this within the ‘Responsible 
financing’ section of the Environment section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
9. 	
Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities 
or third parties)
Child labour
N.A.

414
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Forced/involuntary labour
N.A.
Sexual harassment
None
Discrimination at workplace
None
Wages
N.A.
Others - please specify
N.A.
10. 	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
the assessments at Question 9 above.
	
Not applicable
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing  human rights grievances/
complaints.
	
No human rights grievances/complaints received during FY22.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.
	
Please refer our ESG policy framework and SEMS Section at https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/api/contentstream-
id/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/f0ac1d94-7b3f-4b7a-ad10-d84cd154eaed?
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Please refer the section on ‘Stakeholder Consultation’ in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that 
were assessed
Sexual Harassment
Assessment has not yet been conducted
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others - please specify
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
the assessments at Question 4 above.
	
Not applicable. 
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
415
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Parameter
FY 2021-22
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21
(Previous Financial Year)
Total electricity consumption (A)
Please refer GHG Emissions 
and Climate Change details in 
the Environment section of the 
Integrated Report for FY22
Please refer GHG Emissions and 
Climate Change details in the 
Environment section of the Integrated 
Report for FY22
Total fuel consumption (B)
Energy	 consumption through other sources (C)
NA
NA
Total energy	consumption (A+B+C)
Please refer GHG Emissions 
and Climate Change details in 
the Environment section of the 
Integrated Report for FY22
Please refer GHG Emissions and 
Climate Change details in the 
Environment section of the Integrated 
Report for FY22
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumption / turnover in INR)
1,015.17 Joules/INR income 
    957.80 Joules/INR income
Energy intensity (optional) - the
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
Please refer GHG Emissions 
and Climate Change details in 
the Environment section of the 
Integrated Report for FY22for energy 
consumed per Full Time Employee.
Please refer GHG Emissions and 
Climate Change details in the 
Environment section of the Integrated 
Report for FY22for energy consumed 
per Full Time Employee.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
Yes. Please refer ‘About the Report’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under 
the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, 
if any.
	
No. 
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
	
While we have not measured our water consumption so far, we have initiated discussions internally on tracking water 
consumption at some of our large offices.  
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No.
4.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage 
and implementation.
	
Not applicable.
5.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
	
We report on GHG emissions; given our sector, details of air emissions other than GHG is not material to us
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
Not applicable.
6.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:

416
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Parameter
Unit
FY 2021-22 
Current Financial Year
FY 2020-21
Previous Financial Year
Total Scope 1 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG 
into CO2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs,
SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
CO2 
Emissions 
(Tonnes)
CH4 
Emissions 
(Tonnes)
N2O 
Emissions 
(Tonnes)
CO2 
Emissions 
(Tonnes)
CH4 
Emissions 
(Tonnes)
N2O 
Emissions 
(Tonnes)
     20,771.60
46.46
 58.92
5796.92
0.15
0.08
Total 20,876.97 tCO2e
Total 5825.68 tCO2e
Total Scope 2 
emissions (Break-up 
of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if 
available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
287,667
300,141
Total Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions per 
rupee of turnover
Gram of CO2
equivalent per 
unit income in 
rupee
0.20
0.20
Total Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emission 
intensity (optional)
- the relevant metric 
may be selected by the 
entity
tCO2e per Full 
Time Employee
Please refer GHG Emissions and Climate Change details in the Environment section 
of the Integrated Report for FY 22 for emissions per FTE.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
Yes. Please refer the ‘About the Report’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
7.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
	
Yes. Please refer to details of our initiatives in the Environment section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
8.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2021-22
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
N.A.
N.A.
E-waste (B)
Please refer Waste Management 
details in the Environment section of 
the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Please refer the Environment section 
FY 2020-21 IR. 
Bio-medical waste (C)
N.A.
N.A.
Construction and demolition waste (D)
N.A.
N.A.
Battery waste (E)
N.A.
N.A.
Radioactive waste (F)
N.A.
N.A.
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
N.A.
N.A.
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). 
Please specify, if any. (Break-up by composition 
i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
N.A.
N.A.
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
Please refer Waste Management 
details in the Environment section of 
the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Please refer the Environment section 
of the Integrated Report for FY 21 for 
e-waste recycled.
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or
other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
417
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Parameter
FY 2021-22
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21
(Previous Financial Year)
Category of waste
(i) Recycled
Please refer Waste Management 
details in the Environment section of 
the Integrated Report for FY 22.
Please refer the Environment section 
of the Integrated Report for FY 21 for 
e-waste recycled.
(ii) Re-used
Not available
Not available
(iii) Other recovery operations
Not available
Not available
Total
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Incineration
Not available
Not available
(ii) Landfilling
Not available
Not available
(iii) Other disposal operations
Please refer the Environment section 
of the Integrated Report for FY 22 
for e-waste recycled
Please refer the Environment section 
of the Integrated Report for FY 21 for 
e-waste recycled
Total
Not available
Not available
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
 
	
Yes. Please refer the ‘About the Report’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
9.	
Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted 
by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the 
practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	
Please refer to the Waste Management section as part of the Environment section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
10.	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where 
environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
	
Not applicable.
11.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in 
the current financial year:
	
Not applicable.
12.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection 
act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
	
Not applicable.

418
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable 
sources, in the following format:	
Parameter
FY 2021-22
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21
(Previous Financial Year)
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
N.A.
N.A.
Total fuel consumption (B)
N.A.
N.A.
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
N.A.
N.A.
Total energy consumed from renewable sources 
(A+B+C)
N.A.
N.A.
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
Please refer GHG Emissions and 
Climate Change details in the 
Environment section of the Integrated 
Report for FY22 
Please refer GHG Emissions and 
Climate Change details in the 
Environment section of the Integrated 
Report for FY22 
Total fuel consumption (E)
Please refer GHG Emissions and 
Climate Change details in the 
Environment section of the Integrated 
Report for FY22
Please refer GHG Emissions and 
Climate Change details in the 
Environment section of the Integrated 
Report for FY22
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
N.A.
N.A.
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources
(D+E+F)
Please refer GHG Emissions 
and Climate Change details in 
the Environment section of the 
Integrated Report for FY22 
Please refer GHG Emissions and 
Climate Change details in the 
Environment section of the Integrated 
Report for FY22
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
 
	
Please refer ‘About the Report’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22. 
2.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
	
Not applicable.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
	
Not applicable 
3.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
	
	
Not applicable 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
	
Not applicable 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
419
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
4.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2021-22
(Current Financial 
Year)
FY 2020-21
(Previous Financial 
Year)
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG 
into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if 
available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
                         42,697 
9,174.35
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of 
turnover
Gram per CO2 per rupee 
income
0.03
0.01
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) - the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
tCO2/FTE
0.3
0.08
	
	 Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
		
Please refer ‘About the Report’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22. 
5.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide 
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention 
and remediation activities.
	
Given the nature of our business, we do not have significant direct impacts on biodiversity. However we do ensure that 
the large industrial, infrastructure projects we lend to, are compliant to all environmental regulations, including those linked 
to biodiversity. Please refer to ‘Responsible Lending in the section on ‘Environment’ in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
6.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of 
the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Sr. No
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be provided 
along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
Please refer Managing waste 
details in the ‘Environment’ 
section in the Integrated Report 
for FY22.
7.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
	
Yes, please refer to the ‘Business Continuity Plan’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22. 
8.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Please refer to the Responsible lending details of the ‘Environment’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
9.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts.
	
Please refer to the Responsible lending details of the ‘Environment’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a 
manner that is responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
1. 	
a. 	 Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations: 1

420
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such 
body) the entity is a member of / affiliated to:
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ 
associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ associations (State/National)
Indian Banks’ Association
National
2. 	 Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti- competitive conduct by the 
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities
	
Not applicable
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
N.A.
N.A.
Leadership Indicators
1. 	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
S. No.
Public policy advocated
Method resorted 
for such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of 
Review by Board
(Annually / Half 
yearly / Quarterly 
/ Others - please 
specify)
Web Link, if 
available
Not applicable. The Bank does not engage in policy advocacy.
PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year.
Name and brief details of project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency 
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes / No)
Relevant 
Web link
Holistic Rural Development Program (HRDP) 
in district Samastipur, Bihar implemented by 
Integrated Development Foundation
Yes (Basic Paradigm)
 No
Holistic Rural Development Program (HRDP) 
in district Pune, Maharashtra implemented by 
Krushi Vikas Va Gramin Prashikshan Sanstha
Yes (Basic Paradigm)
 No
Holistic Rural Development Program (HRDP)
in district Jirang, Meghalaya implemented 
by Society for Action in Community Health 
(SACH)
Yes (N R Management 
Consultants India Ltd.)
 No
Holistic Rural Development Program (HRDP) 
in districts Ludhiana and Moga, Punjab 
implemented by Society for Action in 
Community Health (SACH)
Yes (N R Management 
Consultants India Ltd.)
 No
Focused Development Program (FDP) in 
dsitricts Angul and Dhenkanal, Odisha 
implemented by Access Development 
Services
Yes (N R Management 
Consultants India Ltd.)
 No
Holistic Rural Development Program (HRDP) in 
district Katni, Madhya Pradesh implemented 
by Haritika
Yes (TRIOs 
Development Services 
(P) Ltd.)
 No

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
421
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Name and brief details of project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency 
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes / No)
Relevant 
Web link
Sustainable Livelihood Initiative (SLI) program 
implemented by HDFC Bank
Yes (Centre for Digital 
Finance and Inclusion, 
IFMR)
 No
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken 
by your entity, in the following format:
	
	
Not applicable
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
Please refer to our initiatives in the ‘Social - Communities’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 2021-22
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2020-21
(Previous Financial Year)
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
 The only material input for our 
sector is paper. Hence this question 
is not applicable/ material to us
N.A.
Sourced directly from within the district and neighbouring 
districts
N.A.
N.A.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
 Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
N.A.
N.A.
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts 
as identified by government bodies:
S. 
No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (In INR)
1
Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, 
Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, 
Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu
N.A.
3.	
(a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase 
from suppliers comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
No.
(b) From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
N.A.
(c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
N.A.
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in 
the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
	
Not applicable
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related 
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
	
Not applicable

422
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S. 
No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted 
from CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries from 
vulnerable and marginalized 
groups
Please refer ‘Social- Communities’ section of the Integrated 
Report.
Please refer ‘Social-
Communities ‘section of 
the Integrated Report.
N.A.
PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible 
manner
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
Please refer Customer Satisfaction details in ‘Governance’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
2.	
Turnover of products and services as a percentage of turnover from all products/services that carry information about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
N.A.
Safe and responsible usage
N.A.
Recycling and/or safe disposal
N.A.
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2021-22
Current Financial Year
Remarks
FY 2020-21
Previous Financial Year
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data privacy
 46
0
Cyber-security
0
0
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
N.A.
N.A.
Forced recalls
N.A.
N.A.
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on  cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, 
provide a web-link of the policy.
	
Yes. Please refer to the ‘Cybersecurity’ section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of 
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; 
penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
	
There continues to be one IPR-related civil suit filed by an actress / model i.e. Surbhi Puranik Vs. MASH Audio Visuals Pvt. Ltd., 
Delhi High Court CS(COMM) 205/2017, for using her images, without her consent, to promote the Bank’s gold loan product 
in FY 2017-18. This case is still ongoing and is now listed on September 15, 2022.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
423
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web 
link, if available).
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
	
Please refer to the Corporate Commitment and Citizens Charter in the webpage https://v1.hdfcbank.com/assets/pdf/citizens_
charter/English.pdf for steps taken on informing and educating our customers.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
  Please refer to the Business Continuity Plan in our website: https://v1.hdfcbank.com/assets/pdf/Business_Continuity_
Plan.pdf 
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? 
(Yes/No/Not Applicable)
	
No
	
If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating 
to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a 
whole? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. Please refer to Customer centricity section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
5.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact
	
None
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
	
None

424
Shareholder Information
A) DIVIDENDS
Receipt of Dividends through Electronic mode
The SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 have directed that listed companies shall 
mandatorily make all payments to investors including dividend 
to shareholders, by using any RBI approved electronic mode of 
payment viz., National Automated Clearing House (NACH), Direct 
Credit, Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS), National Electronic 
Fund Transfer (NEFT), etc.
In order to receive the dividend without loss of time (as and 
when declared by the Bank), all the eligible shareholders holding 
shares in demat mode are requested to update with their 
respective Depository Participants, their correct core banking 
account number, including 9 digit MICR Code and 11 digit 
IFSC Code, e-mail ID and Mobile No(s). This will facilitate the 
remittance of the dividend amount as directed by SEBI directly 
in the bank account electronically. Updation of e-mail IDs and 
Mobile No(s) will also enable sending communication relating to 
credit of dividend, unencashed dividend etc.
Shareholders holding shares in physical form may communicate 
details relating to their core banking account, viz., core banking 
account number, including 9 digit MICR Code and 11 digit IFSC 
Code, e-mail ID and Mobile No(s) to the Registrars & Transfer 
Agents (R&T agent) viz., Datamatics Business Solutions Limited 
having address at Plot No. B 5, Part B Crosslane, MIDC, Marol, 
Andheri (E), Mumbai-400 093, by quoting the reference folio 
number and attaching a photocopy of the Cheque leaf of their 
active core banking account along with a self-attested copy 
of their PAN card and a self-attested copy of any one of the 
documents mentioned hereafter: utility payment bills (not more 
than three months old) / bank pass book / passport / driving 
license to validate their present address.
Various modes for making payment of dividend under 
electronic mode:
In case, the shareholder has updated core banking account 
details (including 9 digit MICR Code and 11 digit IFSC code) for 
the purpose of payment of dividend (as and when declared by 
the Bank), then the Bank shall make the payment of dividend to 
such shareholder under any one of the following modes: 
1.	
National Automated Clearing House (NACH)
2.	
Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
3.	
National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT)
4.	
Direct credit in case the shareholders have an active Bank 
account with HDFC Bank Limited (Direct Credit).
In case dividend paid by electronic mode is returned or rejected 
by the corresponding bank due to any reason then the Bank 
will issue a dividend warrant and print the bank account details 
available in its records on the said dividend warrant to avoid 
fraudulent encashment of the warrants. The dividend warrant 
will be dispatched by the R&T agent at the registered address 
of the shareholder.
Transfer of Equity Shares to Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (IEPF) Authority
Pursuant to the applicable provisions of Section 124(6) of 
the Companies Act, 2013, all equity shares in respect of 
which dividend has / have remained unpaid or unclaimed for 
consecutive seven (7) years, the corresponding equity shares 
have been transferred in the name of IEPF Authority as notified 
by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), Government of 
India. The MCA has also notified the applicability of Section 
124(6) along with the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 
with effect from September 7, 2016, as amended from time 
to time (collectively the “IEPF Rules”). As per said IEPF Rules, 
companies are required to transfer the equity shares to IEPF 
Authority where seven (7) years as provided under Section 124(5) 
of the Companies Act, 2013 have been completed and upon 
completion of three (3) months from the date of the notification 
of the IEPF Rules, as stated hereinabove.
In compliance with the aforesaid provision on November 30, 
2017, your Bank has transferred 5,524,448 equity shares to the 
IEPF Authority, MCA account (IEPF) bearing demat account no 
12047200 13676780 which is opened with SBI CAP Securities 
Ltd as Depository Participant under the Central Depository 
Services (India) Limited (CDSL). As required under the said 
provisions, all subsequent corporate benefits that may accrue 
in relation to the above shares will also be credited to the IEPF 
Authority. Your Bank has further transferred 828,846 equity 
shares, 710,122 equity shares and 144,206 equity shares to the 
IEPF account on April 12, 2019, August 30, 2019 and August 25, 
2020, respectively. During the year ended March 31, 2022, your 
Bank has further transferred 348,171 equity shares to the IEPF 
account on September 15, 2021. The IEPF Authority, till March 
31, 2022, transferred 687,330 equity shares against the claims 
received by them from the shareholders. (Share figures reported 
are of the face value of ` 1.00 each).
As per the terms of Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 
2013 and Rule 7 of the IEPF Rules, the shareholders whose 
corresponding equity shares of the face value of ` 1.00 each 
stand transferred to IEPF account can claim those shares from 
IEPF Authority by making an online application in Form IEPF-5 
which is available at https://www.iepf.gov.in. 

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
425
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Guidelines to file your claim
• 
For claiming the shares and dividend from the IEPF Authority, 
shareholders can make an online web based application 
through MCA portal. Shareholders need to register 
themselves on MCA portal by creating Login ID credentials. 
After successful login into MCA portal, shareholders have 
to click on "MCA Services" tab and choose "IEPF-5" option 
under “Investor Services” and follow the due process for 
filing the form.
• 
Printout of the duly filled Form IEPF-5 with claimant 
and joint holders’ (if any) signature and along with the 
acknowledgment issued after uploading the form will 
have to be submitted together with an indemnity bond 
in original, cancelled Cheque leaf of active bank account 
(details of which are mentioned by the claimant at the time 
of uploading the web-based form), and other documents 
as mentioned in Form IEPF-5 to the Nodal Officer (IEPF) 
of the Bank in an envelope marked “Claim for refund from 
IEPF Authority”. Certain information about the Bank which 
will have to be submitted are as under: 
(a)	
Corporate Identification Number (CIN) of the 
Bank: L65920MH1994PLC080618
(b)	
Name of the Bank: HDFC Bank Limited
(c)	
Address of registered office of the Bank: HDFC Bank 
House, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel (West), 
Mumbai 400013
(d)	
Email ID of the Bank: shareholder.grievances@
hdfcbank.com
Unclaimed Dividends
As per the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF 
Rules”), the Bank is statutorily required to transfer to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF), all dividends remaining 
unclaimed for a period of seven (7) years from the date they 
became due for payment. Dividends for and up to the financial 
year ended March 31, 2014 have already been transferred to 
the IEPF and the dividend for the financial year ended March 
31, 2015 will be transferred to the IEPF around August 31, 2022. 
The details of unclaimed dividends for the financial year ended 
2015 onwards and the last date for claiming such dividends are 
given hereinafter:
Dividend for the year 
ended
Date of Declaration of 
dividend
Last date for claiming 
dividend
March 31, 2015
July 21, 2015
July 20, 2022
March 31, 2016
July 21, 2016
July 20, 2023
March 31, 2017
July 24, 2017
July 23, 2024
March 31, 2018
June 29, 2018
June 28, 2025
March 31, 2019
July 12, 2019
July 11, 2026
Special Interim 
Dividend 2019-2020
July 20, 2019
July 19, 2026
March 31, 2021
July 17, 2021
July 16, 2028
B) SHARES LYING IN UNCLAIMED SUSPENSE 
ACCOUNT
Particulars
Records / No. 
of shareholders
Equity Shares (Face 
value of ` 1.00 each)
Opening Balance as on 
April 1, 2021
4,009
1,669,878
Less: Claims received and 
shares transferred *
143
81320
Less: Shares transferred to 
IEPF account
663
211760
Closing Balance as on 
March 31, 2022 **
3203
1,376,798
* 	
Number of shareholders who approached the Bank for the transfer of 
shares from the suspense account.
** 	 Voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owners 
of such shares claim these shares.
Deduction of tax at source on dividend
In terms of the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961, (“the Act”), 
dividend paid or distributed by a company on or after April 1, 
2020 is taxable in the hands of the shareholders. The company 
shall therefore be required to deduct tax at source at the time 
of payment of dividend. The deduction of tax at source will be 
based on the category of shareholders and subject to fulfilment 
of conditions as provided herein below:
• 
For Resident shareholders
Tax will be deducted at source (“TDS”) under Section 194 of the 
Act @ 10% on the amount of dividend payable unless exempt 
under any of the provisions of the Act. However, in case of 
resident shareholders, TDS would not apply if the aggregate of 
total dividend distributed/paid to them by the company during a 
financial year does not exceed ` 5,000.
Tax will not be deducted at source in cases where a shareholder 
provides Form 15G (applicable to all individuals) / Form 15H 
(applicable to an individual above the age of 60 years), provided 

426
Shareholder Information
that the eligibility conditions are satisfied. Please note that all 
fields mentioned in the aforesaid forms are mandatory 
and the Bank may reject the forms submitted, if they do 
not fulfil the requirement of the law. 
Needless to mention, valid Permanent Account Number (“PAN”) 
will be mandatorily required. Shareholders who are required 
to link Aadhaar number with PAN as required under Section 
139AA(2) read with Rule 114AAA, should compulsorily link the 
same. If, as required under the law, any PAN is found to have not 
been linked with Aadhaar, then such PAN will be inoperative and 
tax would be deducted at a higher rate under Section 206AA 
of the Act. The Bank reserves its right to recover any demand 
raised subsequently on the Bank for not informing the Bank 
or providing wrong information about applicability of Section 
206AA in your case.
Nil / lower tax shall be deducted on the dividend payable to 
following resident shareholders on submission of self-declaration 
as listed below: 
i.	
Insurance companies: Declaration that the provisions of 
Section 194 of the Act are not applicable to them along with 
self-attested copy of registration certificate and PAN card.
ii.	
Mutual Funds: Declaration by Mutual Fund shareholder 
eligible for exemption under section 10(23D) of the Act 
along with self-attested copy of registration documents 
and PAN card.
iii.	
Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) established in 
India: Declaration that the shareholder is eligible for 
exemption under section 10(23FBA) of the Act and they 
are established as Category I or Category II AIF under 
the applicable SEBI regulations, along with copy of self-
attested registration documents and PAN card.
iv.	
New Pension System Trust: Declaration along with self-
attested copy of documentary evidence supporting the 
exemption and self-attested copy of PAN card.
v.	
Other shareholders: Declaration along with self-attested 
copy of documentary evidence supporting the exemption 
and self-attested copy of PAN card.
vi.	
Shareholders who have provided a valid certificate issued 
under section 197 of the Act for lower / nil rate of deduction 
or an exemption certificate issued by the Income Tax 
authorities along with declaration.
• 
For 
non-resident 
shareholders 
(including 
Foreign Portfolio Investors)
Tax is required to be withheld in accordance with the provisions 
of Sections 195 and 196D of the Act at applicable rates in 
force. As per the relevant provisions of the Act, the tax shall be 
withheld @ 20% (plus applicable surcharge and cess) on the 
amount of dividend payable. However, as per Section 90 of the 
Act, a non-resident shareholder has the option to be governed 
by the provisions of the Double Tax Avoidance Agreement 
(“DTAA”) between India and the country of tax residence of the 
shareholder, if they are more beneficial to the shareholder. For 
this purpose, i.e. to avail the DTAA benefits, the non-resident 
shareholder will have to provide the following:
i.	
Self-attested copy of PAN card, if any, allotted by the Indian 
Income Tax Authorities
ii.	
Self-attested copy of Tax Residency Certificate (“TRC”) 
obtained from the tax authorities of the country of which 
the shareholder is resident
iii.	
Self-declaration in Form 10F 
iv.	
Self-declaration by the non-resident shareholder of meeting 
DTAA eligibility requirement and satisfying beneficial 
ownership requirement (Non-resident having PE in India 
would need to comply with provisions of section 206AB of 
the IT Act)
v.	
In case of Foreign Portfolio Investors, self-attested copy of 
SEBI registration certificate.
vi.	
In case of shareholder being tax resident of Singapore, 
please furnish the letter issued by the competent authority 
or any other evidences demonstrating the non-applicability 
of Article 24 - Limitation of Relief under India-Singapore 
Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA)
Application of beneficial DTAA rate shall depend upon the 
completeness and satisfactory review by the Bank, of the 
documents submitted by non-resident shareholders and 
meeting requirements of the Act read with applicable DTAA. It 
must be ensured that self-declaration should be addressed to 
HDFC Bank and should be in the prescribed format.  In absence 
of the same, the Bank will not be obligated to apply the beneficial 
DTAA rate at the time of tax deduction on dividend.

HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
427
Overview
Our 
Performance
Our  
Strategy
Introduction to  
HDFC Bank
How We  
Create Value
Responsible  
Business
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
• 
Section 206AB of the Act
Rate of TDS @10% under Section 194 of the Act is subject to 
provisions of Section 206AB of the Act which provides for TDS 
in respect of non-filers of income-tax return.  As provided in 
Section 206AB, tax is required to be deducted at the highest of 
following rates in case of payments to specified persons:
-	
at twice the rate specified in the relevant provision of 
the Act; or
	
-	
at twice the rate or rates in force; or
	
-	
at the rate of 5%.
As per Central Board of Direct Taxes vide Circular No. 11 of 2021 
dated June 21, 2021, for determining TDS rate on dividend, the 
Bank will be using functionality of the Income-tax department to 
determine the applicability of Section 206AB of the Act. 
To summarise, dividend will be paid after deducting the tax at 
source as under:
i.	
Nil for resident shareholders receiving dividend upto 
` 5,000/- or in case Form 15G / Form 15H (as applicable) 
along with self-attested copy of the PAN card is submitted.
ii.	
10% for other resident shareholders in case copy of PAN 
card is provided / available.
iii.	
20% for resident shareholders if copy of PAN card is not 
provided / not available / not linked with Aadhaar Number.
iv.	
Tax will be assessed on the basis of documents submitted 
by the non-resident shareholders.
v.	
20% plus applicable surcharge and cess for non-
resident shareholders in case the relevant documents are 
not submitted.
vi.	
Lower / Nil TDS on submission of self-attested copy of the 
valid certificate issued under Section 197 of the Act.
Aforesaid rates will be subject to applicability of section 206AB 
of the Act. 
In terms of Rule 37BA of the Income Tax Rules, 1962, if dividend 
income on which tax has been deducted at source is assessable 
in the hands of a person other than the deductee, then such 
deductee should file declaration with the Bank in the manner 
prescribed by the said rules.
In case tax on dividend is deducted at a higher rate in the 
absence of receipt or defect in any of the aforementioned details 
/ documents, you will be able to claim refund of the excess 
tax deducted by filing your income tax return. No claim shall lie 
against the Bank for such taxes deducted.
Updation of Bank account details
While on the subject, we request you to submit / update your 
bank account details with your Depository Participant, in case 
you are holding shares in the electronic form. In case your 
shareholding is in the physical form, you will have to submit a 
scanned copy of a covering letter mentioning the folio number, 
duly signed by you, along with a cancelled cheque leaf with your 
name and bank account details and a self-attested copy of your 
PAN. This will facilitate receipt of dividend directly into your bank 
account. In case the cancelled cheque leaf does not bear your 
name, please attach a copy of the bank pass-book statement, 
duly self-attested.
Disclaimer: The information set out herein above is included for 
general information purposes only and does not constitute legal 
or tax advice. Since the tax consequences are dependent on 
facts and circumstances of each case, the investors are advised 
to consult their own tax consultant with respect to specific tax 
implications arising out of receipt of dividend.

Registered Office
HDFC Bank House, Senapati Bapat Marg,  
Lower Parel (W), Mumbai – 400 013
Tel: + 91 22 6652 1000
Fax: + 91 22 2496 0737
Corporate Identification Number
L65920MH1994PLC080618
Joint Statutory Auditors (FY22)
MSKA & Associates, Chartered Accountants
M.M. Nissim & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants
Registrars & Transfer Agents
Datamatics Business Solutions Limited
Plot No. B 5, Part B Crosslane, MIDC, Marol,
Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 093
Tel: + 91 22 6671 2213/14
Fax: + 91 22 6671 2011
E-mail: hdinvestors@datamaticsbpm.com

www.hdfcbank.com

