
Powering Progress
Together
Banking today is more than managing
money — it’s about fulfilling aspirations,
and shaping futures. At HDFC Bank, we
see ourselves not just as custodians
of capital but as partners in progress
for individuals, businesses, and
communities alike. We aim to simplify
complexities, unlock opportunities
and help dreams take flight. Our
ability to evolve with changing times—
powered by innovation, a strong
performance culture and a deep sense
of responsibility—has made us a trusted
ally in the everyday lives of millions
across India.
We believe in creating long-term,
holistic value for all stakeholders.
Whether it’s helping individuals
realise their financial aspirations,
enabling entrepreneurs to expand their
businesses, supporting underprivileged
communities through impactful
initiatives or contributing meaningfully
to India’s socio-economic growth—
our role goes far beyond traditional
banking. We are deeply committed to
being a partner in progress both for our
customers and for the nation.
Opportunity Meets Execution Driving Social Impact through Parivartan
One of our key strengths lies in identifying high-potential Our commitment to inclusive development is embodied
opportunities and capitalising on them through execution. in our CSR initiative—Parivartan, which means
With a robust and well-integrated physical and digital ‘Transformation’. Through Parivartan, we are creating
infrastructure we are able to extend top-tier banking lasting impact in six important areas: Rural Development,
services across the length and breadth of the country—from Promotion of Education, Skill Development & Livelihood
urban hubs to remote rural locations. This reach, combined Enhancement, Healthcare & Hygiene, Financial Literacy
with our in-depth understanding of the market, has enabled & Inclusion and Natural Resource Management. These
us to scale sustainably. Our performance reflects this initiatives aim to empower communities, foster self-reliance
strength—consistent growth in our balance sheet and and contribute to equitable societal progress.
profitability, underpinned by prudent risk management and
Growing with our People
a best-in-class asset quality.
We recognise that our people are our greatest strength.
The Power of the Group
At HDFC Bank, we foster a culture of inclusivity, respect and
The successful merger of HDFC Limited with and into meritocracy. We are focused on creating an environment
HDFC Bank, has been a transformative milestone creating where every employee is encouraged to grow, thrive and
a stronger financial services entity. Through this integration, contribute meaningfully. From leadership development to
we have acquired a trusted and widely recognised home bridging the gender gap, we are committed to building a
loan product, along with other subsidiaries such as HDFC workplace that champions diversity, nurtures talent and
Life Insurance Company Ltd, HDFC ERGO General inspires excellence.
Insurance Company Ltd and HDFC Asset Management
Sustainability: A Core Commitment
Company. This enables us to serve customers more
comprehensively across their financial lifecycle. The Bank Sustainability is a core value of the Bank. Integrating ESG
now has enhanced cross-selling opportunities, giving it factors into our credit appraisal and due diligence processes
the ability to offer end-to-end financial solutions under one is a priority. Our goal is clear: To become carbon-neutral
roof. This enables us to redefine customer convenience and in our operations by FY32. Through enhanced disclosures,
strengthen our market position. transparent reporting and proactive initiatives, we continue
to strengthen our sustainability framework year after year.
Banking for Indians
Governance Anchored in Trust
Our extensive portfolio encompasses a wide range of
offerings—from personal loans, credit cards and mortgages Even as we pursue ambitious growth, we remain firmly
for individuals to working capital, trade finance, and anchored in our principles of integrity and accountability.
cash management solutions for MSMEs and emerging Our governance practices are aligned with the highest
corporates. Whether in metros, semi-urban towns or rural standards, ensuring compliance, risk mitigation and robust
heartlands, we serve customers at every stage of their internal controls. This strong governance framework
financial journey. underpins our efforts to generate sustainable value for all
our stakeholders.
Digital First, Customer Always
Partnering India’s Journey Forward
In an era of digital disruption, our focus is on making
banking seamless, intuitive and personal. We leverage data As India positions itself as major global player, the role of
analytics, AI and automation to offer personalised services, Banking has perhaps never been more critical. HDFC Bank
improve response times and ensure 24x7 connectivity. This is playing its part through financial innovation, strategic
relentless focus on digital innovation enhances operational partnerships, fostering digital inclusion, and creating
efficiency while deepening customer engagement sustainable social impact. We are proud of the opportunity
and loyalty. of contributing to India’s progress.
What's Inside
Overview Responsible Business
About the Report ............................04 ESG Strategy encompassing
Highlights ........................................06 Sustainable Finance ............................112
Environment ........................................118
Who Governs Us
Customer Centricity ............................136
Chairman's Message ......................08 Future Ready Digital Bank ...................142
Message from the MD & CEO ..........12 Social - People ....................................150
Board of Directors ...........................18 Social - Community.............................168
Senior Management Team .............28 Nation Building ....................................192
Connecting the Capitals ......................196
Introduction to HDFC Bank
10 year Financial Highlights .................198
Our Presence ..................................34 Awards & Accolades .........................200
Our Journey ....................................36 Assurance Statement ..........................201
GRI Index ..........................................204
Our Performance
Statutory Reports and
Financial Performance .....................40
Business Segments ........................42 Financial Statements
Home Loan Advantage ...................44
Directors Report & Annexures ............208
Commercial and Rural Cluster ........46
Certificate on Corporate
Power of the Group .........................48
Governance ........................................277
Certificate on SEBI Listing ...................278
How We Create Value
Report on Corporate Governance ......280
Our Value Creation Model ...............54 Independent Auditor's Report for
Stakeholder Engagement ................56 Standalone Financials .........................310
Materiality ........................................60 Standalone Balance Sheet ..................320
Standalone Profit and Loss Account .....321
Our Strategy
Standalone Cash Flow Statement .......322
Strategy in Action .............................74 Schedules to the
External Environment ......................90 Financial Statements ...........................324
Risk Management ...........................96 Independent Auditor's Report for
Business Continuity Management, Consolidated Financials ......................428
Information & Cyber Security Practices Consolidated
and Data Privacy Measures ...........106 Balance Sheet ....................................446
Consolidated
Wholesale Profit and Loss Account ......................447
Banking Consolidated
Cash Flow Statement .........................448
Schedule to the
e
Retail Consolidated Statement .....................450 O r e
n h
Banking Statement Pursuant lin d
e e
to Section 129 .....................................526 v e e s s
Treasury
B S
S
u
h
u s
a
s t i
r
n a
e
e i
h
n s
o
a s
l
b
d
R i
e
li e t
r
y s
I n
p R
f
o
o
e n
r
p
m
s o ib
a
rt
t
i l .
i
i
o
. t . y
n
.. .
.
a .
.
n .
.
.
.
d .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
5
5
8
2
4
8
rs
io n of
the report can
be a c
c
Overview
Our Performance
Balance Sheet Size (I Cr) Profit After Tax (I Cr) Earnings Per Share (I)
39,10,199 67,347 88.3
8.1% 10.7% 2.9%
39,10,199 67,347 88.3
36,17,623 60,812 85.8
Deposits (I Cr) Advances (I Cr) Return on Equity (%)
27,14,715 26,19,609 14.6
14.1% 5.4%
27,14,715 26,19,609 14.6
23,79,786 24,84,862 16.1
Dividend Return on Assets Cost to Income
Per Share (I) (Average) (%) Ratio (%)
22.0^ 1.91 40.5
22.0 1.91 40.5
19.5 1.98 40.2
Note: The results for the year ended March 31, 2025 include the operations of HDFC Limited and its subsidiaries (which became subsidiaries
of the Bank on amalgamation) effective from July 01, 2023 and hence are not comparable with results for the year ended March 31, 2024.
YoY FY25 FY24 ^Proposed
03
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ABOUT THE REPORT
The Integrated Annual Report for and also contains disclosures with Assurance Statement
FY 2024-25 reflects HDFC Bank’s reference to Global Reporting Initiative Reasonable assurance on BRSR
(referred to as ‘We’, ‘Us’, or ‘the (GRI) Standards (2021), Task Force on Core KPIs and limited assurance on
Bank’) commitment to create Climate related Financial Disclosures the select indicators in the BRSR &
meaningful value for a diverse array (TCFD), Business Responsibility Integrated Annual Report respectively
of stakeholders including customers, and Sustainability Report (BRSR) has been provided by SGS India
shareholders, investors, regulators, and United Nations Sustainable Pvt. Ltd. as per the SEBI guidelines
employees, and society at large. Development Goals (UN SDGs). in accordance with the ISAE 3000
(Revised), GHG Protocol and ISAE
Beyond financial metrics, the report
There are no restatements of 3410 Standards. The assurance
explores non-financial performance,
information provided in the integrated reports attached in the report
strategic priorities, and sustainability
report during the reporting year. contains details of the subject matter,
efforts of the Bank. It provides criteria, procedures performed,
insights into HDFC Bank's wholistic Materiality and Scope and reasonable assurance opinion
value creation model, operational This report includes information which and limited assurance conclusion,
landscape, stakeholder concerns, as applicable.
is material to all stakeholders of the
strategic and ESG pillars, and
Bank and provides an overview of Responsibility Statement
corporate governance framework.
its business and related activities.
These aspects are underpinned by a The content of this report has been
The report discloses matters that
robust risk management framework reviewed by the senior management
substantially impact or affect the
integral to the Bank's operations. As of the Bank and is reviewed and
Bank’s ability to create value and
we near 2 years since the merger, approved by the Board of Directors
could influence decisions of providers
this report captures HDFC Bank’s to ensure accuracy, completeness
of financial capital. In FY23, the
journey of progress in integration and and relevance of the information
material matters thus identified
growth. It highlights how synergies presented in line with the principles
were reviewed and refreshed to
have supported expansion supported and requirements of the Integrated
integrate the concept of double
by the Bank’s focus on a stable Reporting <IR> Framework.
materiality in accordance with GRI
and cohesive culture. Through
Standards 2021. For GRI topics and
Governance over Integrated
collaboration and innovation, HDFC
relevant disclosures, please refer
Bank continues to drive sustainable Reporting Process
to the GRI Content Index, provided
progress endeavouring to make a
in the report. During the year, we The FY2024-25 Integrated
lasting impact on all those it serves.
conducted an internal reassessment Annual Report reflects a rigorous
of the material topics identified in organisation-wide process, overseen
Reporting Principles and
the previously and reaffirmed their by the Group Executives and the
Framework
continued relevance. This evaluation Board, showcasing the organisation’s
The financial information presented considered our operational context, integrated thinking. The report
in this report is in line with the including regulatory compliances, outlines the Bank's value creation
requirements of evolving industry trends, and our process, considering its operating
risk landscape. environment, external factors, and
− The Companies Act, 2013 (including
its short, medium, and long-term
the rules made thereunder) Read more on Pg. 60
objective. The report aligns with the
− The Companies (Accounting Integrated Reporting Framework, its
Standards) Rules, 2021 Reporting Boundary contents detailing the performance of
− The Securities and Exchange this value creation process. Led by the
The non-financial information in
Board of India (Listing Obligations Group CFO, the report is informed by
this report covers the activities and
and Disclosure Requirements) extensive discussions across various
progress of the Bank on a standalone
Regulations, 2015 functions and board meetings. After
basis. It covers information pertaining
− The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 to the period from April 1, 2024, to multiple drafts and reviews, the CFO
and Senior Management ensure its
and other relevant RBI regulations March 31, 2025. The last report was
accuracy before presenting it to the
The report has been prepared in published for the period April 1, 2023 -
Board of Directors.
alignment with the <IR> framework March 31, 2024. The Integrated Report
prescribed by the IFRS Foundation for FY 2023-24 can be accessed here.
04
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Purpose
“We exist to help every Indian make better money choices,
today and tomorrow”
Integrated thinking and delivering on our purpose
How We Create Value What Impacts Value Creation
Short-, medium-
and long-term Board Business Our Operating Context
Outlook Committees Segments
Dynamic External Environment
Adopting Our agile, Stakeholder Priorities
Devising our 10 Transparent, informed
Strategic Pillars Accountable and holistic
Governance Business model
Customer
Financial & Non- Leadership team & Key Business
Financial Targets Senior Management Activities Our 14 key Material topics
Our Integrated Reporting Process
Integrated Reporting Framework <IR>
and other reporting standards Assurance Model Senior Management Sign-off
Validating integrity Integrated
Report Compilation
of the Report Report Approval
Risks, Opportunities, Strategy and Board and Senior Board Approval
Performance of the Company Management Review
sksiR
ytinutroppO
Overview
Employee Community Investor Government Suppliers
& Regulatory
Bodies
The Value created, preserved or depleted through our business activities across the
6 capitals as per the <IR> framework
Financial Manufactured Human Intellectual Social & Relationship Natural
Capital Capital Capital Capital Capital Capital
F M H I SR N
We ensure Our pan India Our people are We leverage Building trust- We rely on natural
consistent network of our greatest asset. innovative technology based stakeholder resources like
shareholder banking outlets, Through innovation, for operational relationships is key energy and
returns through offices, ATMs, and collaboration, efficiency and to our success. water to run our
robust financial touchpoints, along and inclusivity, competitive We responsibly business and
practices, utilising with strong IT we empower edge, built on contribute to deliver services.
customer deposits, infrastructure their growth and deep expertise, the economy, We manage waste
shareholder and security well-being, driving agile systems, cultivating long-term and minimise our
equity, retained measures, engages exceptional service and the Group's relationships with environmental
earnings, and stakeholders and and success. esteemed reputation. customers, partners, impact on climate
external borrowings. supports growth merchants, and and ecosystems.
through financial the community.
inclusion initiatives.
05
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
HIGHLIGHTS
Delivering All-round
Performance
Strong Financials Committed to a Enabling Last-Mile
Sustainable Future Access
K26,19,609
crore
18.69 9,455
Advances %
Financing towards green Branches
and social sectors (Including 5 overseas
K27,14,715
crore branches and 9 DBUs)
Deposits
3.22
%
15,399
Share of RE in our
1.33
% electricity mix (Increase Total Business
Gross NPA from 0.39% in FY24) Correspondents
19.6 % K1,068 crore 21,139
Capital Adequacy Ratio CSR Spend on Total ATMs + Cash
Parivartan projects Recycler Machines
1.91 Network
%
Return on Average
Assets 4,150
Cities & Towns covered
2,35,000+
Villages where Bank
is present
06
HDFC Bank Limited
Overview
Strengthening Embracing a A Brand Built on Trust
Human Capital Digital-first Era and Transparency
2,14,521 97 $44.96
% billion*
Of all financial Brand Valuation
Total Employees
transactions enabled
through digital channels
70
26.1
%
Bottoms Up NPS Score
Women in Workforce
3.7 crore+
customer 85th Percentile
1.25+
crore
Engagements (monthly) S&P Corporate
Learning Hours
On HDFC Bank One Sustainability
Platform Assessment
99
%
Personal Loans
Originated Digitally
*As per Kantar BrandZ 2025 Most Valuable Global Brands
07
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE
A Year of Resilience
and Steady Progress
As a Group, we have
a much broader
responsibility to our
stakeholders across
the entities.
Dear Stakeholders, Global GDP growth slowed to 3.3 Order. Global monetary policy in the
per cent, tempered by slowing major advanced economies, after periods
Greetings !
economies, disruptions and capital of tightening, has moved towards
I am pleased to present to you the flow realignments. The geopolitical policy easing since mid-2024. Trade
Integrated Annual Report of the Bank for tensions, wars in Ukraine and the policies turned restrictive, and levels of
the Financial Year 2024-25. Middle East persisted, and we also public debt remain high in developed
have a dispensation in the US that has economies. The economic outlook for
External Environment and
a fairly tough stance on tariffs. These the year ahead is uncertain and muted,
Performance Resilience developments unsettled supply chains, in view of the unfolding trade wars. This
Financial Year 2024–25 was amplified risk aversion, caused exchange could further upend trade flows and
characterised by global recalibration with rate volatilities and underscored the moderate global growth momentum
rapidly shifting monetary policy stances, continuing inter-dependence of the in merchandise, commodities
emerging economic vulnerabilities global economies highlighting the and services.
and persistent geopolitical tensions. uncertainties of the Global Economic
08
HDFC Bank Limited
Who Governs Us
The Indian economy, despite global of policy rates are expected to give a
headwinds, has demonstrated great fillip to private capex which has so far
resilience with stable and predictable remained muted. The HDFC
policy actions in the fiscal and monetary
Merged Strengths Bank Group is
domain that ensured we continue to
now a financial
sustain the growth momentum coming Two years back we concluded the
out of the shocks of the preceding years. merger of HDFC Limited into HDFC conglomerate in
The economy grew at 6.5 per cent in Bank, bringing HDFC Limited and the true sense of
the fiscal year 2024-25 with inflation diverse financial services entities within
the term. It now
moderating to 4.6 per cent, performing the Bank’s fold thus transforming the
has a sizeable
under a shifting domestic policy stance Bank into one of the leading financial
that transitioned from a “Withdrawal of institutions of India. The HDFC Bank presence in
Accommodation” to “Accommodative” Group is now a financial conglomerate in insurance (both
and back to “Neutral” recently. Our the true sense of the term. It now has a
life and general),
regulator has been proactive in its policy sizeable presence in insurance (both life
mutual funds,
response, with inflation under reasonable and general), mutual funds, brokerage
control, despite pressures coming in and alternative investments. FY25 brokerage and
from a sharp depreciation of the rupee. marked the first full year of operations alternative
It has rationalised regulatory burden and of the combined Group and it now
investments.
removed restriction on financial sectors stands strengthened, much bigger in
through its policy actions. The national scale, broadened in capability and more FY25 marked the first
economic policy regime has stepped up unified in purpose. The operational full year of operations
to stabilise the economy, adhering to its aspects of the integration are now
of the combined
stated objective of balancing the budget substantially complete. The expansion
Group and it now
and keeping the fiscal deficit within of home loans across our network,
limits thereby creating space for private greater choice of Group products to the stands strengthened,
players in the credit flow. There has been expanded customer base and a more much bigger in scale,
policy action towards lowering policy cohesive branding have contributed to
broadened in capability
rates, enhancing liquidity in the system the growth of the Bank, which is at the
and more unified in
through reduction in CRR and attempt apex of the Group. As a Group, we have
at ensuring a less volatile exchange rate. a much broader responsibility to our purpose.
It is expected that the economic growth stakeholders, across the entities.
would continue to show momentum,
Financial Performance
despite the global vulnerabilities,
particularly affecting global merchandise The year under review was the first full
trade. We are well positioned to take year after the merger which had resulted
advantage of the realignments in in a marked increase in the size of the
international trade flows and supply Bank’s balance sheet and a change in
chains that are now unfolding. Looking its composition. The merger witnessed
ahead, the Indian economy is poised substantial improvement in the asset
to grow 6.5 per cent or even higher, quality with durable high-quality assets
supported by slight upward trend in coming on board. However, it was
domestic rural demand on the back a merger of two entities that were
of healthy agricultural production, differently regulated. On the liability
moderation in inflation and tax cuts that side it brought in considerable amount
can potentially support urban demand. of debt that had to be pared down.
A pick-up in government spending and Through much of FY25, monetary
easing of liquidity with potential lowering policy stance was one of “Withdrawal
09
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE
of Accommodation”, which constrained regulatory excellence. Internal systems
system-wide credit growth during have been recalibrated to ensure full
As global shifts
the year on account of restricted adherence to statutory requirements
continue to test
liquidity. Against this backdrop, the and transparent reporting. We also
Bank recalibrated its strategy with the institutional continue to invest in technology-led
objective of increasing the proportion of resilience, solutions to ensure accuracy, timeliness
deposits in the funding mix and reducing and accountability across all aspects of
your Bank remains
the loan to deposit ratio. regulatory requirements.
anchored in purpose,
Proactive management of the balance In order to address our enhanced
core values and discipline.
sheet, in order to meet regulatory stature as a financial conglomerate
requirements, resulted in deposit we have strengthened our oversight
growth of 14.1 per cent during the year on the Group companies, comprising
while advances growth was tempered the asset management company,
at 5.4 per cent. Profit After Tax grew insurance companies, investment
by 10.7 per cent to H67,347.4 crore in advisory company, and the various other
the last financial year and Net Interest entities in the fold, while being mindful
Margin stood at 3.48 per cent, reflecting of not impeding the independence
resilience in core income. Gross Non- of the respective entities. We have a
Performing Assets stood at just 1.33 per dedicated Group Oversight Department
cent, reflecting the Bank’s unwavering which monitors the implementation
focus on maintaining its asset quality. of the Group Oversight Framework
I am pleased to report that the Board and this function reports into one of
of Directors recommended a dividend the Executive Directors of the Bank.
of H22.0 per equity share of H1 for the This function also briefs the Board of
year ended March 31, 2025, subject to Directors on critical updates, if any,
shareholder approval at the forthcoming regarding the Group companies. The
annual general meeting. Board and its committees endeavour to
ensure accountability and responsibility
The Bank has a clear roadmap for
of the senior management in adhering to
growth anchored on values that
established principles of Governance.
have served the Group well for over
four decades. The report covers in Customer Experience and
considerable detail the Bank’s financial
Building Technology for
performance and its strategy for
Our commitment the Future
the future.
to giving back to Customer focus and customer
Governance
the communities satisfaction remains the cornerstone
As we navigate the post-merger of the Bank’s growth strategy. A sharp
where we operate
environment, we remain aware of the increase in the number of customers has
is of utmost
enhanced regulatory expectations made us more conscious and focussed
placed on us as a Domestic Systemically importance... on this objective. We strive to set high
Important Bank (D-SIB) listed on the Over ten crore standards of response to customer
stock exchanges. In the past financial grievances and continuously analyse
people have benefitted
year, we undertook a significant and mitigate the root causes and irritants
transformation of our compliance through our CSR that come in the way of enhanced
function, reinforcing our commitment programmes customer experience at our branches or
to governance, transparency and in the digital interfaces. We seek to align
10
HDFC Bank Limited
Who Governs Us
incentives to employees with parameters Social Value Creation of our integrated model and the
of customer satisfaction. synergies we continue to realise across
Inclusive banking is the cornerstone of
the Group, position us well to navigate
In an increasingly digital world, the Inclusion and is a major policy of the
what lies ahead.
customer journey design is guided by a Government. Credit flow to underserved
clear ambition to serve customers better, sections is also done through Priority I take this opportunity to welcome
faster and at scale. This year, we have Sector Lending. Your Bank has steadily Mr. Santhosh Keshavan as an
made strong progress across the five improved the quantum of organic Independent Director to the Board.
key pillars of technology, viz. Journeys, lending and reduced dependence on He was appointed w.e.f. November
Channels, Core, Data, and Security. Priority Sector Lending Certificates. 18, 2024, for a period of three years.
The Bank has been taking recourse His appointment was approved by the
To strengthen execution and accelerate
to various credit support mechanisms shareholders of the Bank via Postal
delivery, we continued to mature the
sponsored by the government to Ballot on January 11, 2025. I thank the
technology use cases that help us make
maintain the asset quality. Board members for their contributions
your Bank, the ‘bank of the future’. This
during the year.
model enabled parallel development Our commitment to giving back to the
of high-impact initiatives during FY25, communities where we operate is of I would be failing in my duty if I do not
reducing time-to-market and enhancing utmost importance. We collaborate with acknowledge the pivotal role of the
reusability across platforms. grassroot organisations, policymakers Union Government and various State
and local bodies to ensure that our Governments in steering the economy.
Looking ahead, IT-enabled user journeys
efforts are both strategic and impactful. I sincerely thank Reserve Bank of India,
remain a key priority. Through biometric
Securtites and Exchange Board of
onboarding, assisted journeys, and Through our six focus areas—Rural
India and other regulators who have
offline-ready apps, we extended access Development, Education, Skilling and
consistently guided us.
to more underserved and semi-urban Livelihood, Healthcare, Natural Resource
markets while reimaging best in class Management, and Financial Literacy and I also thank the senior management of
customer experiences. Generative Inclusion—we have positively impacted the Bank and the Group companies and
AI (GenAI) presents a generational over 10 crore lives. all the employees for their dedication
transformation opportunity and and sincerity.
Another milestone for
responsibility. However, we are ensuring
Our customers are our greatest strength.
there is adequate appreciation of risk, the Group
I thank them for their continuing support.
reliability and information security I would like to update you on a significant
We commit ourselves to improving
which is embedded in our approach to development with reference to HDB
delivery of service to them continuously.
designing the cutting-edge AI solutions Financial Services Limited, a subsidiary
in a calibrated fashion. of the Bank. During the last financial year Our single biggest strength is the resolve
the IPO process was initiated. The IPO and strength of our colleagues. I thank
Going forward, with our pan India
was successfully concluded in the first our teams across the country for giving
geographical spread and large customer
quarter of the current financial year. With their best and helping the Bank perform
base, I remain confident in our ability
this, the group consists of four publicly well in the year.
to deliver personalised and secure
listed entities, including the Bank.
banking experiences to individuals and
enterprises we serve. India’s banking
Banking on What’s Next Warm regards,
and fintech landscape has already
We live in a world where
made a strong mark on the global stage
interdependence is inescapable and Atanu Chakraborty
– with its scale, innovation and digital
adoption setting new benchmarks. This uncertainty, unavoidable. As global shifts Part-time Chairman and
momentum is only set to accelerate and continue to test institutional resilience, Independent Director
HDFC Bank is committed to playing its your Bank remains anchored in purpose, HDFC Bank Limited
core values and discipline. The strength
part in shaping this future.
11
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
MESSAGE FROM THE MD & CEO
Balance sheet strength
and merger synergies
create tailwinds for FY26
HHHDDFFCC BBaannkk hhaass
ccooonnttiinnuueedd iittss
ppeeerrffoorrmmaannccee aanndd hhaass
pprrooggrreesssseedd wweellll oonn
mmmaannyy ddiimmeennssiioonnss..
Dear Stakeholders, policy stances, heightened tensions Let me now share a perspective on the
across various parts of the world and economy and the Bank’s performance.
Warm greetings to all of you.
resultant economic uncertainty, the
Macroeconomic
Financial Year 2024-25 has been a Indian economy - while not immune to
year of consolidation and progress for the broader environment - continued Environment
the merged entity with the stage of to be buoyant and resilient. It sustained Over the previous three fiscal years,
integration well behind us. its position as the fastest growing the Indian economy has grown at an
major economy. average of 8.8 per cent driven by a
The financial year gone by was marked
healthy growth in the services sector,
by global disruption, geopolitical Against this background I am happy to
rise in construction and infrastructure
conflicts, military actions, and an share that HDFC Bank has continued
activity, and an improvement in the
uncertain trade environment that had its performance and has progressed
agriculture sector. In addition, consumer
and will have an impact on global supply well on many dimensions that I plan to
demand has been supported by greater
chains. With changes in monetary elaborate further.
credit penetration and an increase in
12
HDFC Bank Limited
Who Governs Us
leveraged consumption. While private India growth is expected to hold up in Our Performance
investment trends have been uneven, FY26, with the RBI forecasting GDP
The results for FY25 represented the
the government has done the heavy growth at 6.5 per cent.
first full year of operations since the
lifting in increasing capacity expansion
However, this outlook is not without merger on July 1, 2023. I am happy
in the infrastructure and renewable
risks. On the global front, US tariff to report that in the last financial year,
energy sectors. Moreover, structural
announcements have increased your Bank reported healthy growth
reforms and policies introduced by
uncertainty and raised risks of a growth while maintaining pristine asset quality
the government over the last decade,
slowdown which could weigh on India’s which has been its USP across business
like GST are also now beginning to
exports of goods and services. As cycles. Net Profit increased by 10.7 per
play out in supporting medium term
per the latest IMF estimates, global cent to H67,347.4 crore on March 31,
growth prospects.
growth is estimated to slow down to 2025 while Net Interest Income grew by
Last year, while GDP growth moderated 2.8 per cent in 2025 from 3.3 per cent 13.0 per cent to H1,22,670.1 crore. Our
to 6.5 per cent, India continued to be in 2024. On the domestic front, risks to Net Interest Margin (NIM) stood at 3.48
one of the fastest growing economies growth include a slower-than-expected per cent.
in the world despite rising global rebound in consumption demand,
Your Bank’s balance sheet rose by over
headwinds. Consumption growth picked weather related disruptions leading to
eight per cent to H39,10,199 crore. Gross
up in FY25, driven by a recovery in rural inflation spikes and financial market
NPAs were at 1.33 per cent of Gross
demand. Elevated inflation led to some volatility due to global headwinds. The
Advances. Advances grew by 5.4 per
moderation in urban consumption. The escalating geopolitical tensions and tariff
cent to H26,19,609 crore while Deposits
moderation in GDP growth in FY25 was uncertainties only adds to the complexity
grew 14.1 per cent to H27,14,715 crore.
mirrored in the slowed banking system of the overall environment.
credit growth, to 11.0 per cent from I had mentioned last year that this is
Two years ago, I had articulated why
20.2 per cent. HDFC Bank 2.0. We have progressed
I believe that India has a once in a
from then to navigating this transition
With inflation now beginning to trend lifetime opportunity. That belief is
across NIMs, our liability profile and
below 4 per cent we have seen a series further solidified now in spite of what
our strategic direction to pursue
of steps on both, the fiscal and monetary is happening around us as our strong
profitable growth.
front, to boost demand. Frontloading macro fundamentals, low external
of 100 bps rate cuts by the RBI, tax vulnerability, and a sound financial As is evident, our deposits grew 2.5
cuts introduced by the government system position India favourably times faster than loans. As stated we
this year, and the expectation of a to weather global headwinds. The have taken affirmative steps to bring
normal monsoon, lower interest rates changing global trade landscape also down the credit to deposit ratio and
and sufficient liquidity basis CRR cuts, presents an opportunity for India to reduce the percentage of high cost
all point to a favourable environment become a manufacturing and services borrowings. We consciously calibrated
for demand revival in the current hub for the world. India’s relative our loan growth in FY25 to reposition
financial year. growth outperformance compared to the balance sheet. Aided by appropriate
peers, regulatory reforms, favourable and disciplined pricing and focussed on
In addition, a combination of counter-
demographics, supportive monetary and quality growth we were successful in
cyclical monetary and fiscal support
fiscal policy, increasing digitalisation and achieving the same.
is likely to anchor domestic growth in
a healthy financial system, augur well
financial year 2025-26. The government You will be happy to know that the
for attracting foreign investments and
has budgeted H11 lakh crore in capital percentage of high cost borrowings has
propelling medium-term growth outlook
spending and is focusing towards come down to 14 per cent at the end
for the country.
crowding in private investments. Finally, of the fiscal year 2024-25. The credit
healthy balance sheets of financial deposit ratio has been brought down to
institutions, households and corporates 96 per cent as on March 31, 2025 from a
augur well for growth. high of about 110 per cent at the time of
the merger.
13
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
MESSAGE FROM THE MD & CEO
Our deposits have grown faster than the Core’ programme is progressing
the system and what is noteworthy is well. Our modernised and scaled
that, with a market share of five per cent Our deposits core systems can meet exponential
of branches in the banking system, we have grown demand—enabling us to serve our
have a market share of 11 per cent of growing customer base faster and adapt
faster than the
banking deposits. The Bank garnered with agility.
system and what
an incremental deposit market share of
We have fully digitised a majority of
approximately 14.6 per cent in the last is noteworthy
our retail / MSME product acquisition
financial year. Aggression has been in is that, with a
journeys and the key service
intent and execution, but not in pricing,
market share of journeys and our focus has now
be it for assets or for liabilities.
five per cent of moved to improving our real-time
I believe we have successfully navigated credit decisioning at scale. We are
branches in the
the merger and the Bank is now confident that we will move the needle
banking system,
positioned for faster growth. The reset in substantially in this area in the current
loan growth and the consolidation of the we have a market financial year and this will enable us
merger has resulted in a much stronger to improve our productivity and serve
share of 11 per cent
bank, that is now poised to capitalise our customers far better with these
of banking deposits.
further on growth opportunities. investments. Our flagship platforms like
The Bank garnered an PayZapp, SmartHub Vyapar, Xpress Car
As stated earlier, we are confident of
incremental deposit Loan, HDFC Bank One and SmartWealth
growing our advances on par with the
continued to scale by expanding their
system in FY26 and higher than the market share of
reach during the year. Details pertaining
system in FY27. approximately
to the performance of each of these
The growth enablers, apart from balance 14.6 per cent in digital offerings of the Bank are shared in
sheet strength, remain technology, the last financial year. the report.
customer centricity and our people. Let
We took the decision to invest in
me now elaborate on these themes.
our Enterprise and Digital Factories
Technology for creating / co-creating our digital
offerings. I am happy to share that we
Building Intelligence, Scale,
have launched an early access version
and Trust in the Digital Age
of our fully home grown digital interfaces
Technology has been and is a core
(across our website, Mobile Banking
differentiator for HDFC Bank—driving
and NetBanking) and will soon cover
speed, scale, and simplicity in how we
our entire customer base. All the three
serve customers across India.
new digital interfaces bring in enhanced
Over the last four plus years, we have security, performance and hyper
worked tirelessly on scaling, fortifying personalisation to the forefront for the
and modernising our technology convenience of our customers.
backbone through enhanced
Your Bank has been a leading investor
investments on resources and
in Analytics across consumer, credit,
collaboration with our key partners and
fraud and risk areas. I had mentioned
the results are now visible.
last year that we are evaluating GenAI
Our core now seamlessly supports and what it can do for us. I agree and
scalability and resiliency. Reliability believe strongly when people say that
has been built by design. Our focus to GenAI is as big as the Internet or mobile
further modernise through our ‘Hollow with immense transformative potential,
14
HDFC Bank Limited
Who Governs Us
though with sufficient guardrails. I am
risk, and compliance. At the same time, the Bank is using multichannel
happy to share we are moving beyond
all our lines of defence are working in campaigns to deliver the right education
pilots to a structured, centralised,
close coordination to ensure we meet and awareness. The Bank’s 'Vigil
platform-driven model (with strong
and exceed regulatory expectations. Aunty' (VA) campaign covers various
safeguards and scalable design) where
modus-operandi of fraudsters and is an
GenAI is applied to defined problem Overall, the Bank's cybersecurity
example of our commitment towards
classes – whether it’s speeding up measures are focused on ensuring
the well-being of our customers. This
operations, enhancing staff productivity the highest level of protection against
initiative has been very well received and
or improving customer service. We cyber threats, with proactive monitoring
I’m sure has encouraged people across
have identified more than 15 lighthouse and automated incident response
the country to practice safe banking
programmes that we will implement with capabilities, enhanced network visibility
habits. Internally, we have scaled up
GenAI and the implementation progress and a zero-trust approach to security.
simulation exercises and trainings to
is being tracked with the vigour and
The Bank continues to enhance its ensure our people are as well-equipped
rigour that a transformative technology
information security posture through as our systems.
like GenAI deserves. As digital adoption
a range of strategic and technology-
rises, GenAI will play a central role in We remain focused on being a cyber
driven initiatives aimed at strengthening
how we innovate, stay resilient, and resilient, regulatorily compliant and
its information security and resilience
create value for the future. trusted institution that can adapt and
against evolving cyber threats.
succeed in the emerging risk landscape.
As someone deeply passionate about These initiatives align with regulatory
technology, I truly believe we are expectations and industry best practices Customer Centricity
entering our most transformative phase to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, One of my key focus areas is to continue
yet. The tools are new, but the purpose and availability of the Bank's digital to reinforce our Service First culture. I
remains the same - to empower every infrastructure and applications. Key have always emphasised that it rests on
customer, partner, and community initiatives include the establishment two pillars - an empathetic organisation
we serve with world-class customer of a next-generation Cybersecurity empowered with tools to service
experience through responsible Operations Centre (CSOC) augmented the customer.
innovation. Digitalisation also helps by AI and ML capabilities, to keep an
further financial inclusion, bringing eye on threats and respond quickly. As we digitalised our journeys and
several more people into the digital We routinely check our systems for employee / consumer adoption
economy for the first time and your any weaknesses through our VAPT increased, our First Time Right service
Bank is at the forefront of innovation and (Vulnerability Assessment & Penetration has improved resulting in significant
partnerships on this. Testing) programme, monitor all digital reduction in customer complaints
entry points to manage exposure (Attack pertaining to delay in acquisition
Cyber Security Surface Monitoring), ensure our software and servicing.
As cyber-attacks grow in complexity is always up to date (patch management)
We are continuing our ‘Infinite Smiles’
and frequency, we continue to invest and strengthen protection against
programme (NPS or Net Promoter
in advanced cybersecurity capabilities email-based attacks. The Bank regularly
System) with rigour and vigour to
to stay ahead. In the last financial year, runs real-life simulations as cyber
proactively listen to our customers
we enhanced our security measures resilience stress tests for the ability to
voices and keep improving our
through several targeted controls and handle cyberattacks.
products and processes. The NPS
use of AI enabled security measures.
Technology being only part of implementation serves as an early
This has helped in continuous validation,
the solution, we have also placed warning system for us to identify areas
proactive threat detection, faster
appropriate emphasis on empowering of continuous improvement.
response, and improved incident
our customers and users through
resilience. Our cybersecurity practices We have increased our emphasis on
education, awareness, and support.
are aligned with leading frameworks and training and improving our front line
With the rise of phishing, impersonation
global best practices in governance, capabilities. We continuously monitor
scams, and deep fake based attacks,
15
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
MESSAGE FROM THE MD & CEO
customer experience delivery and have to 22.6 per cent in FY25 underscores wellbeing, such as Inner Harmony,
increased the weightage of service in the the positive strides we are making in Mindfulness Series, stress management
performance measurement framework fostering an enabling work environment. and confidential counselling services.
across all levels in the organisation. This is reflected in the healthy These efforts are designed to help
Our colleagues have enthusiastically engagement scores of employees employees manage both personal and
adopted this. across levels. professional challenges and cultivate a
balanced work environment.
I am excited by the prospect of what The continued focus on Diversity,
GenAI can do to improve customer Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) and our While we celebrate these significant
service. The Bank is working to ongoing Culture Transformation journey achievements, we stay grounded in the
leverage the positive aspects of Artificial remain integral to the Bank’s long- understanding that our journey towards
Intelligence (AI) to enable our front line term vision. Our investment in building a truly future-ready organisation, is an
colleagues to have all the latest and culture capability has impacted over ongoing one. We remain committed to
right information available with them to 27,000 managers, equipping them building upon this foundation.
answer and service customer queries. further to lead with empathy, agility,
Environmental, Social
This improves our ability to respond to and innovation.
customers with speed, consistency and and Governance
Over the last few years, we have been
accuracy and most importantly in line I believe that a steadfast commitment to
actively working towards improving our
with the extant regulatory guidelines. ESG principles is paramount in driving
gender ratio, not only because it’s the
One of the important benefits of the our transformation strategies. Our Bank
right thing to do but because we believe
usage of AI would be to arrest similar is dedicated to fostering and advancing
that it makes us a better organisation.
types of customer issues in future, growth by integrating sustainable
We have sustained a gender ratio of 26
vastly reducing instances of customer practices in our operations, empowering
per cent through the year, which is a
dissatisfaction. society through inclusion and upholding
significant improvement from 18.09 per
the highest standards of governance.
We continue to invest in our distribution cent in financial year 2020-21.
ESG is one of the key drivers for
channels. The Bank added over 700
Our capability building strategy is clear: creating resilience in the dynamic
branches in the financial year 2024-25
Build future ready leaders and future- environment and to create long-term
taking the total number of branches
proof skills. In FY25, we took significant value for our stakeholders, which we are
to 9,455 as of March 31, 2025 and will
strides in leadership-development, committed to.
continue adding to these. Branches are
achieving a remarkable 500 per cent
the fulcrum of customer relationships HDFC Bank Parivartan celebrates a
increase in coverage.
especially in the semi-urban and rural decade of impactful CSR initiatives,
areas where we have more than half our To keep pace with rapid change, the with HDFC Bank emerging as one of
branches. The new branches are our Bank is concentrating on reskilling and the top spenders in CSR in India. Our
investments for the future enabling us to upskilling through a role-based learning efforts have focused on sustainable and
serve local communities better. architecture. We have also launched inclusive growth, reaching remote and
a GenAI Academy to accelerate underserved areas across India, thus far
People
capability in Generative AI. As GenAI impacting the lives of over 10 crore
Our people continue to be the most becomes central to both current and people across 28 States and
important pillar of the organisation. It future organisational capability, we 8 Union Territories.
is gratifying to share some of the key are investing in developing skills in this
People initiatives we have undertaken space through a structured academy Through our flagship Holistic Rural
this year. model, offering robust curriculum and Development Programme (HRDP),
we have reached over 6000 villages,
tiered proficiency levels.
Sustaining our growth while maintaining a
including 298 border villages
nearly flat headcount is a testament to the As part of our ongoing commitment providing support across agriculture,
efficiency and dedication of our teams. towards fostering a healthy workplace, skill development and livelihood
Furthermore, the significant reduction the Bank runs several initiatives on enhancement, healthcare and hygiene,
in attrition from 26.9 per cent in FY24 Employee Wellness focused on holistic education and financial literacy.
16
HDFC Bank Limited
Who Governs Us
This year, your Bank has introduced HDFC Bank Group
a new focus area - Natural Resource
We understand the role the Group
Management that focusses efforts The successful
plays in the Indian financial system
on providing renewable energy playing out of
and the need for us to set standards
solutions especially solar, solid waste
the merger in performance and governance as we
management, afforestation as well as
synergies, the have always done. We stand committed
soil and water conservation.
to that.
reduction in the
Our work has significantly benefitted
credit deposit Furthermore, the Bank’s NBFC
various communities, ensuring access to
subsidiary, HDB Financial Services
essential services and opportunities for ratio and the
Limited has recently concluded a
growth. This has been made possible by large scale
successful IPO. This was done in
the relentless hard work and dedication
mobilisation accordance with regulatory requirements.
of our partners, colleagues, and the
of deposits,
communities we serve. Conclusion
all constitute
The Merger Despite global headwinds there is
tailwinds for
considerable optimism about the
As I mentioned earlier, FY25 was the first
your Bank. To use Indian economy which is expected to
full year of the merger, and we have built
continue being the fastest growing large
upon it. As a merged entity, the HDFC a cricketing analogy,
economy in the world. The successful
Bank Group has several key subsidiaries we focussed on taking
playing out of the merger synergies, the
with businesses in life as well as general
singles in the year that reduction in the credit deposit ratio and
insurance, mutual funds and brokerage,
concluded and are now the large scale mobilisation of deposits,
positioning it as a strong financial
all constitute tailwinds for your Bank. To
services conglomerate. positioned to go for the
use a cricketing analogy, we focussed
boundaries.
The mortgage business which was a key on taking singles in the year that
component of the merger, has grown concluded and are now positioned to go
from strength to strength and is now for the boundaries.
the largest in the country. This portfolio
I’m proud of the contribution of our
has also been a catalyst for increased
colleagues across the country who
cross sell opportunities within the HDFC
have worked with passion to serve our
Bank Group. More than 95 per cent of
clients and our communities. My grateful
the incremental home loan customers
thanks to them and to our customers
are now opening CASA accounts
for their support and continued belief in
with the Bank, with over half of them
the brand. I would also like to extend my
opting for additional product offerings.
thanks to members of the Bank’s Board,
This enhances customer convenience
our regulators and all other stakeholders
while also strengthening the Bank’s
for their valuable support.
relationship with customers, helping
it to become their primary banker. It We remain committed to delivering
broadens the market opportunities excellence.
through the multiplicity of products
available to our customers. Warm regards,
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Managing Director &
Chief Executive Officer
HDFC Bank Limited
17
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Who Governs Us
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
NRC AC CSC CSR SRC PC RCWDI
1 2 3 4 & ESG 8 9 10
RPMC NRC CRNM ISC SRC RCNCB
CSC
ITSC RPMC NRC CSR RPMC
ITSC & ESG
ITSC SRC FMC
ISC RPMC PC RPMC CSC
RCWDI CAC FMC ITSC
RCNCB PC CAC
RCWDI
RCNCB
ISC
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty Mr. M. D. Ranganath Mr. Sandeep Parekh Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Mr. Keki Mistry Mrs. Renu Karnad Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan
Part-Time Chairman and Independent Director Independent Director Maheshwari Non-Executive Non-Executive Managing Director &
Independent Director Independent Director (Non-Independent) Director (Non-Independent) Director Chief Executive Officer
RPMC NRC ITSC SRC CSC SRC
5 6 7 11 12 13
AC FMC CSR CSR RCWDI ITSC
& ESG & ESG
SRC AC RCNCB PC
FMC
FMC CSR CRNM
& ESG CAC
CRNM CRNM
Mrs. Lily Vadera Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Mr. Santhosh Mr. Kaizad Bharucha Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan
Independent Director Kumar Bhanwala Keshavan Deputy Managing Director Executive Director Executive Director
Independent Director Independent Director
AC Audit Committee CSR & ESG CSR & ESG Committee CSC Customer Service Committee RCWDI Review Committee for Wilful Defaulter’s Identification
NRC Nomination and Remuneration Committee CAC Credit Approval Committee PC Premises Committee RCNCB Review Committee for Non-Cooperative Borrowers
SRC Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee ITSC IT Strategy Committee ISC Investments Strategy Committee CRNM Committee for Resolution of NCLT Matters
RPMC Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee FMC Fraud Monitoring Committee Chairperson Member
For more details about the Board, please refer to our Report on Corporate Governance
Length of service of Directors on the Age group of Directors (Years) % of Independent Directors Women Directors
Board of HDFC Bank (Years)
on the Board of the Bank on the Board
<60
<3
53.85 3
60-70
3-8
>70
>8
18 19
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
funds with multilateral and bilateral State Fertilizers and Chemicals Ltd.
financial institutions and had multiple Mr. Chakraborty had published
1
interfaces with them. He also headed articles in reputed journals in the
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty a multi-disciplinary task force that areas of public finance, risk sharing
DIN: 01469375 produced the National Infrastructure in Infrastructure projects and
Part-Time Chairman and Pipeline (NIP). He has also served as gas infrastructure.
Independent Director Secretary to the Union Government
Mr. Chakraborty does not hold any
for Disinvestment (DIPAM) wherein
shares of the Bank as on
he was responsible for both policy as
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, aged sixty-five March 31, 2025.
well as execution of the process of
(65) years, served the Government
disinvestment of Government of India's Directorships in Other
of India, for a period of thirty-five
stake in state owned enterprises. Listed Companies
(35) years, as a member of Indian
Administrative Service (IAS) in Gujarat During the period 2002-07, Mr. Chakraborty does not hold
cadre. Mr. Chakraborty graduated as Mr. Chakraborty served as Director directorship in any other listed entity.
a Bachelor in Engineering (Electronics and subsequently as Joint Secretary,
& Communication) from NIT Ministry of Finance (Department of
Kurukshetra. He holds a Diploma in Expenditure). During this period, he
2
Business Finance (ICFAI, Hyderabad) appraised projects in the Infrastructure
and a Master's degree in Business sector as well as looked after Mr. M. D. Ranganath
Administration from the University of subsidies of Government of India. He DIN: 07565125
Hull, UK. had also updated and modernised Independent Director
the Government's Financial &
He has mainly worked in areas
Procurement rules. Mr. Chakraborty
of Finance & Economic Policy,
Infrastructure, Petroleum & Natural has also discharged varied roles in the Mr. M. D. Ranganath, aged sixty-
Gas. In the Union Government, he Gujarat State Government including three (63) years, has over 32 years of
held various posts such as Secretary heading the Finance Department experience in the Global IT services
to Government of India in the Ministry as its Secretary. He had been and financial services industry.
of Finance (Dept. of Economic Affairs) responsible for piloting the private Mr. Ranganath is a PGDM from IIM
during FY 2019-20. As Secretary sector investment legislation in the Ahmedabad. He holds Master’s
(DEA), he coordinated economic policy State. In the State Government, he has degree in Technology from IIT
making for all ministries/departments worked on the ground in both public Madras and a Bachelor’s degree
and managed entire process of governance and development areas. in Engineering from the University
formulation of Budget making for Mr. Chakraborty has also served on of Mysore. He is a member of
Union of India, including its passage the Board of World Bank as alternate CPA, Australia.
in Parliament. He was responsible Governor as well as on the Central He is currently the Chairman of
for fiscal management policies, Board of Directors of the RBI. He Catamaran Ventures LLP. He was
policies for public debt management was also the Chairman of National Chief Financial Officer of Infosys
and development & management of Infrastructure Investment Fund (NIIF) Limited, a globally listed corporation,
financial markets. Mr. Chakraborty as also on the Board of many listed till November 2018.
also handled financial stability and companies. Mr. Chakraborty was
currency, domestic & foreign related also the CEO/MD of the GSPC group
issues as well. He managed flow of of companies as well as Gujarat
20
HDFC Bank Limited
Who Governs Us
During his tenure of 18 years at Mr. Parekh does not hold any shares
Infosys, he was an integral part of the of the Bank as on March 31, 2025.
3
growth and transformation of Infosys
Directorships in Other
Mr. Sandeep Parekh
and effectively played leadership roles
Listed Companies
in a wide spectrum of areas such as DIN: 03268043
Strategy, Finance, M&A, Consulting, Independent Director Mr. Parekh does not hold directorship
Risk Management and Corporate in any other listed company.
Planning culminating in the role of
Chief Financial Officer and worked
Mr. Sandeep Parekh, aged fifty-three
closely with the Board of Infosys and
(53) years, holds an LL.M. (Securities 4
its Committees in formulating and
and Financial Regulations) degree
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
executing its strategic priorities. In the
from Georgetown University and an
years 2017 and 2018, Mr. Ranganath DIN: 01641411
L.L.B. and L.L.M. degrees from Delhi
was the recipient of the Best CFO Asia Independent Director
University. He is the managing partner
award in the technology sector by
of Finsec Law Advisors, a financial
Institutional Investor publication based
sector law firm based in Mumbai.
on a poll of buy side and sell side Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari, aged
investor community. He was an Executive Director at fifty-nine (59) years, has over thirty
the Securities and Exchange Board
(30) years of experience and has
Prior to Infosys, he worked at ICICI
of India during 2006-08, heading
lived and worked in the US and India.
Limited and executed responsibilities
the Enforcement and Legal Affairs
She is a US Board certified Pediatric
in corporate credit, treasury,
departments. He is a visiting faculty
Cardiologist, who completed her
equity portfolio management and
at the Indian Institute of Management,
MBBS at Osmania Medical College
corporate planning.
Ahmedabad. He has worked for
followed by post-graduation at AIIMS,
Mr. Ranganath is on the board of law firms in Delhi, Mumbai and Delhi and Yale University in the US. In
Indian Institute of Management, Washington, D.C. Mr. Parekh focuses addition to being a clinician, Dr. (Mrs.)
Bangalore. He is a member of CII on securities regulations, investment Maheshwari is a medical entrepreneur
corporate governance council and regulations, private equity, corporate and co-founder at the Telerad Group
GIFT city’s advisory committee on governance and financial regulations. which includes:
funds management.
He is admitted to practice law in
(a) A-Kal Televerse Private Limited
Mr. Ranganath does not hold any New York. He was recognised by the (India’s first and largest teleradiology
shares of the Bank as on World Economic Forum as a 'Young company that has provided over 8
March 31, 2025. Global Leader' in 2008. He was million diagnostic reports to patients
Chairman and member of various
and hospitals globally),
Directorships in Other
SEBI and RBI Committees and sub-
Listed Companies Committees. He sits on the Advisory (b) Telerad Tech Private Limited
Mr. Ranganath does not Committee of School for Regulatory which builds AI enabled tele health
hold directorship in any other Studies and Supervision (SRSS) software and
listed company. of National Institute of Securities (c) RXDX Healthcare - a chain of
Market (NISM). He has published
multi-specialty neighbourhood phygital
op-eds in the Financial Times and the
clinics in Bangalore and rural India
Economic Times.
21
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(d) Daignostix Services Private Limited 2009; Yale University- Outstanding Mrs. Lily Vadera does not hold any
(Formely known as Avrio Technologies Fellow Teacher of the Year Award, shares of the Bank as on
Private Limited) 1995, amongst others. March 31, 2025.
Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari has also Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari does not hold Directorships in Other
incubated other start-up companies any shares of the Bank as on Listed Companies
in the telehealth space such as March 31, 2025.
Mrs. Lily Vadera does not
Healtheminds - a tele-counselling
Directorships in Other hold directorship in any other
platform. She is active in the social
Listed Companies listed company.
arena in India where she runs 2
trust funds. ‘People4people’ has GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals
put up over 650 playgrounds in Limited- Independent Director
government schools and Telerad 6
Foundation provides teleradiology
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
and telemedicine services to poor
5
areas in Asia that do not have access DIN: 06417704
to high quality medical care. Her Mrs. Lily Vadera Independent Director
other interests include teaching. Dr. DIN: 09400410
(Mrs.) Maheshwari has been running Independent Director
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala,
India’s e-teaching programme for
aged sixty-three (63) years, has
postgraduates in Pediatric Cardiology
a vast experience of more than
for over a decade. She is a mentor in Mrs. Lily Vadera, aged sixty-four
38 years in areas such as Board
Residence for the Sustainable Health (64) years, has over 33 years of
governance & management, Finance,
Initiative of the Yale Institute for Global experience in Central banking. She
Rural development, promoting &
Health where she along with her is a M.A in International Relations.
supporting sustainable agriculture,
spouse have instituted the Kalyanpur- She retired as an Executive Director
and supervision & development of
Maheshwari Endowment for Global from the RBI in October 2020. As the
Rural Cooperative Banks. He earned
Health Innovation. She is currently Executive Director of the RBI, she
a B.Sc. in Dairy Technology from
the President of the Pediatric Cardiac was in-charge of the Department of
National Dairy Research Institute
Society of India. Regulation (DoR) where she dealt with
(NDRI), Karnal.
the regulatory framework for various
Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari has over
entities in financial sector, covering all Dr. (Mr.) Bhanwala is a Postgraduate
200 academic presentations and
categories of banks and non-banking in Management from IIM, Ahmedabad
publications to her credit and is an
finance companies. and holds a Ph.D. in Management.
inspirational speaker having given
He has been awarded an honorary
over 200 lectures, including several She was instrumental in putting in
doctorate in Science by Tamil Nadu
TEDx talks. Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari is place a framework for a regulatory
Agricultural University, Coimbatore,
the recipient of several prestigious sandbox to provide an enabling
and the Indian Council of Agricultural
awards and honours including: environment for fintech players to
Research-Central Institute of Fisheries
Trailblazing Indian Cardiac leader at foster innovation in financial services
Education, Mumbai.
the ET Indian Cardiac Care Innovation and played a significant role in the
Summit 2024, Business world’s 20 amalgamation of banks in stress. He was the Chairman of the
most influential women in healthcare She represented RBI and played an National Bank for Agriculture and
2022, WOW (Woman of Worth) 2019 important role as a member of the Rural Development (NABARD), the
award, Amazing Indian award- Times Insolvency Law Committee set up by Apex Development Bank of the
Now 2014; Top 20 women Health care the Ministry of Corporate Country from December 18, 2013,
achievers in India, Modern Medicare Affairs (MCA).
22
HDFC Bank Limited
Who Governs Us
to May 27, 2020. He has been the Currently, Mr. Keshavan is the
Executive Director and later Chairman Executive Vice President and Chief
7
cum Managing Director of India Technology & Operations Officer
Infrastructure Finance Company of Voya Financial Inc (NASDAQ:
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan
Ltd. (IIFCL). He has also been the VOYA) and is a member of the
DIN: 08466631
Managing Director of the Delhi State Voya’s Executive Committee. The
Independent Director
Cooperative Bank. Recently, he also transformation at Voya was focused on
served as the Executive Chairman of Digital and Data infrastructure creating
a listed NBFC (Capital India Finance new capabilities for customers,
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan, aged fifty-
Limited). He is also a director of radically enhancing customer
one (51) years, is a strategic executive
Microfinance Industry Network experience across all channels and
with 30 years of global business and
(Association of NBFC- MFIs). cost optimisation through ecosystem
technology experience in financial
simplification, migration to public
Dr. (Mr.) Bhanwala headed the industries. Mr. Keshavan has a BS
cloud and elimination of legacy
Technical Group appointed by degree in Computer Science from
technology. He was instrumental in
SEBI on the Social Stock Exchange University of Mysore and Master of
starting Voya India, currently serving
(September 2020). He was a member Business Administration (MBA) in
as Chairperson, which is serving
of the Expert Committee on the Information Systems from University of
as a crucial talent base and global
Primary (Urban) Cooperative Banks Alabama, Birmingham (UAB).
capabilities canter for Voya.
of the RBI constituted after the
His experience includes major
amendment in the Banking Regulation Before joining Voya in 2017,
business transformations, M&A,
Act, 1949. Mr. Keshavan served as Chief
managing product launches, setting
Information Officer, core banking for
He has broad experience with up global operations and managing
Regions Financial Corp (NASDAQ: RF).
Deposit Insurance & Credit Guarantee companies through financial
He managed the technology teams,
Corporation (DICGC), IRMA (Institute challenges. A performance driven
integration of Regions Financial Corp
of Rural Management Anand), National executive, he has an entrepreneurial
and AmSouth Bank and was part of
Institute of Bank Management (NIBM), mindset, accumulated from diverse
the management team for turning the
and as an Independent Director on experience spanning startups,
bank to sustained profitability post
the boards of Bayer Crop Science and technology companies to large
2007 financial crisis. Mr. Keshavan
Arya Collateral Warehousing Services publicly traded banking and financial
was previously the Vice President of
Private Limited. He has served as Vice corporations.
technology at Fidelity Investments
Chairman of the Asia-Pacific Rural
Mr. Keshavan is deeply knowledgeable where he led all aspects of pricing
and Agricultural Credit Association
about enterprise technology, cyber and cash management supporting the
(APRACA).
security, operations, customer investment management and treasury
Dr. (Mr.) Bhanwala holds 100 equity experience, strategic planning, vendor functions. Prior to this role, he worked
shares of the Bank as on management, financial analysis, and for SunGard Data Systems (now
March 31, 2025. overall risk management. He has Fidelity Information Services – FIS) in
worked across retirement, employee various roles and eventually named
Directorships in Other
benefits, asset management, as Managing Director of Retirement
Listed Companies
insurance and banking sectors. He Services for International Operations.
Multi-Commodity Exchange of has extensive experience partnering He managed global teams with P&L
India Limited – Non-Executive with technology, audit, HR, and responsibility and grew the business
(Independent) Chairman risk committees. unit setting up green field operations
including Japan, Australia and India.
Mr. Keshavan started his career as a
software developer for a start up in
Bangalore, India.
23
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr. Keshavan currently serves on Exchange Board of India (SEBI). He is
the board of trustee for New York also the Co-Chair of the B20 [South
9
Institute of Technology (since 2021). Africa 2025] Task Force on Integrity
He also served on the board of & Compliance. Mrs. Renu Karnad
Connecticut Insurance and Financial
Mr. Mistry is currently a member of DIN: 00008064
Services, which is part of department
the Expert Committee constituted Non-Executive
of economic development (DECD)
by SEBI for facilitating ease of doing (Non Independent) Director
for state of CT from April 2018 to
business and harmonisation of the
March 2024.
provisions of the SEBI (Issue of
Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad, aged 72
Mr. Keshavan does not hold any Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
years, was the Managing Director
shares of the Bank as on Regulations, 2018 with that of SEBI
of Housing Development Finance
March 31, 2025. (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Corporation Limited (“HDFC Limited”)
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
prior to its amalgamation with the
Directorships in Other Mr. Mistry chairs the Working Group
Bank w.e.f. July 1, 2023.
Listed Companies 1 of the Expert Committee. He is
also a Chairman of the Governance She is a post graduate in Economics
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan does
Committee of Corporate Debt Market and Law. She is a Parvin Fellow,
not hold directorship in any other
Development Fund of SBI Fund Woodrow Wilson School of
listed company.
Management Ltd and FICCI’s Capital International Affairs, Princeton
Markets Committee - specialised sub- University, USA. She brings with
group on Debt. her rich experience and enormous
knowledge of the mortgage sector,
Dir8ectorships in Other Mr. Mistry is also a member of
having been associated with real
Listed Companies Standing Committee on Primary
Mr. Keki Mistry Markets, which has been constituted estate & mortgage industry in India for
Mr. Keshavan does not hold over 40 years.
DIN: 00008886 by the International Financial Services
directorship in any other
Non-Executive Centres Authority [IFSCA]. Mrs. Karnad joined HDFC Limited in
listed company.
(Non-Independent) Director 1978 and was inducted onto its Board
Mr. Mistry holds 10,98,629 equity
in 2000. She has been instrumental in
shares of the Bank as on
building the retail distribution network
Mr. Keki M. Mistry aged seventy March 31, 2025.
at HDFC Limited and has played key
(70) years, was the Vice Chairman &
Directorships in Other role in introducing several innovative
Chief Executive Officer of Housing
Listed Companies & customer friendly products and
Development Finance Corporation
services in the mortgage market.
Limited (HDFC Limited) prior to its − HDFC Life Insurance Company
Apart from being HDFC Limited’s
amalgamation with the Bank w.e.f. Limited- Non-Executive Chairman
brand custodian, Mrs. Karnad was
July 1, 2023. − Tata Consultancy Services Limited-
the guiding force behind formulation
Independent Director
Mr. Mistry is a qualified Chartered of the organisation’s communication
Accountant and a Fellow Member of − The Great Eastern Shipping strategy, digital transformation, and
the Institute of Chartered Accountants Company Limited- public image.
of India. He is a renowned professional Independent Director
As a part of the management team,
with over four decades of varied − HDFC ERGO General Insurance
Mrs. Karnad has played an important
work experience in banking and Company Limited (Debt Listed)-
role in the successful transformation
financial services domain. Mr. Mistry Non-Executive Chairman
of HDFC Limited into India’s leading
is the Chairman of the Primary
Financial Services Conglomerate.
Market Advisory committee (PMAC)
Mrs. Karnad has served as the
constituted by the Securities and
President of International Union
24
HDFC Bank Limited
Who Governs Us
for Housing Finance (IUHF), an Mr. Jagdishan holds 17,40,443 equity
association of housing finance firms shares of the Bank as on
10
present across the globe till 2024. March 31, 2025.
She has also served as a Director, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan Directorships in Other
Asian Real Estate Society.
DIN: 08614396 Listed Companies
Over the years, Ms. Karnad has Managing Director and
Mr. Jagdishan does not hold
had to her credit, numerous awards Chief Executive Officer
directorship in any other
and accolades. She was awarded
listed company.
"Outstanding Woman Business
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, aged sixty
Leader" at the CNBC-TV18 Indian
(60) years, is the Managing Director
Business Leader Awards (IBLA) 2012,
and the Chief Executive Officer of the 11
was part of the 25 Most Influential
Bank. He has an overall experience
Women Professionals in India – India
of thirty-two (32) years. He has Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
Today Magazine’s power list 2011,
completed his graduation in Science DIN: 02490648
has featured in the ET – Corporate
with specialisation in Physics, is a Deputy Managing Director
Dossier list of India Inc’s ‘Top 15
Chartered Accountant by profession
powerful women CEOs’ in 2010,
and holds a Master’s degree in
Verve, international magazine’s list
Economics of Money, Banking Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, aged sixty
of 50 power women in 2010 and in
& Finance from the University of (60) years, is the Deputy Managing
Business Today magazine's list of
Sheffield, United Kingdom. Director (DMD) of the Bank.
'Most Powerful Women in Indian
Mr. Bharucha holds a Bachelor’s
Business' for seven years up to 2012, Mr. Jagdishan joined the Bank in the
degree in Commerce (B.Com) from
in year 2013 she was inducted into year 1996 as a Manager in the Finance
Sydenham College of Commerce and
Hall of Fame, Fortune India Magazine’s function. He became the Business
Economics (University of Mumbai).
most powerful women from 2011 to Head - Finance in 1999 and was
2018, has featured amongst the list appointed as Chief Financial Officer in A career banker with more than 39
of '25 top non-banking women in the year 2008. He played a critical role years of experience, he has been
finance' by U.S. Banker magazine in in supporting the growth trajectory of an integral part of the Bank since its
2008, In 2006, Wall Street Journal the Bank and led the finance function inception in 1995. Among his several
Asia adjudged her among the 'Top Ten with a pivotal role in aligning the contributions in building the Bank,
Powerful Women to Watch Out for organisation in achieving the strategic he has played a key role in building
in Asia'. objectives over the years. the credit and risk frameworks that
underpin the Bank’s operations.
Mrs. Karnad, holds 45,97,949 equity In 2019, he was appointed as the
shares of the Bank as on “Strategic Change Agent of the Bank”. These frameworks have supported
March 31, 2025. Prior to his appointment as Managing the Bank’s consistent growth,
Director and Chief Executive Officer safeguarding its ability to navigate
Directorships in Other
of the Bank, Mr. Jagdishan was the volatile economic conditions
Listed Companies
Group Head of the Bank and headed effectively.
− GlaxoSmithKline the Finance, Human Resources,
As DMD, he oversees a broad
Pharmaceuticals Limited- Non- Legal & Secretarial, Corporate
spectrum of responsibilities within
Executive Chairperson Communications, Infrastructure &
the Bank. Mr. Bharucha heads the
− HDFC Asset Management Company Administration as well as Corporate Wholesale Banking, PSUs, MNC,
Limited- Non-Executive Director Social Responsibility funtions. Capital & Commodity Markets
− EIH Limited- Independent Director and Realty Business Finance,
Mr. Bharucha also manages Inclusive
− HDFC ERGO General Insurance
Banking Initiative group, Corporate
Company Limited (Debt Listed)
Non-Executive Director
(Nominee of the Bank)
25
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Social Responsibility (CSR) and Directorships in Other Mr. Zaveri joined the Bank in 1998 in
Environmental, Social & Governance Listed Companies the Operations function. He became
(ESG) functions. Business Head – Wholesale Banking
− HDFC Life Insurance Company
Operations in the year 2000 and
In his current role as DMD, he Limited- Non-Executive Director
was appointed as Group Head -
co-chaired and spearheaded the (Nominee of the Bank)
Operations in 2009. He assumed
Integration Committee, which was
additional responsibilities of the
tasked with the responsibility of
Information Technology function in
ensuring complete integration for the
12 2015. In his previous role as Group
smooth merger of HDFC Ltd. with
Head - IT, he has contributed to the
HDFC Bank. Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri Digital transformation of the Bank
Mr. Bharucha joined the Board of DIN: 01550468 by embracing technology to ensure
the Bank in 2014 and is its longest Executive Director operational efficiency resulting in
– serving Executive Board member. improved customer experience across
During his tenure as the Bank’s different product offerings of the Bank.
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, aged fifty-
Executive Director, he managed
nine (59) years, has over 37 years Mr. Zaveri has also participated in
diverse portfolios including Corporate
of experience. He is the Executive RBI’s Internal Payments Council
Banking, Capital & Commodities
Director of the Bank and heads the Meet and was part of the Umbrella
Markets, Emerging Corporates,
ATM, Operations and Administration Organisation for Payments Committee
Business Banking, Healthcare
functions. Mr. Zaveri holds a Master's of 2004 that led to the formation of
Finance, Agri-lending, Tractor
Degree in Commerce from Mumbai National Payment Corporation of
Financing, Commercial Vehicle
University and is a Certified Associate India (NPCI). He is the only elected
Finance, Infrastructure Finance and
of the Indian Institute of Bankers. Indian from India on the SWIFT Scrl
Inclusive Banking Initiatives.
Global Board, Brussels. He has been
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri oversees
Under his leadership, the Bank’s CSR featured twice in the “Who’s Who in
Operations, Cash Management, ATM
Programme, is amongst the top three Treasury and Cash Management”
Product & Administration of the Bank.
in the country. Mr. Bharucha is also by Global Trade Review. He has also
In his current role, he is responsible for
the chief sponsor of Diversity and been a member of various committees
Business and Operations across the
Inclusion initiatives at the Bank. formed by the RBI and Indian
country and for creating and delivering
Banks’ Association.
Mr. Bharucha also serves as the a flawless operations execution
Designated Director for the Financial capability across the diversified Prior to joining the Bank, Mr. Zaveri
Intelligence Unit (FIU) and the Internal product suite of the Bank to the worked for Oman International Bank
Ombudsman Committee. He has Corporate, MSME & Retail verticals and Barclays Bank.
been a part of the Reserve Bank of including for Asset, for Liabilities
Mr. Zaveri holds 1,89,154 shares of the
India committees, sub committees and for Transaction Services of
Bank as on March 31, 2025.
as well as government appointed Payments & Cash Management, Trade
inter-ministerial committee. He also Finance & Treasury, ATM Product & Directorships in Other
regularly engages with regulators and Administration. He has headed the Listed Companies
government bodies to provide views critical functions of Operations, Cash
Mr. Zaveri does not hold directorship
on policy. Management and Technology at
in any other listed company.
the Bank.
Mr. Bharucha holds 22,43,241 equity
shares of the Bank as on
March 31, 2025.
26
HDFC Bank Limited
Who Governs Us
He has been a member of various
committees related to financial
13
services such as RBI’s Committee
on Asset Securitisation and
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan
Mortgage Backed Securitisation,
DIN: 00030248
Technical Group formed by National
Executive Director
Housing Bank (NHB) for setting up
of a Secondary Mortgage market
Institution in India, NHB’s Working
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, aged
Group on Covered Bonds and
sixty-five (65) years, is the Executive
NHB’s Working Group on Credit
Director of the Bank and heads
Enhancement Mechanism.
the Human Resources, Corporate
Legal, Group Oversight & Secretarial, Mr. Rangan was conferred the "Best
Investment Banking, Information CFO in the Financial Sector for 2010"
Security Group, Ethics Function by ICAI. He was also honoured with
and Fraud & Vigilance functions of “Lifetime Achievement Award” at the
the Bank. sixth edition of Financial Express CFO
Awards 2023.
He holds a Bachelor’s degree in
Commerce from University of Delhi Mr. Rangan holds 15,31,698 equity
and is an Associate of the Institute of shares of the Bank as on
Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). March 31, 2025.
Mr. Rangan was an Executive Director Directorship in Other
& Chief Financial Officer of HDFC Listed Companies
Limited prior to its amalgamation with
− HDFC Asset Management
the Bank w.e.f. July 1, 2023 and is an
Company Limited- Non-Executive
expert in finance, accountancy, audit,
Director (Nominee of the Bank)
economics, corporate governance,
legal & regulatory compliance, risk
management and strategic thinking.
He has a vast experience in the
housing finance and real estate
sector. Mr. Rangan has worked on
international consulting assignments
in housing finance in Ghana
and Maldives.
27
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Who Governs Us
LEADERSHIP TEAM
17 18 19 20
Sashidhar Jagdishan Kaizad Bharucha Bhavesh Zaveri V Srinivasa Rangan Rakesh Singh Raveesh Kumar Bhatia Ravi Santhanam Sampath Sathyamurthy Kumar
Managing Director and Deputy Managing Director Executive Director Executive Director Group Head - Financial Institutions, Group Head - Emerging Chief Marketing Officer, Head - Group Head - Retail Branch
Chief Executive Officer International Banking, Corporates Group and Health Direct to Consumer Business Banking II
Private Banking & BaaS Care Finance
1 2 3 44 21 22 23 24
Abhijit Singh Ajay Agarwal Anjani Kumar Rathor Arup Kumar Rakshit Sanjay John D Souza Sanmoy Chakrabarti Smita A Bhagat Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Group Head-BaaS,Digital Company Secretary and Group Head - Digital & Group Head - Treasury Group Head-Business Group Chief Risk Officer Group Head - Retail Branch Chief Financial Officer
Ecosystem and Group Head-Secretarial & Customer Experience, Banking, Emerging & Micro Banking I
International Banking Group Oversight Quality Initiative Group Enterprises Group
5 66 7 88 25 26 27 28
Arvind Vohra Ashima Khanna Bhat Ashish Parthasarthy Gourab Roy Sudhir Kumar Jha Suketu Kapadia Sumant Vinay Rampal Sundaresan M
Group Head – Retail Assets, Group Head - Virtual Channels, Group Head-Branch Banking, Group Head – Transactional Group Head-Legal & Group Group Head - Internal Audit Group Head-Mortgage Business Group Head - RCSC, INF Credit,
RBG & SLI V U i n rt it u , a C l h C a a n re n , e B l E u n s a in b e l s e s m E e n n h t a G n r c o e u m p ent Infrastructure, Treasury & Banking Operations General Counsel CAI & Credit Bureau Management
and Infrastructure Virtual Channels
9 1100 1111 12 29 30
Jimmy M Tata N Srinivasan Nirav Vimal Shah Parag Rao Vinayak Ravindra Vivek Jagdish Capoor
Chief Credit Officer Group Head-Retail Group Head - Corporate Banking, Group Head-Payments Business, Mavinkurve Group Head-FAG & Taxation
Asset Operations Emerging Corporate Group and Liability Products, Consumer Group Head-Realty
Healthcare Finance Finance & Marketing Business Finance
13 14 15 1166
Notes:
* Mr. Ajay Agarwal was appointed as Company Secretary and Head-Group Oversight with effect from July 21, 2024. He was further elevated as Group
Head-Secretarial and Group Oversight with effect from April 1, 2025.
Prashant Ramesh Mehra Prasun Singh Ramesh Lakshminarayanan Rakesh Kumar Rajput $ Mr Prasun Singh was elevated as Group Head - Ethics with effect from June 1, 2025.
Group Head - Collections, Chief Ethics Officer Chief Information Officer Group Chief Compliance Officer - Mr. Rahul Shyam Shukla, Group Head, is on sabbatical leave.
Credit Intelligence and Control,
Debt Management
28 29
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
PROFILE OF LEADERSHIP TEAM
1 3 6
Abhijit Singh Anjani Kumar Rathor Ashima Khanna Bhat
Group Head-BaaS, Digital Ecosystem Group Head - Digital & Customer Group Head - Virtual Channels,
and International Banking Experience, Quality Initiative Group Virtual Care, Business Enhancement
Unit, Channel Enablement Group
and Infrastructure
Mr. Abhijit Singh is the Head of Mr. Anjani Rathor is the Head - Digital
Banking as a service (BaaS), Digital & Customer Experience and Quality
Ecosystem Banking and International Initiative Group. He is responsible Ms. Ashima Bhat is the Head of Virtual
Banking. He has an MBA in Finance for Digital Experience, Customer Relationship, Virtual Care, Virtual Sales
from Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Experience and Data. He holds Channels, BEU and Infrastructure
Management Studies, Mumbai a postgraduate diploma from IIM functions at the Bank. Ms. Ashima
and holds a bachelor’s degree in Calcutta and a bachelor’s degree in Bhat has been with the Bank since
engineering from the University technology from IIT Kharagpur. He has its inception in 1994. In her 30 plus
of Mumbai with over 25 years or over 28 years of experience and joined years journey with the Bank, she has
experience. He has done pioneering the Bank in February 2020. managed diverse portfolios.
work in emerging technologies
like blockchain and aiding in large
organizations’ digital transformation. 4 7
Arup Kumar Rakshit Ashish Parthasarthy
Group Head – Treasury Group Head - Treasury, Retail
2
Branch Banking, Virtual Care, Virtual
Ajay Agarwal
Channels, Business Enhancement
Company Secretary and Group Head – Unit, Infrastructure, Retail Trade and
Secretarial & Group Oversight Mr. Arup Rakshit is the Head of Forex, Alternate Banking and Channel
Treasury at HDFC Bank and is Partnerships, Startup & Third Party
Mr. Ajay Agarwal is the Company responsible for the ALM, Trading and Product – Research
Secretary and Compliance Officer Customer Business. He joined the
under SEBI Regulations, of HDFC Bank in 2006 and held leadership Mr. Ashish Parthasarthy is the Head
Bank. He is also Group Head - roles at Treasury Sales before of Treasury, Retail Branch Banking,
Secretarial and Group Oversight. He becoming the Head of Treasury. He Virtual Care, Virtual Channels,
is a seasoned company secretary and holds a B.Tech Degree, Banaras Hindu Business Enhancement Unit,
governance professional with over 27 University, Varanasi, and an MBA from Infrastructure, Retail Trade and Forex,
years of experience in corporate and IIM Calcutta. He is having more than Alternate Banking and Channel
securities law, corporate governance 34 years of experience. Partnerships functions, Startup, Third
and legal & regulatory compliances. Party Product- Research at the Bank.
His role also includes enabling the He holds a Bachelor’s degree in
Bank to have an effective oversight engineering from the National Institute
5
on its subsidiary companies to of Technology, Karnataka and a
Arvind Vohra
meet the regulatory requirements Postgraduate diploma in management
and expectations. Group Head - Retail Assets, from the Indian Institute of
Rural Banking Group & SLI Management, Bangalore. He has over
36 years of experience in banking,
with particular expertise in the interest
Mr. Arvind Vohra is the Head of Retail
rate and currency markets.
Assets, Retail Agri and SLI businesses
at the Bank. An electronics engineer
by education, Mr. Vohra completed
an MBA from Xavier Institute of
Management, Bhubaneswar. He has
30 years of experience.
30
HDFC Bank Limited
Who Governs Us
8 10 13
Gourab Roy N Srinivasan Prashant Ramesh Mehra
Group Head – Transactional Group Head – Retail Asset Operations Group Head - Collections,
Banking Operations Credit Intelligence and Control,
Debt Management
Mr. N.Srinivasan is Head of retail
Assets Operations at the Bank. He
Mr. Gourab Roy is the Head of is a Chartered Accountant, Cost
Transaction Banking Operations at Accountant and a Company Secretary. Mr. Prashant Ramesh Mehra is the
the Bank. He holds a Master degree He has over 34 years of experience in Head – Collections, Credit Intelligence
in Commerce. He has over 33 financial services including 29 years in and Control and Debt Management
years of experience in the financial banking operations. at HDFC Bank. In this role, he is
services industry. responsible for ensuring the portfolio
quality, debt management and NPA
control for the retail lending product
11
segments of the Bank. Mr. Mehra has
9
Nirav Vimal Shah
been with the Bank since December
Jimmy M Tata Group Head - Corporate Banking, 1998. He holds a bachelor’s degree in
Chief Credit Officer and Group Head - Emerging Corporate Group & production engineering and an MBA
Collections, Debt Management, Credit Healthcare Finance from Mumbai University. He is having
Intelligence & Control, Credit Analytics more than 30 years of experience.
and Innovation, Retail Credit Strategy
Mr. Nirav Shah is the Head of
and Control, CTG Credit, Retail Agri
Corporate Banking, Emerging
Credit, Credit Strategy Unit, Dept
Corporate Group and Healthcare 14
for Special Ops, AFU, Retail Credit,
Finance at the Bank. He holds a Prasun Singh
Wholesale Credit, SME Credit & Home
Bachelor’s degree in commerce and
Loan Credit Group Head - Ethics Function
a Master of Management Studies
in Finance from Mumbai University.
Mr. Jimmy Tata is the Chief Credit He has over 30 years of experience,
Mr. Prasun Singh heads the Ethics
Officer at the Bank. He holds 26 years of which has been with
function at the Bank. Mr. Singh holds
a Master’s degree in Financial the Bank.
a Bachelor of Arts (Honours) degree
management from the Jamnalal
in French from Jawaharlal Nehru
Bajaj Institute of Management. He
University, New Delhi, an Executive
is a qualified Chartered Financial
12 Postgraduate Programme in General
Analyst from the Institute of Chartered
Parag Rao Management (EPGM) from MIT
Financial Analysts of India. Mr. Tata
Sloan School of Management, a Post
has been with the Bank since 1994 Group Head-Payments Business,
Graduate Diploma in Journalism and
and has over 35 years of broad Liabilities Products, Consumer Finance
a Bachelor of Laws (LLB) degree. He
experience across the banking and & Marketing
has 30 years of experience.
financial sector. Mr. Tata is a Director
on the Board of the International
Mr. Parag Rao is the Head of
Asset Reconstruction Co. Pvt. Ltd
Payments, Liability Products,
(IARC), HDB Financial Services Ltd 15
Consumer Finance & Marketing
and a Trustee on the HDB Employees function at the Bank. He holds a Ramesh Lakshminarayanan
Welfare Trust.
Master’s degree in management Chief Information Officer
studies from S.P. Jain Institute of
Management, Mumbai University and
Mr. Ramesh Lakshminarayanan is
a Bachelor’s degree in engineering
the Chief Information Officer and
from the Regional Engineering College
Group Head - IT at the Bank. He
in Jamshedpur. He has over 31 years
holds a Bachelor’s degree in physics
of professional experience.
31
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
PROFILE OF LEADERSHIP TEAM
from Mumbai University and an MBA the Bank’s products and services
from the University of Pune. He is an to the mid-market segment and
21
industry veteran with over 25 years healthcare segment. Mr. Bhatia joined
Sanjay John D Souza
of experience. HDFC Bank in 2009 and has over
three decades of work experience. Group Head – Business Banking Group,
Mr. Bhatia holds an MBA from Emerging Enterprises Group & Micro
IIM Ahmedabad. Enterprise Group
16
Rakesh Kumar Rajput
Mr. Sanjay D’Souza is the Head of
Group Chief Compliance Officer- Business Banking Group, Emerging
19
(Compliance) and Informal Micro Enterprises Group
Ravi Santhanam
at the Bank. Mr. D’Souza holds a
Chief Marketing Officer, Master’s degree in Management
Mr. Rakesh Kumar Rajput is the
Head - Direct to Consumer Business Studies from the Sydenham Institute
Chief Compliance Officer at the
of Management Studies, as well as
Bank since October 2023. Mr. Rajput
a Bachelor’s degree in Mechanical
holds a Bachelor of Science (Honrs) Mr. Ravi Santhanam is Head and Chief
Engineering from The National Institute
and is a Certified Associate of the Marketing Officer and Head – Direct
of Technology, Karnataka. He is a
Indian Institute of Bankers He holds to Consumer Business at HDFC Bank.
seasoned banking professional with
an advanced Diploma in Business He is responsible for driving the digital
33 years of overall experience.
Management. He has 30 years origination and fulfillment of all Bank
of experience. products and all Direct to Consumer
products of the Bank. He has over 28
years of experience. Mr. Santhanam 22
has a mechanical engineering degree
17 Sanmoy Chakrabarti
from Anna University and is also
Rakesh Singh Group Chief Risk Officer (Integrated
an alumnus of Indian Institute of
Group Head - Capital & Commodity Management Calcutta and Harvard Risk Management, Market Risk, ORMG,
Markets, International Business, Private Business School. Risk Management, Treasury Mid office)
Banking Group, Digital Ecosystem,
Baas & Thematic Research
Mr. Sanmoy Chakrabarti serves as
20
the Group Chief Risk Officer at HDFC
Mr. Rakesh Singh is the Head of
Sampath Sathyamurthy Kumar Bank and its subsidiaries. He holds
Financial Institutions, International
Group Head - Retail Branch Banking II a Master’s degree in Quantitative
Business, Private Banking Group,
Economics from the Indian Statistical
Digital Ecosystem, Thematic Research
Institute. He has over two decades of
and BaaS. He holds an MBA from the Mr. S. Sampath Kumar is the Head
experience in Risk Management.
Institute of Management Technology, of Retail Branch Banking II. He has
Ghaziabad and has over 30 years of over 31 years of experience and
experience in the financial sector. is an alumnus of the University of
23
Madras, Tamil Nadu. He is having
rich experience in NRI Domestic Smita A Bhagat
& Overseas Business, Third Party Group Head - Retail Branch Banking I
18
Products and Tele-Sales
Raveesh Kumar Bhatia
& Service Relationships.
Ms. Smita Bhagat is the Head of Retail
Group Head - Emerging Corporates
Branch Banking-I, RTFX and Alternate
Group and Health Care Finance
Channel and Partnership. She holds
bachelor’s degrees in arts, economics
Mr. Raveesh K. Bhatia is the Head and statistics, a master’s degree of
of Emerging Corporates Group and commerce in financial management,
Healthcare Finance. He is responsible and an MBA from the University of
for extending the wide range of
32
HDFC Bank Limited
Who Governs Us
Rajasthan. She has more than his leadership and strategic skills at
30 years of experience in banking the Indian Institute of Management,
26
and joined the Bank in 1999. Lucknow. He is having more than
Suketu Kapadia
30 years of experience.
Group Head - Internal Audit
24
Mr. Suketu Kapadia is the Group Head 29
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
of Internal Audit function at the Bank. Vinayak Ravindra Mavinkurve
Chief Financial Officer, (Finance
He is a Chartered Accountant and a
including Business Intelligence Unit, Group Head – Realty Business Finance
member of The Institute of Chartered
Corporate Communications)
Accountants of India and holds a
Bachelor’s degree in Commerce Mr. Vinayak Mavinkurve is the Head of
Mr. Srinivasan Vaidyanathan is the from Mumbai University. He is also a Realty Business Finance at the Bank.
Chief Financial Officer at the Bank. Certified Information Systems Auditor. He holds a B.Tech degree in Electrical
He is a commerce graduate from Mr. Kapadia is an audit professional Engineering from VJTI, Mumbai and an
Madras University. He is a Fellow of with more than 29 years of experience MMS degree from NMIMS, Mumbai.
India Chartered Accountants and in Assurance, Risk Management, He has 31 years of experience.
Cost & Management Accountants, Finance and Consulting.
Fellow of the UK Association of
International Accountants and a 30
Member of CMA, USA. He is also an 27 Vivek Jagdish Capoor
MBA. Mr. Vaidyanathan is an All-India
Group Head-FAG & Taxation
Sumant Vinay Rampal
Rank Holder at the Intermediate and
Final level of the Institute of Chartered Group Head - Mortgage business
Accountants of India. He has over (Home loan, LAP) Mr. Vivek Capoor is the Head of
30 years of experience in the financial Finance. He looks after the reporting
services industry. Mr. Sumant Vinay Rampal is the Head of financials of the Bank under Indian
GAAP and US GAAP and also
of Mortgage Business (Home Loan,
oversees the corporate tax function.
LAP) at the Bank. He is an alumnus of
He graduated from the Sydenham
25 the Symbosis Institute of International
College of Commerce and Economics
Business, Pune. Mr. Rampal has been
Sudhir Kumar Jha
and is a Chartered Accountant.
a Corporate and Wholesale banker
Group Head - Legal & Group He joined HDFC Bank in 1998 and
throughout his two-and-a-half-decade
General Counsel has over 25 years experience in the
career with the Bank.
banking and finance domain
Mr. Sudhir Kumar Jha is the Head of
Legal function and Group General
28
Counsel at the Bank. He is a qualified
Sundaresan M
lawyer from Campus Law Centre,
University of Delhi. He specialised in Group Head - RCSC, INF Credit,
International Trade and Finance from CAI & Credit Bureau Management
Oxford University and did a Master’s in
Financial Management from Jamnalal Mr. Sundaresan M. is Head of
Bajaj Institute of Management Studies Retail Credit Strategy & Control at
(JBIMS), Mumbai. He has 33 years the bank. Since joining the bank
of experience. in 2002, his portfolio of expertise
spans policy development, credit
strategy, risk analytics, underwriting,
and collections. He is a graduate in
Mechanical Engineering from PSG
Tech Coimbatore and has honed
33
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
OUR PRESENCE
Expanding
Reach,
Deepening
Relationships
HDFC Bank is focused on expanding its distribution
HDFC Bank’s expanding branch
network to ensure sustainable funding for the future
network, backed by digital and tap into new markets. Opening new branches is
capabilities, ensures deeper about getting future ready as going by past experience
maximum deposit mobilisation takes place from older
customer engagement, drives
branches. The Bank’s expanded branch network and
deposit growth, and broadens
digital platforms have enabled effective reach across
financial access especially in the urban and rural markets Moreover, it believes that
semi-urban and rural regions. physical presence will be an integral component in
customer engagement. As digitalisation advances, the
branches are evolving from being mere transaction
points into customer experience hubs, fostering
deeper customer relationships and enhancing the
overall banking experience.
Our strategically located 9,455 branches (51 per cent
are in semi-urban and rural areas), help enhance
customer service and broaden access to previously
underserved markets. Our overseas branches are
tailored to meet the specific needs of Non-Resident
Indian (NRI) customers.
HDFC Bank's extensive distribution includes
branches, Business Correspondents (BCs),
ATMs, Cash Recycler Machines (CRMs) and
merchant services—ensuring widespread customer
accessibility. Further, the merger strengthens our
geographic coverage by integrating HDFC Limited's
footprint with the Bank’s pan India network,
ensuring comprehensive service across the country.
Complementing this physical presence, our digital
platforms and innovative products deliver seamless
banking experiences.
In line with the Government’s Digital Banking Units
(DBUs) initiative, the Bank has established nine
DBUs across Haridwar (Uttarakhand), Chandigarh,
Faridabad (Haryana), South 24 Parganas (West
Bengal), Pune (Maharashtra), Thane (Maharashtra),
Panipat (Haryana), Patna (Bihar), and Salem (Tamil
Nadu). These DBUs provide efficient, secure and
paperless banking services.
3344
HHDDFFCC BBaannkk LLiimmiitteedd
Introduction to HDFC Bank
Our Pan India Presence
Metro Urban Semi-Urban Rural
2,664 1,981 3,182 1,614
Branches Branches Branches Branches
4 3 0 2
DBUs DBUs DBUs DBUs
2 27 320 391
Other BCs Other BCs Other BCs Other BCs
278 616 2,204 11,561
CSC BC CSC BC CSC BC CSC BC
9,441 15,399 24,849
9
Branches Total Business Total Banking
DBUs
(excluding 5 Correspondents (BCs) Outlets
overseas branches)
7,915 5,317 6,007 1,900 21,139
Metro Urban Semi Urban Rural Total ATMs + Cash Recycler
Machines Network
International Presence equity, mutual funds, treasury and Driving Our CSR
structured products, sourced through initiatives
The Bank’s global footprint includes
our Bahrain Branch from third-party
five branches located in Hong Kong,
providers. Additionally, our suite of Our extensive national footprint
Bahrain, Dubai International Financial
products for corporate clients includes provides us with invaluable insights
Centre (DIFC), Singapore and an IFSC
trade credits, foreign currency term into diverse regions, including semi-
Banking Unit in Gujarat International
loans, external commercial borrowings urban and rural areas. We leverage this
Finance Tec-City. Additionally, we
and derivatives for hedging purposes. to drive our sustainable development
have four representative offices
As on March 31, 2025, our agenda and empower communities
in Kenya, Abu Dhabi, Dubai and
international business recorded a across the country.
London respectively, catering to Non-
balance sheet size of US $ 10.83
Resident Indians (NRIs) and Persons As of March 31, 2025 the total lives
billion, with advances comprising 1.75
of Indian Origin. Our NRI clients are impacted through our CSR initiatives
per cent of the bank's total advances.
offered a diverse range of products, is over 10 crore* (*including both
such as offshore deposits, bonds, immediate and extended beneficiaries).
35
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Introduction to HDFC Bank
OUR JOURNEY
2003-04
2006
Landmark
• First bank in India to offer Credit Card in
100+ cities
Two new cards launched
• Touched 10 Lakh users
exclusively for women on
Moments International Women’s Day
2001
2008
• Overseas listing Listed on New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) • Opened first overseas commercial
branch in Bahrain
1977 • Became the first private bank authorised
to collect Income Tax • Merger of Centurion Bank of Punjab with
HDFC Bank – One of the largest mergers in
• Housing Development Finance the Indian banking industry
2000
Corporation (HDFC) Limited was
incorporated on October 17.
2010
• HDFC promoted as a 'development • A Bank with many firsts
finance institution' by the Industrial • First Bank to launch Mobile Banking in India
Credit and Investment Corporation Launched 40% faster ATMs
of India Limited, the International Launched first SMS– first of its kind in Asia
Finance Corporation, Washington based Mobile Banking
2011
[IFC(W)] and His Royal Highness
The Aga Khan.
1999
• Mr. H. T. Parekh appointed Growing market leadership – Expanded
as Chairman. customer base to become market leaders
1994
• Launched first international Debit Card in in Auto Loans, Personal Loans, and
India in association with Visa International Credit Cards
• Housing Development Finance Corporation • Began its digital journey by launching
(HDFC) Limited received an in-principle online real-time NetBanking
approval from the RBI to set up a private
1978 • First ever mega merger in Indian banking
sector bank
industry – Times Bank merged with
• Incorporated in August 1994 as HDFC HDFC Bank
• HDFC Limited's first Public Bank Limited
Issue of equity shares of
D10 crore.
2012
1997-98
• Launched Mobile Banking AApppp iinn HHiinnddii
1995
New logo launched • Launched a nationwide sporrttss iinniittiiaattiivvee ––
Josh Unlimited, for employeeess
• Banking licence received in January 1995
• IPO oversubscribed 55 times 2013
• Listed on BSE and NSE
The Bank’s Sustainable Livelihoooodd
First corporate office and
1997 Initiative (SLI) crosses a milestoonnee --
branch opened impacting 20 lakh household
maiden dividend
announced
3366 3377
HDFC Bank Limited IInntteeggrraatteedd AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002243--2254
Introduction to HDFC Bank
OUR JOURNEY
2018 2019 2023
2022
Next-gen MobileBanking • Voted no.1 in India by • Launched a revamped
App launched customers in Forbes World’s PayZapp 2.0 payments app
Best Banks Survey HDFC Bank that provides customers with
Signed MoU with • BSE inks pact with HDFC and HDFC a seamless, intuitive user
CSC, Govt of Bank to give a boost to Start- Ltd. announce experience with enhanced
security features
India to support Up platform transformational
• HDFC Bank and HDFC Limited
financial inclusion • 1 Million+ units of blood merger
merged with effect from July
collected via HDFC Bank
in rural areas
1, 2023, creating one of the
Parivartan’s Blood Donation
world’s most valued Banks.
Drive over a period of 12 years,
This strengthened our position
primarily from employees
as a leading financial services
2017 • Opened 5,000th branch
conglomerate and completes
• Marked the start of its 25th year its product suite through the 2025
Introduced EVA chatbot addition of home loans.
- India’s first AI-based
Launched PIXEL:
chatbot to provide 2020 Launched SmartHub Vyapar -
2014 2024 A new generation of
customer service A one-stop merchant solution
App for all banking and business Digital Credit Cards
• Ranked India’s most
• Sustainability established as a solutions • RBI approved appointment
valuable brand (for the
core value of the Bank of Mr. Kaizad Bharucha as
seventh consecutive year) by
Deputy Managing Director
• Created a new Guinness World BrandZ Report
and Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri as
Record for organising the largest
• Launch of HDFC Bank Executive Director w.e.f. April
single-day blood donation drive
Millennia range of cards 19, 2023
• Became market leader in issuing
• Appointed Mr. V Srinivasa
Credit Cards in 2013-14 with 55
Rangan as Executive Director
Lakh+ Cards
w.e.f. November 23, 2023 • Became only private sector bank to
• Launched UPI QR code have a branch in Lakshadweep
2015 • Launched SmartUp interoperable with Central • Inaugurated its first branch
Zones for Start-Ups Bank Digital Currency (CBDC), in Singapore.
among the first banks in
• Launched EasyEMI on • Launched ‘Anmol Salary Account’
• Launched its sonic branding i.e.
Musical Logo (MOGO) to be used Debit Cards • First ever leadership the country to complete the - India’s First Cyber Fraud
change (new MD & CEO, integration process. Cover Integrated Offering for
across multiple touch points • Launched an all-in-one
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan • PayZapp 2.0 reached 75 PSU Employees
• Launched PayZapp, India’s first DigiPOS machine takes over) lakh registrations
• Launched GIGA - A Complete
1-click mobile-pay solution Launched 'Vigil Aunty' campaign
• First-of-its-kind product • Educated over 2 lakh citizens Financial Suite of Products for
to promote freedom from fraud
• Launched 10-second personal 2016 launch: KGC-Shaurya card on safe digital banking Gig Workers
loan disbursement in the retail for armed forces practices pan India
• Became first domestic bank to
lending space
• Launch of contactless, execute a gold forward deal from
• Concurrent QIP issue and • ATMs turned to LDMs (Loan consent-based customer 2021 GIFT City
Follow-on offering: J9,723 crore Dispensing Machines) on-boarding via video
• Tata Neu HDFC Bank Credit Card
• Launched SmartUp KYC facility
• Embarked on 'Project crosses a milestone - issuance of
programme for Start-Ups
• Deploying mobile ATMs Future Ready' over 2 million cards.
during the lockdown
• Pledged to become carbon
neutral by 2031-32
3388 3399
HHDDFFCC BBaannkk LLiimmiitteedd IInntteeggrraatteedd AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002243--2254
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Delivering
Balance Sheet Size (I Cr)
39,10,199
Growth with
Prudence FY25 39,10,199
FY24 36,17,623
FY23 24,66,081
In a year in which India continued
to remain the fastest-growing
major economy, HDFC Bank
consolidated its position as the
Deposits (I Cr)
country’s largest private sector
bank by Balance Sheet size while 27,14,715
maintaining healthy asset quality.
FY25 27,14,715
FY24 23,79,786
FY23 18,83,395
The Balance Sheet size grew by 8.1 per cent in
the fiscal, with a 14.1 per cent increase in Deposits
and a 5.4 per cent growth in Advances. The Bank
consolidated its position as the largest private
sector bank by Balance Sheet size in India without
compromising on asset quality.
Gross NPA Ratio (%)
This was achieved through the extensive reach
1.33
across 9,455 branches as well as a strong digital
footprint. Our Profit After Tax grew by 10.7 per cent
and GNPA stood at 1.33 per cent.
FY25 1.33
The Cost to Income Ratio marginally increased to FY24 1.24
40.5 per cent in FY25 from 40.2 per cent in FY24. FY23 1.12
The Bank added over 700 branches in the Financial
Year ended March 31, 2025. The Net Interest
Margin was at 3.48 per cent.
The Bank remains well-capitalised, reflected in
a Capital Adequacy Ratio of 19.6 per cent. As a
responsible bank, it has built a substantial cushion Cost to Income Ratio (%)
against any adverse impact with a Provision
40.5
Coverage Ratio of 67.86 per cent. HDFC Bank
continued to deliver value to shareholders, with a
ROE of 14.6 per cent. The Earnings Per Share (EPS)
FY25 40.5
increased by 2.9 per cent to J88.3, while dividend
FY24 40.2
per share rose by 12.8 per cent to J22.0 in FY25.
FY23 40.4
40
HDFC Bank Limited
OOvuerr Pvieerwformance
Profit After Tax (I Cr) Earnings Per Share (I)
67,347 88.3
FY25 67,347 FY25 88.3
FY24 60,812 FY24 85.8
FY23 44,109 FY23 79.3
Advances (I Cr) Return on Equity (%)
26,19,609 14.6
FY25 26,19,609 FY25 14.6
FY24 24,84,862 FY24 16.1
FY23 16,00,586 FY23 17.4
Return on Assets (Average) (%) Dividend Per Share (I)
1.91 22.0
FY25 1.91 FY25 22.0
FY24 1.98 FY24 19.5
FY23 2.07 FY23 19.0
Rupee Spent FY25 (%) Rupee Earned FY25 (%)
6.6 9.2
3.6 2.5
4.6 1.4
8.5 Tax Provisions Commission, Exchange,
16.6
Provisions Brokerage
Dividend Other Interest Income
Transfer to Reserve 1.4 FX & Derivative Income
55.5 21.2 Operating Expense 68.9 Income from Investments
Interest Expense Others
Interest from Advances
41
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Building India's
Financial Future
Wholesale Banking The Wholesale Banking business residential, commercial space as well
of HDFC Bank caters to a wide as lease rental discounting to leading
spectrum of clientele, including Large developers in FY25.
Corporates, Multinational Corporations,
The Bank's goal is to serve as a one-
Government, Public Sector Enterprises,
stop solution for the extensive business
Emerging Corporates and Business
requirements of our customers in
Banking/SMEs. The Bank extends
Wholesale Banking business. It offers
diverse and comprehensive end to
personalised solutions to address
end financial products and services,
specific customer requirements,
such as loans, deposits, payments,
supported by dedicated relationship
collections, tax solutions, trade finance,
managers who act as the single point
cash management solutions and
of contact for all their banking needs.
corporate cards. Post the merger
Leveraging the extensive experience in
of HDFC Limited with HDFC Bank,
serving the wholesale segment, HDFC
the Bank inherited the realty finance
Bank has built a strong reputation for
business. The bank increased its focus
delivering quality and reliable services
to provide construction finance in
to its customers.
Retail Banking HDFC Bank's Retail business a range of loan options for personal
serves a wide and diverse customer and business purposes, Credit
base, including individuals, salaried and Debit cards, Digital wallets,
professionals, and small businesses Insurance and Investment products,
such as Kirana stores, Self Help and Remittance services. From
Groups (SHGs), and Non-Resident affordable housing to home loans for
Indians (NRIs). With a focus on NRIs, the Bank’s extensive product
understanding and meeting the portfolio is supported by advanced
unique needs of these customers, the digital capabilities and deep industry
Bank offers a comprehensive suite of expertise, ensuring a smooth
products and services. This includes and convenient experience for all
Savings and Current accounts, its customers.
Treasury The Treasury department oversees compliance with statutory reserve
the Bank's cash and liquid assets and requirements. Additionally, the
manages investments in securities department addresses customers'
and other market instruments. It is treasury needs, generating fee income
responsible for maintaining liquidity, from customer transactions and
monitoring interest rate risks on handling their foreign exchange and
the balance sheet, and ensuring interest rate risks.
42
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Performance
Our Offerings Our Edge
Loans and Deposits Other Banking Products We are the Preferred Banker
Working Capital Facilities, Term and Services of Choice across segments,
Lending, Project Finance, Realty Forex & Derivatives, and this is enabled by:
Finance Business, Supply Chain Custodial Services, Cash
Delivery of best-in-class services
Financing, Export Finance, Trade Management services, Letters
through customised solutions,
Credit and Wholesale Deposits. of Credit, Guarantees and
products and through optimum use
Correspondent Banking.
Investment Banking of technology
Capital Finance through Debt/ − Strong product proposition for
Equity Capital Markets, Mergers NRIs through branches in India
& Acquisitions, IPOs, Private and overseas
Equity, Venture Capital Fund − Our extensive distribution network
Raising, Loan Syndication and combining both physical and digital
Customised Solutions. channels to provide a seamless
customer experience
− Market leader in several asset
categories with best-in-class
portfolio quality
− Pioneer and strong player in the
Loan Products Other Products and
digital loan marketplace
Personal, Auto, Gold, Two-Wheeler, Services − Providing customers with a product
Small Ticket Working Capital, Credit, Debit and Prepaid suite across all asset classes for
Offshore, Agri and Tractor, Healthcare Cards, Digital Wallets, Wealth 'optimal asset allocation' depending
Finance, Commercial Vehicle & Management Solutions, Kisan on clients’ risk profiles and goals
Equipment Finance, Infrastructure Gold Card. A distributor of Mutual − Strong presence in
Finance, Loan Against Securities and Funds as well as Life, General and Payments Business
Digital Loan against Mutual Funds. Health Insurance. − A leader in Cash Management
Accounts and Deposits Mortgages Services, offering effective and
tailored solutions.
Savings, Current and Corporate Home Loans: Rural Housing Loans,
− Open architecture, best-in-class
Salary Accounts, NRI Deposits, Loan Against Property, Refinance
portfolio quality and regular
Fixed and Recurring Deposits. and Home Loans to NRI’s
portfolio rebalancing
Services Offered Key Functions Performed − Robust Risk Management practices
to Customers Manages the Asset/Liability of across all businesses and activities
Foreign Exchange and Derivatives’ the Bank, maintains a portfolio of − Providing solutions to meet the
Transactions, Solutions on Hedging Government Securities in line with hedging needs of non-residents in
Strategies, Trade Solutions - Domestic regulatory norms of RBI and others, Indian markets.
and Cross Border, Bullion and Others. manages the liquidity and interest − Integrated trade and treasury
rate risks on the balance sheet, solution for customers
and is also responsible for meeting − Primary dealer for
statutory reserve requirements. Government securities
43
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
HOME LOAN ADVANTAGE
Enabling
Homeownership
with Trust and
Innovation
Key Highlights for the Financial
With over four and a half decades
Year 2024-25
of experience in understanding the
evolving aspirations of homebuyers, − Seamless Access: Home loans are now
the HDFC Bank Group recognises available across a wide network of HDFC
Bank branches and digital platforms, ensuring
that a home loan is more than a
greater accessibility and convenience.
financial product, it’s an emotional
− Customer-Centric Approach: Tailored
milestone and often the single
home loans offering coupled with products
largest investment in a person’s life. like savings accounts, credit cards, CD
loans, insurance and wealth solutions basis
customer requirements.
The merger marked a significant milestone, integrating
the legacy of trust in housing finance with the scale − Cross-Sell Success:
and technology prowess of India’s leading private − Over 95 per cent of new home loan
sector bank. Post-merger, HDFC Bank now has the customers are opening CASA accounts.
country’s largest mortgage portfolio.
− Over 50 per cent are opting for additional
product offerings, strengthening long-
term customer relationships.
− Digital Leadership: Continued investment
in digital solutions has significantly improved
turnaround times and customer convenience
at every stage of the home loan journey.
− Strategic Growth: By leveraging the legacy
home loan customer base, HDFC Bank is
deepening its liability relationships and offering
a full financial services suite across pay, save,
invest, borrow, insure and trade.
− Robust Demand Outlook: With a strong
institutional framework and rising urbanisation,
the Bank is confident about the long-term
housing demand in India and is well-positioned
to be the preferred home loan partner.
HDFC Bank remains committed to delivering
best-in-class mortgage solutions with trust and
innovation backed by a deep understanding of its
customers’ needs.
4444
HHDDFFCC BBaannkk LLiimmiitteedd
Our Performance
45
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
COMMERCIAL AND RURAL CLUSTER
Fuelling Growth
in Semi-Urban
and Rural India
The Commercial and Rural Cluster
plays an important role in meeting
Priority Sector Lending (PSL)
The multitude of businesses within the Bank’s
requirements as well as advancing
Commercial and Rural Cluster are tied together by
the Bank's financial inclusion goals. their significant presence in Semi Urban and Rural
As on March 31, 2025, it managed (SURU) India. Over half of the Bank’s branches are
strategically located in SURU regions, ensuring
J9.08 lakh crore portfolio, serving
extensive coverage and accessibility to essential
a diverse clientele encompassing
financial services . Over the past three years, the
Micro, Small and Medium Bank has expanded its reach from 91,000 villages to
Enterprises (MSMEs), farmers 2.35 lakh villages. Further, the SME franchise is now
present in 725 out of 789 districts. This distribution
(including small and marginal),
network facilitates easier access to banking
healthcare and equipment finance
facilities, empowering individuals and businesses in
customers, commercial transport underserved geographies.
companies and joint liability and
Going forward, the Bank aims to deepen its
self-help groups. engagement in these geographies by offering a
comprehensive suite of solutions tailored to the
diverse financial needs of its clientele.
Driven by this expansive physical footprint and deep
local engagement this vertical recorded a robust 12.8
per cent year-on-year growth in advances.
It plays a crucial role in fulfilling the Bank’s Priority
Sector Lending (PSL) requirements, contributing up
to 65 per cent of the overall PSL portfolio. Recent
changes in MSME thresholds and home loan eligibility
under PSL have expanded the customer base driving
further growth. With a focused district-level strategy,
the Bank ranks among the top three MSME lenders
in 21 states including a leadership position in 14. The
PSL book continues to support the Bank’s financial
inclusion goals while remaining profitable, with a
strong Return on Assets (ROA), robust asset quality,
and effective risk management.
4466
HHHDDDFFFCCC BBBaaannnkkk LLLiiimmmiiittteeeddd
Our Performance
Agriculture finance remains a key In terms of servicing, a dedicated Complementing its relationship-led
revenue stream with strategic relationship team engages regularly model, the Bank has strengthened
diversification into high-yield segments with customers to address their digital interventions to boost efficiency
like dairy and horticulture. The banking needs through personalised and service delivery. Customer data
Bank actively supports government support. These interactions also is directly sourced from account
initiatives such as Agriculture enable the Bank to offer suitable aggregators and statements,
Infrastructure Fund (AIF), Farmer cross-sell solutions aligned enabling quicker underwriting and
Producer Organisations (FPOs) and with the customer’s profile and digital summaries. Aadhaar-based
Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of business lifecycle. authentication and verification are
Micro Food Processing Enterprises seamlessly integrated while small-
(PMFME), while extending credit to ticket loans are sourced entirely
small and marginal farmers to further through digital channels. An industry-
strengthen rural development and first mobile app powers the pledge
inclusive growth. process under the Commercial and
Rural Cluster. Going forward, the Bank
HDFC Bank's strategic focus on
will focus on enhancing digital account
expanding into new territories and
management, streamlining workflows
strengthening the sales force has
and reducing administrative effort
enabled it to secure a leading market
through technology-driven solutions.
share in the commercial vehicle
and equipment financing sector. Overall, the segment offers vast
Additionally, it is actively cultivating an market potential, and the Bank is
ecosystem to enhance its reach within well-positioned to capitalise the
the Transportation Finance domain opportunity through its strengths.
supported by strong OEM relationship.
PRODUCT SUITE
Working Capital and Investment Transportation Trade Finance &
Term Loan Assets Banking Finance Group FX Advisory
− Working − IPOs, Private Equity, − Commercial Vehicle/ − Bank Guarantee/LCs
Capital Loans VC Fund Raise, Equipment Finance − International Trade
− Term Loans Loan Syndication − Tractor Finance − Trade Flows
− Supply − Mergers − Infrastructure & Derivatives
Finance
& Acquisitions
Chain Management
− Project Finance
− Export Finance
AAAggrriiiccuullltttuurree
Sustainable Livelihood Initiative (SHG and JLG) Agriculture Finance Liabilities
FFiinnaaaannccee
− Micro Finance − Crop Loan/ − CASA Accounts
Farmer Finance − Fixed Deposits
− KCC − Salary Account
− Dairy/Cattle Finance
47
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
POWER OF THE GROUP
Re-Imagining
Value Creation
Serving Your Financial Needs
We exist to assist Indians make better money choices,
today and tomorrow
Following the merger, the
number of HDFC Bank’s
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited
subsidiaries has grown from
2 to 14 with five identified as
key subsidiaries. This has
50.3
significantly enhanced HDFC
%
Bank Group’s ability to offer
comprehensive financial
solutions to deepen and
HDB Financial Services Limited
lengthen customer relationships.
94.3
%
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
50.3
%
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited
52.5
%
HDFC Securities Limited
94.5
%
48
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Performance
HDFC Bank has five key subsidiaries Our collaborative strategy aims to We are committed to fostering
viz., HDFC Life Insurance Company empower our Group in facilitating progress together by harnessing
Limited (HDFC Life), HDB Financial deeper engagements across various our collaborative strengths to drive
Services Limited (HDBFS), HDFC touchpoints, fortifying connections, sustainable growth and profitability.
ERGO General Insurance Company nurturing long-lasting customer HDFC Life and HDFC ERGO prepare
Limited (HDFC ERGO), HDFC Asset relationships and facilitating cross sell. their financial results in accordance
Management Company Limited (HDFC This advantage is pivotal in navigating with Indian GAAP and other
AMC) and HDFC Securities Limited the dynamic financial services subsidiaries do so in accordance
(HSL). landscape. In our efforts we are with the notified Indian Accounting
backed by a consolidated employee Standards ('Ind-AS').
By leveraging synergies across
base with diverse skillsets,
the Group's ecosystem, we aim to The details of the subsidiaries
a combined branch network
deliver innovative financial solutions including financial performance (on
and various other physical/
that anticipate and meet the a standalone basis) and key initiatives
digital touchpoints.
evolving needs through the lifecycle. for the Financial Year 2024-25 are
given below.
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited
Established in 2000, HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (‘HDFC Life’ or the
‘Company’), in which the Bank holds a 50.3 per cent stake, is a listed, leading, long-
term life insurance solutions provider in India. It offers a broad range of individual and
group plans across the Protection, Pension, Savings, Investment, Annuity and Health
categories. Its portfolio comprises over 70 products and optional riders which are
designed to meet the diverse needs of its customers.
FY25 Financials FY25 Key Initiatives
In FY 2024-25, HDFC Life known 1. Expanding Distribution 3. Technology Transformation:
for its innovative products and Footprint: Added 200+ branches Technology initiative 'Project
customer-centric approach has in the last 24 months, of which 117 INSPIRE' aimed at reimagining
secured about 5 crore lives with branches were added in FY25. It systems and processes to be
an overall claim settlement ratio onboarded ~40 new partners in scalable and agile is progressing
of 99.8 per cent. It has over FY2024-25, such as Sundaram steadily and incremental tech
650 branches across India. For Finance, Aditya Birla Finance, Mirae assets are being rolled out
FY25, HDFC Life reported New Asset, Sharekhan, amongst others. through the course of the year
Business Margin of 25.6 per 2.P roduct Innovation: Launched
cent, Value of New Business
industry-first product in participating
of I3,962 crore, an Embedded
and pension segment - Click
Value of I55,423 crore and
2 Achieve Par Advantage and
delivered Profit After Tax of
Sanchay Aajeevan Guaranteed
I1,802 crore. As on March 31
Advantage (SAGA)
2025, HDFC Life had an AUM
of I3,36,282 crore.
49
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
POWER OF THE GROUP
HDB Financial Services Limited
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFS), in which the Bank holds a 94.3 per cent stake,
is a non-deposit taking NBFC. HDBFS has a comprehensive bouquet of products and
service offerings that are tailor-made to suit its customers’ requirements including first-
time borrowers and the underserved segments. It is engaged in the business of lending,
fee-based products and BPO services. The company has a strong network of over
1,771 branches spread across 1,170 cities.
FY25 Financials FY25 Key Initiatives
The company’s Profit After Tax CRM System NPCI’s e-KYC Setu System
stood at I2,176 crore as on HDB Financial Services implemented HDBFS has integrated NPCI’s
March 31, 2025 compared to an advanced CRM system to e-KYC Setu System streamlining
I2,461 crore as on March 31, transform customer experience and the account opening process.
2024. The Total Loan Book grew improve operational efficiency. It Developed through a collaboration
by 18.47 per cent to I1,06,878 enhances productivity and delivers between the National Payments
crore on March 31, 2025 a seamless customer experience. A Corporation of India (NPCI) and
compared to I90,218 crore on cloud-based infrastructure ensures the Unique Identification Authority
March 31, 2024. The Gross Non scalability. The real-time engagement of India (UIDAI), this system has
Performing Asset (GNPA) ratio capabilities of the CRM facilitated enabled customers to open loan
stood at 2.26 per cent and Net instant query resolution, proactive accounts without the need for
Non Performing Asset (NNPA) support and tailored offers using document uploads. The secure
ratio at 0.99 per cent as on predictive analytics. By integrating OTP-based process has ensured
March 31, 2025. GNPA stood multiple touch-points to deliver an quick and hassle-free authentication
at 1.90 per cent and NNPA omnichannel experience, HDBFS is from any location. Additionally, it
at 0.63 per cent for the year poised to leverage this platform to has enhanced financial inclusion
ended March 31, 2024. Capital increase its revenue streams. and digitalised loan disbursement
Adequacy Ratio stood at 19.22 processes, providing convenience
per cent as on March 31, 2025. and accessibility to customers.
50
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Performance
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (HDFC ERGO), in which the Bank
holds a 50.3 per cent stake, offers a comprehensive bouquet of general insurance
products - such as Health, Motor, Travel, Home, Personal Accident and Cyber Insurance
for its retail customers. It also offers products like Property, Engineering, Marine and
Liability Insurance to its SME & corporate customers. Further rural customers can
secure crop and cattle insurance.
FY25 Financials FY25 Key Initiatives
HDFC ERGO has demonstrated 1. HDFC ERGO made further 2. HDFC ERGO conducted the
consistent profitable growth, investments in expanding its grand finale of the 1st edition of
achieving a 28 per cent CAGR claims network. During FY25, TechPreneur, a future forward
over 17 years, outpacing the it serviced motor OD claims start-up challenge to boost
general insurance industry’s 15 across 648 districts. Further, innovation in insurance,
per cent. Its market share rose its network of empanelled where 17 participants were
from 0.8 per cent in FY08 to 5.1 hospitals and diagnostic centres shortlisted for the first round of
per cent in FY25. Profit After Tax is spread across 610 districts of pitching from among the initial
grew 14 per cent year-on-year the country. competitive pool of over 140
to I500 crore in FY25 from start-ups.
I438 crore in FY24.
51
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
POWER OF THE GROUP
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (HDFC AMC), investment manager to
HDFC Mutual Fund, is one of India’s largest mutual funds. With a 52.5 per cent stake
held by HDFC Bank, it offers a wide range of savings and investment products to over
1.32 crore investors through 2.33 crore live accounts. Established in 1999, it has a
strong presence across 280 offices, 95,000+ distribution partners and digital platforms.
HDFC AMC also provides Portfolio Management Services and Alternative Investment
Funds to HNIs, family offices, corporates, trusts, and institutions, ensuring accessible,
efficient financial solutions across diverse customer segments.
FY25 Financials FY25 Key Initiatives
Total Income for the Financial 1. Expanded product suite with 7 5. Forayed into AIFs with the
Year 2024-25 recorded a year- NFOs, taking the total to over 100 successful closure of its first
on-year growth of 28 per cent products and I7.5 lakh crore in Category II AIF Fund of Funds.
to I4,058 crore. Profit After overall AUM. 6. Strengthened international
Tax grew by 26 per cent to 2. Strengthened the passive presence by launching three
I2,461 crore. portfolio, raising the total to 44 funds through wholly owned
passive funds across Index and subsidiary, HDFC AMC
ETFs, with I574 billion in AUM. International (IFSC) Limited.
3. Added 26 new offices, bringing
the total count to 280.
4. Enhanced the digital
infrastructure to deliver a
fast, secure and user-friendly
investment experience with
innovations like WhatsApp
transactions and integration
with Open Network for Digital
Commerce (ONDC) platform.
52
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Performance
HDFC Securities Limited
HDFC Securities Limited (HSL), in which the Bank holds a 94.5 per cent stake, is among
the leading broking firms in India, serving 68 lakh customers with a comprehensive
range of investment and protection products. It leverages real-time, data-driven insights
and research-backed information to empower investors. HSL has 134 branches across
106 cities and towns as on March 31, 2025. Approximately, 96 per cent of its customers
accessed its services digitally. HSL’s ranking in NSE active clients has improved to the
6th position with 15.25 lakh customers from 7th position last year.
FY25 Financials FY25 Key Initiatives
In the Financial Year 2024-25, • Empowering Investors: HDFC • To demystify financial jargon
HSL's total income grew ~23 Sky, HSL’s flat price broking and promote literacy in core
per cent to I3,265 crore from service app, saw remarkable concepts of investing and
I2,661 crore in the previous growth in FY25. It facilitates trading, HDFC Sky unveiled the
year. Net revenue (total income seamless participation for Sky Learn initiative, providing
less finance costs) stood at investors and traders at all video-driven content across
I2,479 crore, up 20 per cent experience levels, offering a multiple digital channels.
y-o-y. Operating expenses of wide range of investment and Embracing the motto ‘Make
I983 crore resulted in a cost-to- trading options. Money Matter’, HDFC Sky
revenue ratio of 39.7 per cent. is committed to fostering a
PAT was I1,125 crore, up 18 digital-first, tech-powered
per cent. EPS was I638. The platform that empowers every
average margin trading funding Indian citizen to invest wisely
(MTF) portfolio increased and confidently.
significantly by 50 per cent y-o-y
to I8,343 crore. Equity trade
volumes grew 24 per cent y-o-y
to I8 lakh crore.
53
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
How We Create Value
OUR VALUE CREATION MODEL
OUR PERFORMANCE ACROSS CAPITALS
CORE VALUES
Inputs Outcomes Risks & SDGs
Customer Focus | Operational Excellence | Product Leadership |
People | Sustainability FINANCIAL − Total Net Revenues – H1,68,302.4 crore
− Profit after tax – H67,347.4 crore 1 2 3 4 5
− Total Deposits – H27,14,714.9 crore − Return on Average Assets – 1.91%
− − S B h o a rr r o e w ho in ld g e s r – s H fu 5 n ,4 d 7 , – 9 H 3 5 0 , . 0 9 1 c ,4 ro 24 re .6 crore − − R C e o t s u t- rn to o -i n n c E o q m ui e ty r a – t i 1 o 4 – .6 4 % 0.5% 6 7 8 9 10
− Capital Adequacy Ratio – 19.6%
− Net NPA – 0.43%
− Dividend Per Share – H22.0^ ^Proposed
CEO PRIORITIES OUR CONTEXT
Influences
Employee First 1 External Environment HUMAN 4 5
− Women in workforce – 26.14%
Customer First 2 Stakeholder Engagement − − E E m m p p l l o o y y e e e e b ex a p s e e n – s 2 e , 1 S 4 t , a 5 f 2 f 1 C o st – H23,900.5 crore − − T E o m ta p l l o L y e e a e rn a in tt g ri t H io o n u r r a s t e – - 1 , 2 2 2 4 . , 6 9 0 5 % ,3 72
− Learning and Development initiatives
Technology First
Shapes our
3 Material Topics −
−
D
Ta
iv
le
e
n
rs
t
i
M
ty,
a
E
na
q
g
u
e
it
m
y a
e
n
n
d
t
Inclusion initiatives
Power of the Group view of 4 Risk Management − Culture Ecosystem - Nurture, Care & Collaborate
Click the number beside each element
for more information INTELLECTUAL − − 8 97 6 % % o o f f o o u u r r fi a n c a q n u c is ia it l i o tr n a s n a sa re c t d io ig n i s ta a l re digital 1 8 9
B U
SINESS SEGMEN
T S
−
− −
C
D Ri i
r
s g
e
k i
d
t a m
it
l
p
s a o
o
n l a
l
u
ic
g t
y
i e o m
a
n
n
e a
d
n n t
u
d f
n
r f
d
a a m
e
c
r
t e o
w
w r
r
y
i
o
t
,
i
r
n
E k
g
n i t n
s
e t
k
r e p
il
g
l
r
s
r is a e ti n F g a c E t S o G ry factors
−
− −
7
1 A 9
9
v . e
%
3 r a l
o
a g
f
k e
s
h
e
c m
r
u
v
s e
ic
t r o c
in
m h
g
a e
h
n r
a
t u s
p
p a
p
ti c
e
m t
n
i e v
s
e i
d
n o
i
c
g
n r
i
e
t
o
a
a u
l
s
ly
r e S d m to a r 9 th 9. u 9 b 5 % Vyapar App
− Implementation framework on carbon neutrality − Brand Valuation – US$ 44.96 Billion*
− State-of-the-art data centers − PayZapp has crossed 1.6 crore registrations as of
Reflects Guides Serving W Drives Responds to − A su d p o p p o ti r o t n e d o f b a y z a e s r o o u -t n ru d s I t n a fo rc rm hi a te ti c o t n u r a e n a d p c p y r b o e a r c s h e curity March 31, 2025
a il financial h o policy to ensure protection against cyberattacks *As per Kantar BrandZ Most Valuable Global Brands 2025
e t R n I e n e d d ia s n o s f el a s le SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP − − M Le S a C d I e E rs S h G ip R c a a t t i e n g g o – r y A w A ith score of 71 in CRISIL ESG 1 5 6 7
− Customer base – 9.7 crore Ratings for FY 2023-24 disclosures
OUR PERFORMANCE OUR STRATEGIC PILLARS
−
− N
CS
o.
R
o
S
f C
pe
S
n
R
d
i
s
m
o
p
n
le
P
m
a
e
ri
n
v
t
a
a
r
t
t
i
a
o
n
n
p
p
r
a
o
r
j
t
e
n
c
e
t
r
s
s
–
-
H
2
1
1
,
4
068.03 crore −
(
S
in
&
F
P
Y
C
2
o
0
rp
24
o
-
r
2
a
5
te
)
Sustainability Assessment - 85th Percentile 8 9 10
KEY BUSINESS ACTIVITIES Treasury − B
Vi
r
r
a
tu
n
a
c
l
h
R
C
e
h
la
a
t
n
io
n
n
e
s
l
h
E
ip
n g
M
a
a
g
n
e
a
m
g
e
e
n
m
t
e
a
n
n
t
d − − A Pa lig rt n n in er g s h st ip a k w e i h th o l G de o r v s e t r o n m ES e G nt − 1 (
b
c 0
e
u .
n
m 5
e
6 u
fi c
l c a
i
r
a
t o iv
r
r
i
e e
e
l
s
y li
)
v - e I s n c im lu p d a in c g te b d o a th s i o m n m M e a d r i c a h te 3 a 1 n , d 2 0 e 2 x 5 te nded
Lending | Branch operations | Underwriting
(VRM)
a m n a d n a ri g sk e m m e a n n t a | g A e s m s e e n t- t l ia | b In i v lit e y s m tm a e n n a t g ement | − G (G o & v I e ) r B n u m s e in n e t s a s nd Institutional NATURAL − E 62 n 3 e . r 8 g 4 y s M a W ve h d through IoT based BMS implementation: 1 5
Time Deposits | Customer services | Current − Wealth Management − Smart IOT based building management systems − Reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emission intensity per HCr
and Saving Accounts | Collections | − Technology & Digital (BMS) active at about 350 branches revenue from operations: 45%
At - Scale Distribution Impacts − Digital Marketing − All new branches and offices evaluated for IGBC − 19 office and branch locations received 100% green
certification- 2,507 branches and offices green power in FY 25
OUTPUTS − − P R a e y ta m il e A n s t s s e B ts usiness − c In e s r t t a ifi ll e a d ti o ti n ll d of a A te ctive Harmonic Filters: 84 locations − S to u w s a ta rd in s a g b r le e e b n o n tr d a n p s r p o o c r e t e a d ti s o n o f a 1 n 5 d 0 M M S il M lio E n s , U v S e D ri fi a e ll d o c a a n t d e d
− Total Deposits − Total Income − − M Co o m rtg m a e g r e c i A al s & se R ts ural Cluster − S N u D s C ta s i n a a n b d l e g l F o i b na a n l S ce D G po s rtfolio contributing to India’s − c S e u r s t t ifi a e in d a b b y le a fi n le a a n d c in e g p t o h r i t r f d o l p io a r o t f y 1 a 8 u . d 69 ito % r
H27,14,714.9 crore H3,46,149.3 crore
− Total Advances − Share of Digital Derived − Corporate Cluster
H26,19,608.6 crore transactions in
− Net Interest Income Total financial
MANUFACTURED − Total Banking Outlets – 24,854 (inclusive of 5 overseas
H1,22,670.1 crore transactions – 97% 4 5
− Dividend per share – Click here for more on our priorities and the − New branches opened in FY25 - 719 −
b
To
ra
ta
n
l
c
B
h
r
e
a
s
n
)
ches – 9,455 (Inclusive of Overseas Branches
H22.0^ Strategic pillars of the bank − ATMs, Corporate office, digital factories, data and DBUs) – of which 51% are SURU branches
warehouse and others − Total Fixed Point Business Correspondents – 15,399
^Proposed − Bangalore ‘Netmagic· DC3B’ Certified green − ATMs + Cash Recycler Machines – 21,139
data center − Cities/towns covered – 4,150
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
1 Credit Risk 2 Market Risk 3 Compliance Risk 4 Operational Risk 5 Climate Risk 6 Liquidity Risk 7 Reputation Risk 8 Technology Risk 9 Cyber and Data Risk 10 Risk of spill-over from Subsidiaries
54 55
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Building Purpose of Stakeholder Engagement
Assessing Impact
Value through We collaborate with stakeholders to evaluate the
actual and potential Environmental, Social, and
Governance (ESG) impact from our activities. This
Collaborations
process helps us actively address concerns and
uncover opportunities for positive change.
Developing Solutions
Working together with stakeholders is essential for
HDFC Bank is deeply committed
identifying and implementing effective strategies to
to forging strong, purpose-driven
prevent and reduce potential risks.
partnerships with stakeholders
Respecting Stakeholder Rights
through consistent, meaningful
We understand that engaging with stakeholders goes
engagements throughout the year.
beyond simply meeting our objectives—it’s also about
By listening intently to their priorities respecting their rights. To that end, we are dedicated
and needs, we identify issues most to upholding these rights and promoting an open and
inclusive dialogue.
critical to driving the Bank’s value
creation while crafting innovative, To truly amplify the voices of our stakeholders,
the Bank has taken bold steps by establishing
forward-looking solutions that deliver
diverse communication channels and fostering
lasting impact.
direct engagement through the departments most
connected to them. By actively monitoring the issues
that matter most to stakeholders, their feedback has
Identify become a powerful catalyst for our internal growth
potential topics and transformation.
Stakeholder Groups
Revised Define
materiality map stakeholder
groups
Customers Employees Vendors
Our
Stakeholder
Engagement
Regulatory Investors Community
Process
Bodies & Shareholders
We strategically map stakeholders based on their
interest, influence, and impact; prioritise them by
relevance, and craft tailored engagement strategies to
address their unique needs. In FY 2024-25, the Bank
deepened its commitment to meaningful dialogue
Revisit of material
Stakeholder with key stakeholder groups through a variety of
issues by the
engagement initiatives, as follows.
internal stakeholders
and prioritisation
5566
HHDDFFCC BBaannkk LLiimmiitteedd
How We Create Value
Key Concerns Response Channels of Communication
Customers − Ease of transacting − New products − Online and
across channels enabled by the Bank’s postal communication
− Customer-centric products digitisation strategy − Customer
and services − Making personalised satisfaction surveys
− Digital finance innovation recommendations through a − Customer feedback
− Customer data management Virtual Relationship Manager − Regular interaction
− Consumer rights protection (VRM) with customers
− Information Education Type
Communication (IEC) Information, Consultation
activities on data security
and privacy Frequency
Continuous
Value Drivers
− HDFC Bank proudly serves over 9.7 crore customers, empowering them with seamless
access to world-class financial services through an extensive network of more than
9,455 branches and 21,139 ATMs/CDMs across 4,150 cities and towns as of
March 31, 2025.
− We champion accessibility by ensuring our services reach all customers, including those
9.7 crore + with disabilities. Every ATM is equipped with voice-guided systems and Braille keypads
to empower the visually impaired, while over 2,044 locations feature ramps to support
Customer Base wheelchair users.
Employees K − e E y m Co p n lo c y e e r e n s e n gagement − F o o f e c m us p o lo n y e va e r w io e u l s ln a e s s p s ects − E P n u g ls a e g s e u m rv e e n y t s and
− Culture and through the HDFC ‘Bank − Employee connect
employee experience Cares’ Initiative initiatives like talent
− Employee wellness − Strengthen focus on L&D hunt, wellness initiatives
and safety by offering best-in-class etc. some of which also
− Learning and Development learning resources and include their families
(L&D) leveraging technology for
− Inclusive work culture enabling learning anywhere Type
− Work-life balance and at anytime Information,
Consultation, Participation
Response Channels of Communication
− Maintain high-level of − On-ground and virtual Frequency
ongoing employee connect connect with employees On-going/Periodic/Annual
and periodically obtain − Leadership and performance reviews
feedback through dipstick manager connect
assessments and surveys
Value Drivers
− We have a diverse workforce of over 2.14 lakh employees across different locations.
− We are dedicated to embedding the ‘HDFC Bank Way’—our cultural framework—into
every employee’s journey, ensuring a superior experience, with women constituting
58.25 26.1% of our total workforce as of March 31, 2025.
− We strive to provide periodic training and updates on ESG to all employees - including
Average Training members of the CSR & ESG Committee of the Board. In FY 2024-25, a total of 1.25
crore learning hours were recorded, reflecting a rise of over 88% in learning hours per
Hours employee compared to FY 2023-24.
57
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Key Concerns Response Channels of Communication
Vendors − Governance and − Ensure timely payment − Regular meetings
ethical practices for services − Phone calls and surveys
− Transparency in − Whistle Blower Policy to
sourcing processes ensure good practices Type
− Support for MSMEs and − Preparation for BRSR Core Information, Consultation
local vendors value chain reporting
Frequency
− Direct sourcing of input Continuous Annual
material from MSMEs/ performance review
small producers
Vendors
Value Drivers
comply with all − We work closely with our vendors to promote the integration of environmental and social
concerns, emphasising the importance of adding value beyond economic gains. Our
applicable laws
ESG policy framework ensures that vendors and suppliers comply with labour laws and
including labour human rights. We are strengthening our internal systems to enhance our engagement
with the suppliers for reporting on BRSR Core KPIs and BRSR value chain reporting.
laws and human
rights
Key Concerns Response Channels of Communication
Regulatory − Compliance including public − Compliance and ethics- − Regular meetings
Bodies disclosure and reasonable oriented culture including − Policy updates and
assurance of BRSR formulation of relevant ministry directives
Core KPIs policy frameworks and − Mandatory filings with
− Social security schemes enforcement thereof key regulators
− Relevant national mandates − Awareness generation
− Risk Management and on the mandates by the Type
Internal Controls Government of India Information,
− Strengthening of internal Consultation, Participation
processes for BRSR
Frequency
Core reporting Continuous as
per requirement
4.5 Value Drivers
Million
− We ensure adherence to compliance standards set by the regulatory bodies. In
Enrolments FY 2024-25, we maintained 100% compliance with all regulatory filings and disclosures.
Additionally, The Bank attained reasonable assurance for BRSR Core KPIs in public
under various
disclosure in line with SEBI circular dated Dec 18, 2024
security − The Bank facilitated the opening of more than 50 lakh PMJDY accounts and undertook
90.97 lakh customer enrollments in social security schemes (PMJJBY, PMSBY and APY)
schemes in since inception.
FY 2024-25
58
HDFC Bank Limited
How We Create Value
Key Concerns Channels of Communication Type
Investors and − Compliance − Quarterly financial reports, Information, Participation
Shareholders − Governance and Press releases, Results
ethical practices conference call and Frequency
− Economic performance Investor presentations Continuous/Quarterly/
− Financial Inclusion Annual
− Investor conferences,
Response Analyst day, Investor
− Policies and demonstration days, Interactions
of responsible with shareholders and
business conduct Annual /Extra- Ordinary
General Meetings
Value Drivers
− Our Board-approved ESGRM framework, overseen by the CSR & ESG Committee of
the Board and executed through collaborative management committees and cross-
functional working groups, drives our commitment to responsible banking.
− We ensure transparency of disclosures by disclosing our ESG performance in the
Integrated Annual Report.
39 − We also partner with borrowers to promote sustainable practices, encouraging them
lakh+
to measure and disclose ESG factors, driving informed decisions and a positive
shareholders environmental impact.
Community K − e P y o C v o e n r c ty e r a n n s d − − S Su o s il t a a n in d a w bl a e t er conservation T In y f p o e rmation,
drudgery alleviation livelihood initiative Consultation, Participation
− Improvement in quality − Financial literacy camps
of education Frequency
− Efficient Channels of Communication Continuous Annual
resource management − Planning, meeting, performance review
− Environmental sustainability and exercises – Needs
− Improvement in community assessment/Baselining/
hygiene and sanitation Participatory Rural Appraisal
− Focused Group Discussions
Response − Consultative workshops
− Holistic Rural Development − Awareness sessions and
Programme Focused field demonstrations
education and − Periodic progress reviews
skill development and monitoring
Value Drivers
− We focus on improving lives of communities through CSR goals across six thematic
areas: Rural Development, Promotion of Education, Skill Development & Livelihood
Enhancement, Healthcare & Hygiene, Financial Literacy & Inclusion, and Natural
Resource Management.
10.56
crore − Under the Companies Act, 2013, Indian banks are mandated to spend 2% of their
average net profits on CSR activities under the Companies Act, 2013. The CSR spend
Lives impacted
for FY 25 was H1,068 crore.
since inception − Parivartan, our CSR brand, has already impacted over 10.56 crore lives across
the country.
59
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
MATERIALITY
Measuring
Materiality Assessment Process
Meaningful
Identification of Material Topics
Impacts
We reviewed the 16 sustainability topics, identified through
stakeholder inputs, data analysis and benchmarking. External
experts helped refine impact definitions, ensuring relevance to
regulatory, industry and internal priorities.
HDFC Bank conducts
materiality assessments Weighted Prioritisation
to identify and prioritise We prioritised these topics by consolidating stakeholder survey
responses, assigning weights to each stakeholder group based
sustainability issues that
on their relevance. Scores were calculated considering the reach,
are critical to our business
magnitude, and likelihood of impacts across our value chain,
and stakeholders. In FY categorising topics as 'Most Important,' 'Important,' or 'Less
2023-24, we updated our Important.'
process in line with the
GRI Universal Standards
Evaluation of potential positive and negative impacts
2021, adopting a double
and reprioritisation of results
materiality approach to
We analysed the economic, environmental, and social impacts of
evaluate both financial
each topic, using stakeholder inputs. Applying a double materiality
relevance and broader lens, we refined and merged overlaps, narrowing 16 material topics
environmental, social, and to 14, ensuring they reflect both HDFC Bank’s financial priorities
and broader societal impact.
economic impacts. Building
on the 16 topics identified
in FY 2022-23 through
Integration into Risk Management Framework
stakeholder engagement
These 14 topics were mapped against our risk management
and benchmarking, we
framework, identifying 9 as opportunities and 5 as potential risks,
reassessed each for impact informed by annual due diligence on impact trends and stakeholder
significance, likelihood, feedback, including investor ESG priorities.
and strategic relevance.
This led to a refined set of
14 topics—9 with positive
and 5 with negative Materiality Matrix Sign off
impacts. The evaluation
The final materiality matrix, calibrated with stakeholder
was further informed by opinions and performance indicators, led to the final ranking
annual performance trends of the 14 sustainability issues into a materiality matrix.
and key impact indicators, The final analysis was presented to the Board of Directors.
ensuring alignment with
stakeholder expectations
and our sustainability goals.
60
HDFC Bank Limited
Materiality Matrix
Climate Change
Community-wellbeing
FINANCIAL MATERIALITY
The planet and society's impact on HDFC Bank's financial performance
YTILAIRETAM
TCAPMI
yteicos
dna
tenalp
eht
no
tcapmi
s'knaB
CFDH
How We Create Value
Sustainable &
Responsible financing
Economic Performance
Compliance
Sustainable
Procurement
Systemic Risk Corporate Governance and Ethics
Management
Customer Privacy
Financial Inclusion and Data Security
Digital Leadership
Asset Quality
Customer Satisfaction
Employee Practices
61
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
MATERIALITY
Management of Material Topic
Economic Performance Compliance
GRI topics: 201 GRI topics: 2-27
Capitals Impacted: SR F I M H Capitals Impacted: F H N
Relevant Stakeholders: Relevant Stakeholders:
Economic performance is critical to maintain stability We operate in a highly regulated industry where
and positive momentum. We strive to always provide compliance is non-negotiable. As applicable, all our
our stakeholders with increased long-term value. operations comply with legal, environmental, and
Even in difficult economic times, we have performed social requirements imposed by regulatory bodies.
admirably because of careful management and capital
allocation strategies. Description of Impact
(Compliance Risk, Potential Negative Impact)
Description of Impact
Non-compliance with regulations can result in
(Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
regulatory fines, legal actions, and reputational
During periods of economic upturns, we experience damage, as well as impact the Bank's ability to
increased opportunities for growth and profitability. operate within legal boundaries. We maintain a strong
These favourable economic conditions create a foundation for regulatory compliance through periodic
conducive environment for strategic investments and employee trainings, code of conduct, implementation
business expansion initiatives. As we align our growth of statutory laws, policies such as those on anti-
with that of the economy, we plan to capitalise on corruption, anti- bribery, POSH, regular internal audits
the increased demand for financial services, expand and robust incident response planning.
our customer base, and explore new avenues for
revenue generation.
FY25 Performance FY25 Performance
J3,46,149.3 Zero
crore
Total Income Environmental
Non-Compliance Reported
J67,347.4
crore
Zero
Profit after tax
Social Non-Compliance Reported
Customers Employees Vendors Government and Regulatory Bodies Investors & Shareholders Community
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
62
HDFC Bank Limited
How We Create Value
Sustainable & Responsible Financing
GRI topics: 2-22
Capitals Impacted: F SR N
Relevant Stakeholders:
At HDFC Bank, we recognise the significant influence mitigate climate change. To reduce our carbon footprint,
we have through our lending and financing activities. we continue to invest in renewable energy and energy
Engaging in sustainable and responsible financing efficiency projects and encourage our customers to
practices allows us to invest in projects and industries make "green banking" decisions.
that have positive environmental and social impacts.
This not only aligns our values with the growing Description of Impact
demand for ethical and sustainable investments but
(Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
also enhances the Bank's reputation as a socially
responsible institution. Furthermore, sustainable At HDFC Bank, we have adopted an enhanced
financing helps us improve our risk management and more comprehensive “ESG & Climate Change
practices by reducing exposure to environmentally Assessment” framework, as part of our overall credit
and socially risky assets as well as foster long-term assessment for wholesale corporate borrowers. Further,
relationships with clients who prioritise sustainability. the Bank has in place a “Sustainable Financing Criteria”
Framework (“the Framework”) to enhance our portfolio
We believe in Responsible Financing and, as a rule,
from a climate and ESG perspective.
do not fund projects that are part of our Prohibition
List owing to the negative impact on the environment,
health, and safety. Our goal is to make funding
available for environmentally viable projects that help
FY25 Performance
18.69 J4,94,140
% crore
Green and Social Financing Disbursed across Sustainable
Contribution to Total Finance Finance sectors in FY25
Customers Employees Vendors Government and Regulatory Bodies Investors & Shareholders Community
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
63
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
MATERIALITY
Management of Material Topic
Corporate Governance and Ethics
GRI topics: 2-9 to 2-23, 205, 206, 415
Capitals Impacted: F I H SR
Relevant Stakeholders:
At HDFC Bank, we believe strong corporate
Description of Impact
governance is fundamental to our long-term success.
We achieve this through a multi-pronged approach, (Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
prioritising transparency in disclosures and continuous
Our Corporate Governance philosophy is articulated
improvement in our governance structure. We
in our ESG framework, providing direction around the
maintain open communication channels for clear
cardinal principles of independence, accountability,
and consistent information disclosure, fostering trust
transparency, fair disclosures, responsibility and
amongst our stakeholders. Our commitment extends
credibility in the way we conduct our operations. We
beyond regulations, integrating ethical considerations
adhere to all relevant regulations, including the Indian
into daily operations. We have a fair and independent
Companies Act, Banking Regulation Act, and directives
Board that promotes responsible business practices
from RBI and SEBI. Our commitment extends beyond
taking into account, the economic, social, and
compliance, as evidenced by our policies and guidelines.
environmental aspects of our business.
We have policies on Antibribery and Anti-Corruption
and Code of Conduct that ensure ethical operations.
The Bank is committed to conducting its business in
a transparent and ethical manner in accordance with
the highest legal standards. We have a zero-tolerance
approach to bribery and corruption in all its forms. In
FY 25, there were 20 incidents of corruption, wherein
employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption.
The Bank implements multiple measures to detect and
prevent bribery and corruption in its operations. In FY 25,
97% of our total employees have undergone integrity
based training programmes.
FY25 Performance
7 out of 13
Independent Directors 97
%
Of our employees have undergone
23
% training on anticorruption policies and
Women Representation on the Board procedures
Customers Employees Vendors Government and Regulatory Bodies Investors & Shareholders Community
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
64
HDFC Bank Limited
How We Create Value
Systemic Risk Management
GRI topics: 2-25
Capitals Impacted: F I M H N SR
Relevant Stakeholders:
Effective risk management safeguards our financial
Description of Impact
health by identifying, assessing, and mitigating
potential losses from credit defaults, market (Reputational Risk, Potential Negative Impact)
fluctuations, liquidity issues, interest rate changes,
Effective risk management is crucial to safeguard our
and operational failures. Through the effective use
financial health and prevent systemic instability. As
of processes, information, and technology, we have
a result, our multi-layered risk management strategy
developed a multi-layered risk management strategy
actively identifies, assesses, and reports the risks
that identifies, assesses, monitors, and manages risks
inherent to our business operations to the appropriate
(credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk,
levels of management so that risk mitigation actions can
and operational risk). Our framework incorporates
be implemented.
a Board-approved Stress Testing Policy & System,
a vital component of our Internal Capital Adequacy Furthermore, we recognise the growing importance of
Assessment Process (ICAAP). Stress testing plays environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors.
a vital role in this assessment by simulating a variety Our ESG & Climate Change Assessment framework
of stressful, yet realistic scenarios to assess our helps us identify and mitigate potential ESG risks, and
vulnerability to extreme conditions. climate change threats associated with our borrowers
and their business operations.
Our independent risk management function ensures
objectivity and oversight. A robust risk assessment helps
us evaluate the likelihood and potential impact of each
risk. We then implement a combination of mitigation
techniques, such as setting credit limits, diversifying
loan portfolios, managing interest rate exposure and
implementing robust internal controls, to proactively
manage these risks.
FY25 Performance
12 Emerging Risk
Number of risks a) Geopolitical
identified b) Macroeconomic
Customers Employees Vendors Government and Regulatory Bodies Investors & Shareholders Community
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
65
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
MATERIALITY
Management of Material Topic
Financial Inclusion Digital Leadership
GRI topics: 203 GRI topics: 418
Capitals Impacted: SR F H Capitals Impacted: SR
Relevant Stakeholders: Relevant Stakeholders:
Financial inclusion is a pressing issue, and the Digital leadership allows us to innovate, improve
banking sector bears the responsibility of serving the efficiency, and enhance customer experience, offering
underbanked people in rural, semi-urban, urban and opportunities for growth and competitive advantage in
metropolitan India. We see this as an opportunity the digital era. We believe in our ability to consolidate
to broaden our reach and make our services more the market leadership in digital banking and
accessible to the poorest people across the country. ensuring the Bank is future-ready through continued
investments in technology and talent.
Description of Impact
Description of Impact
(Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
(Opportunity, Potential Positive Impact)
Financial inclusion at HDFC Bank goes beyond
traditional market expansion to offer opportunities By developing mobile banking applications and net
to tap into untapped markets. This fosters financial banking solutions, we have solidified our competitive
stability and economic participation at the individual edge and contributed to the transformation towards
and community level. While we continue to focus on a digital and connected economy. Our user-friendly
the Corporate Cluster and Government Business mobile apps and net banking interfaces not only
to increase penetration, our business segment of empower customers with 24/7 access but also
Commercial (MSME) and Rural Banking is well- facilitate accessibility, simplicity, and agility apart
positioned to capture the next wave of growth. from fostering financial inclusion and economic
These initiatives will focus on extending outreach growth for geographically isolated populations and
to unbanked segments, equipping them with the small businesses. Additionally, we are continuously
necessary tools for effective financial management developing newer innovative and digital financial
and increased economic engagement. products and services to further solidify our position as
a leader in the digital banking landscape.
FY25 Performance
FY25 Performance
2.35
lakh
97
Villages served in Semi Urban and %
Rural India Of our financial transactions are digital
51 86
% %
Branches opened in Semi urban Of our acquisitions are digital
and Rural Areas
Customers Employees Vendors Government and Regulatory Bodies Investors & Shareholders Community
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
66
HDFC Bank Limited
How We Create Value
Asset Quality Sustainable Procurement
GRI topics: 418 GRI topics: 204, 308, 414
Capitals Impacted: F M SR N Capitals Impacted: F M SR N
Relevant Stakeholders: Relevant Stakeholders:
HDFC Bank prioritises responsible asset management HDFC Bank implements a strategic approach to
practices throughout the loan lifecycle, contributing to procurement, integrating environmentally and socially
a sustainable financial system. Regularly monitoring responsible considerations into our procurement
and managing asset quality are essential for practices. This approach yields operational efficiency,
maintaining the Bank's financial stability and ensuring minimises waste generation, and reduces long-term
that we meet the obligations to depositors and operational expenditures for us.
other stakeholders.
Description of Impact
Description of Impact
(Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
(Reputational Risk, Potential Negative Impact)
As part of our ESG Policy Framework, we recognise
Asset quality is a fundamental risk for banks, directly the need to work closely with our suppliers to
impacting our financial stability. Our assets are reduce waste, improve efficiency, reduce carbon
essentially promises of future repayment. Weak footprint, and engage with them to understand
asset quality can lead to financial losses and trigger their commitment towards human rights and
a domino effect. This in turn can limit our ability to labour practices.
lend. In severe cases, very poor asset quality can
We will thus continue to work towards greater
even lead to disrupting the financial system and
integration of environmental & social considerations in
impacting depositors and the broader economy.
our procurement practices. The Bank will make efforts
Therefore, maintaining a high standard of asset
to procure products which are recycled, environment
quality is critical for us to ensure our own financial
friendly, energy-efficient, and locally sourced.
well-being and contribute to a healthy financial
system. As part of our Environmental, Social, and
Governance (ESG) Risk Management Framework,
we evaluate the environmental and social risks and
opportunities associated with our lending activities.
This analysis guides our lending decisions and
fosters client relationships that promote sustainable
business practices.
FY25 Performance
FY25 Performance
24
%
1.33
% Recycled paper of total stationery
Gross NPA ratio paper procured
Customers Employees Vendors Government and Regulatory Bodies Investors & Shareholders Community
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
67
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
MATERIALITY
Management of Material Topic
Customer Privacy and Data Security
GRI topics: 418
Capitals Impacted: SR F I M H
Relevant Stakeholders:
Being in the service sector, Information Security and
Description of Impact
Data Protection are of utmost importance to us. We
have implemented robust Information Security and (Cyber and Data Risk, Potential Negative Impact)
Data Protection measures to ensure that our data
We work in a highly automated environment and
protection practices strictly adhere to the Banking
use cutting-edge technology to support a variety of
Codes and Standards Board of India’s (BCSBI) ‘Code
operations with excessive dependence on service
of Bank’s Commitment to Customers’ and Employee
providers for cybersecurity. To avoid potential risks
and Customer Awareness Procedures. A Board-level
associated with system failures, cyberattacks, and
IT Strategy Committee, chaired by an IT Director,
information leaks, we have implemented dedicated
oversees these critical functions.
Information Security and Cyber Security Policies.
Furthermore, an independent assurance team within the
Internal Audit function of the Bank continually assesses
the effectiveness of our IT risk management strategies to
ensure business continuity.
FY25 Performance
Zero 100
%
Data breaches in FY 2024-25 Eligible employees mandated
to undergo cybersecurity training
Customers Employees Vendors Government and Regulatory Bodies Investors & Shareholders Community
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
68
HDFC Bank Limited
How We Create Value
Customer Satisfaction
GRI topics: 417, 418
Capitals Impacted: SR I H
Relevant Stakeholders:
At HDFC Bank, customer satisfaction is paramount.
Description of Impact
We achieve this through a customer-centric approach,
prioritising excellent service, personalised experiences (Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
and efficient solutions. Our customer-centric approach
We actively gather customer feedback through regular
caters to the financial goals of our customers while
satisfaction surveys, allowing us to use their valuable
providing them with insightful, relevant, contextualised,
input to continuously improve our products and services.
and hyper-personalised experiences, highlighting the
We adhere to RBI’s Customer Rights, Grievances
value we place on exceeding customer expectations,
Redressal, and Compensation Policy, ensuring fair
treatment for our customers. Moreover, we have multiple
convenient channels, including 24/7 telephone support,
intelligent customer service options, and visitor message
boards for customers to connect directly with the Bank.
FY25 Performance
70 28
lakh
Customer Satisfaction Score Feedback captured across key channels,
(NPS Score) critical episodes and key product journeys
Customers Employees Vendors Government and Regulatory Bodies Investors & Shareholders Community
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
69
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
MATERIALITY
Management of Material Topic
Employee Practices
GRI topics: : 2-7, 401, 402, 403, 404, 405, 406, 407, 408, 409, 410
Capitals Impacted: H
Relevant Stakeholders:
We believe our people are the cornerstone of our
Description of Impact
success. We strive to establish a positive working
atmosphere that encourages our employees' (Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
active development and engagement. We engage
Our dedication to strong Employee Practices creates a
employees through a variety of activities. Over the
ripple effect of positive and tangible benefits. We conduct
years, our seminars and contests have attracted
an annual employee survey to identify improvement
many participants.
areas, leading to initiatives that reduce stress, enhance
We have several codes and policies in place that purpose, and contribute to a positive work environment.
apply to all our employees. The Bank also offers a
The Bank is an equal opportunity employer, fostering
variety of benefits to its employees. Human capital
diversity and inclusion, and offering comprehensive
enhancement requirements are proactively assessed
benefits including parental leave, medical care, post
and implemented.
retirement support to all our employees. We offer
best-in-class employee training & development –
including through the MPower platform which enables
dissemination of proprietary content on diverse topics.
Target
To achieve gender diversity (% of women)
of 27% by FY27
Initiatives to achieve this target are described in ‘Social
-People’ chapter of the report
FY25 Performance
26.13 Healthy Workplace
%
Women in workforce Award 2024
(Gold Level)
Customers Employees Vendors Government and Regulatory Bodies Investors & Shareholders Community
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
70
HDFC Bank Limited
How We Create Value
Community-wellbeing
GRI topics: : 203-1, 413
Capitals Impacted: N SR
Relevant Stakeholders:
Building stronger communities is a core value at our
Description of Impact
Bank. We actively partner with local communities
to understand and address their needs. This (Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
engagement not only strengthens our relationships
We have identified the most disadvantaged sections of
with the community but also helps us identify potential
society around our areas of operation and are working to
initiatives. Our dedicated Board-level CSR & ESG
empower them to be self-reliant through our CSR brand
Committee oversees these initiatives, ensuring they
'Parivartan'.
make a measurable impact. Additionally, we believe
in aligning our efforts with government programs to
support the nation's overall growth and the well-being Target
of its citizens.
The Bank has considered multiple targets as part
of our Parivartan initiative, more details on this can
be found in the ‘Social - Communities’ chapter of
this report.
FY25 Performance
K1,068 10.56
crore crore
CSR Expenditure Number of beneficiaries
Customers Employees Vendors Government and Regulatory Bodies Investors & Shareholders Community
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
71
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
MATERIALITY
Management of Material Topic
Climate Change
GRI topics: : 201-2, 305
Capitals Impacted: N F I M H
Relevant Stakeholders:
HDFC Bank recognises the materiality of climate To communicate climate-related risks and opportunities,
change and its far-reaching impact on our we are implementing the Task Force on Climate-related
business. We are committed to developing and Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. We are
implementing proactive mitigation and adaptation assessing our resilience to physical and transition risks,
strategies including conducting comprehensive strengthening data collection on climate-related factors,
climate risk assessments to identify and manage and developing methodologies for risk assessment and
potential physical and transition risks impacting our scenario analysis. These efforts ensure we navigate the
business. By integrating sustainability criteria into our evolving low-carbon economy while mitigating our own
operations and credit analysis, we aim to contribute environmental impact.
to a low-carbon future while ensuring long-term
financial stability.
Target
Description of Impact To become carbon neutral in our own
operations by FY32
(Climate Risk, Potential Negative Impact)
Performance against the goal is elaborated in the
We have been tracking our carbon footprint since ‘Environment’ chapter of the IAR.
2010 and are committed to becoming carbon neutral
in our own operations by FY32.
FY25 Performance
0.59 5.96
million tCO e GJ/ K crore
2
GHG Emissions (Scope 1, 2 & 3) Revenue from operations Energy intensity
1.05 3.22
(tCO e/ K Cr Revenue from Operations %
2
GHG Emissions intensity (Scope 1 + 2) Renewable Energy Consumed
2.06
million GJ
Energy Consumption
Customers Employees Vendors Government and Regulatory Bodies Investors & Shareholders Community
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
72
HDFC Bank Limited
How We Create Value
Materiality Metrics for External Stakeholders
Impact Valuation
Financial Inclusion Customer Privacy and Data Security
Access to product/service with Quantified quality of
positive impact provided life impacted
HDFC Bank assesses how banking The Bank evaluates data breaches
access in 2.35 lakh villages enhances to protect customers from financial
economic participation and stability for losses and privacy violations,
rural communities, enabling financial preserving their trust and quality of life
management and reducing inequality. by avoiding economic harm.
Output Metric
Financial Inclusion Customer Privacy and Data Security
2.35 lakh villages with banking Zero data breaches in FY25, 100%
presence, 51% of branches in of eligible employees trained
semi-urban/rural areas in cybersecurity.
Impact Metric
Financial Inclusion Customer Privacy and Data Security
4.4% increase in rural We surveyed 30 lakh customers in
households with access to FY 2024-25, achieving a Net Promoter
financial services. Score (NPS) of 70.
73
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
STRATEGY IN ACTION
Future-Ready Strategies
for Enduring Impact
Post the merger of HDFC Limited with anchored in delivering consistent, risk- on enhancing value through four
and into HDFC Bank effective adjusted profitable growth. Execution strategic levers: people, customers,
July 1, 2023 the Financial Year remains a key strength— enabling technology and the power of our
2024–25 marked the first full year of deeper customer engagement, group. Robust governance and risk
operations as a merged institution, technology-led efficiency gains, management practices continue to be
and we are seeing synergies take a synergy realisation and stable the cornerstone of this journey.
visible form. Our strategy remains asset quality. We remain focused
What we have — positioned to consistently create value
What we have Create incremental value Priorities to drive
Harness
Onboarding Growth Employee first
people
strategy
capabilities
At-scale Customer The Next Customer
Customer first
distribution engagement 3-5 Years service
Continue
Robust risk Capture
Technology Technology first
management Macro share
Excellence
Attractive macro- Power of
variables the Group
7744
HHDDFFCC BBaannkk LLiimmiitteedd
Our Strategy
India’s economy remained resilient through a year of global volatility, supported
by stable fundamentals, a strong regulatory framework and improving inflation
dynamics. Growth of 6.5 per cent was aided by domestic demand, infrastructure
build-out and rural momentum. The demand for trusted financial intermediation
continues to evolve and HDFC Bank remains well-placed to meet this need
through its distribution. The Bank is well positioned to cater to demand across
the GDP spectrum backed by its strong brand franchise.
Our employees are central to our As digital adoption accelerates, relationships. By leveraging digital
execution strength. The Bank technology remains integral to our tools and collaboration, we aim to
continues to embed its managerial strategy. We continue to invest in enrich our customer proposition—
behaviour architecture—Nurture, secure, scalable enterprise platforms harnessing the power of the group.
Care and Collaborate—to strengthen that strengthen our Core. The These priorities underpin our ten-pillar
on-ground experience of culture. merger has significantly enhanced strategy and position us for consistent,
We remain committed to customer HDFC Bank Group’s ability to offer stable and sustainable growth
centricity with sharper focus on comprehensive financial solutions
service quality, speed and trust. to deepen and lengthen customer
Branch Channel Government Wealth Technology Digital
Engagement and and Institutional Management and Digital Marketing
Virtual Relationship (G&I) Business
Management (VRM)
Payments Retail Mortgage Commercial Corporate
Business Assets Assets and Rural Cluster
Cluster
Customer Service Strengthening Effective Risk Zero Paper, Zero People Learning
Culture
and Experience Compliance Management Touch Operations and Development
75
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
STRATEGY IN ACTION
Branch Channel with customers and capture their
Engagement & Virtual feedback to serve them better. We
aim to provide holistic and need-
Relationship Management
based financial solutions by leveraging
(VRM)
our diverse range of products and
Branch Channel Engagement services. Our strategic imperatives
Leveraging technology, our branches enabling re-imagining the role and
are transitioning into engagement architecture of Retail Branch Banking
centres for meaningful conversations are explained below:
Micro market focused multi
format distribution science
Growth segments: Customer Lifecycle
Rural, Government Engagement
Strategic
Al Analytics
Imperatives
Digital driven customer
Transformation conversations (Next
Best Action)
Customer life Service First
centric insight led
propositions
76
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
Micro-market Focused Multi Digital-led Service First
Format Distribution Organisation
We are transforming branch banking We focus on voice of customer-
into a multi-format model based on a led process improvements and
granular micro market approach. This digitalisation. Some of the key
involves using a multi-variate model improvements include differentiated
to identify high potential markets, and priority servicing for senior
considering factors such as population citizens and High Net Worth (HNW)
demographics, deposits and customers, real-time deliverable
advances data, delinquency insights, tracking and regular alerts to
climate risk assessments and future customers on processing milestones.
trends. Branch formats may vary We continue to embed and enhance
from full service physical branches Customer Lifecycle customer digital journeys including
to Smart Banking Lobbies or Digital Engagement and AI driven Insta Service Journeys, in sales,
Banking Units (DBUs) with self-service Customer Conversations service and operations. Mobile-
kiosks as well as through Business first approach leveraging Aadhaar
We leverage our extensive branch
Correspondents (BCs). We closely and ‘Walk Out Working’ (WOW)
network as engagement centres to
track profitability and break-even straight through journeys are some
have high impact conversations with
for each format to ensure targeted of the initiatives that are helping us
customers to partner with them over
investments and cost-effectiveness. achieve significant benefits in terms
the long term. We source the right
By expanding our presence in of improved customer experience.
customers through a differentiated
identified locations through multiple With a digital-first mission, we are
go-to-market approach and engage
formats, we not only increase our unlocking operational efficiencies and
in need-based conversations offering
catchment area but also benefit cost savings while delivering customer
tailored product propositions.
from the network effects. Therefore, delight. Going forward, we aim to build
Our relationship management
we continue to invest in expanding a paperless retail experience through
architecture ensures continuous
our presence in identified locations a bouquet of customer-centric digital
nurturing and implementation of
through multiple formats. journeys that make banking simple.
next best actions aimed at fulfilling
customer needs. With a 'service first
Bank’s Distribution Network culture', we leverage robust analytics Launched in FY25
and AI to suggest personalised
(As on March 31, 2025) recommendations based on customer − Phased roll out of new Net
− Branches: 9,455 (Including transactions and digital behaviour and MobileBanking
international branches and for services and products. This
DBUs) also allows for validation from the
Rural Business Growth Levers
− ATMs / CRMs: 21,139 Relationship Manager which then
results in recommendations for the We develop curated propositions to
− Cities / Towns: 4,150
next best action for each customer. address the specific needs of Semi-
− 51 per cent of our branches are Relationship Managers are also Urban and Rural (SURU) markets.
in Semi-Urban and Rural areas equipped with real-time data for In FY24, we introduced 'Vishesh
immediate next best actions based Banking Programme,' an industry-first
on customer interactions. We are now rural-focused customer managed
looking to enter the next leg of this programme. It provides customised
journey by leveraging the account benefits like complimentary health
aggregator model and Generative AI check-up facility, tele consultation with
capabilities to ensure that we have the doctor, free gold valuation, discounted
right proposition for the right customer pricing on loan processing fees
at the right time. and free subscription to Agri-Tech
77
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
STRATEGY IN ACTION
Virtual Care ensures seamless,
round-the-clock support for major
retail banking products, delivered
through voice- and text-based
channels for service continuity
and convenience.
Our Virtual Relationship Managers
engage with customers across the
entire lifecycle—spanning savings,
investments, borrowing and
transactions—through an integrated,
digital-first model. This framework
app with discounted products and across segments and is steadily
combines relationship expertise with
services. To expand our rural reach, emerging as a preferred channel for
a suite of digital tools including Video
we utilise business correspondents millions of retail banking customers.
KYC, web chat, EVA (the Bank’s
and innovative models like the Bank
Our Virtual Relationship Management AI-enabled chatbot) and service
on Wheels. Additionally, we engage
(VRM) strategy is anchored in digital interfaces on platforms such as
customers through financial literacy
convenience and personalised, need- Facebook Messenger.
programmes and opinion leader
based engagement. It is built on three
engagements to foster deeper We continue to enhance customer-
pillars—Virtual Relationship, Virtual
relationships and recognise their facing capabilities through upgraded
Sales and Virtual Care—each
contribution to society through an Interactive Voice Response (IVR)
tailored to serve distinct customer
acknowledgement initiative known as systems and multilingual Voice BOT
segments through targeted digital
'Samman Samaroh'. Collaborating solutions, ensuring seamless access
interventions. Virtual Relationship
with partners such as Farmer to key banking services round the
serves our managed customer base
Producer Organisations (FPOs) and clock. These tools are designed to
through proactive, personalised
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises support consistent and personalised
engagement. It includes our Video
(MSMEs) enables active engagement engagement at scale.
KYC team, which facilitates secure
with the entire ecosystem in a
digital onboarding and verification. Our VRM strategy is powered by
comprehensive manner.
a highly trained talent pool. Virtual
Virtual Sales focuses on the broader
People Capability Building Relationship Managers undergo
retail base, offering relevant products
structured programmes covering
All the aforesaid initiatives and services digitally—enhancing
product knowledge, sales techniques,
and reimagined approach are engagement and driving relationship
customer communication, compliance
complemented by a strong focus on value across segments.
and regulatory frameworks. These
our people capability building using
efforts are backed by secure,
the Nurture, Care and Collaborate
IVR Offered in
automated systems designed to
approach. We are investing in
12 languages uphold customer data privacy and
innovative ways of learning and
operational integrity.
capability development using internal
and external partners and technology- Video KYC offered in The channel is further strengthened
enabled platforms. 6 languages through analytics-led product
Virtual Relationship distribution and digitally enabled
Management service journeys. This ensures timely,
relevant engagement and supports
Our VRM model integrates advanced
the Bank’s positioning as a full-service
technology with human expertise
financial partner to its retail customers.
to deliver consistent, secure and
personalised banking at scale. It
enables deeper customer engagement
78
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
Government and it works with various bodies to HDFC Bank’s efforts were recognised
Institutional (G&I) Business support development of new areas by the Department of Pension &
by aiding land monetisation. The Pensioners' Welfare (DoPPW) under
Our efforts to grow the Government,
Bank has facilitated digitalisation of the Digital Life Certificate Campaigns
Institutional & Start–Up businesses
payments associated with the land 2.0 and 3.0 for achieving a 99 per cent
gathered further momentum in the
acquisition process by aiding district update rate for eligible life certificates
Financial Year 2024–25. The key pillars
level government authorities to in FY 2024–25.
of growth for the business are:
expedite beneficiary identification and
Building new economy
Market Leadership in Agency related disbursements.
businesses – Investing for the
Business
At the state level, the Bank partners future
The Bank continues to be a leader with parastatals to improve revenue
The Bank remains committed to
in the agency business, ranking generation by facilitating online
supporting the Startup ecosystem
among the top three Agency Banks tenders, auctions and collections. It
and recognises its role in shaping
for direct and indirect tax collections. works with over ten state governments
the nation’s economic growth. In
Additionally, it has begun sourcing to enable efficient revenue collection
FY 2024–25, several new initiatives
accounts under the Senior Citizens and provides workflow-based
were launched in collaboration
Savings Scheme, a part of the solutions to streamline collections and
with both public and private sector
National Small Savings Schemes disbursements for these entities.
partners to fuel this ecosystem. The
initiative by the Ministry of Finance,
Disbursing funds to the Bank revamped its overall products
Government of India.
last mile to be not just best-in-class but also
HDFC Bank market share in future-ready, addressing the evolving
With a 12 per cent year-on-year
FY 2024-25 needs of new economy businesses. It
growth in total flows processed, the
also entered the payments aggregator
Goods & Service Bank enabled the transfer of over 36
~17% cross-border business, onboarding
Tax Collections per cent of the total funds disbursed
its first client in this space as an AD-1
Custom & Excise ~18% by the Central Government to
Duty Collections Bank. Further, the Bank introduced
beneficiaries under various Centrally
Direct Tax GIGA—a specially designed
~25% Sponsored Schemes, Central Sector
Collections programme for the fast-growing
Schemes and the 15th Finance
gig economy, covering the entire
Leveraging Our Distribution Commission. In total, the Bank
spectrum from blue-collar to white-
Network to Deepen Reach disbursed more than H90,000 crore
collar work—at the Global Fintech
across these schemes.
Given its large distribution franchise Festival in August 2024.
and its coverage in semi–urban and Enhanced focus on serving
Looking ahead, the Bank aims to
rural areas, HDFC Bank has emerged those who have served the
further deepen its engagement across
as a trusted partner to district and nation.
the Government and Institutional
local level administrations in addition
The Bank revamped its product ecosystem by expanding its digital
to the central and state governments.
offerings and overall engagement footprint, co-creating customised
Leveraging technology to offer right fit strategy to provide customer delight solutions with government bodies and
solutions, it has helped digitalisation of to pensioners through 5,000 branches enhancing last-mile service delivery
many Gram Panchayats by enabling which are enabled to offer SPARSH through its robust distribution network
collection of local taxes through QR. services to defence pensioners. In
Likewise, in urban areas the Bank addition, the Bank provides Form 16
has collaborated with all tiers of to pensioners basis its automated
municipal bodies from corporations, workflows and has facilitated the
councils to nagar panchayats to submission of Life certificates digitally
aid digital collection and enhance to Government of India’s Jeevan
customer convenience. In addition, Praman Portal.
79
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
STRATEGY IN ACTION
Wealth Management Client engagement, portfolio servicing HDFC Bank’s wide range of
and Net Promoter Score are key investment offerings successfully
In the Financial Year 2024-25, the
business performance assessment adapt to the changing economic
team of over 1,000 Sales and Service
measures. The Bank’s Service First landscape to manage and create
experts has focused on extending
Culture has led to an NPS score of 87 wealth for clients, with ‘Protect.
wealth services to clients ranging
in 2024-25 which is one of the highest Manage. Grow.’ being an essential
from Ultra-HNW to Mass Affluent
in the industry. cornerstone of the brand identity.
client segments.
With this segment specific focus, the
HDFC Bank was adjudged as ‘India's
Bank has been consistent in growing
Best for HNW’ in the Euromoney
market share and emerging as one
Private Banking Awards 2025. In the
of the largest Wealth Managers in the
Global Private Banking Awards 2024
country. With the help of over 100
organised by Professional Wealth
Investor Education Initiatives including
Management (PWM)- a Financial
having fund managers as expert guest
Times publication - HDFC Bank was
speakers, the Bank has been able to
adjudged the Best Private Bank
significantly expand its presence in
in India.
the country, covering tier II & III cities
The Bank has made continuous and as well.
incremental efforts to generate as well
HDFC Bank has endeavoured to
as quantify the alpha delivered in each
become the market leader across all
client’s portfolio. In 2025, 87 per cent
investor segments through curated
of the Bank’s clients had generated a
offering in each segment.
positive alpha with the median client
Technology & Digital
alpha at 2.6 per cent. The aim is to − For Ultra-HNW clients, it has
Shift Right, Build Forward:
incorporate alpha in all client reports more than doubled the number
Architecting the Intelligent Core
and portfolio reviews. of products referred on the
Bank’s platform The Financial Year 2024-25 was
With a sales force of over 850
− Keeping Super-Affluent clients in a significant year in HDFC Bank’s
supported by over 150 service staff
mind, it has introduced State-of- technology evolution – one where
and over 100 Investment Analysts,
the-art Wealthfy reports that provide foundational decisions around
HDFC Bank has the largest number of
detailed portfolio diagnostics architecture, intelligence and resilience
Wealth bankers in the country. With an
and analysis. began converging into a long-term
increase in manpower, the Bank has
operating model. The Bank moved
made consistent efforts to provide the − It has developed an advanced
beyond the product upgrade thought
best education and training to private unassisted digital investment
process to define a platform-led, data
bankers. By conducting intensive platform - SmartWealth that enables
powered, secure digital core – capable
training sessions in collaboration with clients to track their portfolios
of scaling experiences, insights and
top-ranked business schools such and make investments through
systems cohesively.
as Indian Institute of Management at access to goal-based investment
Ahmedabad and Bangalore, the Bank recommendations. With highly The 'Shift Right’ strategy, now deeply
has groomed our in-house talent. intuitive client experience and institutionalised, has helped reframe
gamification of client journeys, this how HDFC Bank builds. It has steered
Service First culture is the central pillar
mobile first platform aims to provide the Bank towards a customer-
for business as HDFC Bank focuses
access to the Bank’s research aligned modular and API-first digital
on service led sales by prioritising
to all Mass affluent clients. It has foundation. This shift is not cosmetic—
client delight and relationship banking.
more than six lakh downloads and it is structural, influencing every layer
Service Quality is an essential part of
nearly four lakh clients onboarded of the Bank’s technology stack.
RM scorecards and Supervisor KPIs.
on SmartWealth.
80
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
Financial Year 2024-25 saw several
milestones. The migration of its
Core Banking System to a next
gen engineered platform delivered
enhanced performance, agility and
scalability. IMPS Inwards, the first
deployment under the ‘Lighten the
Core’ strategy, marked the beginning
of transition away from monolithic
systems to microservices-led,
cloud-adaptive modules. These
investments will shape the scale and
responsiveness of future banking.
Our new Net and MobileBanking
platforms have been engineered for
attack surface monitoring and to influence, educate, transact, and
high performance, intuitive navigation
infrastructure hardening continue to retain. Across every touchpoint—from
and advanced security to deliver a
ensure that our expansion is grounded social stories to service journeys—our
smarter, more seamless experience
in resilience and trust. goal is singular: to create meaningful,
across digital fulfilment and customer
data-led and delightful experiences for
engagements. The platforms are being Looking Ahead
every customer, every day.
rolled to our customers in phases
A key evolution in the Bank’s
and have received an encouraging 1. Social: From Content to
technology roadmap is the structured
response across the spectrum. Conversation
adoption of Generative AI.
HDFC Bank advanced its Enterprise Social media isn’t just where our
We see GenAI as an accelerator—
Data Lake initiative to centralise data customers are—it’s where our brand
not in isolation, but as a layer
across critical systems, enabling comes alive and earns love. With over
that catalyses our transformation
scalable analytics, improved data 21 lakh followers across platforms
strategy. Our approach focuses on
quality and streamlined governance and a standout IP like Vigil Aunty,
solving enterprise-wide challenges
aligned with regulatory standards. The HDFC Bank has become one of the
through a 'Class of Problems'
Bank’s API orchestration framework few financial institutions to own a
methodology—identifying repeatable
matured significantly, enabling cultural voice. Vigil Aunty, our social
use cases where GenAI can improve
scalable and secure integration media influencer who educates
documentation, servicing, decision
across channels and partners. customers about digital frauds, is
support, and knowledge workflows.
The groundwork has been laid for more than a campaign—she’s a
Banking-as-a-Service (BaaS) where Digital Marketing consumer advocate, a trust-builder
banking capabilities are delivered as and a household name with 8 lakh
In today’s connected India, where
composite service and stitched into followers on WhatsApp. Beyond her,
every swipe and scroll signals
digital ecosystems in real time. we consistently activate moment
opportunity, HDFC Bank’s digital
marketing— rooting our stories in
At the same time, cybersecurity strategy is not just a marketing lever—
Indian culture, current events and
and governance architectures were it is a transformation engine. Over
customer-centric themes to drive
strengthened through Zero Trust the past few years, the Bank has
brand relevance in real-time.
controls, advanced monitoring silently and systematically rewritten
systems and cloud-native security the rules of engagement, building a
tooling. Investments in secure access, digital marketing ecosystem designed
81
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
STRATEGY IN ACTION
This approach has translated into Across journeys, we integrate Whether it’s performance marketing
tangible impact, with brand love on interactive explainer videos, on Google and Meta or full-funnel
social media, growing by 56 per cent personalised nudges and live support campaigns across email, social,
in the past year. fallback to ensure every visitor, and in-app journeys, our approach
assisted or unassisted gets the to paid marketing is grounded in
We’ve also started using reels and
help they need. solving real problems for real people.
video-first formats to simplify complex
Powered by AI/ML and customer
banking actions—like setting up 3. Analytics: The Brain Behind
intelligence we optimise for high-
auto-debit, checking loan eligibility or the Experience
intent, high-ROI growth across the full
upgrading account features—serving
What sets our digital ecosystem apart customer lifecycle.
self-learners and assisted users alike.
is how deeply it is intertwined with
This is where visual service design Our digital strategy is incomplete
analytics. Using cloud-based AI/ML
meets content. without advocacy. Whether it's
tools, we decode customer behaviour,
resolving queries swiftly on social
2. Website: The New Branch preferences and needs. These insights
media, sharing user testimonials,
Front Door help us curate hyper-personalised
or activating online reputation
content, sharpen campaign precision
The Bank’s website is not just a static management, our aim is to create
and even shape product interventions.
information board—it is an intelligent, vocal champions. And all this sits
From hypothesis testing to funnel
high-conversion, customer-first engine. atop a rock-solid foundation of
drop-off fixes, our analytics muscle
With 146 crore visits in FY 2024-25, IT governance and data security
helps us move from guesswork to
our website has become the primary ensuring that trust is not compromised
growth. And most critically, it allows
entry point for lakhs of product in the pursuit of scale.
us to deliver the right message, at the
journeys. With intuitive navigation,
right time, through the right channel. Every lever—social, site, media,
optimised user flows, and mobile-
analytics, content, and service—is
first design, it seamlessly transforms The objective is that it helps
being orchestrated to serve the
curiosity into action. Further, over customers feel heard before they
customer first. And as we scale, we’re
19 crore visits were recorded for our speak and this helps us to make
doubling down on videos, voice,
Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) service intelligent, not reactive.
vernacular and virtual handholding to
forms. These demonstrate how
4. Digital Sales: Orchestrated,
give customers a better experience.
customers are increasingly completing
Omni-Channel, Outcome-
full purchase journeys digitally without Focused Our digital marketing ambition is bold
stepping into a branch. yet simple: To be India’s most loved,
Our cross functional PODs don’t
trusted and digital-first Bank.
just build campaigns—they build
outcomes across every customer
segment. We’ve achieved a key
milestone with unassisted digital
channels now contributing 20 per
cent to 45 per cent of overall business
across core products like credit cards,
personal loans, savings accounts and
lending journeys.
82
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
From Awareness to Advocacy: Deepening the Dialogue
Payments Business Our payment products play a is on delivering solutions that
central role in deepening customer enhance everyday convenience and
HDFC Bank’s strategy revolves
relationships and strengthening the contribute to customers’ long-term
around the opportunities in the
Bank’s position across both asset growth journeys.
payment’s ecosystem and the vibrant
and liability products. The endeavour
Indian economy. Our Credit card business continues
to be a leader on many fronts.
Equipped with a comprehensive
Having built best in class products
bouquet of products and services,
and platforms over the last two
our payments business offers end-
decades we continue to maintain
to-end solutions designed to cater to
our leadership position with more
a wide range of customer segments
than two crore customers. A wide
across multiple geographies within
range of proprietary and co-branded
and outside India. Our capabilities
card products ( including UPI
are built to serve customers on both
based) backed by strong customer
the issuing and acceptance sides.
service across the physical and
The products are designed to cater
digital mediums, has ensured that
to the unique payment requirements
we continue to build momentum by
of several customer segments and
issuing more than five lakh cards every
industries, at scale.
month on average.
83
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
STRATEGY IN ACTION
Commercial cards which are used ensuring that we onboard small, The Bank’s MyCards platform which
by various business entities to medium and large businesses to is a one stop platform to manage
cater to multiple expenses around accept multiple payment form factors HDFC Bank Credit & Debit Cards,
travel, entertainment, procurement which include Cards, UPI, Central FASTag and Consumer Durable
and statutory payments has also Bank Digital Currency and Wallets. loans continued to grow at a rapid
been a key area of focus for the pace. More than 3.5 crore customers
Equipped with ‘Vyapar’, our Digital
Bank’s payments business. With an (growth of 63 per cent) were added
Acceptance App Platform, we
experience of more than two decades in FY25. The platform continues to
continue to maintain our leadership
of catering to SMEs and large be enriched through addition of new
position in the acceptance
corporates, our payments business features at regular intervals.
business serving more than 30 lakh
offers unique payment solutions
merchant establishments. SmartHub ‘Vyapar’ is a merchant app
to various industries like aviation,
platform that provides retail merchants
travel and insurance. By leveraging Our wide array of products gives
with payment confirmation alerts, daily
advanced data analytics, we identify us the ability to serve our merchant
settlement reports, service support,
traditional payment flows and migrate partners to collect timely payments
access to loans, insurance and
them to a convenient as well as through the offline as well as the online
business growth features through third
seamless digital payment flow thereby medium. Our product suite which
party service providers. HDFC Bank
helping customers manage their includes Online Payment Gateways
continued to witness widespread
payments in a more efficient manner. for collecting payments via Cards,
adoption with more than 19 lakh
Net-Banking and UPI is well designed.
Our commercial payment solutions merchants on Vyapar as on March
It is not only designed to meet the
have found wide acceptance across 2025 with over 23 crore transactions
needs of start-ups as well as large
the industry ensuring that we are the per month.
businesses but also to cater to the
market leaders not only on an overall
growing requirements of various Further, the Bank launched PayZapp
basis but also on an individual basis
associations, trusts, religious and 2.0 a comprehensive mobile payment
across multiple segments.
government institutions. commerce app in March 2023.
The Bank is a leading issuer of Debit PayZapp supports a complete range
We also have the full array of products
Cards with more than five crore debit of payments from Credit Cards, Debit
catering to our merchant partners
cards in force. The spend per card Cards, Wallet and UPI with customers
enabling them to seamlessly collect
is 3x of the industry average, thereby getting the choice of form factor to
payments in the offline world. We
reflecting the superior profile of the make payments at merchant stores
support collection of payments
Bank’s customers. using Scan, Tap or at Swipe. The
with both Cards and UPI through
app has reached the milestone of 1.6
In addition to Credit and Debit Cards, the ubiquitous POS terminals
crore registrations in FY25 and over 50
the bank also offers a wide range of and also are a leading player in
lakh active users per month. PayZapp
Prepaid Cards for use by individuals the UPI dominated QR payment
is currently among the top-rated
and corporates. These cards can acceptance. Our product range is
payments applications in the country.
be used across multiple merchant flexible and complemented with the
categories in India as well as overseas. latest technology to accommodate ‘SmartGateway’, a unified payment
customisation requirements. platform for online merchants was
Our Acceptance Business which is
launched in February 2024 with the
spread across the length and breadth Innovation has been a constant theme
objective of fortifying Bank's market
of the country has been a significant across the payments business. The
share in the merchant acquiring
contributor to the digital payment’s Financial Year 2024-25 saw HDFC
business. SmartGateway enables our
growth in the country. Over the last Bank making significant progress in its
merchants to collect payments with
few decades we have continued to recent initiatives.
over 150 methods and assists them in
invest and grow this business by
maximising their sales with a best-
84
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
in-class success rate. The platform By offering a comprehensive, secure of products for both personal and
provides an insightful dashboard and convenient digital experience, business needs.
powered by smart analytics and will the Bank has positioned itself as the
The Bank’s strategy is to continually
empower our merchants to provide a go-to financial partner. This will drive
enhance digital offerings across all
frictionless check out experience to higher digital adoption and long-term
retail assets. This is done in line with
their customers. customer loyalty.
its risk appetite and the objective
Given the Bank’s strong franchise Furthermore, customer experience of maintaining consistently strong
on the issuance as well as the is being transformed through portfolio quality. The focus on digital
acceptance side, it also leverages advanced conversational AI, intelligent distribution and increasing the
its network of consumers and automation and seamless service unassisted sourcing through Xpress
merchants to enable affordable and sales journeys via ChatBanking Personal Loan, Xpress Business
solutions. The Bank has a very strong on WhatsApp. Caller experience Loan, Xpress Auto Loan, Loan Against
consumer finance programme helping at PhoneBanking continues to Shares / Mutual Funds and Gold Loan
consumers to purchase goods and get enhanced via optimised menu will continue.
services complementing their lifestyle. options for IVR and Voice Bot
Introduction of new workflow system
based transactions.
The Bank continues to focus on for Gold Loan, will bring in enhanced
sustainable growth strategies, Retail Assets customer experience. HDFC Bank
emphasising on resilience and holistic continuously strives to acquire new
The Bank has been among the
impacts. Its digital strategy is aligned customers with best-in-class asset
top two market players across all
to enhance customer engagement offerings. The indigenous digital
the asset categories relating to
across all touchpoints of the Bank. journey not only enables existing
personal finance and continues to
customers but also seamlessly
As an extension of our digital strategy, maintain its lead position through a
propels business from new customers.
there has been a phased roll out combination of both secured and
of a completely new and refreshed unsecured lending business. Its The Bank is advancing towards the
MobileBanking and NetBanking strategy entails a comprehensive development of a centralised GenAI
platform which will be extended approach to ensure sustainable platform to ensure consistency,
further. The existing platforms cater growth and maintain impeccable quality, security, compliance,
to more than three crore customers asset quality. HDFC Bank's strength scalability and innovation. A unified
and the new platforms are designed has been to continuously look for new platform offers significant advantages,
with a user-friendly interface and opportunities and build up business primarily in establishing and enforcing
best-in-class security, for seamless propositions to cater to every segment security and compliance guardrails
and secure customer experiences. of the industry. There is an array with auditability and observability.
These platforms will serve as the
The large, existing customer base
primary digital touchpoint, deepening
provides a fertile ground for future
customer engagement across all
growth. The Bank would continue to
banking and financial services.
provide products and offer solutions
With intuitive navigation and robust
for customers’ needs based on its
functionality, they aim to become
rich understanding of their profile. This
the preferred platforms for everyday
would bring in higher engagement
financial transactions. Customers
through the internal channels viz.,
will have a unified platform for UPI
branch network and virtual team.
payment, bill payments, investments,
loans, cards and more, further
simplifying their financial lives.
85
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
STRATEGY IN ACTION
Both the channels put together would The Bank has expanded its branch HDFC Bank’s delinquency levels have
reduce the overall cost of sourcing network and would capitalise on the been one of the lowest, with a large
and improve the Cost to Income Ratio. same by increasing offerings and portion of the customers having better
deepening presence in emerging credit scores. Its robust processes
While HDFC bank continues to
geographies. By leveraging and controls have managed the risk
innovate and enhance digital offerings,
partnerships with Business associated with varied asset lending.
it has also ensured robust analytics
Correspondents and Business The way forward is to continue to offer
and risk management capabilities
Facilitators, the credit offtake shall loans seamlessly across geographies,
to back these offerings. Risk
witness a further lift especially expanding reach in Semi-Urban and
Management is at the core of the
in the deeper and under-served Rural markets for deeper penetration
Bank’s product offerings with robust
geographies. This will further the and maintaining the leadership in
underwriting mechanisms in place.
cause of financial inclusion. urban areas.
It ensures prudent pricing across all
products factoring in the risk.
with improved turnaround time and
in person customer connect is a
potential game changer in terms of
both turnover and cross-sell.
As a part of enhancing the cross-
sell strategy, home loan customers
are now able to avail of a wide range
of products/services like Deposits,
Consumer Durable Loans, Credit
Cards, Wealth Advisory Product,
Unsecured Loans and other
retail loans.
Savings Accounts for incremental
home loan customers has moved to
over 95 per cent from pre-merger
levels of 35 per cent. This sets the
Mortgage Assets HDFC Bank’s network of foundation for a stronger connect with
The merger of HDFC Limited with branches across the country, incremental customers and the Bank
and into HDFC Bank has been digital touchpoints, complete continues to focus on establishing
transformational for the Bank. It has product range and superior deeper banking relationships
now emerged as a Bank with one of technology. This synergy with them.
has positioned the Bank to
the largest home loan portfolios in
In addition to this, HDFC Bank’s
offer best-in-class home loan
the country.
strategy is to improve the focus on
offerings to existing and new
It is offering home loans to customers customers. A wholesome the self-employed category which will
as a complete package riding on product offering combined further increase opportunity in this
86
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
segment. Post-merger, the Bank has generator for it in the future. HDFC
launched and expanded its product Bank sees this potential, as trends
basket through banking surrogate shift from pre-crop working capital
programmes as well as leveraging its financing to agri infrastructure
knowledge for better assessment of financing. Further as envisioned,
such profiles for home loans. it has built a strong portfolio of
diverse offerings across high income
The gross retail mortgages stood at
agri products such as dairy and
H8,35,656.46 crore as compared to
horticulture. Under agriculture finance,
H7,74,406.33 crore in the previous year.
HDFC Bank currently has a presence
The Bank believes that due to in 2.35 lakh villages and aims to
government focus and a favourable penetrate more in these villages to
institutional framework and further build the portfolio. It currently
ecosystem, the fundamental demand holds the number one position in the
for housing loans will continue to be transportation finance business. While
strong in the long run in India. As transport and healthcare businesses. it continues to innovate and enhance
the nation's growth story unfolds, The Bank is committed to resolving digital offerings, the Bank has ensured
HDFC Bank is fully geared to meet challenges such as limited credit robust analytics and risk management
home loan demand and continue to access, high borrowing costs and capabilities to back these offerings.
be a preferred home loan provider collateral constraints that are faced Risk Management is at the core of
in the country with the best-in-class by this sector. HDFC Bank’s lending product offerings. Further there will be
product solutions and world class activities under this segment play a offerings in new and under-penetrated
customer service. significant role in meeting the Priority equipment category as well as
Sector Lending (PSL) obligations. non-equipment financing. HDFC
Commercial and
Bank will leverage its strong OEM
The goals of the commercial and rural
Rural Cluster relationships, common distribution
cluster are three-fold:
channels, geographies and customer
The Commercial and Rural Cluster
(1) To increase PSL lending base across the existing portfolio and
caters to a diverse range of entities
presence. As the Bank continues to
including Micro, Small and Medium (2) To grow the book
digitalise a major part of this cluster,
Enterprises (MSMEs), Joint Liability
(3) To generate income while digitalisation and digital journeys will
and Self-Help Groups in the
maintaining portfolio quality emerge as key growth enablers.
microfinance segment. It further
serves the needs of small and The Bank’s PSL lending comprises HDFC Bank is digitalising customer
marginal farmers, healthcare finance, 40.4 per cent of our total book net touchpoints, document collection
equipment finance and commercial of PSLC and organic book is 41.7 processes, sales service and others.
transport companies. Under this per cent. It has enabled self-service digital
cluster, the Bank’s aim is to support capabilities across all the branches.
It has in place a robust growth
the growth and success of MSMEs The Bank has connected to direct
strategy for all major offerings. In
by providing access to credit and data source including government
MSME segment, the Bank already has
other financial solutions and services. sites to get the information in a
a strong presence across all states,
HDFC Bank caters to MSMEs in digital way. Going forward, the Bank
with a leading market share in 14 of
manufacturing, exports, retail and further aims to build capabilities
them and securing a position among
wholesale trade, supply chain network for digital underwriting through
top 3 in 21 states. HDFC Bank is now
and infrastructure companies. data management and APIfication.
building in granularity by targeting
It also meets the needs of farmer The cluster is in a good position
district-level leadership.
finance, commercial agriculture, joint to capitalise on the immense
liability and self-help groups under The Bank continues to pursue market potential.
microfinance. Further it serves the agricultural financing and considers
needs of commercial equipment and the portfolio an important wallet
87
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
STRATEGY IN ACTION
Corporate Cluster
Shareholders
Corporate Cluster is one of the key
Dividend Distribution
pillars for the Bank. The customer
base spans prominent and large
Government Channel
business houses, Multi-National
Statutory Payments Supply Chain Finance
Corporations (MNCs), manufacturing
and service sector companies, public
sector enterprises and financial Cross Border
institutions, amongst others. The Employees Corporate Vendors
Salary
Bank’s focus is on holistic corporate Ecosystem • Trade
Empanelment
engagement and caters to them by • Cross Border
extending credit as well as other Transactions
banking products and solutions that
Balance Sheet
assist corporations in managing their
Support
entire financial business cycle. The Customers
Working Capital &
corporate touchpoints encompass the • Digital
Term Lending
gamut of the banking needs including Integrations
Suppliers/Dealers
working capital and term loans at the • API Integrations
Cash Management
inception of a project, operational • H2H
solutions such as cash management,
supply-chain integration, international
HDFC Bank endeavours to leverage banking, viz, cash management,
trade financing and payment solutions
its strong relationships with existing payments and trade solutions.
such as tax management and
customers to increase wallet share. Supply chain financing is also a key
payroll management.
This entails deepening share within growth driver for the Bank. This is
HDFC Bank’s comprehensive range existing products as well as designing being bolstered through the use of
of products and services along with effective solutions across their needs technology such as a supply chain
its relationship-based approach to increase their product holding. In platform that acts as a one-stop shop
provides a competitive advantage. addition, the Bank is also focusing for transaction needs, as well as the
While the focus is on growth, the on new to bank acquisitions through development of need-based offerings.
Bank ensures pricing discipline and is engagement with large corporates, The Bank has identified Trade as an
selective while taking exposures. It has targeting government undertakings initiative to capture incremental market
a well-diversified book spread across and MNCs to expand reach. It has put share. Additionally, it is also attempting
multiple industries. The average rating in place a liability strategy to improve to tap opportunities in investment
of the book is between AA to AA+. wallet share through transaction banking space to drive growth in
fee income.
Key Growth Drivers
Client-first Liability Fee Improvement
− Deepening engagement with − Revisit Corporate groups − Exploring Investment
clients using digital channels − Group level marketing Banking opportunities
− NTB initiative and contribution − Building on existing − Growth in trade
of NTBs relationship for increase − Targeting avenues for foreign
− Focus clients initiative in business exchange income
− Digital banking solutions − Reciprocity from large vendors
88
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
STRATEGY IN ACTION
The Bank is continuing on a path Supply Chain Finance (SCF) The Bank offers funding for ready
of strategic digital transformation / under construction residential /
As part of the digital transformation
to further widen and deepen wallet commercial properties, hotels, clubs,
strategy, the Bank has the SCF
share from corporates by enhancing schools, hospitals, warehouses
Underwriting and Onboarding
employee experience, customer among others. Lease Rental
platform to ease the Anchor client’s
engagement and creating an Discounting (LRD) is another key
counterparty onboarding process
ecosystem for seamless banking. product offered by Realty Business
and provide instantaneous credit
It is enhancing employee experience Finance. The Construction finance
decisioning in less than 30 minutes of
through the launch of platforms business provides synergy for home
application submission. In addition to
enabling an end-to-end journey for loan sales and also for LRD projects.
the enhanced customer experience,
the relationship managers, actionable These lower risks and provide long
the platform also enhances the
analytics, pricing intelligence and tenure asset.
productivity of the Bank’s internal
dashboard automation. On the
stakeholders. It enables the build of HDFC Bank is the largest player in
customer front, it is progressing on
a granular SCF book and given the Real Estate finance with market share
the path of shifting from a product
automation of the origination and of close to 20 per cent. The team
focus to an ecosystem approach and
underwriting legs, the platform is also consists of experts across various
investing in enabling ERP integration
expected to give an impetus to higher aspects of Real Estate and related
across functions.
deal velocity on the existing SCF products. The Bank is geographically
In addition to pure construction Transaction Platform. spread across 11 cities in India with
finance facility, HDFC Bank is Realty Finance Business a presence in both Tier I and II cities.
also financing Greenfield under- The target is to expand to another
Post-merger, the Bank inherited
construction commercial office space eight cities in the current financial year.
the realty finance business. It has
with developers having a proven track
commenced offering Construction There is immense scope for
record. The construction finance
Finance facilities to borrowers having providing other banking services to
facilities will get converted into low-
a strong track record and a well- customers. HDFC Bank aims to be a
risk Lease Rental Discounting (LRD)
established presence. This business one stop shop for these customers
facilities resulting in healthy pipeline of
largely covers the construction and provide them with services like
LRD book for the Bank.
finance for both residential and CMS, liability products like Term
Through these initiatives, the Bank is commercial properties as well as Deposits and others. Through this
re-imagining the corporate cluster to rental discounting business. There the plan is to deepen wallet share
function as a digital corporate bank. was a significant shift in regulation across customers.
The runway is long and the objective and processes and the Bank has
Technological advancements and
is to serve corporates with the entire successfully managed to ensure
seamless end to end customer
gamut of products and services and that the transition was smooth and
journeys are the key focus. Realty
capitalise on the benefit of synergies seamless. There is a continuous
Business Finance strives hard to
across the bank. endeavour to make borrower’s journey
achieve this objective and play a
from application to disbursement
HDFC Bank offers comprehensive pivotal role in Bank’s growth story by
smooth and fast. With continuous
structured off-balance sheet solutions adhering to the mantra of
automation and digitalisation of
to help corporates make their ‘Customer First’.
various processes, HDFC Bank has
supply chain more robust. These
been successful in reducing overall
programmes cater to the working
TAT resulting in customer satisfaction
capital requirements by easing liquidity
and better service.
and removing the underlying trade risk
of the transaction.
89
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
Favourable
Growth
Landscape
India’s stable political
environment and supportive
government policies created
favourable conditions for the
banking sector’s growth in
FY2024–25. The strengthening
of banks’ balance sheets
over the past few years
has enhanced their lending
capacity, although deposit
mobilisation remained a
challenge during the year.
While the banking system encountered
liquidity constraints during the year under
review, there was a growing realisation
towards the end of the period that credit
growth needed to be moderated. Overall, the
sector’s profitability improved in FY 2024–25.
Net Non-Performing Assets (NNPAs) reached
record-low levels, significantly improving
the financial health of banks. With a large,
youthful, and tech-savvy population,
there is increasing demand for digital-first
banking, personalised services, and faster
customer support.
9900
HHDDFFCC BBaannkk LLiimmiitteedd
Our Strategy
India Holds Steady Amidst Global Volatility
The global economic outlook is India is poised to maintain its
marred by the lingering uncertainty position as one of the fastest-
from US tariffs, geopolitical growing economies globally in
tensions, financial market volatility FY 2025-26. The Reserve Bank
and inflationary risks. The of India (RBI) anticipates GDP to
International Monetary Fund has grow by 6.5 per cent in FY 2025-
revised down its global growth 26, similar to FY 2024-25 GDP
forecast for 2025 by 50 basis points growth. Amidst global headwinds,
to 2.8 per cent, and by 30 basis India’s GDP growth is likely to be
points in 2026. Growth in the US is supported by domestic factors in
expected to slow down to 1.8 per FY 2025-26. Rural consumption
cent in 2025 from 2.8 per cent in demand is expected to improve
2024, while China is expected to on the back of healthy agricultural
grow at 4 per cent compared to production. Moderation in inflation,
5 per cent in 2024. tax cuts and interest rate cuts by
the RBI are expected to support
Geopolitical frictions, in the Middle
urban consumption. Government’s
East and Russia-Ukraine, raise the
capital expenditure continues
risk of supply chain disruptions
to support investments, while
and volatility in commodity prices.
an expected improvement in
At the same time, divergent and
consumption demand could also
changing trade policies could
crowd-in private investments.
increase financial market volatility.
Domestic inflation is projected to
Furthermore, the slower pace
average 3.7 per cent in FY2025-
of disinflation and concerns
26, assuming a normal monsoon,
around elevated public debt
compared to 4.6 per cent in
levels in key advanced economies
FY 2024-25.
pose headwinds to the global
growth outlook.
Our Response
The Bank maintains a disciplined adjustments to strategy and
approach to governance and execution, strengthening the Bank’s
risk management which includes preparedness and resilience.
stress testing across geopolitical, HDFC Bank continues to invest
macroeconomic, and sector- in talent, governance and future-
specific scenarios to evaluate ready technologies to strengthen
potential vulnerabilities. Insights operational integrity and long-term
from these assessments act as value creation.
inputs for making appropriate
91
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
Focus on Data Privacy and Cyber Security
In recent years, the banking Moreover, these incidents often
sector has undergone a profound result in attrition and significant
transformation with the extensive financial losses. As the banking
integration of digitalisation and sector increasingly adopts cloud-
cutting-edge technologies. This enabled services as part of IT
transformation has brought forth modernisation initiatives and
not only numerous opportunities digital-first business strategies,
but also formidable challenges concerns regarding related threats
particularly in the realms of have intensified.
cybersecurity and data privacy.
Recognising securing the cloud
The landscape of cyber threats entails a shared responsibility,
has undergone rapid and complex organisations are actively
changes fuelled by targeted attacks, implementing robust measures to
the proliferation of Ransomware- safeguard their cloud infrastructure.
as-a-Service (RaaS) incidents, the
Regulators in India are also actively
utilisation of AI/ML to orchestrate
taking measures to ensure data
sophisticated attacks as well as the
privacy. This is evident through the
prevalence of DDoS attacks and
Digital Personal Data Protection
coordinated group cyber assaults.
Act 2023, emphasising the nation's
The repercussions of cyberattacks
commitment to safeguarding data
are profound, impacting not only
privacy rights.
financial institutions' bottom lines
but also their brand reputation and
customer trust.
Our Response
At HDFC Bank, we are committed applications. Key initiatives include the Overall, the bank's cybersecurity
to robust cyber security and establishment of a Next-generation measures are focused on ensuring
data privacy as part of our Cybersecurity Operations Center the highest level of protection
technology transformation (CSOC), Advanced Security Incident against cyber threats, with proactive
journey. The Bank continues to and Event Management solutions monitoring and automated incident
enhance its information security augmented by AI and ML capabilities, response capabilities, enhanced
posture through a range of 24/7 defacement monitoring, Cyber network visibility and a zero-trust
strategic and technology-driven Resiliency, creating Identity Fabric, approach to security.
initiatives aimed at strengthening Attack Surface Management (ASM),
In addition, we also have a data
its information security and Vulnerability and Penetration testing
privacy program which is led by the
resilience against evolving cyber program, robust patch management
Data Privacy Officer and overseen
threats. These initiatives align and email security measures, Red
by the Board and Chief Data Officer
with regulatory expectations teaming activities, API Security using
ensuring stringent compliance with
and industry best practices AIML, Cloud Posture and Access
relevant regulations.
to ensure the confidentiality, Security Tools (CSPM & CASB) for
integrity and availability of the reducing cloud related risks, and a
Bank's digital infrastructure and zero-trust architecture approach.
92
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
Growing Emphasis on Sustainable Financing and Climate Risk Management
The escalating impact of climate- companies as the world transitions
related events has prompted a to a low-carbon economy. At
heightened emphasis on resilience COP29, India reiterated the
across sectors with the financial importance of prioritising climate
sector playing a pivotal role in finance, signalling a shift towards
mobilising resources for green more comprehensive approaches to
activities. Climate change and managing climate-related financial
transition finance have become risks. Effective risk management is
central to global discourse. essential to manage and mitigate
these impacts.
In addition, integrating climate and
ESG related risks in underwriting Moreover, inadequate information
policies and risk management about climate-related financial risks
framework is becoming increasingly can lead to mispricing of assets and
important for financial services misallocation of capital emphasising
companies. The increasing threat the need for better, more consistent
of climate change and consequent and comparable disclosures.
physical damage are significant
Regulators in India, along
concerns that may impact portfolio
with counterparts globally,
performance. Shifting market
are mandating compliance
perceptions and increasing demand
with sustainability disclosure
for environmentally friendly products
frameworks, with climate-related
and services also have an impact
risks and opportunities emerging
on the cashflows of portfolio
as a central focus
Our Response
In line with its sustainability-focused Additionally, we actively monitor
vision and commitments, the and externally verify the carbon
Bank continues to develop several emissions resulting from the Bank’s
initiatives to manage climate-related operations to manage and reduce our
risks at the project, portfolio, and environmental impact. We also comply
organational levels. Further details with all relevant regulations including
on these initiatives can be found those related to the BRSR, mandated
in the 'climate related disclosures' by SEBI.
section of the report.
93
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
Regulatory Changes and Government Initiatives
The Government of India has H6.78 lakh crore were executed
taken significant steps and made through DBT. Additionally, there
considerable progress in promoting is continued focus on affordable
financial inclusion. A key initiative in housing with the extension of the
this regard has been the Pradhan Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban
Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) 2.0). This Interest Subsidy Scheme
which envisages comprehensive (ISS) is a flagship scheme under
financial inclusion across PMAY 2.0.
the country.
Simultaneously, the Reserve Bank
Leveraging the PMJDY accounts, of India (RBI) has pursued its
the Government has effectively commitment to promote financial
facilitated Direct Benefit Transfers inclusion through the expansion of
(DBTs), streamlining the distribution digital payment infrastructure as
of subsidies and welfare benefits. well as the introduction of innovative
In FY 2024-25 transactions totalling banking services.
Our Response
HDFC Bank is committed to flagship initiative, Pradhan Mantri Jan- financially excluded individuals and
take banking solutions to the Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), Pradhan Mantri those at the bottom of the pyramid.
remote areas of the country and Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY),
We conduct financial literacy
enabling underbanked sections of Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana
camps through rural branches and
the population to access formal (PMSBY), Atal Pension Yojana (APY),
designated Financial Literacy Centres.
financial channels. PM SVANidhi, PM Vishwakarma
Additionally, we actively participate
and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana
With over 50 per cent of our in the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana
(PMMY).
branches located in semi-urban (Urban 2.0). We provide last-mile
and rural areas, we ensure banking One of the Bank's CSR pillars - access through mobile applications
solutions reach the remote areas Skill Development and Livelihood such as UPI, Aadhaar and RuPay-
of the country and provide formal Enhancement Initiative aligns with the enabled Micro-ATMs.
banking channels to the under- RBI’s National Strategy for Financial
banked population. We are Inclusion (NSFI). Through our Financial
committed to the Government’s Literacy Programme, we focus on
94
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
95
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
RISK MANAGEMENT
Strengthening
Resilience
HDFC Bank’s risk management
framework is firmly embedded
across all its operations
and continues to evolve in
response to a dynamic external
environment supported by strong
technology and governance.
It has enabled us to navigate
uncertain times while ensuring
growth. The framework provides
comprehensive coverage,
including a well-defined risk
appetite, wherever applicable,
to support prudent risk
management.
Risk Governance
Risk governance at the Bank is led from the top, with the
Board of Directors assuming responsibility for overseeing
the full spectrum of risks across the organisation. To ensure
effective implementation of the risk strategy, the Board has
constituted the Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee (RPMC).
The RPMC is responsible for steering the development of
policies, procedures, and systems, and for continuously
evaluating their adequacy in the context of the Bank’s evolving
business landscape. The Risk Management Group (RMG),
headed by the Group Chief Risk Officer (GCRO), drives risk
management centrally in the Bank. The GCRO reports directly
to the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank with a dotted
line reporting to the Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee.
The RMG is responsible for executing the approved risk
strategy, and for developing necessary policies, procedures,
and systems to identify, measure, monitor, assess and
manage risks effectively. It functions independently of the
Bank’s operations, credit, and business units, and carries no
business targets or responsibilities.
Internal
Audit
Governance
Board of Directors
Board Committees
Management Committees
Frameworks
Risk Appetite, Risk Policies, Procedures and Systems
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
and Stress Testing
Assessment Control Reporting
Risk Identification, Risk Limits, Risk MIS &
Measurement, Monitoring, Actions
Approval as Mitigation
applicable
ecnailpmoC
HDFC Bank's Risk Management Framework
96
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
Three Lines of Defence
Our organisation adopts the Three Lines of Defence model to uphold sound governance, effective risk management, and a
resilient internal control environment across all operations.
Business and operational units torm the first line, directly managing risks within their
1st activities. They are responsible for identifying, assessing, mitigating, and monitoring risks,
Line of while embedding internal controls into day-to-day operations and decision-making to
Defence ensure alignment with organisational goals and regulatory standards.
The second line of defence comprises the Independent Risk Management Group and
Compliance function, which develop policies and frameworks while overseeing and
guiding the first line in identifying and managing risks. They play a critical role in promoting
2nd
a consistent and transparent risk environment, facilitating early risk identification, and
Line of
ensuring timely escalation and resolution of issues. Compliance is responsible for monitoring
Defence
compliance with all applicable statutes, governance rules, regulations, codes, and
policies. The Risk Management Group and Compliance have sufficient authority, stature,
independence, resources, and access to the Board.
The third line of defence comprises the Internal Audit function, which operates independently
of management to deliver objective assurance over the effectiveness of governance, risk
3rd management, and internal control processes. Audit is responsible and accountable for
Line of providing independent review together with objective assurance on effectiveness of the bank's
Defence first and second lines of defence. Through its audit activities and recommendations, Internal
Audit supports the continuous enhancement of risk management practices and strengthens
organisational resilience.
Risk Frameworks and their our framework to accurately assess The Internal Audit Department
Implementation and manage the inherent risks. Our operates independently to assess
structured management framework, the adequacy and effectiveness
Effective risk management is
the Internal Capital Adequacy of internal controls, risk practices,
foundational to the Bank’s strategic
Assessment Process (ICAAP), is governance frameworks, and
resilience and long-term performance.
designed to identify, assess, and processes. We are intensifying our
Given the nature of our business and
manage all risks that could significantly attention on non-financial risks by
the regulatory landscape, we are
affect our business, financial position, amplifying discussions within our Risk
exposed to a spectrum of risks—
or capital adequacy. It helps us Management and Board committees.
including credit, market, liquidity,
systematically analyse and address These discussions encompass
operational, model, cybersecurity,
these risks to ensure the stability operational, outsourcing, compliance,
and technology risks as well as
and soundness of our operations, personnel, technology, reputation risks
compliance and reputational risks.
protecting our business and capital and others. This involves enhancing
To manage these, we've instituted an
adequacy from potential threats. our policies, procedures, and risk
overarching risk appetite framework.
assessment frameworks to effectively
We have implemented specific To ensure informed decision-making,
manage these risks with an ongoing
policies, limits, and triggers tailored to we regularly capture and report risk
commitment to improvement.
each risk category to operationalise related MIS, initiating appropriate
our risk appetite for individual mitigation measures. Our risk Technology continues to play a
risk types. Furthermore, we have models are continuously refined critical role in enhancing our risk
established strong governance within to adapt to changing conditions. management capabilities.
97
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
RISK MANAGEMENT
We are leveraging technology to The Bank follows the Board approved inputs provided by respective units.
automate our risk management Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) At an enterprise-wide level, the Bank
processes, aiming to bring policy which serves as an overarching conducts stress testing and ongoing
efficiencies, improving accuracy, framework for the Risk Management scenario assessments, with a focus on
enhancing user control and ensuring Group across all risk areas managing emerging risks driven by geopolitical,
robust audit trails. These technological various risks faced by the Bank in an macroeconomic, and sectoral trends,
tools help strengthen our ability to integrated manner. ERM framework recognising the dynamic nature of
monitor, assess, and respond to a drives the formulation of the risk these challenges to proactively identify
wide range of risks in a timely and appetite, stress testing approaches, vulnerable areas in the portfolio and
effective manner. At the same time, we capital adequacy assessment, initiate necessary actions.
remain acutely aware of the inherent and capital planning. The Internal
risks posed by technology itself. Capital Adequacy Assessment
Additionally, the Risk Management Process (ICAAP), integral to the ERM
Group independently validates model framework, acts as a risk management
fairness for relevant models across the tool that enables periodic review
Bank to ensure transparency, integrity, and challenge of risk assessment
and compliance.
Managing Key Risks
Credit Risk Compliance Risk
The risk which arises from default by borrowers on The risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, as a result
their contractual obligations with the Bank -especially of failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations
failure to make payments or repayments. and standards.
Mitigation Mitigation
The Credit Risk Management formulates policies and A Robust board-approved compliance policy in place
procedures to handle credit risk and maintain portfolio which is reviewed annually. The Compliance function
quality. It sets risk limits and reviews portfolios actively tracks and reviews adherence to regulatory
regularly. It also maintains an oversight on certain guidelines in close coordination with business,
aspects of credit strategy and underwriting functions support and operations teams. The focus is on
of the Credit group, led by the Chief Credit Officer. identifying and mitigating Regulatory risk through well-
defined internal control framework. This framework
Strategies includes regular feedback from product, business
and operation teams via self-certifications and on-
Maintaining healthy asset quality with optimal risk- going monitoring. In addition, compliance testing of
reward considerations. products / policies from Regulatory perspective is
also undertaken to further strengthen the compliance
culture within the organisation.
Strategies
Ensuring businesses work strictly within the contours
of regulation
Capitals Impacted: F I SR N Capitals Impacted: F
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
98
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
Market Risk Operational Risk
The risk of potential loss on account of adverse Operational risk arises from inadequate or failed
changes in market variables which affect the value of internal processes, people, and systems or
financial instruments that the Bank holds as part of from external events. It includes the risk of loss
its statutory reserves or trading/investment activity, resulting from legal risk but excludes strategic and
such as, money market instruments, debt securities, reputational risks.
equities, foreign exchange and derivative instruments.
Mitigation
Mitigation
The Bank follows a Board-approved Operational Risk
Detailed Board-approved policies related to Management Policy that outlines the governance and
investment, foreign exchange, derivatives etc. management of operational risks. It adopts a three-line
combined with strong controls, minimise risks across defence system: the business line (including support
trading desks and securities. These policies along with and operations) constitute the first line of defence;
Board approved limits package, set market risk limits the Operational Risk Management Department
in line with the Bank's risk tolerance. Also, portfolio- (ORMD) serves as the second line, and the Internal
level assessments and risk reduction measures are Audit acts as the third line. These teams work in
carried out. tandem to effectively manage, monitor, and reduce
operational risks.
Structured products and exotics are transacted with
counterparties possessing adequate risk management
Strategies
capabilities and systems to manage such products.
Counterparty exposures are regularly monitored, and
Minimising operational losses through risk mitigation.
a margining framework is established in agreement
with counterparts.
Strategies
Optimising profitability of marked-to-market products
within the constraints of liquidity and market risk
appetite of the Bank.
Capitals Impacted: F Capitals Impacted: F H
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
99
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
RISK MANAGEMENT
Climate Risk Liquidity Risk
At a broader level, risks from climate change are Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank may not be able
typically divided into: to meet its financial obligations as they fall due without
incurring unacceptable losses.
Physical risks - Economic losses (physical damage
to property and assets) from acute impacts on account
Mitigation
of extreme weather events (floods, cyclones, droughts,
landslides, etc) attributed to climate change, or long-
The Asset Liability Management policy of the
term chronic impacts on environment such as rise in
bank details how liquidity and interest rate risks
sea levels, increased global temperature or irreversible
are managed. We've set up a strong system to
precipitation changes.
watch cash flow mismatches, in both normal and
Transition risks - The possible process of adjustment stressed situations, and key ratios, like Basel III
to a low carbon economy and its possible effects on ratios. Additionally, we have an extensive intraday
the value of financial assets and liabilities including the liquidity risk management framework to track intraday
likelihood of formation of stranded assets. positions throughout the day. Interest rate risk in
the banking book is assessed at defined intervals to
ensure it remains within our acceptable limits.
Mitigation
We actively support the financing and investment Strategies
in environmentally friendly technologies and low-
carbon infrastructure projects. We leverage our − To maintain healthy liquidity buffer as evidenced
product offerings and financial expertise to assist in Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) / Net Stability
our customers and clients in transitioning to a Funding Ratio (NSFR) in line with our Balance sheet
sustainable and a low-carbon economy. We are size to tide over any unforeseen stress scenarios.
pursuing this through three thematic areas including − Maintaining competitive cost of funds.
ESG integration in products, sustainable finance and − Transact in derivatives, if required, to maintain the
portfolio emissions. These aspects are discussed in
interest rate profile.
detail in the chapter on the ESG strategy.
Strategies
The Bank is in the process of augmenting existing
methodologies and frameworks to assess climate
transition risk for the wholesale borrowers, in response
to an ever changing and evolving risk environment.
For retail portfolio, the Bank is exploring framework
to assess potential portfolio-at-risk by mapping the
location of exposures against Natural Catastrophic
(NATCAT) scores with varying degree of severity.
Additionally, the Bank conducts capacity-building
programs to familiarise the Board and staff members
with key developments in climate risk assessment as
guided by regulatory landscape. Furthermore, the Bank
continues to disclose financed emissions for selected
segments of its lending portfolio.
Capitals Impacted: N F SR M Capitals Impacted: F SR
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
100
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
Reputation Risk Technology Risk
Any adverse stakeholder and public perception about Risks associated with the use, ownership, operation,
our Bank may negatively impact our ability to attract involvement, influence, vendor related and adoption of
and retain customers and may expose us to litigation IT systems within an enterprise, Business Continuity
and regulatory actions. management and Third-party Risk management.
Mitigation Mitigation
We keep in regular contact with our stakeholders Our Information Technology Risk framework, along
using suitable engagement methods to meet their with the policies, procedures, templates, and
expectations and handle any concerns they raise. assessment methods manage technology risk, vendor
The Bank recognises reputation risk as significant in risk and business continuity. The framework covers
its ICAAP Policy, and we've set up an assessment the evaluation of new IT solutions, third-party vendors,
framework to monitor it. outsourced IT, related services (Third Party Risk).
Additionally, we've created a Business Continuity
Strategies Management framework and rolled out the Business
Continuity Programme across the Enterprise.
− Delivering superior customer experience.
− Proactive risk assessment and monitoring Strategies
− Continue to foster a culture of Ethics
− Ensure alignment of Business and IT Strategies
and Compliance
to provide services availability and superior
− Strengthening grievance handling mechanism customer experience.
− Making extensive progress on some of the
key initiatives that are part of our technology
transformation agenda.
Capitals Impacted: SR Capitals Impacted: F SR I
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
101
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
RISK MANAGEMENT
Cyber and Data Risk*
Cyber Risk solution, featuring machine learning, UEBA, and
threat modelling for early detection and mitigation.
Risk of cyber-attacks on our Bank’s systems through
These are complemented by Security Orchestration,
hacking, phishing, ransomware, and other means,
Automation and Response (SOAR) tools that enable
resulting in disruption of our services or theft or leak of
faster, automated triaging of incidents. The Security
sensitive internal data
Operations Centre (SOC) is continuously updated
Data Privacy Risk
with threat intelligence from government sources,
Risk of breach of customer or employee data service providers, and dark web monitoring. To
privacy due to inadequate controls, regulatory non- strengthen cyber resilience, the Bank runs a dedicated
compliance, or failure in embedding privacy principles Attack Surface Management (ASM) program with
across processes and technologies — potentially continuous scanning, patch management, penetration
resulting in financial penalties, operational disruptions, testing, and red team exercises. Identity and Access
reputational damage, or loss of stakeholder trust. Management (IAM) protocols, zero-trust architecture
Risks arising from the adoption of new-age solutions approach and least-privilege principles, along with
are comprehensively assessed through the lenses of privileged access controls, safeguard critical systems
data privacy and data security. from unauthorised access.
The Bank also complies with ISO 27001:2022,
Mitigation ISO 22301:2019 and PCI DSS standards,
demonstrating our commitment to information security
We assess each cyber threat, including data privacy and safeguarding customer data.
concerns, based on the framework of Identify, Prevent
The bank’s Data Privacy program is a highly regulated
/ Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover.
initiative managed by the Data Privacy Officer (DPO)
To mitigate these risks, we have implemented various under the direct supervision of the Board and the
controls such as firewalls, anti-malware, data loss Chief Data Officer. Privacy by design approach
prevention (DLP) measures, Domain-based Message is central to our data privacy program to address
Authentication, Reporting and Conformance (DMARC) privacy related risk. Our privacy program embeds ten
solution, intrusion prevention / detection systems, (10) privacy principles in the varied processes and
digital rights management, zero-trust architecture technologies across bank’s products and services
approach, Extended Detection and Response (XDR), to protect this organisation from financial, regulatory,
File Integrity Monitoring (FIM), Data Activity Monitoring operational, and brand damage.
(DAM), central Patch Management, Email Security
Measures, Cloud Posture and Access Security Tools Strategies
(CSPM & CASB), Web Application Firewall (WAF), 24/7
security operation center (SOC) etc. − Robust governance over information and cyber
security framework through various committees
The Bank has established a robust cyber security
viz. IT Strategy Committee, Information Security
governance framework comprising an Incident
Committee (ISC), Internal Capital Adequacy
Management Procedure, Cyber Security Policy,
Assessment Process (ICAAP), Risk Policy and
and Cyber Crisis Management Plan, supported by
Monitoring Committee (RPMC) etc.
regular tabletop exercises to ensure stakeholder
− Various mitigation measures including antivirus
preparedness. Advanced monitoring capabilities
programme, network security management,
have been deployed through an AI-powered
vulnerability management, cyber security and data
Security Information and Event Management (SIEM)
privacy measures
− Continuous information security awareness for
Capitals Impacted: F I
employees and customers
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
102
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
Risk of spill-over from Subsidiaries Model Risk
Risk arising from subsidiaries refers to potential Risk arising from the use of models, which is the
uncertainties or adverse events that can impact potential for adverse consequences from decisions
the operations, financial stability, reputation, or based on incorrect or misused model outputs
strategic objectives of holding company due to and reports.
subsidiary operations.
Mitigation
Mitigation
A well-defined, Board approved Model Risk
The Board / Risk Management committees of each Management Policy, along with a robust framework
subsidiary is responsible for managing their respective including pre-deployment validation, and periodic
risks. The Group Risk Management Committee monitoring, to capture, manage, and mitigate
(GRMC) and Group Risk Council (GRC) has been model risk.
instituted in our Bank to periodically review the
nature / quantum of material risks of the subsidiaries Strategies
and provide guidance, as deemed fit, on the risk
management practices. Stress testing for the group − Bank has established an independent Model Risk
is carried out by integrating the stress tests of the Management Team within the Risk Management
subsidiaries. Similarly, capital adequacy projections Group to manage Model Risk across the Bank.
are formulated for the group after incorporating the
business / capital plans of the subsidiaries.
Strategies
− Establishing group level oversight to review key risks
across subsidiaries.
− Including stress test output of subsidiaries to
conduct group level stress testing.
− Including subsidiary business plans/capital
projections in capital adequacy projections for
the Group.
Capitals Impacted: F SR Capitals Impacted: F SR I
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
103
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
RISK MANAGEMENT
Managing Emerging Risks
Acknowledging the significance of stress testing in risk management, the Bank conducts stress tests beyond standard
scenarios. We focus on topical themes influenced by geopolitical, macroeconomic, and sectoral trends to pinpoint specific
areas of our portfolio. This approach serves as an early warning system, prompting potential actions. Various stress tests
have been conducted to evaluate their impact on our portfolio and identity affected borrowers. Furthermore, we implement
various measures to mitigate global risks, as detailed below.
Growing Geo-Political Trade Realignment Volatility in Key Macro
Tensions Economic Indicators
As part of our risk management
The geo-political backdrop strategy, we've broadly Monitoring volatility in macro
continues to remain uncertain assessed the impact of economic indicators like inflation,
with shocks such as the recent developments of the interest rate trajectories, global
Russia-Ukraine conflict have imposition of reciprocal tariff currency fluctuations, GDP
persisted and the Israel-Hamas measures by US administration growth projections etc. remains
war continues to fuel regional and subsequent impact a key area of focus for the
instability. Coupled with that, the on the various sectors and risk management group. We
recent tariff related measures industries. The Bank is closely actively track any significant
have exacerbated uncertainties monitoring the ongoing shift in developments in these indicators
clouding the economic global trade patterns to take to assess potential implications
outlook across regions, posing necessary actions. on the Bank's portfolio. While no
headwinds for global growth significant direct impact on the
and inflation. Tensions in portfolio is currently assessed
the Middle East have further due to these movements, we are
intensified following the Israel- closely monitoring the situations
Iran conflict, adding to volatility leading to such fluctuations to
in global energy markets and ensure preparedness.
geopolitical risk perceptions.
While we do not foresee
a significant direct impact
on the Bank at present, we
remain vigilant and are actively
monitoring developments
to respond swiftly to any
emerging risks.
104
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
Emerging Risk - Geopolitical & Macroeconomic Risks
Risks arising from geopolitical and macroeconomic Strategies
factors include the following:
− Conduct stress testing with focus on topical
− Global Instability and Trade Disruptions themes influenced by geopolitical, macroeconomic,
− Rising Protectionism and Economic Headwinds and sectoral trends to pinpoint specific areas of
− Uncertain Policy Environment our portfolio
− Closely monitor the evolving risk landscape and
Mitigation ensure regular updates to the Board and senior
management on any emerging threats. Where
At an enterprise-wide level, recognising the dynamic warranted, proactive portfolio resizing / limit
nature of these challenges, we remain committed to adjustments are undertaken to mitigate potential
proactive risk identification and continuous scenario headwinds and preserve portfolio resilience.
assessment. We have been keeping a close watch
on these macroeconomic developments to take
necessary action as and when required.
Capitals Impacted: F
F Financial I Intellectual M Manufactured H Human SR Social and Relationship N Natural
105
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS CONTINUITY MANAGEMENT, INFORMATION & CYBER
SECURITY PRACTICES AND DATA PRIVACY MEASURES
Safeguarding
the Future
In an era marked by Our Business Continuity Management It focuses on strategic decision
a rapidly evolving (BCM) Programme is ISO 22301:2019 making and internal/external
certified and is designed to reliably stakeholder (including RBI, customers,
technological landscape
sustain critical services and operations media) communication for managing
and emerging
in the face of any unforeseen catastrophic events e.g. natural
threats, HDFC Bank circumstances. It also adheres to disasters, geo-political conflicts, cyber
maintains a risk-averse applicable regulatory frameworks attacks, etc. to protect our Bank's
(RBI, SEBI, NCIIPC, CERT-In, etc.) and reputation and manage impact.
approach, proactively
undergoes rigorous reviews and audits
safeguarding operations Business Continuity
to ensure its effectiveness.
to ensure seamless and At HDFC Bank, Business Continuity
The programme is overseen by
uninterrupted delivery of Planning focuses on managing
the Business Continuity Steering
continuity of critical business
services. Committee, chaired by the Group
operations and accelerated recovery
Chief Risk Officer. Our central
of services after a disaster.
Business Continuity Office constantly
enhances the Bank’s continuity It primarily focuses on continuity
capabilities through periodic testing, planning for disruptive scenarios with
review and continual improvement. regard to absence of critical staff,
premises, technology and vendors.
The comprehensive framework
governing our BCM programme Our BCPs are periodically tested
enables us to pre-empt, prepare for, at all levels through a well-defined
respond to and systematically recover testing programme.
from disruptions ensuring operational
Disaster Recovery
resilience and maintaining the trust of
our customers and stakeholders. Our Disaster Recovery Plan and
It focuses on: Procedure focuses on recovery of
essential IT services and data.
Crisis Management
DR Planning involves identification
Our Crisis Management Plan is to
of critical systems, establishing and
address the strategic issues of a crisis
maintaining DR sites (alternate data
impacting the Bank and to direct and
centers) for these critical systems and
communicate the corporate response
periodically testing this setup.
to the crisis.
106
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
DR practice also includes robust data In essence, our BCM framework Governance Over Data
backup, replication and restoration and programme revolves around the
At HDFC Bank, Cyber Security
procedures to meet RPOs and RTOs concept of being prepared (BC, DR),
and Data Privacy are of paramount
crucial for digital banking services. responding effectively to immediate
importance to us. To manage risks
threats (Emergency Response),
associated with these areas we have
Emergency Response
managing the broader impact and
constituted specialised committees
Our Emergency Response Plan deals communication (Crisis Management) – IT Strategy Committee, Information
with site-level emergencies (at an and having specific plans for Security Committee – each with
office or a branch) involving life and unique, widespread events like specific roles and responsibilities. We
asset safety issues in the event of pandemics – all while meeting Indian also have in place a Cyber Security
natural & man-made disasters such as regulatory expectations. Framework and an Information
fire, bomb threats, earthquake, floods, Security Programme to oversee these
Safeguarding our
amongst others. risks and mitigate them adequately
Customers' Digital Journey
to protect customer information.
It includes procedures for evacuation,
medical aid and security. At HDFC Bank ensuring Information Our Information Security and Cyber
and Cyber Security is a priority for us. Security policies lay down the
Staff training and awareness including We are committed to safeguarding guidelines for implementation of the
evacuation drills are part of Emergency customer information and have security measures within the Bank.
Response preparedness. implemented robust security controls The Bank continues to enhance
and practices to strengthen data its information security posture
Pandemic Response
security. We continue to strengthen through a range of strategic and
This is a specific type of crisis our systems and processes to protect technology-driven initiatives aimed at
management and business continuity sensitive customer information strengthening its information security
plan addressing widespread health from unauthorised access. We and resilience against evolving
emergencies e.g. COVID-19. maintain a strong security posture cyber threats.
through measures such as Antivirus
It focuses on employee safety (e.g., Our Next-generation Cybersecurity
/ Anti-Malware Solution, Data Loss
remote work, health protocols), Operations Center (CSOC) has
Prevention (DLP) Solution, Advanced
maintaining essential services with brought in significant advancements to
Threat Prevention, Web Application
potentially reduced staff managing improve overall cyber security posture
Firewalls, DDoS Protection, IDS / IPS
customer interactions safely and of the Bank by deploying a predictive /
Technologies as well as Vulnerability
adapting to prolonged disruption proactive security monitoring of Bank
Management and Penetration Testing.
as per health advisories and IT Infrastructure and Applications.
Oversight at the highest level ensures
regulatory directives. We have developed the Incident
governance of our Information
Management Procedure (IM) and
Security Practices.
Cyber Crisis Management Plan
(CCMP) to elaborate on types of cyber
107
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS CONTINUITY MANAGEMENT, INFORMATION & CYBER
SECURITY PRACTICES AND DATA PRIVACY MEASURES
security related incidents and cyber are reinforced by various stringent The Red Team of the Bank proactively
resiliency framework which works measures such as a dedicated assesses our cyber assets for
on the prevent, detect and response Attack Surface Management (ASM) vulnerabilities through various
mechanism to manage cyber security Program. The programme is aimed periodic tests which also include
incidents. The Bank also conducts at continuously identifying and red team assessments. Any issues
‘table-top exercises’ to assess addressing vulnerabilities across identified during the assessments
the incident response readiness. assets thereby ensuring a secure are remediated in a timely manner
Key initiatives covered by the Next environment for the Bank and its to ensure that the banking services
Generation CSOC include: customers. Additionally, vulnerability remain resilient and stay protected
management of the Bank’s internet against the evolving threats. These
a. AI Powered Security
properties, antivirus / anti-malware dedicated efforts underscore
Monitoring: Deployment of next
program, patch management, our commitment to customer
generation security incident event
penetration testing, etc. minimise the information security and a secure
management (SIEM) solution
surface area for cyber security banking environment.
augmented by Artificial Intelligence
attacks and assist in fortifying
(AI) and Machine Learning (ML) We strictly adhere to regulatory
the Bank's assets (infrastructure,
capabilities along with strong User standards like the ‘Code of Bank’s
applications, etc.).
Entity Behavioral Analysis (UEBA) Commitment to Customers’. Notably,
functionalities and built-in threat We have implemented a FY2024-25 saw no data breaches,
modelling. This helps in proactively centralised patch management a testament to our vigilance.
identifying and addressing tool that automates the discovery,
Key measures undertaken
several potential threats before management and remediation of
they proliferate. endpoints and servers across various by the Bank to mitigate
operating systems and environments information security related
b. Security Orchestration,
for the available patches. It facilitates
Automation & Response risks:
patching, software deployment and
(SOAR) to reduce incident Logging and Monitoring
compliance with security standards
response times by enabling
thus reducing the risk of the The logging and monitoring
automated triaging for better
introduction of vulnerability due to lack procedures at the Bank entail logging
control, visibility and preparedness
of timely patching. user actions, system activity and
against sophisticated attacks
infrastructure changes and ensuring
like ransomware. With the growing use of cloud
the logs are securely stored and
infrastructure, tools such as Cloud
Threat intelligence feeds and protected against unauthorised
Posture and Access Security Tools
indicators of compromise received access. Alerts are generated for audit
(CSPM & CASB) are used to detect
from government agencies, service log failures based on asset risk levels.
misconfigurations, enforce compliance
providers and dark web monitoring Monitoring tools aggregate log files,
requirements and proactively reduce
vendors are logged in the security automatically reporting suspicious
cloud-related risks. Overall, the Bank's
technologies deployed in our Security activity to the Cyber Security
cybersecurity measures are focused
Operations Centre (SOC) which Operations Centre (CSOC) team.
on ensuring the highest level of
provides real-time information about
protection against cyber threats with
emerging threats, helps in identifying
proactive monitoring and automated
potential breaches and proactively
incident response capabilities,
defends systems and data. Our
enhanced network visibility and
robust Cyber Security Framework
a zero-trust approach to security.
and Information Security Program
108
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
The CSOC team performs the and addresses vulnerabilities, logging Minimised Surface Area for
following steps: and prioritising them based on severity Cyberattacks
and assigning ownership. They
1. Analysis and Incident The Bank has implemented a
diligently follow up until resolution,
Detection: comprehensive approach to
ensuring thorough remediation of
cybersecurity featuring a dedicated
The CSOC team conducts analysis identified issues.
Attack Surface Management
and incident detection by gathering
Patch Management programme (ASM) aimed at
information from system-generated
continuously identifying and
events and other sources to The Bank implements patch
addressing vulnerabilities across its
identify potential incidents. management procedures and tools
assets. Significant strides include the
to evaluate and deploy operating
2. Event Tracking and Escalation institutionalisation of a cyber threat
system, network and application-
exposure management solution and
Events are evaluated according
specific patches and updates. This
establishment of a next-generation
to their risk level and escalated
includes assessing vendor-supplied
Cyber Security Operations Center
as per the guidance provided
patches, documenting procedures
(CSOC) to predict and manage
in the Bank’s Incident
and ensuring timely deployment to
incidents proactively. Introduction of
Management policy. This may
safeguard the Bank's infrastructure.
Security Orchestration, Automation
involve referring incidents to the
Penetration Testing & Response (SOAR) has notably
Cyber Incident Response Team
reduced incident response times
(CIRT) for detailed analysis, To assess potentially exploitable
while network micro-segmentation
forensics and management for vulnerabilities, the Bank conducts
enhances control and visibility
situation awareness. routine and ad hoc penetration tests
particularly against ransomware
on all critical networks and systems,
3. Reporting:
threats. Notably, the Bank has
both internally and externally. These
The CSOC team periodically upgraded its monitoring and detection
tests are initiated by various events
reports the events and incidents systems, leveraging advanced Artificial
such as new releases or updates.
to the senior management. Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning
They encompass Network/Host
(ML) capabilities alongside robust
Endpoint Detection and Penetration Testing and Application
User Entity Behavioral Analysis (UEBA)
Response (EDR) /Malware Penetration Testing.
functionalities and threat modeling.
Programme Network Security
This holistic strategy represents
The programme is designed to The Bank employs firewalls and proxy a pioneering industry approach,
prevent, detect and respond to servers to manage and segregate emphasising proactive threat detection
malicious code threats including network traffic based on varying and response.
viruses, worms and trojans by utilising security needs and trust levels.
a blend of proprietary tools and Additionally, our intrusion detection/
monitoring systems for mitigating prevention capabilities (IDS/IPS)
these risks effectively. To ensure up- swiftly identify and respond to known
to-date protection, antivirus signatures attacks in real-time. Regular updates
are updated multiple times daily to IDS/IPS signatures enhance
covering workstations, servers, email detection accuracy for specific threats,
gateways and web gateways. intruder profiles and attack patterns.
Vulnerability Management Configured to trigger alerts upon
surpassing predefined thresholds,
The Bank oversees a proactive
these tools ensure proactive
vulnerability management process
monitoring and rapid response to
continuously scanning for security
potential security breaches.
threats. The dedicated team tracks
109
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS CONTINUITY MANAGEMENT, INFORMATION & CYBER
SECURITY PRACTICES AND DATA PRIVACY MEASURES
Governance Over Data
IT Strategy Committee Information Security Programme
This committee oversees various technology- The Information Security Programme aligns with
related matters. Its functions include formulating regulatory requirements outlined by RBI as well as
IT strategy and related policies, ensuring industry standards such as ISO 27001:2022 and
alignment with the business strategy. Comprising the NIST framework. The Bank has established
mainly of Independent Directors, the committee the Information Security and Cyber Security policy
also includes an external IT expert. which guides the execution of stringent processes
and measures the implementation of relevant
security standards to ensure data security and
protect sensitive business information and data
assets from unauthorised access.
Information Security Committee Cybersecurity Framework
Chaired by the CRO (Chief Risk Officer), this Our cybersecurity framework encompasses
committee is tasked with reviewing Information the key components of Identify, Protect, Detect,
Security Policy dispensations, taking strategic Respond and Recover. The primary objectives of
and financial decisions on Information Security our information security programme include:
plans, reviewing performance and monitoring the
− Documenting, disseminating, operating
progress of the Information Security Program. It
and reviewing information security policies
also discusses any significant Information Security
and procedures.
risks, determining actions for risk remediation
and approves changes to the constitution and − Monitoring cybersecurity threats and
functioning of the Information Security Committee assessing the risk profile across critical assets,
(ISC). The committee serves as a platform for infrastructure components and business units/
discussing information security risks and oversees departments.
the enterprise security program. It convenes at least − Providing transparency into the information
once every two months with representatives from security programme and associated controls to
Audit, Information Technology, Information Security senior management including the Board
Group, other enabling functions and relevant − Promptly responding to information security
business units.
incidents and policy violations/exceptions in
alignment with organisational policy.
− Evaluating the effectiveness of actions taken to
resolve incidents and documenting the learnings
to improve process efficiency.
110
HDFC Bank Limited
Our Strategy
Ensuring Data Privacy regulations. By maintaining these (DPO) under the direct supervision of
standards, we cultivate and preserve the Board and the Chief Data Officer is
At HDFC Bank, we are committed
the trust and confidence of our valued highly regulated. We adopt a privacy-
to maintaining data privacy. We
customers, partners and stakeholders. by-design approach, embedding
ensure stringent privacy governance,
10 privacy principles into various
implement robust data protection The bank is certified under ISO
processes and technologies across
measures and uphold transparency. 27001:2022 and complies with all the
the bank's products and services to
Our approach is rooted in requirements mentioned in the ISO
protect against financial, regulatory,
safeguarding personal information, to maintain the highest level of data
operational, and brand damage.
respecting individual privacy rights privacy. Our data privacy program
and adhering to privacy laws and headed by a Data Privacy Officer
Our Approach to Ensuring Data Privacy
Privacy Governance
At HDFC Bank, customer privacy is a priority. Our robust governance framework includes a designated
privacy officer, cross-functional privacy teams and clear responsibility chains for privacy matters.
Through proactive measures, we protect personal information, cultivate privacy awareness and promptly
address any privacy concerns or inquiries that may arise.
Data Collection and Use
Transparency is fundamental to our privacy commitment at HDFC Bank. We prioritise open
communication and responsible handling of personal information. Our data collection is purposeful,
gathering only what's necessary for our services with clear explanations provided. Individuals receive
straightforward privacy notices and have the opportunity to provide informed consent for data
processing activities.
Security and Data Protection
Safeguarding personal information against unauthorised access, disclosure or misuse is a primary
concern for us. We implement a comprehensive multi-layered security strategy to achieve this goal.
Our approach includes robust encryption protocols, strict access controls, reliable firewalls and regular
security assessments. We are focused to remaining ahead of evolving threats by investing in state-of-
the-art technologies and adopting industry-leading best practices.
Privacy Education and Awareness
At HDFC Bank, nurturing a culture that values privacy is a key commitment. We focus on educating
and raising awareness among our employees through extensive privacy training programmes. These
efforts highlight the significance of their roles in protecting personal information. We keep our team well-
informed about privacy matters, emerging risks and best practices through regular updates and open
communication channels.
Privacy by Design
We make privacy a top consideration in crafting our products, services and systems. We completely
embrace the principles of Privacy by Design, ensuring that privacy protections are woven into our
processes right from the start. Our teams undergo privacy training to foster a culture that respects
privacy and we conduct privacy impact assessments to detect and address any potential risks to
individuals' privacy.
111
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ESG STRATEGY ENCOMPASSING
SUSTAINABLE FINANCE
Regulations to
India’s ESG Reform
India’s ESG landscape is undergoing a significant
Strategy
transformation, driven by a confluence of domestic
priorities and global shifts. As the country positions
itself as a key player in sustainable development,
regulatory and policy institutions have taken decisive
The global regulatory landscape for steps to mainstream ESG principles across capital
markets and the broader financial ecosystem.
Environment, Social, and Governance
(ESG) is evolving rapidly, influencing At the forefront of these reforms is the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (SEBI), which has steadily
how banks assess risk, allocate
evolved its ESG disclosure - Business Responsibility
capital, and define long-term value.
and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR). The latest
As stakeholder expectations grow, enhancements to the BRSR requirements mark
regulatory momentum across globe a strategic shift toward greater accountability and
value chain transparency. By redefining ‘value chain
is shifting from voluntary reporting
partners’ to include upstream and downstream
towards mandatory frameworks,
entities accounting for 2% or more of a listed
with increasing alignment to company’s purchases or sales, SEBI is deepening the
international standards such as IFRS scope of ESG disclosures. Additionally, recognising
the generation or procurement of green credits as a
Sustainability Disclosure Standards.
leadership indicator under Principle 6 of BRSR signals
The regulatory maturity and political
a stronger push toward environmental performance,
orientation vary across jurisdictions, effective from FY 2024-25.
wherein some regimes are actively
In parallel, SEBI is streamlining the ESG rating
embedding ESG principles into ecosystem to reflect the growing demand for credible
financial market development and and comparable sustainability assessments. Through
its July 2024 circular, SEBI has enabled its registered
risk oversight, while others are
ESG Rating Providers (ERPs) to operate within the
adopting a more cautious approach,
International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) under
highlighting the urgent need for the regulatory framework laid out by the International
harmonised ESG frameworks and Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA). This
move coincides with SEBI’s broader sustainable
strategy.
finance strategy, which includes the introduction of
new financial instruments such as Social Bonds,
Sustainable Bonds, and Sustainability-linked
Bonds, building upon the foundation laid by green
debt securities.
Complementing these market-level measures, the
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has also bolstered its
commitment to green finance. Key steps include
raising Priority Sector Lending (PSL) limits for
renewable energy to H35 crore and launching a
dedicated ‘On Tap’ cohort focused on climate risk
and sustainable finance innovation. These policy
levers are intended to channel greater credit flow
toward green sectors and encourage financial
institutions to integrate climate considerations into
their core operations.
111122
HHDDFFCC BBaannkk LLiimmiitteedd
Responsible Business
However, India’s ESG journey Together, these developments positively impacting the environment,
is unfolding amidst growing represent maturing of India’s ESG our customers, employees, and the
geopolitical volatility. The global ecosystem. From regulatory clarity wider community through responsible
landscape of trade disruptions, and market infrastructure to risk and inclusive growth. Guided by
supply chain realignments, and resilience and financial innovation, the our core values, our ESG practices
currency fluctuations is reshaping risk country is laying the groundwork for a seek to drive growth and empower
dynamics for investors and financial more robust and integrated approach communities through our corporate
institutions. The RBI’s 2024 bulletin, to sustainable finance. decision-making processes. In
“Geopolitical Risk and Trade and FY 2014-15, sustainability was
HDFC Bank’s Operating
Capital Flows to India,” underscores officially included as our fifth value,
how these tensions can disrupt trade, Philosophy alongside customer focus, operational
deter capital flows, and undermine excellence, product leadership,
At HDFC Bank, we recognise the
macroeconomic stability. For the and people. To operationalise this
interconnected nature of geopolitical
banking sector, geopolitical shocks vision, The Bank has adopted a
dynamics, sustainability goals, and
now intersect directly with ESG comprehensive ESG framework. This
financial stability. We are actively
outcomes, influencing everything framework serves as a fundamental
aligning with the national ESG agenda
from clean energy financing timelines for all ESG-related initiatives across
while also strengthening our internal
to labour market resilience and domestic operations and is either
resilience to evolving externalities.
regulatory governance. aligned or locally adopted by our
As India’s largest private sector bank, overseas offices as per extant
we remain deeply committed to regulations as applicable.
Driving ESG through roadmap, monitoring progress against functional coordination and alignment
targets, and ensuring alignment and reports periodically to the CSR
Structured Governance
with stakeholder expectations and & ESG Committee of the Board. To
HDFC Bank has instituted a robust, approving key disclosures in alignment enable focused execution of ESG
multi-tiered ESG governance with applicable regulatory and priorities, the Bank has constituted
structure to ensure that sustainability voluntary reporting standards. The dedicated ESG Working Groups.
considerations are systematically Deputy Managing Director, leads the These groups are aligned with
embedded across the Bank’s execution of ESG priorities across the key pillars of the Bank’s ESG
operations, lending practices, risk the Bank. agenda and are tasked with driving
frameworks, product development implementation, monitoring progress,
At the executive level, ESG
and reporting mechanisms. The and facilitating internal capacity-
implementation is driven by the ESG
Corporate Social Responsibility building across departments.
Apex Council, comprising senior
and ESG (CSR & ESG) Committee
leadership from across critical
of the Board, inter alia, provides
business and enabling functions.
strategic oversight to the Bank’s ESG
The Council is responsible for cross-
agenda—reviewing our sustainability
Environment Social & Governance Product Responsibility
Working Group Working Group Working Group
Sets targets and identifies Focuses on workplace policies Integrates assessing Environmental
opportunities for improvement in including Code of Conduct, human & Social (E&S) risks, including climate
areas of emissions, energy, water rights, diversity, safety, stakeholder risks in our existing portfolio and
and waste. engagement and corporate identify new business opportunities
governance policies. in the E&S space.
113
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ESG STRATEGY ENCOMPASSING
SUSTAINABLE FINANCE
ESG Focus Areas & Guiding Approach
Focus Area Our Approach
Climate Change Strategy We are committed to achieving carbon neutrality by FY 2031-32 and reducing
our energy footprint through renewable energy adoption, energy-efficient
infrastructure, and automated energy management.
Energy, Emissions, and Operations: We externally verify and disclose GHG
emissions annually and continuously improve resource efficiency across our
operations and data centers.
Waste and Water Conservation: We adopt responsible waste disposal, minimise
paper and plastic use and implement water-saving technologies across premises.
Environmental & Social The Bank has a board approved Environmental, Social Governance Risk
Risk in Lending Management (ESGRM) Framework to strengthen the integration of ESG & climate
change risk assessment into the credit appraisal process, with thresholds guiding
due diligence and third-party assessments.
Sustainable Finance Our Sustainable Finance Framework provides guidance to the Bank for issuances
of green, social, sustainable and sustainability linked financing and elucidates the
use, management, monitoring and reporting of such proceeds.
Value Chain and Procurement We engage upstream and downstream partners on ESG disclosures, to
ensure that our value chain partners meet sustainable disclosure standards
in line with benchmark ESG practices of the Bank and in accordance with
existing regulations.
Financed Emissions: We are expanding the scope of measurement of financed
emissions and engaging borrowers to support decarbonisation pathways.
Workforce Practices We uphold non-discrimination, employee well-being, gender diversity and
structured ESG learning and development.
Customer Engagement We deliver responsible banking experiences through secure, customer-centric
digital platforms and continuous feedback loops.
Community & Society Guided by our board governed Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy,
our umbrella of social initiatives ‘Parivartan’ drives impact in 6 distinct areas
of intervention namely: Rural Development, Promotion of Education, Skill
Development & Livelihood Enhancement, Healthcare & Hygiene, Financial
Literacy & Inclusion, and Natural Resource Management.
Our Sustainable Livelihood Initiative (SLI) has been a key driver in pushing for
financial inclusion among families, especially women, in un-banked and under-
banked areas.
Transparency & Accountability We uphold transparency through the whistleblower mechanism and proactive
to Stakeholders stakeholder engagement. Over the years, the Bank has aligned its management
approach with best practices and as guided by ESG reporting frameworks and
guidelines of ESG rating agencies.
Governance and Compliance Our governance model ensures regulatory compliance, ethics, cybersecurity
and ESG-aligned board oversight. The Bank’s corporate governance framework
complies with The Companies Act, the regulations and guidelines of the SEBI
and the requirements of the listing agreements entered into with the Indian
stock exchanges.
114
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Commitment to Sustainability-related Disclosures
The Bank is dedicated to maintaining transparency and accountability in its sustainability-related disclosures. Our approach
to reporting adopts global frameworks in alignment with nationally available guidance and frameworks.
Assessment The Bank actively reports to the Carbon The Bank has been participating in S&P Corporate
framework Disclosure Project (CDP), on its strategy Sustainability Assessment since FY 2018-19.
that integrates both the potential risks and In FY 2024-25, the Bank was ranked in the
opportunities presented by climate change. 85th percentile.
HDFC Bank achieved a leadership score of 71 in
the CRISIL ESG Ratings Leadership Category for
FY 2023-24 disclosures.
Reporting We endeavor to align our climate risk We have been We comply and report in
frameworks related disclosures with the Task Force reporting on ESG line with the SEBI-mandated
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures KPIs in alignment with BRSR Framework in our
(TCFD) recommendations. the Global Reporting annual disclosures.
Initiative (GRI) since
FY 2024-25 is the fifth year of HDFC Bank’s
FY 2013-14.
reporting in line with TCFD framework.
FY 2024-25 is the
twelfth year of HDFC
Bank’s reporting in
alignment with the GRI.
Assurance The Bank has obtained Reasonable Assurance on BRSR Core Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and
Limited Assurance on select non-core BRSR/GRI-aligned KPIs.
Embedding ESG in Credit ESG risk and policies. This robust Mobilising Capital Responsibly
Risk and Due Diligence ESGRM Framework enables us to Sustainable finance is a natural
evaluate ESG risks systematically
extension of our ESG strategy, aligning
At HDFC Bank, integrating ESG
across our lending portfolio.
business value with environmental
factors into our credit appraisal and
due diligence processes is a strategic For exposures to borrowers beyond and societal progress. Guided by our
priority, given their growing influence the pre-decided thresholds, the ESG ESG Risk Management Framework
on borrower performance and portfolio RM framework mandates ESG due and global sustainability principles,
risk. In FY 2023–24, we developed diligence that includes assessment it supports India’s low-carbon and
an ESG Risk Management (ESGRM) of environmental impacts, labor and inclusive growth agenda.
Framework for as a part of the overall human rights practices, corporate The Finance Ministry’s draft Climate
credit policy of the Bank to embed governance, and climate risk exposure. Finance Taxonomy is a landmark
ESG and climate risk evaluation For specialised or long-tenure project step toward directing green capital
into our credit appraisal process for finance, a Lenders’ Independent to help achieve India’s NDCs. With
wholesale lending, with exposure- Engineer (LIE) is appointed. In addition eight guiding principles, the taxonomy
based thresholds and industry risk to a techno-commercial assessment prioritises sectors like energy, mobility,
categorisations. The assessment of the project, one of the items of the buildings, agriculture, and hard-to-
of ESG Risk in Credit Appraisals s scope of work of the LIE is to assess abate industries including steel and
covers borrower-level risks, statutory availability / requirement of environment cement. Anticipating this shift, we
compliance and sectoral sensitivities. clearances, pollution clearances, R & R have already made early investments
The ESG assessments are embedded requirements and such other aspects in sustainable technologies and low-
into Credit Appetite Memorandums. In of the project. Suitable mitigants carbon infrastructure. Our evolving
addition, loan documentation includes are built to address the risks around approach integrates financial expertise
reps and warranties with regards to these aspects.
115
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ESG STRATEGY ENCOMPASSING
SUSTAINABLE FINANCE
and product innovation to support Association’s Green and Social Loan allocated and managed. We are
India’s climate goals. Principles, the Framework enables committed to reporting on allocation
us to: and impact of the use of proceeds
Our Sustainable Finance
− Identify and classify eligible green including those contributing to the
Framework
and social projects advancement of the UN SDGs 2, 3 ,4,
Our Board-approved Sustainable − Issue green, social, and 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13.
Finance Framework (“the Framework”)
sustainability bonds Aligned with the Framework, we
serves to catalyse our sustainable
− Track and manage the allocation issued USD 300 million in sustainable
financing efforts. Developed in
of proceeds bonds in February 2024, advancing
accordance with global standards
including the International Capital − Report transparently on the impact our green finance agenda and
supporting impactful environmental
Market Association (ICMA)- of financed projects
and social initiatives.
Sustainability Bond Guidelines (2021),
The Framework outlines a process
Green Bond Principles, Social Bond
by which proceeds will be tracked,
Principles, and the Loan Market
Sustainable Bond Issuance Social Category- MSME financing period, while the remainder supports
upcoming initiatives aligned with
A larger portion of the proceeds, USD
The total proceeds raised through the
our green and social criteria. Each
issuance of USD 300 million
90 million (H747.11 crore), or 30% of the
project is assessed against clear
total issuance, has been dedicated to
(H2,490.36 crore), were distributed
sustainability thresholds, with
lending to MSMEs.
across two key categories:
exclusions based on global norms,
Use of Proceeds and Allocation
Green Category- Clean including the International Finance
Approach
transportation (Electric Vehicles) Corporation (IFC) Exclusion List. To
A total of USD 60 million (H498.07 Proceeds from our sustainable bond ensure integrity and market alignment,
crore), representing 20% of the total issuance are allocated in line with project selection and fund allocation
issuance, has been allocated to clean the Sustainable Finance Framework, are independently verified and certified
transportation, specifically to support which allows for both retrospective by a reputed third-party auditor.
electric vehicles (EVs). and forward-looking investments. This rigorous approach reinforces
A portion of the proceeds may be our commitment to transparency,
directed toward eligible projects that impact-driven financing, and
have been financed in the recent adherence to international sustainable
past, within a defined lookback finance standards.
We continue to steer investments across a diverse portfolio of green and social sectors, contributing meaningfully to India’s
Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and broader Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Total Outstanding Total No of Transactions % of total % of total
Type of Finance
(H crore)! (Nos.) Sustainable Finance Finance
Green* 67,111 1,53,851 13.58 2.54
Social# 4,27,029 5,40,371 86.42 16.15
Total Portfolio 4,94,140 6,94,222 100 18.69
!Outstanding as of March 31, 2025
*Green Portfolio includes investments in renewable energy (such as solar, wind, and Bio-gas energy), electric mobility solutions (EV and Hybrid
vehicles), and green buildings.
#Social Portfolio comprises financing towards access to essential services (housing), micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), Food Security
and sustainable food systems (infrastructure such as warehouses supporting food storage and security) and Impact Financing.
116
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Catalysing ESG Maturity Industry engagement/ Client Engagement: As a trusted
Across Our Portfolio Government/Public Policy financial institution, we engage with
Engagement large corporate clients to assess
We see our borrowers as partners in
climate-related risks and opportunities.
India’s ESG transition. As India moves We believe that industry collaboration
We encourage improved climate
toward a net-zero future, banks must is key to advancing ESG outcomes.
disclosures and aim to understand
play a catalytic role in enabling ESG- By working with peers, experts, and
ESG priorities, identify industry best
aligned business practices not just academic institutions, we stay aligned
practices, and track initiatives from
through financing, but also through with evolving expectations and help
near-term emission targets to net-zero
proactive engagement and capacity shape the transition to a low-carbon
commitments, ESG reporting, and
building. Our client engagement model economy. As active members of
supply chain decarbonisation efforts.
is anchored in continuous dialogue. industry bodies and trade associations
The Bank endeavours to actively (refer BRSR FY 2024-25 Principle Core Focus Areas in ESG
engage with clients, particularly those 7, E1), we contribute to developing Client Engagements:
in carbon-intensive sectors such as oil sectoral standards and emerging
− Emissions disclosures and net-
and gas, power, cement, and steel, to taxonomies. Our engagement ensures
zero targets
assess ESG maturity and encourage alignment between internal ESG
transition planning. ambitions and external policies. To − Waste management and
maximise impact, we collaborate with pollution control
Strategic Collaborations for
solution providers, civil society, and − ESG-linked governance policies and
Scalable Impact
government agencies—combining board diversity
strengths to drive innovation and scale
We’re strengthening ecosystem − Supply chain sustainability and
ESG initiatives effectively.
partnerships to address complex decarbonisation efforts
ESG challenges by pooling expertise, Engagement Across the − Human rights, labor, and gender
technology, and capital for greater Value Chain
inclusivity practices
collective impact. Our focus is on
We recognise that our environmental
working with: Our efforts are aligned towards
and social impact spans our entire
integrating emerging regulatory
− Solution providers for emissions value chain. In line with SEBI’s BRSR
mandates across the value chain
tracking and climate risk modeling Core mandate, we actively engage
as a strategic lever for sustainability
− Academic institutions and think value chain partners to drive shared leadership. This integration enables us
tanks to guide ESG analytics and sustainability outcomes, strengthen to strengthen risk management and
scenario planning risk resilience, and create long-term build resilience across our operational
value. Our engagement strategy
− Civil society organisations ecosystem. It also positions us to
focuses on collaboration, capacity
to co-create inclusive engage with, influence and support
building, and measurable progress.
community interventions the broader market transition towards
− Industry coalitions and Supplier Engagement: Beyond more accountable, inclusive, and
government agencies to aspects of labour law compliance and climate-conscious business. In
adherence to statutory requirements, doing so, we aim to embed stronger
shape policy and improve
We aim to embed ESG performance governance practices for responsible
sectoral alignment
criterion—covering emissions intensity, growth and long-term value creation in
These collaborations enhance our and safety standards, into supplier the banking sector.
ability to identify emerging ESG assessments. Additionally, we aim
trends, close capacity gaps, and to support MSME suppliers through
drive transformative outcomes targeted training to strengthen their
across sectors. understanding of ESG principles and
BRSR Core requirements, fostering
a more responsible and resilient
value chain.
117
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ENVIRONMENT
Committing to To improve the completeness of our environmental
data, we have broadened our reporting boundaries.
This includes the expansion of our Scope 3 emissions
Environmental
inventory through the integration of new sources, such
as the environmental impact of employee commute
Sustainability captured through a detailed commute survey. Building
on the pilot study conducted in FY 2023-24, we
continue to report on financed emissions from a
select segment of our portfolio, with plans to enhance
the coverage and accuracy of financed emissions
We believe that integrating reporting in future reporting cycles.
environmental responsibility into We remain firmly committed to minimising our
our core business practices is key environmental footprint across our entire value chain,
not only through improvements in our operations but
to creating long-term value. Guided
also by embracing responsible financing practices
by this belief, we continue to
and supply chain engagement. Our efforts are
evolve our approach to managing guided by a strategic combination of time-bound,
and disclosing our environmental progressive, and measurable initiatives that drive
meaningful reductions in our most significant
impacts. This year, we have further
environmental impacts.
expanded and strengthened our
environmental data and reporting Governance
systems as we introduce a Strong governance forms the foundation of
our approach to managing environmental risks
broader set of environmental
and driving sustainable outcomes. The Bank’s
KPIs in our disclosures, aligning
environmental agenda is overseen at the highest
with evolving standards including levels to ensure accountability, strategic alignment,
BRSR Core and global climate- and continuous improvement.
related reporting frameworks. The CSR & ESG Committee of the Board
Our enhanced approach reflects a provides strategic oversight on environmental
matters, including climate-related risks, emissions
deeper, more holistic assessment
management, and resource efficiency. The
of our environmental footprint
environmental initiatives are executed under the
across both our own operational leadership of the Deputy Managing Director, who
and value chain boundaries. oversees the Bank’s ESG function.
Our environmental efforts are guided by the
Bank’s ESG Risk Management Framework, which
is periodically reviewed and updated to ensure it
remains aligned with regulatory expectations and
best practices. This framework applies across our
domestic operations, with overseas offices aligning
as per local regulatory requirements.
118
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Metrics and Targets Our Energy Performance Electricity accounts for the majority
(68.39%) of our total energy
In alignment with regulatory As a service-based organisation,
consumption, amounting to 1.48
developments and evolving energy consumption is a key aspect of
million GJ. At present, most of this
stakeholder expectations, we our operational footprint. In FY 2024-
electricity i.e. 1.41 million GJ is
continuously refine our approach to 25, our total energy consumption
sourced from the conventional grid
identifying and reporting material key was 2.06 million GJ, reflecting a
and the remaining 0.07 million GJ is
performance indicators (KPIs) related decrease of 0.97 million GJ compared
procured from renewable sources.
to our environmental performance. to FY 2023-24. This reduction is
Our KPIs cover key impact areas, primarily attributed to a shift in our
including energy consumption, energy accounting methodology Through our continued efforts
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, between FY 2023-24 and FY 2024- to transition towards cleaner
water usage, and waste management. 25. We transitioned from a purely energy, we have increased the
spend-based estimation approach share of renewable energy in our
We maintain a robust system for
to a more refined system that electricity mix from 0.39%
monitoring these indicators across our
integrates improved activity data with in FY24 to
operations and the insights generated
financial data. This methodological
are leveraged for decision-making,
enhancement led to a more accurate 3.22
performance evaluation, and target- %
and significantly lower estimate of
setting. As we continue expanding
electrical energy consumption. in FY25.
our footprint particularly through the
opening of branches in unbanked Energy Consumption GJ
semi-urban and rural areas, we are Diesel: DG Set 224,058.91 Buildings Management and
investing in infrastructure, personnel, Diesel: Company Cars 74,709.37 Green Building Initiatives
and technology to strengthen the Petrol: Company Cars 286,947.80
accuracy and completeness of Grid Electricity (no 1,410,725.08 To support our carbon reduction
environmental data collection across renewable attributes goals, we have implemented a
all locations. established) comprehensive infrastructure
Renewable Electricity (Solar 66,436.61 efficiency program across our
Following the successful merger Rooftop & Green Power) operations. Key initiatives in
of HDFC Bank and HDFC Ltd. in Total 2,062,877.76 FY 2024-25 include:
FY 2023-24, the Bank undertook
significant systems transformation to Total Energy Consumed − Savings of about 623.84 MWh
integrate and streamline its expanded (million GJ) resulting from smart IOT systems
operations. Back in FY 2020-21, the FY25 1.48 0.58 installed at about 350 branches.
Bank had committed to achieving FY24 2.54 0.50 − Installation of Active Harmonic
carbon neutrality for Scope 1 and FY23 1.56 0.41 Filters for achieving unity power
Scope 2 emissions from its own FY22 1.31 0.29 factor (UPF) at 84 locations that
operations by FY 2031-32 with resulted in savings of 84.32 MWh.
FY 2020-21 as the baseline year Energy Consumed from purchased electricity − Deployment of technologies such as
for tracking year on year progress Energy Consumed from usage of fossil fuels
elevator and equipment scheduling,
against the said target. In light of the
occupancy sensors and capacitor
Energy Intensity
merger and the resulting increase in
banks to optimise energy use.
(GJ/H Cr Revenue from Operations)
operational scale, the Bank initiated a
− Standardisation of air conditioning
post-merger re-baselining of its GHG FY25 5.96
systems in new premises to
emissions. Accordingly, FY 2023-24 FY24 9.87
meet the latest Bureau of Energy
was established as the new baseline FY23 10.24 Efficiency (BEE) standards.
year for monitoring progress towards
FY22 10.15
both interim targets and long-term
emissions reduction goals. In FY 2024-25, our energy intensity stood at
5.96 GJ/INR crore of Revenue from Operations,
reflecting a significant decrease compared to
FY 2023-24.
119
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ENVIRONMENT
In FY 2024-25 as well, the Bank
continued to enhance the energy Our Data Centre Emission
efficiency of its co-located data
Reduction Initiatives
centers, accounting for a significant
portion of electricity consumption. We
are implementing multiple initiatives
aimed at improving cooling efficiency
and reducing overall energy usage at
these critical facilities.
Recognising the importance of Our Data centers All our data centers Our Bangalore Data
environmental stewardship beyond use Hyper are TIA-942 center ‘Net magic·
energy management, we are adopting Convergence IT Rated-3 Certified DC3B’ is certified
a holistic approach towards reducing Technology for IT green data center
our environmental footprint across asset consolidation under the IGBC
all operating locations. As of March and virtualisation Green Data Center
31, 2025: Rating System
− 2,507 branches and offices have
been certified under the Indian
Green Building Council (IGBC)
Green Interiors Rating System,
including 4 Platinum, 2,391 Gold,
and 112 Silver certified locations.
− All new branches and offices
are evaluated for green building
certification at the design stage.
We are committed to sustainable
procurement practices, using Green
Pro-certified materials such as
plywood, laminates, flooring tiles,
ceiling tiles, paints, adhesives, and
finishes at our select premises. GHG Emissions our GHG inventory therefore remains
Furthermore, we prioritise the
a strategic priority action area for the
We remain firmly committed to
use of low-VOC (Volatile Organic
Bank. We are continuously enhancing
addressing climate change and
Compounds) finishes, which are
our data collection processes
promoting sustainable practices
incorporated into our Bills of Quantity
and exploring technological and
across our operations and value chain.
and tendering processes for new
automation-driven solutions to further
Recognising the scale and diversity
infrastructure development.
improve data accuracy and build
of our operations spread across tens
stakeholder confidence.
of thousands of locations of varying
size and nature, we acknowledge In FY 2024-25, our total Scope and
that collecting complete and accurate 2 footprint stood at 0.36 million
activity data presents a significant tCO e, while Scope 3 emissions from
2
challenge. Strengthening data quality five2 reported categories aggregated
and enhancing the completeness of
to 0.23 million tCO e.
2
1Includes Scope 2 emissions calculated as per market-based approach.
2These include Category 3 (Fuel and Energy Related Activities), Category 5 (Waste Generated in Operations), Category 6 (Business Travel), Category
7 (Employee Commute) and Category 8 (Upstream leased assets)
120
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Total GHG Emissions Scope 1: Direct Emissions Potential (GWP) values sourced from
(million tCO 2 e) Scope 1 emissions refer to direct the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report
(AR6).
FY25 0.08 0.28 0.23 GHG emissions from sources owned
FY24 0.09 0.50 0.06 or controlled by the Bank, including For ACs, emissions are estimated
FY23 0.03 0.31 0.05 emissions from fuel consumption in using India's refrigerant usage trends,
FY22 0.02 0.29 0.04 company-owned vehicles (petrol, vendor-provided average refrigerant
diesel) and company-owned diesel capacities, leakage assumptions from
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 generator (DG) sets as well as fugitive Council on Energy, Environment and
emissions from leakage of refrigerants Water (CEEW), and GWP values from
Total Emissions used in air conditioners and from the IPCC AR6.
GHG-based fire suppressants used in
(0.59 million tCOe)
2 fire extinguishers.
13.15%
Scope 1 emissions have been
38.83% calculated using a combination Scope 1 Emissions
(tCOe)
of the Bank’s operational data 2
and internationally recognised
2.51%
methodologies. Emissions from
company-owned vehicles and DG 21.36%
48.02%
sets have been estimated by applying
emission factors from the IPCC 2006
Guidelines to fuel consumption data 42.81%
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 sourced from the Bank’s financial
management system.
33.32%
Fugitive emissions from fire
extinguishers are calculated using
operational assets data and public Diesel consumption in DG sets
Company owned vehicles
factors on leakage from USEPA
HVAC
guidance and Global Warming Fire Extinguisher
Our Scope 1 emissions reduced Scope 1 Emissions
from 0.084 million tCO 2 e in (million tCO 2 e)
FY 2023-24 to 0.078 million tCO e
2 FY25 0.026 1.04.80107.23 0.033 0.002
in FY 2024-25. This decline is
FY24 0.020 0.0160.06 0.045 0.003
primarily due to two key measures:
FY23 0.013 0.017
the gradual transition from high-GHG
FY22 00..00029 0.012
hydrofluorocarbon fire extinguishers
to low-GHG fluoroketone variants, Company-owned Vehicles Gensets HVAC Fire Extinguishers
and routine upgradation to energy
efficient equipment.
121
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ENVIRONMENT
Scope 2 (Indirect GHG data- compared to spend based vehicles, as well as diesel used in
Emissions from Purchased computation in FY 2023-24. This shift DG generators, were considered.
Electricity) in methodology, driven by improved Emission factors were sourced from
data accuracy, led to reduction in the latest DEFRA 2024 database to
Our Scope 2 emissions account
electricity consumption. account for upstream emissions from
for indirect GHG emissions from
extraction, refining, and transportation.
consumption of electricity purchased We are continuously strengthening our
For electricity transmission and
from the grid across all offices under data collection systems, processes,
distribution (T&D) losses, consumption
the Bank’s operational control and and governance mechanisms
data for non-renewable electricity
co-located data centers. In FY 2024- to enhance the accuracy and
was obtained from internal electricity
25, we enhanced our Scope 2 data completeness of our GHG accounting
sheets. These losses were estimated
management by expanding the process. Given that Scope 2 emissions
using data from the Central Electricity
use of actual monitored electricity constitute the primary source of our
Authority (CEA) Executive Summary
consumption (kWh) data and operational GHG emissions, we have
on Power Sector 2025, which
adopted a spend-based estimation prioritised the improvement of
provides the average national T&D
methodology wherever direct data electricity consumption data
loss percentage. The emission factor
was not available. collection across our operating
applied to this lost electricity was
locations. As part of a phased
In line with the GHG Protocol, we taken from version 20 of the Central
approach, we are initially focusing
report Scope 2 emissions using Electricity Authority’s (CEA) CO
on high-consumption locations, 2
both the location-based and market-
database 2024.
with a progressive rollout planned for
based approaches.
other categories of locations thereafter. Category 5: Waste generated in
Under the location-based approach, operations- Emissions for e-waste,
emissions are calculated using Scope 2 Emissions
battery waste, and paper are
actual activity data on electricity (million tCOe)
2 estimated using emission factors from
consumption, supplemented by
FY25 0.28 the USEPA’s WARM Version 16.
estimates derived from electricity
FY24 0.50
procurement costs and applicable
Category 6: Business Travel-
state-level tariffs. FY23 0.31 Emissions from cab hire are estimated
FY22 0.29 based on distance travelled, derived
For the market-based approach, we
from expense records, and applying
Note: In FY 2023-24, our scope 2 emissions
apply the grid emission factor from
increased significantly due to an increase in emission factors from the India
Version 20 of the Central Electricity the number of locations under our operational GHG Programme. Air and rail travel
Authority’s (CEA) CO 2 database to c L o im n i t t r e o d l on account of merger with eHDFC distances are derived from trip
calculate emissions. records in the financial system and
We continue to implement measures Scope 3 (Other Indirect supplemented with public distance
to reduce our Scope 2 emissions Emissions) sources, with emissions calculated as
per India GHG Programme standards.
through targeted interventions at our
Scope 3 emissions represent
own facilities and by working closely indirect GHG emissions that occur Category 7: Employee Commute-
with our data center service providers. in the Bank’s value chain but are A commute survey was conducted in
In FY 2024-25, our Scope 2 emissions not included in our Scope 1 or the bank to collect commute data of
decreased by 0.22 million tCO e Scope 2. For FY 2024-25, Scope the bank employees. Annual commute
2
3 emissions reporting covers the distances per employee were
compared to FY 2023-24. The
following categories: calculated based on the survey and
reduction is primarily attributed to
mode-specific emission factors from
the deployment of 66,436.61 GJ Category 3: Fuel- and energy-
the India GHG Programme were used
of renewable electricity, sourced related activities- Emissions were
to calculate emissions. Emissions
through rooftop solar installations and estimated using activity data and
were averaged by RBI classification
green power purchases. In addition, corresponding emission factors.
and scaled-up to reflect the total
enhancements in the data collection For fuel-related emissions (Well-to-
commute emissions of the entire bank.
system in FY 2024-25 allowed for Tank), the quantities of diesel and
us to shift to a mixed approach- petrol consumed in company-owned
consumption and spend based
122
HDFC Bank Limited
Category 8: Upstream Leased Scope 3 Emissions
Assets (Electricity at Offsite (million tCO 2 e)
ATMs) – Purchased electricity at
offsite ATMs was calculated using a
similar methodology as Scope 2 but
for locations outside the operational
control boundary of the Bank.
As part of our commitment to
capturing value chain impacts, we
are progressively strengthening the
breadth and accuracy of Scope
3 emissions reporting through
standardised methodologies and
expanded category coverage. Category 3:
Fuel and Energy
related activities
For financed emissions estimation
not in Scope 1
methodology, please refer or Scope 2
to the section titled Climate-
related Disclosures.
In FY 2024-25, our Scope 3 emissions increased significantly compared to FY 2023-24 owing to accounting of additional
Category 3 (Fuel and Energy related activities) and Category 7 (Employee Commute) emissions. Employee commute emerged
the largest contributor to reported Scope 3 emissions. However, emissions from purchased electricity in other facilities
marked substantial decline over FY 2023-24, reflecting ongoing energy efficiency improvements and optimisation efforts.
Emission Scope Emission Source Emissions (tCO e)
2
Diesel consumption in DG sets 16,659.50
Company owned vehicles 25,988.69
HVAC 33,392.89
Fire Extinguisher 1,958.42
Total Scope 1 Emissions 77,999.50
Total Scope 2 Emissions
Purchased Electricity 284,877.91
(market-based)
Diesel Car 1,290.85
Category 3: Fuel and Energy relate activities (not in Diesel DG 3,871.34
Scope 1 or 2) Petrol Car 5,256.77
Non-Renewable Electricity (T&D Losses) 57,029.17
E-Waste 0.70
Category 5: Waste generated in operations
Paper Waste 3,998.04
Cab hire 8,771.94
Category 6: Business Travel Air travel 6,930.94
Rail travel 6.00
Category 7: Employee Commute Travel by different modes of transportation 119,512.77
Category 8: Upstream leased assets Purchased electricity in other facilities 23,641.52
Total Scope 3 Emissions 230,310.04
Total GHG Emissions 593,187.45
Scope 1 + 2 GHG Emission Intensity FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22
(tCO e/JCr Revenue from operations) 1.05 1.91 1.75 1.94
2
(tCO e/FTE) 1.69 2.74 1.94 2.18
2
Notes:
• Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity has been computed based on Total Revenue, including "Interest Earned" under Schedule 13 and "Other Income,"
excluding "profit/(loss) on sale of buildings & other assets (net)" under Schedule 14 of the Bank’s Audited Standalone Financial Statements.
• Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity per FTE has been calculated based on number of full-time employees at the end of March 31, 2025
760.0
Category 5:
Waste generated
in operations
400.0 400.0 400.0 300.0
Category 6:
Business travel
610.0 410.0 310.0
700.0
Category 8:
Upstream leased
assets
420.0
440.0
230.0 330.0
Category 7:
Employee
Commute
21.0
Responsible Business
FY25 FY24 FY23 FY22
123
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ENVIRONMENT
Measures to reduce GHG emissions
We are focused on driving system-level changes within the organisation to reduce the GHG intensity of our operations.
In FY 2020-21, we set an ambitious goal of achieving carbon neutrality for our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by
FY 2031-32. To advance towards this goal, we have established firm-level guidelines for operational and procurement
practices, incorporating both supply-side and demand-side interventions within a structured carbon neutrality pathway.
Our Carbon Neutrality Pathway
We have set an ambitious goal of FY 2023-24 as the new baseline and strengthened environmental
achieving carbon neutrality for our year in accordance with the governance across all levels of
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by WRI GHG Protocol’s base year the Bank.
FY 2031-32. recalculation guidance.
Despite an expanded operational
As our operational footprint While our overall target to scope, we achieved a notable
continues to expand, we recognise achieve operational carbon reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG
the evolving challenges associated neutrality by FY 2031-32 remains emissions in FY 2024–25 compared
with achieving our carbon neutrality unchanged, the recalibration has to the baseline. This was driven
objective. The merger with prompted a strategic review of by climate-conscious initiatives,
erstwhile HDFC Limited resulted our interim milestones, emission increased use of renewable
in a significant expansion of our reduction levers, and operational electricity through rooftop solar
organisational and operational interventions. We are adopting a and green power procurement,
boundaries. In response, we more holistic approach to emissions and improved accuracy and
undertook a comprehensive management, ensuring that our completeness of our data
baseline recalibration exercise growing footprint is matched by collection systems.
in FY 2023-24, establishing enhanced decarbonisation efforts
124
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Actions taken in FY 2024-25
Demand Side Supply Side
Active Automated Energy Installed solar panels in Transition of select
Harmonic Filter Management our office building offices and branches
System to 100% Green Power
84 743 kWp
350 19
Locations Cumulative solar power
Branches generation capacity Premises covered
84.32
MWh commissioned*
623.84 17,616.90
Locations MWh (*as of March 31, 2025) MWh
Units Saved Units Saved
61.30 25
tCO e
2 453.53 12,807.48
Emissions avoided tCO e Offices with rooftop solar tCO e
2 2
Emissions avoided plants installed Emissions avoided
609.02
tCO e
2
Emissions avoided
Focus Areas for Future
Increasing renewable power Expand the installation of Auto Control and Monitoring
as a cleaner energy source for Active Harmonic Filters System across select branches
selected office premises. across branches to achieve nationwide to automate energy
unity power factor (UPF) and management and optimise
improve electrical efficiency. electricity usage across
critical assets.
125
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ENVIRONMENT
As a responsible institution, we recognise that our environmental impact extends beyond our direct operations. While
we continue to focus on reducing emissions within our operational boundary, we also acknowledge the need to address
emissions across our broader value chain. In this context, we have prioritised following key initiatives with direct relevance to
value chain GHG emissions reduction:
GHG emission reduction initiatives across value chain
Paper Waste Tree Plantation Procurement Resource
Reduction Program of Recycled Efficiency
through Paper in Initiatives
− The Bank has
Digitalisation Stationary
an extensive − During FY 2024–25,
tree plantation
− Expansion of digital In FY 2024-25, the the Bank allocated
programme as part
a total of 0.51% of
products, services, Bank procured a total
of Parivartan.
the Bank’s overall
and automation of 537 metric tonnes
of internal and − Over 80 Lakh trees of recycled stationery capital expenditure
customer-facing have been planted paper, replacing the to promote
processes to reduce till date, contributing use of virgin paper. resource efficiency.
paper consumption. to GHG emissions The recycled paper − The spend was
− In FY 25, 86% reduction and constituted 24% directed towards
enhancing social and of our total paper initiatives like the
of our customer
relationship capital. procurement. installation of
acquisitions
resource efficiency
were digital.
equipment such as
BEE 5-star rated air
conditioners, and
CPCB IV compliant
diesel generator sets;
implementation of
renewable energy
solutions like
solar panels and
installation of sewage
treatment plants
(STPs).
126
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Waste Management
Responsible waste management advancing towards the sustainable clearly defined roles and responsibilities
forms a critical pillar of our broader management of waste generated from across relevant functional departments
environmental stewardship efforts. Our our operations. As part of this effort, to strengthen data governance,
approach focuses on minimising waste we have formalised internal Standard enhance accountability and drive
generation, promoting responsible Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the minimisation of waste generation
disposal practices, and ensuring proper systematic monitoring, reporting, and alongside improvements in
segregation, handling and recycling of management of both waste generated recycling rates.
waste streams. We are progressively and waste avoided. These SOPs have
Total Waste recovered
through recycling, re- Total Waste Diverted to
Total Collected
S.No Category of Waste using or other recovery Disposal
Quantity (tonnes)
operations (tonnes)
(tonnes)
1 Plastic waste 105.91 11.77 94.14
2 E-waste 165.39 133.77 31.62
3 Battery waste 34.13 34.13 0.00
4 Other Hazardous waste (DG Oil) 69.06 1.90 67.16
5 Other Non-hazardous waste generated 297.02 48.36 248.66
6 Paper waste (Other Non-hazardous waste) 3,401.59 191.89 3,209.70
Total 4,073.11 421.82 3,651. 29
Note:
• Waste quantities mentioned here include waste generated in our owned facilities where waste segregation and recycling have been implemented,
except for e-waste which includes IT e-waste and paper from other locations as well. The waste generated is estimated by collecting data from
select locations which is then extrapolated using employee count as the operational proxy.
• E-Waste generated, recycled and disposed, includes IT related e-waste and datacenter e-waste which is centrally managed and recycled through
authorised vendors.
• Paper waste majorly constitutes paper procured for the Bank’s own use and is shown as sector-specific paper waste. The quantity of waste
generated is assumed to be disposed through other disposal operations.
We manage six categories of non- initiatives. Total waste intensity for and compliant processing of waste.
hazardous waste generated from our the reporting year stood at 0.012 Looking ahead, we are actively
operations: e-waste, battery waste, tonnes per INR crore of revenue from expanding our internal waste tracking
paper waste, food waste, plastic operations. E-waste and battery waste program. Through structured
waste, and other non-hazardous management remained key focus consultations and collaboration with
waste. Recognising our responsibility areas during the year. We achieved vendors, we plan to progressively
to minimise environmental impact, significant progress in responsible extend waste monitoring — including
we ensure that all dry waste from e-waste recovery, recycling e-waste — across a larger number
our offices is collected and disposed approximately 133.77 tonnes of of facilities over the coming years.
through authorised vendors, with a e-waste and 34.13 tonnes of batteries Additionally, at certain locations,
strong emphasis on recycling and from our IT assets, all handled waste materials — including those
responsible disposal. exclusively by authorised recyclers. classified as hazardous are collected
and disposed of through approved,
In FY 2024-25, we diverted We have established partnerships
authorised vendors in accordance with
approximately 421.82 tonnes of waste with authorised recycling vendors
applicable environmental regulations.
from disposal through recycling across categories to ensure safe
127
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ENVIRONMENT
Water Management estimated water savings of 27–30%
compared to industry baselines at
Reflecting the nature of our business,
our green-certified locations. Our
water consumption across our
total estimated water consumption for
operations is primarily for domestic
FY 2024-25 stands at approximately
and drinking purposes. We source
520,540.73 kilolitres.
water from municipal supplies or
third-party vendors at most of our Wastewater generated at our
facilities. Recognising that effective facilities is primarily domestic in
water management requires a robust nature, originating from restrooms
understanding of usage patterns, and kitchens. To ensure responsible
we prioritise the measurement and management of this discharge,
monitoring of water consumption wastewater is discharged directly
across all locations. To strengthen into municipal collection networks
this capability, we have installed or facility-owner treatment systems,
water meters at select larger facilities where it is treated in accordance with
as part of a phased rollout. This applicable local standards.
approach enables us to gather more
Beyond our operational boundaries,
accurate consumption data, refine
we are also contributing to water
our water management strategy, and
conservation and water body
progressively expand monitoring
rejuvenation efforts through
coverage across additional sites in
community engagement programs.
the coming years.
Further details of these initiatives are
Alongside improved measurement provided in the Social - Communities
systems, we are implementing section of this Report.
water-saving technologies and
Water Intensity
practices aimed at reducing overall
(kl/H Cr Revenue from Operations)
water consumption. All our IGBC
certified branches and offices are FY25 1.50
equipped with sensors and low flow FY24 1.57
fixtures to control water usage. These FY23 2.07
interventions have contributed to
FY25 FY24 FY23
Climate Risk Transparency warming present substantial risks
to economies, businesses, and
and Reporting
communities worldwide.
HDFC Bank acknowledges the
In FY 2024–25, HDFC Bank
escalating risks posed by climate
proactively aligned its climate-related
change, particularly in a climate-
disclosures with evolving ESG
vulnerable country like India. The Bank
regulatory landscape and global
has been undertaking significant steps
standards. The Bank reports in
to integrate climate considerations
accordance with the Task Force on
into its governance, risk management,
Climate-related Financial Disclosures
and strategic operations. Increasing
(TCFD) recommendations, to
frequency of extreme weather
provide comprehensive insights
events and socio-economic
into governance, strategy, risk
consequences of unmitigated global
128
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
management, and metrics related internal and external stakeholders, and systems to identify, measure,
to climate risks and opportunities. to drive the ESG agenda including monitor, assess, and manage risks
Recognising the growing concerns managing, mitigating and reporting including climate risks effectively.
of regulators, investors, and clients on climate metrics. The Deputy The Bank has made an effort to
regarding climate risks, particularly Managing Director of the Bank has operationalise climate risk evaluation
for banks and financial institutions, direct oversight on the ESG function within its credit assessment process
the Bank has continued to advance and reports to the Board on such through the Board-approved
its approach to identifying, managing, matters. The CSR & ESG Committee Environmental, Social and Governance
and disclosing climate-related risks of the Board reviews the Bank’s (ESG) Risk Management Framework.
and opportunities over the past five ESG roadmap, climate targets The Bank has adopted this
years. and disclosures. framework with the aim of integrating
assessment of environmental, social
Governance The Risk Policy and Monitoring
and governance risks associated
Committee (RPMC)—another Board-
Oversight on climate related matters with borrowers into its internal credit
level committee formed as per the
resides with the CSR & ESG risk assessment and management
guidelines of Reserve Bank of India
Committee of the Board, which, inter framework.
on Asset Liability Management/Risk
alia, is responsible for monitoring
Management Systems—oversees the The framework has helped the Bank
of the Bank’s ESG strategy and
Bank’s enterprise-wide risk strategy. adopt global ESG / Climate change
associated climate initiatives. The
As part of its mandate, it reviews assessment standards / practices for
Committee oversees and monitors the
the enterprise-wide risk frameworks its portfolio. As part of the framework,
ESG Policy Framework, Environmental
viz. Risk Appetite framework (RAF), ESG and Climate Change Assessment
policy, actionables and initiatives
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment is mandatory in all Credit Appetite
strategised and executed basis
Process (ICAAP), and the stress Memorandums (CAMs) where
updates from the management level
testing framework for the Bank’s aggregate credit appetite is above a
ESG Apex Council, which coordinates
borrowers. The independent Risk certain threshold. The objective of
actions across the ESG Working
Management Group (RMG), headed the framework is to assess corporate
Groups. The CSR & ESG Committee
by the Chief Risk Officer maintains borrowers in terms of their current
also oversees and monitors the
regular communication with RPMC position with regard to ESG & Climate
Bank’s ESG disclosures, highlighting
members and is primarily responsible change, their transition plans and their
the Bank’s ESG performance and
for executing the risk strategy initiatives on mitigation of risks related
prioritisation of material topics. The
approved by the Board. This entails to ESG and Climate change.
Bank has a dedicated ESG Function
developing policies, procedures,
that works in conjunction with several
Framework Purpose in Climate Risk Responsible Committees /
Governance Bodies
ESG Policy Framework Guides all ESG and climate initiatives CSR & ESG Committee, ESG
across operations, procurement, Apex Council
workforce, and governance.
Environmental, Social & Embeds ESG and climate change Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee,
Governance Risk Management assessment in loans above a ESG Apex Council
(ESGRM) Framework defined threshold.
Sustainable Financing Enables green/social/sustainability CSR & ESG Committee, ESG
Framework bond issuances; aligned with ICMA Apex Council
principles; SPO obtained.
129
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ENVIRONMENT
Training and Capacity Building on ESG and Climate Risk
We are committed to fostering a efforts, a dedicated session was greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions,
comprehensive understanding of held to provide the Board with an instilling a shared understanding
climate change throughout our overview of climate risks, aligned with of climate-related risks and
organisation, ensuring that every the evolving regulatory landscape. opportunities across all levels of
function and employee is equipped This session aimed to enhance the our organisation. Through these
with functional and role-appropriate Board’s understanding of climate- comprehensive training and capacity-
knowledge and skills to address related challenges and opportunities, building efforts, we empower
its challenges. enabling effective oversight of climate our employees to become active
risk integration into business strategy contributors to our sustainability goals
During the year, the Bank conducted
and decision-making. and resilient to the challenges posed
Board Familiarisation Programmes,
by climate change.
including presentations and deep- Additionally, as part of our internal
dive sessions covering key strategic training agenda, we have e-learning
and risk areas. As part of these modules on climate change and
Strategy We classify climate-related Natural Catastrophic (NATCAT)
risks into: scores with varying degree
At HDFC Bank, we are committed
of severity.
to proactively managing risks and − Physical Risks: acute risks (e.g.,
− Transition Risks: Including
leveraging opportunities arising cyclones, floods) that may cause
regulatory changes, shifts in
from the transition to a low-carbon asset damage, interrupt operations,
market demand, legal compliance
economy. We endeavor to build our and impair collateral, and chronic
failures, technological disruptions,
capability to manage risk from climate risks (e.g., rising sea levels, long-
and reputational impacts as
change and deliver our regulatory term temperature shifts) that may
the economy moves toward
commitments, thereby demonstrating affect asset life, credit exposure,
decarbonisation. The Bank is in the
to our investors that the Bank is and economic stability. For retail
process of evaluating appropriate
effectively managing climate-related portfolio, the Bank is exploring
methodology and frameworks to
risks and opportunities. framework to assess potential
assess climate transition risk for the
portfolio-at-risk by mapping the
wholesale borrowers.
location of exposures against
Additionally, we have also identified some climate-related risks and opportunities that the banking sector may face over the
short, medium, and long term, as well as their corresponding impacts including:
Risk Type of risk Description
Current Transition risk Banks are highly regulated in the country and mandates as part of current regulations
regulation are always integrated into the overall risk planning and assessment process. Current
regulations are also factored in the credit assessment process, especially through the
comprehensive ESG and Climate Change assessment framework, under the auspices
of the ESG-Risk Management Framework, for its wholesale corporate borrowers.
130
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Risk Type of risk Description
Emerging Transition risk Transition risk can impact the Bank's credit portfolio resulting from changes in the
regulation climate policy, technology, consumer and market sentiment during the transition to a
low-carbon economy. This is particularly relevant for policy changes that can result in
loan defaults from certain sectors like coal, thermal and certain infrastructure sectors.
The Bank’s ESGRM framework addresses climate transition and mitigation plan and
includes a prohibition list criterion along with ‘Category-A’ tagging of climate risk
vulnerable sectors namely, thermal & nuclear power generation; crude oil extraction
& production; mining of ores, fossil fuels; manufacturing of metals, cement, fertilers,
chemicals, pesticides; and tanneries.
Technology Transition risk While our digital environment and information security standards are the foundation of
our business today, as financial services professionals, we do not anticipate technology
to have a significant impact on climate risk. Our low-carbon digital banking products use
technology to enable business.
Legal Transition risk For large loans, we verify whether the project complies with all applicable environmental
rules, and failing to do so could result in the loan becoming a non-performing asset, if the
project goes into litigation. This, however, is not a claim against the Bank. There are no
other circumstances in which the Bank can be held liable for a climate-related lawsuit.
Market Transition risk In the context of climate change, markets could play a key role in market repricing or
shifting the demand and supply for certain products like green loans or bonds, or in
low-carbon digital products. However, the Bank recognises the relevance of change in
consumer preferences, and hence, the need to evaluate this risk.
Reputation Transition risk Reputation risk from community/customer perception is a primary risk to our business.
We thus invest in community and customer involvement through surveys and structured
engagements to educate and enlighten them on climate risks and mitigation. Further,
ESG performance measures are increasingly being used by the global investor
community, especially sovereign wealth funds and pension funds, to assess long-term
profitable growth. We strive to implement environment-friendly measures throughout our
operations. We further show our commitment to ESG, particularly climate change, by
including ESG elements in regulatory reporting such as the annual report. In addition, in
our annual integrated report, we publish details on our carbon emissions and footprint
(third-party assured).
Acute Physical risk Acute physical hazards such as cyclones, floods, and water stress can have a negative
physical influence on the credit portfolio by causing bad debts, impairing assets or collaterals due
to damage to property, infrastructure, and land, and interrupting operations. This is also
relevant for climate disasters destroying assets (that serve as collaterals). The Bank’s
Disaster Response and Business Continuity teams conduct business impact analyses
and have rapid response procedures in place in the event of natural disasters such
as floods.
Chronic Physical risk Rise in global temperature more than 1.5 degree Celsius may cause changes in climate
physical patterns and sea level, impacting the economy and operations of the Bank, thus
impairing assets or causing early replacement of assets. Given that climate risk is an
emerging and long-term risk for the Bank, a suitable methodology/pathway, guided by
regulatory landscape, shall be considered for adoption, to analyse the Bank’s exposures
under different climate scenarios.
131
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ENVIRONMENT
The Bank has also envisaged climate-related opportunities over the short, medium, and long term:
Opportunity Description Timeframe
Green services Expansion in demand for lower-emissions goods and services is expected Medium
to continue to scale in the medium to longer term. Notably, the Bank has
implemented use of recycled paper for stationery and increased adoption
of renewable energy sources such as rooftop solar at 25 locations and
green power at 19 locations to meet operational electricity needs.
Lowering carbon Resource and energy efficiency in own business operations that help Short
emissions lower carbon emissions while also potentially strengthening operational
efficiency is expected to scale up. Several green initiatives have been
introduced by the Bank to improve energy efficiency of operations. Active
Harmonic Filters were installed at 84 locations, saving approximately
84.32 MWh of electricity and avoiding 61.30 tCO e emissions.
2
Greening of The diversification of the Bank’s financial portfolio and growth of green Medium
portfolio portfolio is expected to scale up. In FY 2024-25, the Bank disbursed
green and social loans totaling H4,94,140 crore, representing 18.69% of its
total financing as sustainable finance.
Building a Climate-Resilient managing climate risk and financed industries, with no specific industry/
Strategy emissions, and financing the transition. sector having a high concentration.
By integrating climate risk Decarbonising Our Operations − We assess climate risks as part
considerations into financial planning of credit diligence, particularly in
− Minimising our operational carbon
processes, the Bank is building a project financing above a certain
footprint is a key focus area for the
more resilient strategy. This includes threshold under the aegis of our
Bank's Climate Change Strategy.
evaluating the potential impact of ESG Risk Management Framework.
− Our comprehensive 'Scope
climate change on the Bank’s lending − We endeavour to develop more
1+2' cabon neutrality strategy
practices, customer base, and robust frameworks to measure
encompasses various initiatives,
operational costs. The Bank believes and assess material climate risks
reflecting our commitment to
that this proactive approach will help related to our lending operations, as
becoming climate resilient.
navigate the evolving landscape guided by regulatory landscape and
of climate change while seizing Managing Climate Risks and our apply a climate lens to more of our
opportunities for sustainable growth. Financed Emissions business decisions. Furthermore,
We understand that climate change − The Bank's credit exposure is we are firming up an internal
strategy on conducting climate
provides both risks and potential well diversified across numerous
opportunities for our business.
From the perspective of climate risk
assessment, we plan on assessing the
impact of physical and transition risks
as guided by regulatory landscape in
the near to medium term.
We have a three-pronged strategy
to adapt to climate change:
decarbonising our operations,
132
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
risk assessments and tracking our Sustainable Finance Our approach to Climate
financed emissions. The Bank shall − HDFC Bank's Sustainable Financing Resilience
continue to expand the scope of Framework aligned to International In addition to our three-pronged
overall climate risk assessment, Capital Market Association (ICMA) strategy, we actively engage with
and refine the methodologies basis Green Bond Principles 2021, larger corporate clients, industry
the finalisation of the disclosure Social Bond Principles 2023, and associations and regulators to
frameworks in India, including the Sustainability Bond Guidelines deepen our understanding of climate-
guidelines and timelines put forth by 2021], serves as a basis for HDFC related risks, opportunities and
the RBI. Bank’s future Sustainable Financing policy developments. This enables
− We have a Business Continuity Plan Transactions (SFTs), including green, us to strengthen our strategy while
to address and manage continuity social and sustainability bonds & ensuring a well-rounded approach
of critical business operations originate loans. The Framework to implementation of our climate
ensuring accelerated resumption of defines the eligibility criteria in ten change strategy.
services after a disaster. distinct ‘green’ categories. The policy
is available on the Bank's website.
Risk Management Project risk at-risk by mapping the location of
Risk Identification At a project level, credit risk exposures against Natural Catastrophic
(NATCAT) scores with varying degree
assessment focused on social and
Effectively managing climate risk
of severity. Furthermore, the Bank
environmental aspects is integrated
requires proactive identification, a
will continue to estimate financed
into the Bank’s overall credit approval
thorough understanding of the domain,
emissions for select segments of
framework. The Bank’s ESG & Climate
as well as comprehensive inputs
its portfolio.
Change Assessment framework,
from stakeholders. At the Bank, risk
identification is an ongoing process ensures thorough environmental Climate Risk Measurement
that includes the consideration of and social due diligence of various (Portfolio level)
loan proposals above defined credit
climate-related factors such as physical
The development of methodologies
exposure thresholds, including direct
(acute and chronic) and transition risks
and tools to link climate risk to
customer loans, wholesale loans,
in the lending portfolio. We are actively
traditional financial risk parameters,
supply chain finance, offshore, and
seeking opportunities to enhance our
economic impact modeling, scenario
capital market loans, as well as loans
capabilities in identifying these risks
analysis, and stress testing is still
to banks, financial institutions, or
and their impacts on our business and
being progressively explored through
NBFCs. For specific sectors, this
endeavour to incorporate additional
global collaborations. Addressing
assessment will eventually help the
climate risk considerations related
challenges such as the availability of
Bank evaluate the borrower's current
to sector, product, and geography,
climate-related data (including the
position regarding ESG and climate
aligning specific perils and transition
frequency of climate events at good
change considerations and analyse
categories, linking new and existing
spatial resolution, and regional and
their transition plans and initiatives
risks to other sustainability categories,
global sector impacts), regional climate
for mitigating risks associated with
and identifying the applicable time
impact scenarios, and comprehensive
these factors.
horizons for impacts.
climate risk assessment tools and
Climate-related Risk Portfolio risk methodologies remains crucial. The
Management The Bank is in the process of evaluating Bank is committed to staying ahead
appropriate methodology and of the curve and building capacity and
In line with its sustainability-focused
frameworks to assess climate transition understanding the financial and non-
vision and commitments, the
risk for the wholesale borrowers. For financial impact of climate change.
Bank continues to develop several
retail portfolio, the Bank is exploring
initiatives to manage climate-related
framework to assess potential portfolio-
risks at the project, portfolio, and
organational levels.
133
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ENVIRONMENT
The Bank undertakes stress testing and scenario analysis to assess the potential impact of geopolitical, macroeconomic, and
sectoral trends on its portfolio and subsequently build its climate resilience.
Policy Launch of carbon Technology risk in high Impairment
Climate hazard
developement price market carbon emitting assets costs
Type of risk involved Transition risk Physical risk
Credit Financial impact
Impact Credit Loss
Loss to borrowers
Captured by stress testing and scenario analysis
Type of risks and impact captured through stress testing and scenario analysis
At the Bank, stress testing involves the − decarbonise our operations and adaptation by financing solutions
use of various techniques to assess − expand our green and sustainable across sectors such as clean energy
the potential vulnerability to extreme banking products transition, renewables, energy
but plausible stressed business − enhance the scope and accuracy efficiency, sustainable transportation,
conditions. The changes in the levels of our climate scenario analysis and green buildings, among others.
of Pillar I risks and select Pillar II risks, stress testing, applicable for the
We have commenced an assessment
along with the changes in the on and bank’s lending portfolio.
of our financed emissions and
off-Balance Sheet positions of the − monitor and estimate portfolio
carbon-related exposures, with
Bank are assessed under assumed related financed emissions.
the objective of developing key
‘stress’ scenarios and sensitivity As disclosure requirements and
performance indicators (KPIs) and
factors. The suite of stress scenarios regulations continue to evolve, we
tracking progress in supporting our
includes topical themes as well as expect to take these into consideration
clients’ transition to a low-carbon,
historically observed geopolitical/ as we develop our financial strategy.
climate-resilient economy.
macroeconomic/sectoral and
other trends. Metrics and targets Measurement of Financed
Emissions
We intend to integrate our climate We have set an ambitious target
strategy and the impact of climate- to achieve carbon neutrality for Financed emissions refer to the
related issues into our financial our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
planning processes, and to that FY 2031-32 and are aligning our associated with the lending and
effect, are developing processes and operations to progressive internal investment activities of financial
tools that will influence our business performance benchmarks focused institutions. As per the Greenhouse
activities. We aim to: on energy efficiency and integration Gas (GHG) Protocol, these emissions
of renewable energy. In parallel, we fall under Scope 3 (Category 15)
are strengthening our commitment and represent indirect, downstream
to enable climate change mitigation emissions that are crucial for
134
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
understanding the financial sector’s climate considerations into capital footprint and increasing availability
contribution to climate change. allocation decisions. of entity-level GHG data. The Bank’s
The accurate assessment of these financed emissions assessment
Approach to Calculation
emissions is essential for integrating evaluated 170 listed entities across
As a responsible financial institution, 34 sectors. This includes hard-to-
the Bank acknowledges its role in the abate sectors, as defined by the
environmental impacts associated Reserve Bank of India, such as Metals
with its lending activities. In line with and Mining, Minerals, Petroleum,
The Bank has adopted the emerging global best practices, Automotive, and Electricity, Gas, and
Partnership for Carbon Accounting we have voluntarily initiated the Steam Supply.
Financials (PCAF) Standard—a measurement of financed emissions
globally recognised methodology across our lending portfolio. Building The exposure of such entities to
that facilitates consistent and on the pilot study conducted in the tune of INR 1.90 lakh crore was
transparent disclosure of FY 2023–24, the Bank continues to assessed, marking an increase of 25
financed emissions across refine its methodology for estimating % over the previous year. This portfolio
various asset classes. PCAF financed emissions, with a focus on is linked to an estimated 23.8 million
offers a structured framework enhancing data quality and coverage. tonnes of CO 2 e emissions.
to assist financial institutions in Our approach aligns with the PCAF’s
The entities assessed represent a
quantifying and reporting the guidance for business loans, which
meaningful share of the portfolio,
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions attributes borrower-level Scope 1 and
with the majority of the emissions
associated with their lending and 2 GHG emissions to the Bank based
data sourced from publicly disclosed,
investment portfolios. on its share of financial exposure.
independently verified reports,
Financed emissions from loans and
While PCAF’s guidance is tailored enhancing the reliability of the
credit facilities extended to corporate
for different asset classes, the estimates. The resulting average data
clients are calculated using an
core approach for corporate loans quality score of 1.03 underscores the
attribution factor, which reflects the
involves calculating financed credibility and robustness of the data
Bank's financial stake in a company:
emissions using an ‘attribution set used.
factor’. This factor represents
Financed Emissions= The analysis offered critical insights
the proportion of a company’s
into the variation between actual
emissions attributable to the ∑ (Attribution Factor) X
c reported emissions versus modeled
financial institution’s exposure (Borrower’s Emissions)
sectoral averages, allowing for a
and is applied to the estimated
more refined baseline to support
emissions of the underlying
The attribution factor is calculated by future target-setting. While this study
company or sector.
dividing the Bank’s total outstanding marks a significant step forward,
To ensure transparency and loan amount by the borrower’s the Bank acknowledges certain
reliability, the PCAF methodology Enterprise Value Including Cash limitations, including constrained
assigns data quality scores (EVIC) PCAF guidance across select asset
3
ranging from Score 1 to Score 5. classes and the limited availability of
EVIC = Market Capitalisation +
Score 1 data is where emission 3 India-specific emission coefficients.
Total Debt
factors of the underlying entity has Nonetheless, we remain committed to
been verified by an independent Study Scope and Key Insights continuously refining our methodology,
third party. Score 2 data entails broadening the scope of assessment,
In FY 2024-25, the Bank has
emissions that are reported by and strengthening the integration of
undertaken a comprehensive
companies but have not been emissions data into lending decisions
assessment of financed emissions
externally verified. Score 3 to and ESG risk evaluation. Through this
for its business loan portfolio. The
5 data is where emissions are evolving approach, the Bank seeks to
exercise evaluated a significantly
calculated based on production enable transition finance, and support
expanded set of exposures, reflecting
level activity or sectoral /proxy data. sectoral decarbonisation.
the growth in the Bank’s lending
135
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
CUSTOMER CENTRICITY
Customers at
Service Quality Initiatives and
Grievance Redressal
the Heart of
Customer Focus is one of the five core values of
the Bank. Given a highly competitive business
Everything
environment, especially with diverse lines of
businesses, we continuously strive to enhance
customer experience. Delivering exceptional product
quality and customer service is a prerequisite for
sustained growth. The Bank strives to achieve this by
seeking customer feedback, benchmarking with best-
in-class business entities and implementing customer-
centric improvements. We have adopted a well-
defined three-step strategy towards Customer Service
Customer centricity lies at the - Define, Measure and Improve. Towards improving
heart of HDFC Bank’s philosophy. customer experience, the Bank has adopted industry
best practices and continuously acts on customer
It drives the Bank to anticipate
feedback secured across multiple channels
needs and deliver innovative,
HDFC Bank has adopted a multi-pronged approach
personalised financial solutions
to provide an omnichannel experience to its
that foster trust, enhance
customers. On the one hand, it has traditional
satisfaction, and build lasting touchpoints like branches, email care and
relationships with customers. PhoneBanking. On the other hand, it has state-of-
the-art platforms like NetBanking, MobileBanking,
WhatsApp Banking, the chatbot Eva and the
Bank’s exclusive social care handles. The Bank
also has a Virtual Relationship Management (VRM)
programme to cater to various financial needs in a
personalised manner.
One of the key strategies adopted by your Bank is to
leverage the benefits of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and
Automation in providing better customer service –
which entails (a) Speed of response (b) Accuracy of
response (c) Response being In line with regulatory
prescriptions and (d) In-depth root cause analysis to
reduce/eliminate recurrence of customer grievances.
Customer service performance and grievance
redressal are regularly assessed at various
levels, including Branch Level Customer Service
Committees, Virtual Level Customer Service
Committees, Standing Committee on Customer
Service and Customer Service Committee of
the Board. HDFC Bank has implemented robust
processes to monitor and measure service quality
levels across touchpoints, including at product
and process level through the efforts of the Quality
Initiatives Group.
The service quality team conducts regular reviews
across various products, processes and channels,
113366
HHDDFFCC BBaannkk LLiimmiitteedd
Responsible Business
focusing on improving the customer the Bank before the final decision is The primary aim of the Infinite Smiles
experience. A unique Service Quality communicated to the customer. programme is to establish employee
Index (SQI) has been developed behaviour and practices which lead
HDFC Bank is on a journey to
to measure the performance of to customer- centric actions and
measure customer loyalty through a
key customer facing channels continuous improvements.
high velocity, closed loop customer
based on critical customer service
feedback system. This customer In March 2020, through our
parameters. This SQI enables
experience transformation programme 'Infinite Smiles’ programme we
customer facing channels to identify
helps employees to empathise initiated measurement on key
improvement areas, thereby raising
better with customers and improve journeys, identified action areas to
service standards.
turnaround times. Branded as improve customer experience and
One of the basic building blocks ‘Infinite Smiles’, the programme helps implemented several key initiatives.
of providing acceptable level of establish behaviours and practices This has led to a steady improvement
customer service is to have an that result in customer-centric actions of our NPS over the years. In FY25, we
effective Internal Grievance Redressal through continuous improvement continued to build on our commitment
Mechanism / Framework. HDFC Bank in products, services, processes to our customers by scaling the
has developed a comprehensive and policies. coverage of the Infinite Smiles
Grievance Redressal Policy, Customer programme – we introduced five new
The Bank remains committed to
Rights Policy, Customer Protection channels / digital platforms / products
placing the customer at the centre
Policy and a Customer Compensation ensuring a much wider coverage.
of its operations. By consistently
Policy duly approved by the Board Over 150 actions were identified and
improving customer experience,
which outline a framework for tracked through regular cadence with
adopting an omnichannel approach
resolving customer grievances in an key stakeholders and rigorous follow-
and implementing robust service
effective manner. These policies are ups. This has been the cornerstone of
quality and grievance redressal
accessible to customers through the Infinite Smiles.
mechanisms, it aims to build and
Bank’s website and branch network.
nurture lasting relationships. The programme now encompasses
HDFC Bank has created multiple over 140 episodes. Around 10 crore
channels for customers to provide customers have been contacted
feedback and register grievances in Financial Year 2024-25 securing
facilitating a transparent and around 28 lakh feedback.
accessible system. As a pioneer in
Our ‘Infinite Smiles’ program rests on
innovative financial solutions and
three meticulously designed pillars
digital platforms, the Bank has
– ‘Listen’, ‘Learn’ and ‘Act’ which
witnessed an increased utilisation
enables us to embed customer-
of its digital channels. Keeping
feedback led transformation as a
customer interest in focus, the
discipline into our systems, challenge
Bank has formulated a Board
what is considered as the standard
approved Protection Policy which
and offer a customer experience
limits the liability of customers in
that places us amongst the best
case of unauthorised electronic
service brands.
banking transactions.
Building a Customer -
This well-defined system builds on
This Bank is compliant with the RBI Centric Culture using Net
the score and requires every level of
Internal Ombudsman Scheme of
Promoter System (NPS) - the organisation to be consistently
RBI. At the apex level, as a part of
‘Infinite Smiles’ focused on the quality of customer
the Internal Grievance Redressal
and employee relationships.
mechanism, the Bank has appointed We, at the Bank, believe that
seasoned-retired bankers as Internal delivering an outstanding customer
Ombudsmen to independently experience is a strong differentiator
review any customer grievance for a great product and is key to a
which is partly/wholly rejected by sustained competitive advantage.
137
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
CUSTOMER CENTRICITY
In order to foster individual learning bringing voice of the customer into Rule: Treat others as you would
and inspire front-line employees to do decision making. want to be treated.
right by customers, we have created
4. Reliable and Trusted Metric Guided by our aspiration to move
an advocacy organisation that ensures
from score to systems, we have
the following: We use Net Promoter Score
been working to institutionalise the
(NPS) branded as Smile Score - a
1. S ustained Leadership process for addressing customer
simple and easy to understand
Commitment issues that transcend beyond
metric which is reliable and valued.
measurement and create a culture
Embraced the goal of creating We have now embedded the
of customer-centricity and agility.
more promoters and fewer score and customer feedback
detractors as a mission to building as an outside-in perspective for We would not only like to
Service First culture. measuring process efficiency. anticipate and react to changing
2. Building Greater Focus on Infinite Smiles programme is customer expectations but also
Understanding Customer a practical framework to grow like to provide a proposition
Needs by enriching the lives of our to our customers that makes
us more attractive than
customers and employees. It is the
Operationalising customer
competitive alternatives.
business equivalent of the Golden
empathy through detractor
engagement; front-line employees
hear positive and constructive
feedback directly from customers
enabling them to support actions
that improve customer experience.
3. Robust Operational and
Analytical Infrastructure
Customer Experience
Transformation team leads the
effort and is responsible for
maintaining rigour. It rallies across
departments to drive the mission
of serving the customer and
Transforming Score To Systems
Listen Learn Act
Feedback of customers Review and follow up Resolve the issue in the
to better understand near and long term
28 lakh 70 1.6 lakh+
feedback captured BU NPS Score* huddles conducted;
across key channels, 150+ actions identified
critical episodes and
key product journeys
*Bottom Up NPS score
138
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Driving Customer-Centric Initiatives Through Innovation
HDFC Bank’s foundation is built on three pillars: technology, innovation and providing excellent customer experience.
This philosophy has guided the Bank’s marketing journey over nearly three decades in driving key campaigns that
focus on consumer awareness and education offering innovative and tech first products and continually enhancing
customer experience.
Key Highlights For the Financial Year 2024-25
HDFC Bank introduces platforms such as Zomato, Myntra,
PIXEL: A new generation of BookMyShow, MakeMyTrip, Amazon
Digital Credit Cards and Flipkart among others. By doing
so, customers can earn attractive
Pixel is the Bank's first
accelerated cashbacks on their
comprehensive digital credit card
spends from these merchants/
range with customisable and fully
platforms. Both current and new
app-based offering, built on a start-
customers can apply for PIXEL credit
to-finish DIY platform. It is tailored
cards through the PayZapp mobile
for a generation characterised by
application of the Bank.
digital fluency, unique preferences
and distinct financial behaviours. The digital nature of the card allows
the customer to customise various
Furthermore, through PIXEL
benefits on the card – colour of the
the Bank gives the power of
card, billing date and also the type of
customisation and choice to
products / merchants on which they
customers, by enabling them to
wish to avail of the special cashback
select their preferred categories
offer thus making it a truly digital
and favourite merchants/
card made for the digital natives and
customisable to their needs.
HDFC BANK Xpressway – access to the Bank’s top mobile
Encouraging employees and apps, encouraging customers to
customers to go digital even explore services digitally. In FY2024-
at our physical outlets 25, the platform played a key role in
driving digital adoption at branches
The Bank launched HDFC
through the rollout of Xpressway
Bank Xpressway, a platform
with personalised QR codes for
that encompasses all its digital
each employee. This enabled
journeys in one place. It aims to
staff to offer customers seamless
simplify customer experience while
access to their personalised offers
buying new products, onboarding,
and simplified digital journeys for
accessing offers or availing the
product onboarding. The initiative
Bank's services digitally.
saw strong engagement, with over
The platform delivers a 60,000 monthly active employees
personalised experience by tailoring and more than 4 lakh customer
offers and imagery for each logins—resulting in enhanced digital
customer based on pre-approved experience for customers and
eligibility and analytical insights. improved productivity across the
It also prioritises recommended Bank’s frontline teams.
service options and now includes
139
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
CUSTOMER CENTRICITY
Leveraging Social Media to (IPs) like Behind the Role, Clash maintained an average first
create positive sentiment of Cubicles, culture-first reels response time of 16 mins (best
1. Employee Advocacy: and amplification of employee in the banking space) with
connect events like Hunar and positive sentiment 2x higher
The Bank introduced Employer
Josh. This has resulted in growth than competition banks. We
Advocacy initiatives under
of positive Share Of Voice (SOV) have gained additional 3.45
HDFC Bank #WowPlaceToWork
by 20 per cent and engagement lakh engagement via proactive
in social media. The aim is to
doubling organically. responses through contextual
drive positive sentiment for
engagement with various
the brand through employee 2. Online Reputation
brands and trendspotting
engagement and amplification Management (ORM) &
moments .
of Employee Connect initiatives Creative Engagement:
on Social media. Starting With over 12 lakh conversations
June 2024, the Bank launched handled on five social media
various Intellectual Properties platforms, the Bank has
Vigil Aunty – Taking the On WhatsApp she provides real-time modus operandi, with a primary
lead in increasing customer updates on financial frauds and has focus on safeguarding the Bank's
awareness on frauds built a community on the platform customers. Utilising robust tools,
known as the Vigil Army, where the we have swiftly identified and
Nearly three years after the launch
latest fraud awareness updates are removed fake customer care
of the Vigil Aunty campaign, her
provided to about 10 lakh people. numbers, social media profiles,
influence within the Indian social
This active community not only stays Twitter handles and career pages
media landscape remains strong
informed but also participates in falsely associated with HDFC Bank.
with a considerable presence
spreading the message and amplifying Impressively, our response time
on platforms like Facebook and
the reach of our campaign. for taking down these fraudulent
Instagram. Her fan base has grown
accounts and handles has been
significantly, reaching 23 lakh Our efforts extend beyond mere
between 24-48 hours.
citizens in India. awareness creation. We actively
monitor and track online frauds and In the Financial Year 2024-25, Vigil
Aunty's overall reach has been
about 23 lakh followers and over
50 crore views. The stellar work
by Vigil Aunty was also recognised
at the global level in the form of
an award – A Cannes Silver Lion
for a pathbreaking campaign
idea in the CSR space. In the
coming year, Vigil Aunty is all set
to further strengthen her position
as a trusted, iconic digital guardian
delivering culturally rooted,
multilingual messaging on fraud
awareness across 33 cities in 10
regional languages.
140
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
PayZapp – Providing PayZapp is a comprehensive payment PayZapp also partnered with
customers with a safe, app that gives customers the "Choice Royal Challengers Bengaluru as
trusted payments partner to Pay" how they want. With the app, their official payment partner to
giving them the choice of users can send money, make bill drive engagement and create
payments payments, recharge, shop, book travel visibility. The brand's success has
and do much more. They can pay been remarkable, with PayZapp
PayZapp by HDFC Bank is the
with PayZapp for in-store or online registrations soaring to over 1.6
Bank's first direct-to-customer
purchases using Scan QR, Tap to crore. Since its launch, PayZapp's
(D2C) offering, launched through
Pay or Swipe to Pay feature or send ranking has improved significantly,
a high impact brand campaign
featuring celebrities like Tiger money to any app. moving from 42nd to 14th position in
Shroff, Prabhu Deva and To strengthen PayZapp's 'Choice of the UPI category. As a testament
Kapil Sharma. Payments' brand positioning and build to customer trust and confidence,
PayZapp is also amongst the top-
a higher recall, PayZapp participated
rated app, rated 4.8 on the App
in the IPL 2024 with a high-decibel
Store and 4.6 on PlayStore.
brand campaign on Start Sports and
Jio Cinema.
141
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
FUTURE READY DIGITAL BANK
Beyond
Digital:
Towards an
AI-Ready
Future
Technology and Digital –
An Integrated Shift
The Financial Year 2024-25 marked a defining
phase in HDFC Bank’s technology and digital
evolution. As India continues to lead global
conversations on digital financial inclusion, the
Bank remains focused on delivering future-
ready, secure and inclusive banking powered by
technology. At the core of this transformation lies a
clear vision: to build digital journeys that are simple,
intuitive and powered by modern platforms—
bringing together customer expectations,
regulatory alignment and enterprise resilience.
This year’s progress reflects the successful
execution of the Bank’s ‘Shift Right’ strategy—a
multi-pillar transformation roadmap that places
customer journeys, scalable platforms, intelligent
data usage and embedded security at the heart
of banking. By shifting the centre of gravity from
backend systems to user-centric experience
design, the Bank has moved decisively towards
a platform-led, customer-first approach.
HDFC Bank has evolved from using technology
as an enabler to positioning it as a core strategic
driver. It powers every digital interaction, enabling
seamless integration and shaping customer
experiences across channels – be it on mobile
apps, through business correspondents,
via embedded APIs or at the branch. From
modernising lending platforms to scaling merchant
ecosystems and from deploying AI-led customer
support to digitising internal workflows, the Bank’s
investments have converged around a single goal:
to deliver banking experiences that are contextual,
convenient and consistent at scale.
114422
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
The Shift Right Framework: A Pillar-Based Approach to Transformation
Launched in the Financial Year 2024, the Shift Right framework was conceptualised to reimagine the
Bank’s operating model—by anchoring transformation on five strategic pillars: Journeys, Channels,
Core, Data and Security.
Partnerships B a
nking a
C
s
h
a
a n
S
n
e
e
r
l
v
s
ice (B
a a S )
Ch
D A
a
P a
n
t
n
I a s
els Journeys
C
: F
h
r
a
ic
n
ti
n
o
e
n
l
le
s
s
:
s
D
,
ig
st
it
r
a
a
l
i g
–
h t-through
A PI O e
rc
r v
h
i
e
c
s
e
t
s
r a
b
t
a
io
s
n
e L a y e r
s d
where the customer is o
r Data C
Core Core: Always ON, M i c powered o r e
Banking perform @ scale
by AI/ML
Data: Insights, driving
experience & growth
Security: For customers & data
Product Centric
Customer Centric
In FY 2025, this framework matured The Bank digitalised both Virtual
from blueprint to execution engine. Relationship Manager (VRM)-assisted
Each pillar translated into platform- and unassisted savings account
level changes and customer-facing journeys, introduced eKYC-based FD
outcomes. Importantly, the Bank onboarding and launched journeys
focused not just on launching for minor-to-major transitions, salary
new journeys but also on unifying family account conversions and
disconnected experiences, improving standalone card and asset servicing.
time-to-market and enabling These journeys contributed to 89 per
The Bank continued to scale its
embedded finance models. Shift Right cent of all new account acquisitions
Xpress Car Loan (XCL) platform,
is now firmly embedded in the Bank’s being completed digitally, up from 82
now the largest fully digital car loan
execution across business lines and per cent in FY 2024.
journey in the country. The platform
product teams.
processed over 1.3 lakh car loans Customers were offered Group
Reimagining Journeys: digitally in FY 2025, disbursing nearly Health and Group Term insurance
Seamless, Digital and Scalable H13,110 crore. This represents 36 per through digital channels. This reflects
cent by volume and 27 per cent by the Bank’s growing focus on wealth
The Journeys pillar remains the most
value of car loan origination. This has protection journeys being integrated
visible part of the Bank’s technology
been enabled through a zero-paper, into savings and lending flows.
transformation. The focus in FY 2025
zero-touch model, even for new-to-
was to design journeys that are not In FY 2025, the Bank increased its
bank customers.
just digital-first but also outcome- digital service journey coverage to
first—built around customer needs Digital journeys were also 89 per cent of all servicing needs, up
rather than system flows. Across retail, expanded for gold loans, personal from 73 per cent in FY 2024. Some of
SME, rural and corporate segments, loans, consumer durables and the journeys launched include:
several enhanced digital journeys were business loans with features such
− Address update (for cards and
delivered - many with STP (Straight as automated underwriting, bank
assets)
Through Processing), assisted statement analytics and biometric
onboarding or embedded servicing. Know Your Customer (KYC).
143
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
FUTURE READY DIGITAL BANK
− Digital Re-KYC (for standalone asset objective has been to deliver a The Bank’s conversational AI
customers) consistent, secure and simplified platform, HDFC Bank One
− FD with external funding experience regardless of where or (Customer Experience Hub),
how customers choose to engage. continued to see strong adoption.
− Service ticket generation through
Supporting IVR, WhatsApp, SMS
SmartHub and WhatsApp A major milestone this year was
and live agent transitions the platform
the phased rollout of HDFC Bank’s
Each journey was designed to support handled over 3.7 crore customer
new Net and MobileBanking
both self-service and assisted modes engagements monthly.
platforms designed with a modern
with real-time updates, automated
tech architecture, intuitive UX and The platform achieved a 65 per cent
validation and fallback to alternate
enhanced security protocols. year-on-year growth in WhatsApp
channels in edge cases.
These platforms aim to improve Banking interactions indicating
The Bank digitalised Working performance, accessibility and that chat banking is an increasingly
Capital loan journeys for Business customer engagement by offering: preferred engagement channel
Banking Group (BBG), Emerging for customers. Additionally, the
− Personalised dashboards and
Enterprises Group (EEG) and Small introduction of intelligent nudges and
dynamic menus
and Agri Business (SAB) segments— transaction verification for cards and
introducing features such as: − Unified views across deposits, payments significantly enhanced
loans, cards and investments the user experience. The Bank
− Digital KYC Verification
− Real-time alerts, contextual nudges also succeeded in reducing email
− Automated Statement Analysis and smart navigation resolution time by 50 per cent.
− Bureau Score Integration
The phased deployment approach The platform has become the first
This allowed in-principle approvals ensures minimal disruption while line of support for a growing share of
within 30 minutes and fully digital enabling feedback loops from early the Bank’s customer base—providing
onboarding for New-to-Bank entities. users for continuous refinements. proactive, personalised service with
human fallback only when needed.
As part of its customer service
redesign, the Bank strengthened In March 2023, the Bank relaunched
its self-service journeys across PayZapp 2.0, its new-age mobile
Interactive Voice Response (IVR), payments and commerce app.
Chat Banking and NetBanking. More Multiple new features such as Swipe
than 55 per cent of support requests to Pay were launched. By March 2025,
were resolved digitally with over 30 the platform:
per cent of these journeys being
− Reached over 1.6 crore registrations
straight-through resulting in reduced
The Bank’s Pixel Credit Card, a − Became first app enabled with
turnaround times, lower call volumes
digitally native offering built on a RuPay credit cards for UPI
and improved customer satisfaction.
microservices architecture, gained payments at Online merchants
Expanding Reach through strong traction during the year. With
− Secured 4.5+/5 average app
Digitally Empowered Channels features like customisable rewards, in-
store rating
app controls and contextual nudges,
The Financial Year 2024-25 saw
Pixel was positioned as a next- The Bank’s merchant-facing app,
significant progress in the Bank’s
generation credit card experience. Its SmartHub Vyapar, continued its
omni-channel strategy, with
digital onboarding journey contributed strong growth trajectory. By March
enhancements across NetBanking,
to a sharp increase in activation 2025, it had:
MobileBanking, conversational
rates supported by focused brand
interfaces, merchant platforms and − Onboarded 19.3 lakh merchants
campaigns across social, app and
embedded journeys. The overarching
ecosystem partners.
144
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
− Better failure isolation and − Backend upgrades for major
business continuity platforms including Payments Hub,
Credit Engine, Pricing Engine and
The Financial Year 2024-25 saw a
Home Loan Origination
key deployment of this framework
in the IMPS Inward module of the Leveraging Data for Smarter
Payments Hub allowing more efficient Decisioning
processing and real-time settlement
HDFC Bank is developing a
with minimal latency. This milestone
centralised Data Lake House
sets the foundation for broader
platform to manage structured
− Disbursed over H850 crore in loans modularisation across key banking and unstructured data across the
systems in the coming phases, viz.,
(on an average monthly basis) enterprise. This platform will serve as
a centralised Customer Information
through embedded journeys a unified source of truth, reduce data
(eCIF)Ecosystem, a digital-first
duplication, and improve accessibility
To serve digital-first merchants, HDFC module for customer onboarding
for analytics and decision-making.
Bank also launched the SmartHub (e-Origination) among others. The
Built with modern, hybrid architecture,
Payment Gateway—an online Payments Hub module is also being
it supports regulatory alignment with
collection platform integrated with over extended to IMPS Outward, NEFT and
BCBS 239 and DPDPA, while enabling
150 payment instruments. RTGS transactions.
better governance, lineage, and
Modernising the Core for Scale As part of its infrastructure reference data management. Initial
and Resilience transformation, the Bank undertook system onboarding has begun in a
As digital adoption accelerates and a significant system upgrade by phased manner, laying the foundation
customer interactions increase across migrating its Core Banking System for scalable, secure, and insight-led
channels, HDFC Bank continued its (CBS) to a next generation engineered growth across the Bank.
strategic investment in strengthening platform, aimed at enhancing Digitalised Corporate and
its core technology backbone. The performance, reliability and scalability. Wholesale Banking
aim has not just been to perform at This migration was designed to
In FY 2025, the Bank continued to
unparalleled scale but also to build support the Bank’s rapidly growing
advance its digital transformation
systems that are robust, adaptive and customer base of about 9.7 crore.
agenda within Corporate and
cloud-native—capable of powering
With this initiative, HDFC Bank Wholesale Banking by streamlining
real-time and secure transactions.
became one of the largest banks trade, payments and treasury
Lighten the Core: Modularising in the country to host its CBS on a operations through modern platforms
Legacy Systems modern, high-performance platform and seamless integrations.
– positioning itself to meet future
The Bank’s Lighten the Core initiative
growth demands while delivering an
is a multi-year programme designed
enhanced customer experience.
to gradually decouple complex
legacy core systems and move Several critical backend systems were
towards a microservices-led, event- modernised or re-engineered during
driven architecture. FY 2025:
This approach enables: − Rollout of Active-Active
− Scalability through configurations across key data
centres, ensuring continuous
containerised deployment
availability with near-zero recovery
− Faster change cycles and
time objective (RTO)
development agility
145
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
FUTURE READY DIGITAL BANK
TradeFlow, is our cloud-native trade This has positioned the Bank Complementing retail inclusions, the
finance platform designed to centralise as a digitally agile partner to Bank also strengthened its support
processing, improve visibility and India’s enterprises. for SMEs and business customers
enable automation across import through digitised onboarding and
Extending Financial Access
and export services. TradeFlow is credit journeys.
Through Digital Inclusion
integrated with multiple banking
Empowering Enterprises and
HDFC Bank continued to strengthen
systems and external networks
Small Businesses Digitally
its reach in the semi-urban and
and supports:
rural markets through assisted Digitalisation of enterprise and SME
− Real-time dashboards and MIS digital journeys and decentralised workflows remained a strategic
− API-based transaction processing platforms. Business correspondents, priority. In the Financial Year 2024-25,
− STP journeys for outward local partners and field teams were the Bank enabled fully digital sourcing
equipped with simplified, mobile-first journeys for business banking
remittances and import payments
tools to serve customers with limited segments across working capital, term
Multiple APIs were deployed between formal documentation and limited loans and trade services.
TradeFlow and the Bank’s core digital literacy.
Customers could complete
system, enabling straight-through
New onboarding journeys made onboarding with digital KYC,
processing for key trade finance
possible: Biometric Authentication, automated bank statement validation
products and significantly reducing
Aadhaar Seeding and Assisted and real-time eligibility checks. A
end-to-end turnaround times.
Savings Account Opening in remote rules-based decisioning engine
On the Payments side, corporate areas. The use of geotagging, eKYC enabled in-principle approval within 30
platforms were enhanced with and offline-ready applications enabled minutes supported by a streamlined
improved UI/UX, contextual help financial access in regions with documentation process.
dashboards, ERP integrations via limited connectivity.
Merchant ecosystems also benefitted
APIs and Host-to-Host modes and
Several rural-facing journeys were from platform enhancements including
flexible authorisation workflows. The
enhanced with real-time decisioning, embedded payment acceptance,
consolidated Corporate Banking
biometric verification and pre-qualified marketing tools and integrated service
eXchange (CBX) portal processed
offers—helping customers to secure request modules. A gateway platform
over 2.75 crore transactions monthly
small-ticket credit without going to launched during the year supported
(on an average basis), with over
a branch. These journeys covered multi-instrument online payments
15 per cent of volumes routed via
needs across sustainable livelihood, giving businesses a unified dashboard
APIs, reflecting increased adoption
agriculture, dairy finance and small for sales and reconciliation insights.
of self-service digital channels by
enterprise working capital.
enterprise clients. This digital enablement not only
Lead management tools and reduced onboarding friction but also
These initiatives collectively enabled:
performance dashboards were allowed businesses to access capital
(1) Improved transaction efficiency also deployed across field teams, and banking services in a seamless,
improving visibility, efficiency and self-service manner—regardless of
(2) Reduced manual interventions
turnaround times. Over the year, these location or scale.
(3) Deeper integration into digitally assisted journeys contributed
client ecosystems to a more balanced customer footprint
and reinforced the Bank’s mission to
drive inclusive growth.
146
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Banking as Infrastructure:
Embedded and API-Driven
Delivery
With digital ecosystems maturing and
customer expectations moving toward
seamless, contextual experiences,
HDFC Bank expanded its Banking-
as-a-Service (BaaS) strategy
through embedded finance and
API integrations.
Partnerships with leading consumer
platforms such as PhonePe, Swiggy,
Tata Neu and others enabled users
to access savings accounts, loans
and credit cards directly through their
preferred apps. These journeys were
digitally powered by 100 per cent
straight-through processing and real- Underpinning these journeys is a 24x7x365 Cybersecurity Operations
time onboarding offering frictionless robust orchestration framework Centre (CSOC) evolved with AI-
access to banking services eliminating and a growing library of secure, enabled threat detection, enhanced
the need to visit a branch. reusable APIs. These enable real-time Security Information and Event
In parallel, the Bank continued to decisioning, partner onboarding and Management (SIEM), User and Entity
scale its co-branded credit card seamless integration across front- Behaviour Analytics (UEBA) and
portfolio offering curated product end systems. Security Orchestration, Automation
features, rewards and partner-specific This approach marks a clear evolution and Response (SOAR) tools that
benefits through integrated programs towards accelerating the BaaS enable swift triage and containment.
with platforms like IRCTC, Swiggy offerings on scale. Through this the The Bank further strengthened its
and Tata Neu. These partnerships Bank’s capabilities are embedded at Zero Trust Architecture, enforcing
strengthened customer experience the point of need enabling it to reach identity-aware access policies across
and expanded access to digitally new customer segments and tap systems, endpoints and APIs—shifting
native users. digital-natives . from perimeter-based defences to a
Last mile remittance flows accounted Security and Digital Risk: A posture of continuous validation.
for over 20 per cent of India’s inbound Balanced Approach To protect customer data and ensure
remittances through over 115 global
secure system access, it implemented
HDFC Bank recognises that trust is
arrangements. Strategic tie-ups with
a range of targeted security tools and
the foundation of all digital progress. In
partners such as Lulu Exchange,
controls, including:
FY 2025, investments in security and
Flywire and PayMyTuition have
enabled secure, efficient cross-border
risk infrastructure focused on control, − PRISMA Cloud Infrastructure
observability and compliance ensuring Entitlement Management (CIEM)
transfers-especially for purposes such
as education, family support and that digital expansion is backed by to enforce least-privilege access in
medical needs. These have enhanced robust security. cloud environments and manage
the reach and convenience. entitlements effectively
147
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
FUTURE READY DIGITAL BANK
− Accops secure gateway to − Data assessment and migration − Data Activity Monitoring (DAM):
enable Multi-Factor Authentication from HDFC Limited, aligned with Tracks real-time database activity to
(MFA)-based secure access to the Bank’s information security and ensure sensitive data is accessed
critical internet-facing applications data protection standards. and used appropriately
− Zscaler Private Access (ZPA) to − Integration of identity and access − Application Control and Patch
support zero-trust based, secure governance including User Access Management: Ensures endpoints
remote connectivity for employees Management (UAM), privileged run only trusted applications
and partners access controls and secure and stay updated against
− Cloud Web Application Firewall VDI rollout known vulnerabilities
(WAF) for enhanced real-time Other key initiatives included: − Email Security Measures:
threat mitigation across digital Domain-based authentication
banking interfaces
− Extended Detection and
(DMARC) systems help guard
− Cloud Security Posture Response (XDR): Deployed on against spoofing and unauthorised
servers to detect and mitigate communication attempts.
Management (CSPM) and
zero-day malware threats in real
Cloud Workload Protection − Microsegmentation: Granular
time. On endpoints, detection is
Platform (CWPP) for continuous segmentation limits access across
active, and prevention features are
cloud configuration monitoring, internal systems, minimising
being implemented.
workload scanning and lateral movement in case of
automated remediation
− File Integrity Monitoring
breach attempts
(FIM): Continuously checks for
− Cloud Access Security Broker − Web Application Firewall (WAF):
unauthorised file or configuration
(CASB) and DNS security controls Protects banking applications from
changes across core systems
to secure SaaS usage and detect online threats while maintaining
anomalies in traffic patterns consistent performance
− CI/CD automation with browser and availability
isolation for secure application
development and deployment
− Attack Surface Monitoring
(ASM) to discover and secure
externally exposed digital assets in
real-time
As part of the HDFC Limited and
HDFC Bank merger, the Bank
also completed:
− Risk mitigation measures
across cloud, server and
network infrastructure, ensuring
adherence to HDFC Bank’s
cybersecurity policies
148
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Together, these initiatives reinforce This structure also facilitated deeper HDFC Bank is evaluating the
HDFC Bank’s commitment to collaboration between product, transformative potential of Generative
preserving customer data integrity technology and business teams, AI (GenAI) to enhance efficiencies and
ensuring secure access and helping reduce time-to-market and customer experiences. It is assessing
maintaining robust operational bring a consistent experience layer GenAI capabilities across key
continuity—even as digital complexity across channels. processes while ensuring responsible
continues to evolve. and secure implementation through
With the delivery engine in place,
a platform-driven approach. While
Building at Scale: Factory- HDFC Bank is now poised to tap into
still in the exploratory phase, GenAI
the potential emerging technologies
Led Delivery and Execution is expected to play a meaningful
that can shape the future of banking.
role in shaping future-ready
The digital transformation across all
fronts is being driven by the agile Looking Ahead: The Next banking experiences.
delivery construct known as the Chapter of AI-Readiness
Factory Model. Each factory is a
As industries globally embrace the
dedicated capability unit focused on a
possibilities of Generative AI, the
specific technology layer or customer
Bank is preparing for a calibrated and
segment. These include areas
structured adoption.
such as experience design, mobile
engineering, cloud, core banking
transformation, APIs, data engineering
and cybersecurity.
Throughout FY 2025, this construct
enabled parallel development of a
multitude of high-impact initiatives
while maintaining architectural
consistency and alignment with
business priorities. The Bank’s digital
delivery model increasingly reflects the
principles of continuous integration,
scalability and reusable engineering.
Dedicated teams in Bengaluru,
Mumbai and Gurugram worked
across use cases such as the new
MobileBanking / NetBanking, unified
credit platforms, cloud orchestration
and data lake integration. The model
has matured to include specialised
units for next-gen capabilities including
Generative AI and secure-by-design
engineering laying the foundation for
future-facing innovation.
149
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SSOOCCIIAALL -- PPEEOOPPLLEE
Key Highlights for the
Growing
Financial Year 2024-25
− Recognising the pivotal role of leadership
Together with
in driving organisational transformation,
we significantly expanded our leadership
our People development initiatives in the Financial Year
2024-25 achieving exponential increase in
coverage year on year, enabling a cultural
shift towards agility, customer-centric
In today’s dynamic financial
innovation and people-centric leadership.
landscape, our competitive
− There has also been a sustained investment
advantage lies in Strategy, People in building culture capability in over 27,000
and Technology. As we look ahead, managers across all levels, equipping
them to lead with an inner compass and
strengthening leadership, enabling
leadership impact.
continuous capability development
− Recognising the transformative opportunities
and fostering a culture of trust and
presented by GenAI, we established a
resilience are central to how we comprehensive GenAI Academy featuring
grow. role-relevant curricula across differentiated
proficiency levels.
Our people strategy is anchored in cultivating strong − Our wide range of functional capability
leadership by equipping our workforce with future enhancement initiatives clocked over 70 lakh
ready skills and fostering a culture of care. These learning hours this year.
initiatives are geared towards building a sustainable − We also made strategic investments in
and high-performing institution of the future. physical and digital learning infrastructure to
elevate learner experience and impact.
The Financial Year 2024-25 marked a pivotal year
for organisational learning as we accelerated our
Our Learning and Development initiatives are
Capability Building efforts. We stepped up strategic
aligned with our Talent Management strategy. An
investments in expanding leadership development,
institutionalised approach towards talent management
functional expertise and digital learning initiatives.
enables the identification of high potential employees,
The outcomes reflect the effectiveness and alignment
establishing a match between individual career
of our talent strategy.
aspirations and organisational needs. This robust
learning and talent framework ensures availability
of capable talent across all levels in the Bank. We
maintain a healthy mix of internal and external talent.
Role elevation opportunities are first made available
to existing talent and employees are encouraged to
explore the same.
Learning and Development
Through Learning and Development (L&D) initiatives,
we strive to create a robust learning ecosystem
tailored to individual roles and aligned with
organisational goals. This encompasses customised
onboarding, functional capability building, compliance
and regulatory training, leadership development and
digital learning. Emphasising the vital connection
between ongoing learning and sustained success,
L&D aims to foster a proactive, adaptive learning
150
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
culture empowering employees ability to scale operations despite
to excel in their current roles while increasingly complex market dynamics.
contributing effectively to the Bank’s We recorded a significant increase in
strategic objectives. participation year on year with total
learning hours exceeding 1.25 crore,
Building a World-Class and
marking an 88 per cent growth over
Scalable Learning Ecosystem
the last year.
We continue to invest in creating a
Leadership and Professional
world-class and scalable learning
Development (LPD)
ecosystem. Our digital learning
platform ‘MPower’ consisting of a Our Leadership and Professional
Learning Management System (LMS) Development (LPD) framework
and AI-driven Learner Experience nurtures internal talent and builds
Platform (LXP) complements the leadership capacity to drive
physical infrastructure. Our physical performance and transformation.
infrastructure was expanded Programmes are carefully designed to
this year with the addition of two address role-specific needs, enhance
Anantham Residential Training Centre
residential facilities: Aranyam (Palava, leadership capabilities and support
Maharashtra) and Anantham (Kolkata) career growth within the Bank.
podcasts, simulations, e-books and
taking the total to 22 training centres.
self-paced modules. This multi-modal Notable Initiatives in Financial
This learning ecosystem is vital to our approach ensures learning remains Year 2024-25:
geographically dispersed workforce relevant, accessible and impactful The Alchemist: A new offering for
with diverse learning styles and offers a by providing rich, contextual and
senior leaders focusing on leadership
wide array of content formats—videos, personalised learning.
excellence, executive presence
Capability-Building for Growth and cross-functional collaboration-
promising substantial personal and
Our enterprise-wide learning initiatives
professional growth.
are closely aligned with business
needs, enabling employees to adapt Executive Edge: A curated
to a rapidly evolving environment. Leadership Resource Pack with
With a focus on technical, functional thought leadership articles, interviews
and behavioural upskilling, these and insights from global experts
Aranyam Residential Training Centre programmes have strengthened our anchored around themes relevant to
the Bank.
151
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL - PEOPLE
Executive Gravitas for
Women Leaders
In line with our strong Diversity, Equity
and Inclusion (DE&I) agenda and in
addition to the well-established Career
Accelerator Programme (CAP) for mid
level women leaders, we launched
a new leadership programme –
‘Executive Gravitas’ for women
leaders at senior levels to help them
navigate their leadership journey.
Gen AI Academy
GenAI being the key focus area for into this. The proficiency levels are needed flexibility to learn at their own
today and tomorrow, our strategy divided into Beginner, Intermediate pace. The GenAI academy enables
has been to build GenAI skills and Advanced with an aim to equip the employees to be future-ready,
through an academy structure with everyone with essential GenAI skills. agile and empowered to sustain our
a comprehensive curriculum and The curriculum consists of content from organisation’s growth and success.
differentiated proficiency levels. experts, certifications and, practice
The entire organisation can tap with AI Coach providing the much-
Gen AI Transformation Series
Gen AI Innovater | Gen AI Specialist | Gen AI Architect
Advanced
Gen AI Exploration Series
Gen AI Proficient | Gen AI Practitioner | GenAI Catalyst
Intermediate
Gen AI Foundation Series
Beginner Gen AI Enthusiast | Gen AI Discoverer | Gen AI Pathfinder
152
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Measuring the Learning Impact A few examples of ROI evaluations are: − 46 per cent of over 3,000 Sales
Resources showed improvement
While providing these diverse learning − Improvement in customer
in productivity post a structured
and development offerings for building experience ratings of 67 per
learning intervention called ‘Score to
our human capital, we regularly cent learners through multiple
Soar’, between September 2024 to
assess the impact of these efforts. focused assessments and learning
January 2025. The content of these
This is done through a range of ROI interventions conducted for over
sessions focused on tracking and
indicators such as improvement in 8,800 Relationship Managers
enhancing productivity using various
productivity, operational efficiency and between September 2024 to
tools and methodologies
customer experience amongst others. February 2025
These help us consistently ensure
relevance and effectiveness.
HDFC Bank Care Initiatives
HDFC Bank’s Care Initiatives
demonstrate our commitment to
building a compassionate organisation
and reaching out to the families of our
employees. This entails continuing
the support to retiring employees and
their families, engaging with children
through age-appropriate interventions
and skill development programmes
to empower the next of kin of the
deceased employees.
Programme for Programme for Personal Pathway to Wellness
Retiring Employees Skill Development Effectiveness Financial Planning Programme
of Kin Hires for Teens for Parents of
Employees
Average Hours of Training by Category and Gender**
Men Women Total
Senior Management 24.93 29.86 25.43
Middle Management 41.88 45.53 42.36
Junior Management 53.23 54.42 53.42
Non-Supervisory Staff 54.60 73.69 60.11
Total 53.67 71.18 58.25
** In the Financial Year 2024-25, 1.25 crore learning hours were clocked, registering an increase of over 88 per cent in per employee hours over the
previous year.
153
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL - PEOPLE
Talent Management created at an individual employee level needs. By doing so, the Bank ensures
for the identified talent. Additionally, that employees are prepared to take
In the Financial Year 2024-25, the
the Bank launched a psychometric up senior responsibilities when the
Bank continued its journey of building
profiling instrument. More than 1.2 opportunity arises.
a strong talent pipeline across various
lakh employees took the assessment
leadership and critical roles in the
during the year. The objective was
organisation by leveraging technology
to better understand the behavioural
and using digital platforms.
profile of employees and assist
We used 'Development Centres' for them in their career planning as well
people managers at various levels as development.
to assess their potential on multiple
The Bank continued to strengthen its
leadership competencies. Over 5,200
succession planning at senior and
managers participated in this exercise.
mid-levels to ensure the mitigation of
Similarly, rigorous Talent Reviews were Business Continuity Risk. Succession
conducted for more than 7,900 Junior, planning process focuses on
Mid and Senior Level employees providing employees with relevant
to review their overall potential and role exposures, specific mentoring as
readiness for future roles. Basis Talent well as coaching opportunities and
Reviews, a development plan was addressing their identified learning
Sustaining Growth with a Stable Workforce
2024-25 2023-24
Categorisation
Men Women Total Men Women Total
Permanent Employees Headcount Headcount
Employees By Category
Senior Management 222 25 247 178 21 199
Middle Management 7,959 1,200 9,159 6,940 1,053 7,993
Junior Management 28,666 5,499 34,165 25,902 4,813 30,715
Non Supervisory Staff 1,21,602 49,348 1,70,950 1,24,897 49,723 1,74,620
Total 1,58,449 56,072 2,14,521 1,57,917 55,610 2,13,527
Categorisation
Permanent 1,58,449 56,072 2,14,521 1,57,917 55,610 2,13,527
Contract 24 7 31 31 7 38
Total 1,58,473 56,079 2,14,552 1,57,948 55,617 2,13,565
By Region
Abroad 178 90 268 154 83 237
East 18,808 5,004 23,812 17,899 4,823 22,722
West 59,121 20,800 79,921 59,036 20,721 79,757
South 35,956 16,025 51,981 36,617 16,097 52,714
North 44,386 14,153 58,539 44,211 13,886 58,097
Total 1,58,449 56,072 2,14,521 1,57,917 55,610 2,13,527
By Age
<30 51,950 30,176 82,126 57,462 32,598 90,060
30-50 1,03,042 25,327 1,28,369 97,850 22,557 1,20,407
>50 3,457 569 4,026 2,605 455 3,060
Total 1,58,449 56,072 2,14,521 1,57,917 55,610 2,13,527
154
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Talent Acquisition outreach with colleges in deep the program apart is its emphasis
geographies, ensuring a more on practical banking knowledge, job
Financial Year 2024-25 was the year
inclusive and representative talent readiness and an industry-relevant
of consolidation for Talent Acquisition
pipeline. As a result, we sustained learning journey.
(TA) as the Bank accelerated its efforts
a gender hiring ratio of 27.7 per
on building a scalable, inclusive and Prime Minister’s Internship
cent in the Financial Year 2024-25,
future-ready hiring engine. Our focus Scheme (PMIS) - An initiative
demonstrating consistent progress on
was on optimising TA efficiency and launched by Ministry of Corporate
our diversity commitments.
cost, embedding intelligent selection Affairs (MCA), Government of
methods through AI and most The Future Banker 2.0 – A curated India aimed at providing internship
importantly investing in a sustainable diploma programme for entry level opportunities to youth. HDFC Bank
talent pipeline. A key strategic priority revenue roles in Branch Banking has been actively partnering with the
was the expansion of job-ready continued its upward trajectory Government on this initiative.
models, designed to align fresh talent witnessing a substantial increase
These collective efforts underscore
with business requirements from in participation and conversion
our strategic intent to build a resilient,
day one. compared to the previous year.
inclusive and future-ready workforce
Our commitment to gender diversity Ace Banker Program - Our flagship which is powered by innovation,
remains deeply embedded in our TA initiative was successfully launched partnerships and a strong foundation
strategy. We ran focused diversity this year and has quickly emerged in capability development.
initiatives including dedicated women as a critical lever for fulfilling entry
hiring drives aimed at strengthening level role requirements. What sets
New Hires in FY 2024-25
2024-25 New Hire Rate 2024-25
Categorisation
Men Women Total Men Women Total
By Employee Category
Senior Management 7 - 7 3.2% - 2.8%
Middle Management 212 39 251 2.7% 3.3% 2.7%
Junior Management 3,126 658 3,784 10.9% 12.0% 11.1%
Non Supervisory Staff 32,588 13,083 45,671 26.8% 26.5% 26.7%
By Region
Abroad 19 8 27 10.7% 8.9% 10.1%
East 4,423 1,232 5,655 23.5% 24.6% 23.7%
West 12,652 4,690 17,342 21.4% 22.5% 21.7%
South 8,749 4,376 13,125 24.3% 27.3% 25.2%
North 10,090 3,474 13,564 22.7% 24.5% 23.2%
By Age
<30 20,084 9,874 29,958 38.7% 32.7% 36.5%
30-50 15,792 3,896 19,688 15.3% 15.4% 15.3%
>50 57 10 67 1.6% 1.8% 1.7%
Total 35,933 13,780 49,713 22.7% 24.6% 23.2%
Talent Retention especially among new joiners and the leaders and is being shared with
women employees. As a result, overall supervisors across levels. Various
Attrition across the BFSI Sector in
attrition and that of new joiners and initiatives arising out of the insights
the Financial Year 2024-25 has seen
women employees has been lower in drawn from our listening instruments-
a decline and getting back to the
the year under review. Culture Pulse (Organisation Sentiment
pre-pandemic levels. Over the last 24
Survey) and Vibes (Team Sentiment
months, the Bank has been sharply Attrition is also getting measured as
Survey) has also helped address areas
focusing on attrition across all levels part of the performance scorecard of
that needed attention.
155
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL - PEOPLE
Attrition in FY 2024-25
2024-25 Attrition Rate 2024-25
Categorisation
Men Women Total Men Women Total
By Employee Category
Senior Management 20 5 25 10.0% 21.7% 11.2%
Middle Management 380 74 454 5.1% 6.6% 5.3%
Junior Management 2,664 582 3,246 9.8% 11.3% 10.0%
Non Supervisory Staff 32,060 12,575 44,635 26.0% 25.4% 25.8%
Total 35,124 13,236 48,360 22.2% 23.7% 22.6%
By Region
Abroad 7 8 15 4.2% 9.2% 5.9%
East 3,563 1,011 4,574 19.4% 20.6% 19.7%
West 12,406 4,556 16,962 21.0% 21.9% 21.2%
South 9,331 4,453 13,784 25.7% 27.7% 26.3%
North 9,817 3,208 13,025 22.2% 22.9% 22.3%
Total 35,124 13,236 48,360 22.2% 23.7% 22.6%
By Age
<30 16,353 8,740 25,093 30.4% 28.0% 29.53%
30-50 18,580 4,457 23,037 18.3% 18.4% 18.30%
>50 191 39 230 7.1% 8.4% 7.33%
Total 35,124 13,236 48,360 22.2% 23.7% 22.6%
Employee Turnover Rate (%) Absentee Rate (%)
22.6 1.40
FY25 22.6 FY25 1.40
FY24 26.9 FY24 1.38
FY23 34.2 FY23 1.30
FY22 25.5 FY22 1.84
HR Tech The Bank continued its journey assessments and interviews using
of making significant process AI tools we achieved faster, more
The Bank implemented a
improvements and adding new efficient and unbiased hiring for
comprehensive and fully integrated
modules to its existing HR Tech high-volume roles.
HRMS system for frontline sales staff
Suite. The most significant being − Simultaneously, the iCube
thereby consolidating the overall
the introduction of the Disciplinary Chatbot, our AI-based
Human Resources Tech Architecture.
Action Module. conversational interface, streamlined
The Bank for the first time Driving Scalable Impact employee interactions across HR
implemented Artificial Intelligence (AI) through AI functions by offering 24/7 real-time
based on Large Language Models in support on queries related to policy,
the Human Resources function. This − To strengthen our talent acquisition payroll, learning, amongst others.
has been implemented to facilitate process we have implemented This has improved service delivery
responding to standard policy a Touchless Hiring model. By and freed up HR capacity for
related queries. automating resume screening, strategic initiatives.
156
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
− To deepen employee engagement we have sustained the momentum standards of leadership behaviours
and feedback, we adopted of our culture transformation by and curating everyday employee
an AI powered Listening consistently integrating elements of experiences to reinforce the Culture
Platform, enabling us to capture culture in our people practices, setting Framework - HDFC Bank Way.
employee sentiment and derive
actionable insights across the
The HDFC Bank Way comprises six defined Culture pillars
employee lifecycle. This system
empowers leadership with data-
driven decisions to improve
employee experience, culture and
organisational performance.
Integrity Execution Innovation
− We enhanced the learning
experience for our employees
through the AI-powered learning
platform MPower enabling hyper-
personalised learning journeys. Collaboration Inclusion Humility
These combined AI-driven
Each pillar represents elements that the Bank stands for and believes in.
interventions represent our strategic
Reinforcement of the HDFC Bank Way continues to be a key focus area
commitment to transforming HR into
of the Bank.
a proactive, insight-led function based
on technology and data.
Collective Bargaining
for over 27,000 people managers
Agreements Key Culture Interventions: across India. The second edition
The Bank has an employee − Evolve 2.0 – A reflective was built on the success of phase
one with a sharper focus on bridging
association. As on March 31, 2025, leadership development journey
generational gaps, use of Appreciative
0.10 per cent of our permanent for high-potential leaders to
Inquiry, Performance Coaching and
employees are members of this explore their inner compass and
Collaboration. By fostering self-
association. These employees are leadership impact.
awareness and a people-first mindset,
covered under the Bipartite Settlement − Project Elevate – A structured
Project Evolve equips leaders to
Provisions. The Bank typically
initiative aimed at empowering
navigate complexity, inspire teams and
implements operational changes in
people managers to drive
drive sustainable impact. The initiative
accordance with internal or Bipartite
performance, engagement and
reflects our commitment to cultivating
Settlement agreements which do not
cultural alignment.
leadership that not only achieves
require notice under the Industrial
− Sustained Communication
results but also nurtures a thriving and
Disputes (ID) Act. However, if the
on Nurture-Care Collaborate
inclusive workplace culture.
Bank makes any operational changes
(NCC) Framework - A
outside of these settlements, a 21-day Project Elevate: This is a strategic
storytelling- led movement to
notice is required under Section 9A of leadership initiative aimed at
bring our core cultural ethos
the ID Act. strengthening the capabilities of
to life through real experiences
people managers by anchoring
Rooted in Culture, Rising and everyday actions.
leadership in empathy, resilience
in Strength
and accountability. Focused on
In a dynamic environment where enabling deep self-awareness the
agility and resilience are key, culture Evolve 2.0: This is a flagship people programme provides managers with
becomes the enduring force that leadership intervention aimed at the frameworks, tools and coaching
shapes behaviours and drives supporting the Bank's ongoing culture support needed to strengthen their
performance. Over the past year, transformation journey. It is designed leadership impact.
157
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL - PEOPLE
Sustaining the Momentum: reinforcing the behaviours, mindsets By spotlighting cultural role models,
Embedding Culture Through and values that shape our organisational encouraging candid dialogue and
Intentional Reinforcement identity. Recognising that culture must aligning actions with aspirations
be continuously nurtured we have we are not only preserving our
As we progress on our NCC journey to
embedded the NCC principles into core but also preparing our people
becoming a future-ready organisation,
everyday practices—through leadership to lead with agility, empathy and
we understand that a strong, adaptive
alignment, purposeful communication accountability in an ever-evolving
culture is our greatest enabler. In the
and integrating it into key people environment. This deliberate cultural
Financial Year 2024-25, we focused on
processes such as onboarding, reinforcement is foundational to our
sustaining momentum by intentionally
performance reviews and recognition. ability to navigate change and thrive
9 NCC Practices in the future.
Performance Create Positive Development and
Coaching Environment Growth Conversation
Nurture
− Plan for Performance − Celebrate individuals/teams/ − Know & Respect
− Coach/Guide as small wins personal contexts
you Review − Easy Space for Comfort and − Career focus from
− Step into the trenches easy fun & humour job focus
− Safe Space for honest & − Contribute to persoral
free expression growth & aspirations
Speak Respectfully Listen to Understand Care for Me as a Person
Care − Use positive & − Receive before Respond − Have their back/Be
affirmative language − Attentive listening over their pillar
− Use polite & Distracted Hearing − Praise publicity,
respectful language − Exclude bias for Prepare privately
− Maintain conversational intentional inclusion − Person beyond the
tone of voice persona/behaviour
Collaborate Build Network Work Across Boundaries Manage Conflict
− Know the Person beyond − Generate cross-teams − Think Win - Win
the Position effciency partnerships − Build Bridges
− Genuine Curiostity of − Understand Self & Others' beyond barriers
role functionalities impact of role − Work on distilled issues
− Have authentic − Resonance - Whole is beyond personalities
interpersonal relationships greater than sum of parts
158
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion backgrounds and experiences not By creating a workplace where
(DE&I) only strengthens our decision making every individual is valued, respected
and fosters innovation but also builds and empowered to contribute, we
An inclusive organisation is a stronger
a more resilient and responsive continue to drive sustainable growth
organisation. At HDFC Bank, we
organisation. Over the last few years, while upholding the responsibility
remain deeply committed to fostering a
the Bank has formalised its DE&I to reflect and serve the diverse
culture of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
philosophy and we have been making communities we operate in.
(DE&I) across all levels. We believe
conscious efforts in this direction.
that embracing diverse perspectives,
The Three Tenets of The Diversity-Equity-Inclusion Charter
"Build an Inclusive work environment where every individual is Respected and Differences are Valued"
Merit Character Inclusion
Competence demonstrated, Alignment to the HDFC BANK WAY We will strive to be an equal
performance outcome and capability and adherence to the ethos of the opportunity organisation
will always be the threshold Bank will be the selection criteria for where everyone can excel
requirement for all Talent decisions Career advancement at the Bank and thrive, irrespective of our
inherent differences
In the Financial Year 2024-25, the programmes and AI-powered fair Over the last 3 years, about 290
Bank continued to make strong hiring practices contributed to building high-potential women participated
strides in advancing gender diversity a more inclusive talent pipeline. in the flagship Career Accelerator
achieving 26.1 per cent women Programme, reinforcing the Bank’s
The Bank has been able to
representation across the workforce commitment to nurturing future
institutionalise the DE&I Framework in
and improving the women supervisor women leaders.
all major people practices including
ratio from 1:10 to 1:7—demonstrating
Talent Acquisition, Talent Management
focused effort in this space. Purpose-
and growth.
led hiring initiatives, returnship
Return to work and retention rates of permanent emIoyees and workers that took parental leave
No. of employees No. of employees No. of employees
Return to
2024-25 entitled to parental that took parental leave who returned to work
work rate
leave after leave ended
Maternity Leave All eligible employees 2,762 2,687 97.28%
Paternity Leave are covered* 7,478 7,457 99.72%
Retention rates of permanent empIoyees and workers that took parental leave
No. of employees
No. of employees who
No. of employees entitled No. of employees that who returned to work after Retention
2024-25 returned to work after
to parental leave took parental leave leave ended and were still Rate
leave ended
employed after 12 months
Maternity Leave All eligible employees 1,873 1,820 1,300 71.43%
Paternity Leave are covered* 5,796 5,785 4,520 78.13%
* All the permanent employees (2,14,521 as on March 31, 2025) were eligible for parental leave, subject to Government Regulations and Bank’s
Policy.
159
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL - PEOPLE
Diversity Breakdown
Representation of Representation
women in junior of women in top
16.1% 10.1%
management positions, management positions,
i.e. first level of i.e. maximum two levels
management (as % of away from the CEO or
total junior management comparable positions
Female
positions) (as % of total top
representation
management positions)
in Employee
Headcount, Junior
Representation Representation of
Management, Top
of women in all 15.4% Management, 14.0% women in management
management positions, Revenue generating positions in revenue-
including junior, middle roles and generating functions
and top management STEM-related (e.g. sales) as % of all
(as % of total positions such managers (i.e.
management positions) excluding support
functions such as HR, IT,
Legal, etc.)
Representation
of women in total 26.1% 26.0% Representation of
workforce (as % of total women in STEM-related
workforce) positions (as % of total
STEM positions)
Inclusion Month
was “Allyship: Better Together”. Over This flame travelled to 13 major
Each year, June is celebrated as 58,000 employees participated locations across the country
Inclusion Month by the Bank. The through various events across the symbolising our collective
objective is to take stock of the country. The highlight of the event commitment to building an
progress we are making in our DE&I was the Flame of Equity being flagged inclusive organisation.
journey and to recommit ourselves off by our Deputy Managing Director-
to this cause. The theme for 2024 Mr. Kaizad Bharucha in Mumbai.
160
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Leadership Conclave and
Paying It Forward
The inaugural Leadership Conclave,
themed “Rooted & Rising – Deep
connections, limitless growth,” brought
together senior women leaders
to reflect on their journeys, share
insights and chart the path forward
for the Bank. The conclave fostered
meaningful dialogue around self-
agency, global and local DE&I trends
and the importance of community and
mentorship—laying the groundwork
for an ecosystem where leaders are
encouraged to pay it forward.
Employee Wellness- Building a Resilient and Healthy Workforce
In our pursuit of creating a workplace that truly values all our employees, the Bank places a profound emphasis on holistic
well-being by focusing on four interconnected pillars - Physical, Emotional, Social and Financial Wellness.
Physical Well-being Emotional Well-being − Supportive Work Culture:
Encouraging collaboration, open
HDFC Bank is committed to HDFC Bank is dedicated to fostering
communication, and inclusivity.
promoting employee's physical health a supportive and emotionally healthy
through structured wellness programs work environment. To help employees − Inclusive Work Culture: Encourage
and initiatives. manage stress and enhance their inclusion, respect and diversity in
emotional well-being the workplace.
− Health Programs: Regular medical
check- ups, health screening, and − Employee Assistance Program − Peer Support Networks:
Networks that provide guidance
preventive care services. (EAP): Confidential counselling and
and encouragement.
− Fitness Initiatives: A few on-site support services for personal and
work-related challenges. − Community Involvement:
or partnered gym facilities, fitness
challenges and wellness activities. − Stress Management Programmes: Volunteering opportunities and
CSR initiatives
− Nutrition and Healthy Living: Programs and sessions on
mindfulness, resilience and − Recognition and Appreciation:
Awareness programs on healthy
coping strategies. Programs that celebrate employee
eating and lifestyle habits. Access
− Work-Life balance Initiatives: Flexible contributions and achievements.
to dietary guidance and healthy
work arrangements.
eating plans. Financial Well-being
− Workplace Ergonomics: Safe and Social Well-being
HDFC Bank offers programs that
comfortable workspaces to prevent
HDFC Bank promotes a positive and promote financial literacy.
physical strain.
inclusive workplace by fostering strong
− Financial Education Programmes:
− Preventive Health Measures: social connections among employees.
Financial sessions on budgeting,
First aid support and access to The Bank supports social well-
saving and financial planning.
healthcare resources. being through
− Discouraging Unhealthy Habits: − Employee Engagement Activities:
Through ongoing communication,
Team building events, gatherings,
we actively discourage unhealthy
sports and recreational activities.
habits like tobacco use and promote
a culture of well-being.
161
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL - PEOPLE
Support for Deceased Employees' Families
The Bank extends support to the kin of deceased employees by proactively reaching out and offering wellness resources and
assistance to help them navigate through difficult times. HDFC Bank helps families avail benefits, assist with documentation
and extend support as required. By addressing both emotional and practical needs, we strive to ease the burden on the
families of our departed colleagues while reinforcing our commitment to employee well-being.
Specific Wellness Programs and Initiatives in the Financial Year 2024-25
Awards and Recognition Healthy Workplace Award 2024
(Gold Level)
As a testament to our efforts in
driving impactful and innovative Healthy Workplace Award 2024 (Gold Level) by
learning and development Arogya World India Trust in partnership with the
practices, the Bank has won the Public Health Foundation of India.
prestigious Golden Peacock
Award – National Training
Award 2025.
This recognition affirms the
dedication, creativity and
collaboration embedded in our
people development initiatives.
162
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
GRACE Campaign ET Award
HDFC Bank's HR team's GRACE campaign, HDFC Bank recognised as one of the
has been honoured at the Digies Awards 2025 Best Organisation to Work 2025
in the Best Internal Communications Campaign
category. We have secured the Silver Awards.
The Bank Won Allyship Award as part of the 1000 Women Leaders Program by Jombay
163
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL - PEOPLE
Employee Connect popular especially among the younger Josh Unlimited
Initiatives workforce. Over the last few years, The Bank’s multi-sports and multi-
we have been inviting family members
discipline event was conducted in
Employee Connect, our dedicated
also emphasising the importance of
several cities across India sparking
platform for employee engagement
inclusive engagement.
excitement and a high level of
and well-being, organises a diverse
range of initiatives throughout the year Over one lakh employees engagement from our employees.
offering employees opportunities to actively participated in over 20 Family carnivals were also arranged
connect beyond work. These initiatives different initiatives conducted with various fun-filled activities.
span across areas such as sports, throughout the year indicating the
arts, music, wellness and interests like widespread enthusiasm for these
photography, cooking, story writing engagement activities.
amongst others. These are quite
164
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
HUNAR
The Bank’s talent hunt initiative
provides a platform for employees
and their families to showcase
their talent in various performing
art forms. Employees across
India enthusiastically participate in
this activity.
Both the above events, Josh and
Hunar are conducted across the
country with the participations of
various regional teams. The above
events concluded with a Grand Finale
at Mumbai.
Funtakshari Corporate Photography Contest
An activity centred around popular Bank employees participated in an annual inter-corporate photography contest
Bollywood songs was a huge success conducted by Sony India. The best photographs were featured on the Channel’s
with employees and their families online platforms. The Bank secured 1st place for the ‘Highest Upload Award’
enjoying the fun competition through
audio-visual quiz rounds. The initiative
garnered widespread popularity
and appreciation.
Digital Voice Hunt
The annual singing competition was
organised for the children, spouses
and parents of the employees. This
received positive feedback.
Syahi
The Bank’s annual online story and
poem writing contest for employees
to showcase their creativity through
captivating fictional and non-fictional
content. Winning stories and poems
are published in an e-book format on
the Bank’s internal platform.
Summer Camp
The annual summer camp for children
of the Bank’s employees featuring
activities like science experiments,
fire-free cooking, talent showcase
and behavioural learning received
positive feedback from participants
and parents.
165
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL - PEOPLE
International Women’s Day Celebration
This event featured a range of activities across multiple offices in the Bank including national-level webinars which addressed
various themes of importance for women employees along with life-skill building workshops.
AnalytIQ Xpressions
AnalytIQ is an online annual Xpressions is the Banks annual
brainteaser contest. Employees art contest. This included canvas
were invited to play Chess, Sudoku painting and sketching competition for
and Scrabble following a round- employees, spouses and children. The
robin format with multiple levels of event witnessed a display of creative
shortlisting. This competitive event artwork by our employees and their
evoked excitement among employees talented family members. These were
leading to a high level of engagement showcased as wallpapers on the
and participation. Bank's laptops and desktops leading
to Bank wide visibility and recognition.
166
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Take-a-Break Wanderers
This weekly initiative encourages This is an outdoor event providing
short fun breaks for employees at the employees with a chance to
workplace. It included brainteasers participate in a one-day monsoon trek,
on general knowledge, famous adventure sports like river rafting and
personalities, logical reasoning, visual an invigorating breakfast cycle ride.
puzzles amongst other. The initiative The participants explored enchanting
garnered significant interest and nature trails and rediscovered the joy
participation from employees offering of the outdoors.
a refreshing stress buster.
Festival Celebrations
Various festival celebrations across
the country were organised along
with engagement activities such as
captivating magic shows, unique DIY
art and craft sessions amongst others.
The activities witnessed enthusiastic
participation from various offices
nationwide giving employees and
their families an opportunity to come
together and celebrate.
167
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SSOOCCIIAALL –- PCEOOMPMLEUNITY
Building Stronger
Communities Together
At HDFC Bank, we believe 10 years of Parivartan Key Milestones
resilient and inclusive Our CSR programme, Parivartan,
2013
economies are built embodies this commitment by
advancing sustainable, community- − HDFC Bank set a Guinness World
on the foundation of
led development. Through focused Record for the largest single-day
thriving communities.
interventions, Parivartan enables blood donation drive, collecting over
Our Corporate Social underserved communities to 61,000 units across 709 locations
Responsibility (CSR) overcome systemic barriers in India.
and participate actively in the
efforts reflect this belief
2014
nation’s progress. By addressing
through diverse initiatives
the root causes of poverty and − HDFC Bank introduced ‘Parivartan’
aimed at creating marginalisation, we aim to build as its umbrella CSR brand, focusing
measurable impact. By self-reliant, resilient communities and on rural development, education,
foster long-term social and economic healthcare, financial literacy, and
empowering individuals,
transformation. This commitment environmental sustainability.
strengthening institutions,
extends to reaching disadvantaged − The bank published its inaugural
and promoting equitable areas including border villages,
Sustainability Report, outlining
development, we strive to remote tribal belts, and geographies its commitment to responsible
with limited access and shaping
drive meaningful change banking practices.
interventions that are aligned with
across geographies.
the distinct socio-economic realities 2015
ooff eeaacchh rreeggiioonn,, tthheerreebbyy ddeeeeppeenniinngg −− HHDFC Bank incorporated
iimmppaacctt wwhheerree iitt iiss nneeeeddeedd mmoosstt..
‘‘SSustainability’ as its fifth core
vvaalue, alongside Customer Focus,
OOperational Excellence, Product
LLeadership, and People.
−− HHDFC Bank’s scholarship
pprogramme to support students
ffrrom economically weaker sections,
eensuring continuity in education was
bbrought under the CSR umbrella.
−− TThe bank contributed to the Swachh
BBharat Abhiyan by constructing
ssaanitation facilities in schools
aand communities.
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111116666666666666666666666666666668888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888888
HHHHHHHDDDDDDDDFFFFFCCCCCCCC BBBBBBBaaaaaaaaannnnnnnnkkkkkkkkk LLLLLLLLLiiiiiiiimmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitttttttttttttttttttttteeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeedddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd
Responsible Business
2016 2018 2023
− Launched the ‘Dhanchayat’ initiative, − Honored by the Ministry of − Launched the Small Grants Program
a financial literacy program on Corporate Affairs at the first National to support grassroots NGOs.
wheels, educating rural communities CSR Awards for contributions
− Introduced the Parivartan
about banking and financial to National Priority schemes in
Excellence Awards to recognise
services through mobile vans and Agriculture and Rural Development.
outstanding contributions by its
interactive sessions.
2020 partners and stakeholders in
− Initiated the Zero Investment CSR initiatives.
Innovations for Education Initiatives − On its 25th anniversary, HDFC Bank
− CSR Team transitioned from a
(ZIIEI) program to encourage set a goal to establish 2500 SMART
centralised to a regional structure,
grassroots-level innovations classrooms across India and plant
empowering state-level teams
by teachers in government 25 million trees.
to plan and implement context-
schools, aiming to improve the − Forayed into public health by
specific CSR strategies for better
quality of education without supporting communities during
grassroot impact.
additional investments. the COVID-19 pandemic, providing
− Started providing grants to healthcare facilities, promoting 2024
incubators and accelerators hygiene practices and established − Introduced a new pillar focusing
to support social impact start- around 20 oxygen plants.
on natural resource management,
ups, fostering innovation and
2022 emphasising sustainable practices
entrepreneurship through Parivartan
in water conservation, afforestation,
Start-up Grants Program. − Launched a national awareness
and biodiversity.
campaign for cyber fraud to
2017 promote safe digital banking
− Launched the first Holistic Rural practices among the public titled
Vigil Aunty.
Development Programme (HRDP)
project in Meghalaya, focusing
on integrated rural development
through infrastructure, livelihood,
and community development.
Under Parivartan, we have the − Skill Development &
following focus areas under which Livelihood Enhancement
we carry out diverse interventions: − Education
− Rural Development − Financial Literacy & Inclusion
− Healthcare & Hygiene
− Natural Resource Management
169
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL – COMMUNITY
Aligned with our identified focus areas, initiative, detailed proposals are These assessments were based
we have established seven goals and prepared, outlining implementation on the Organisation for Economic
thirteen sub-goals to be achieved modalities, monitoring frameworks, Co-operation and Development's
by FY 2025-26 with the intention of and budget requirements. Projects Development Assistance Committee's
directing our community development are executed directly by the Bank or criteria, which evaluate relevance,
activities. The Bank conducts CSR through empanelled implementation coherence, effectiveness, efficiency,
activities across India through partners, following a rigorous due impact, and sustainability—widely
various initiatives. diligence process to evaluate their recognised as a gold standard for
technical capabilities and the feasibility programme evaluation. Frameworks
Every initiative is shaped through
of proposed interventions. such as the Standard Outcome
a participatory and consultative
Impact Framework were also used to
approach, ensuring relevance to Partner proposals include information
trace changes since project inception
local contexts. We collaborate with on objectives, target communities,
and attribute causality.
experienced implementation partners monitoring plans, impact indicators,
and involve our employees to uplift and budgets. These are evaluated for In FY25, 78 projects underwent
lives meaningfully. alignment with community needs, the impact assessment. Based on the
Bank’s CSR vision, and their potential findings, recommendations were
Our Board-level CSR & ESG
for impact, sustainability, scalability, made to enhance their effectiveness,
Committee formulates and
and resource efficiency. accessibility, and capacity to scale
recommends the annual action plan in
and sustain long-term outcomes.
line with the Bank’s CSR Policy. This Project progress is tracked through
policy serves as a guiding document, regular site visits, stakeholder In the following sections, we have
outlining the approach and direction engagement, interactions with showcased the results from select
set by the Board, based on the government officials, review of evaluations of our projects under each
Committee’s recommendations. progress and financial reports, and the of the focus areas. A comprehensive
It defines the principles for selecting, use of digital platforms for real-time repository of the impact assessments
implementing, and monitoring CSR monitoring. Internal evaluations are conducted during FY 2025 can be
activities, and for preparing the annual carried out across all projects, while found here.
action plan. select large-scale initiatives undergo https://v.hdfcbank.com/csr/our-
independent external assessments commitment.html
A dedicated CSR department is
in accordance with applicable
responsible for administering and
CSR Rules.
executing the policy. Both the CSR
Committee and the department Our CSR programme is also subject
function under the Board’s oversight to annual internal audits to assess J1,068.03 Crore
to ensure alignment with the policy the adequacy of internal controls and
Total CSR Spend in
and applicable regulations. The Board ensure compliance with regulatory
FY 2024-25
monitors the effective implementation requirements. A robust reporting
of CSR initiatives, while the CSR framework supports transparency and
Committee ensures a transparent accountability through disclosures in
monitoring mechanism and provides the Annual CSR Report, the Directors’
regular updates to the Board, Report within the Integrated Annual
including impact assessment reports. Report, and mandatory filings on the
Ministry of Corporate Affairs website— 10.56
Our CSR strategy provides a Crore
all in accordance with the format
comprehensive framework for Lives Impacted as
prescribed under CSR Rules.
planning, executing, and evaluating
of March 2025
community development efforts. The This year, we conducted impact
CSR & ESG Committee approves assessments for projects with
programmes and focus areas aligned budgets of H1 crore or more.
to this strategy. For each approved
170
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Parivartan supports Parivartan reduces rural Parivartan promotes Health camps, medical
ecosystems through poverty by improving food security by training equipment, and
reforestation and livelihoods through farmers in sustainable infrastructure support
sustainable land use. enhanced agricultural practices and improving disease prevention in
It plays a key role by productivity, market irrigation infrastructure. vulnerable areas. HDFC
conserving biodiversity access, and community Initiatives like seed banks, Bank also holds the
and maintaining enterprises. Financial kitchen gardens, and fair Guinness World Record for
ecological balance. literacy programs help value chains help small the largest blood donation
Trees Planted: ~ 80 lakh underserved communities producers increase yields drive. Blood donated: 27
access services, save, and and income. Kitchen lakh + units of blood
invest in income-generating
Gardens Developed:
activities. Villages
65,119+
covered under Holistic
Rural Development
Program: 6,000+
Parivartan enhances
education access
Parivartan advances
through remedial classes,
sustainability through Parivartan's
scholarships, teacher
afforestation, water
alignment with
training, and school
conservation, and clean
UN's Sustainable infrastructure. Sports
energy use, building climate
resilience while reducing Development programs further support
environmental impact. Goals
children’s physical and
Water Conservation mental well-being.
Scholarships Given:
Structures Constructed:
29,093
14,520+
Smart Schools
Created: 2,185
Parivartan promotes skill Parivartan supports Water structures like tanks, Parivartan empowers
development and technical installation of solar lights, wells, and hand pumps women through support
education, especially for biomass stoves, and biogas improve hygiene and reduce for women-led businesses,
women and youth. Support plants to bring clean, child mortality. Sanitation access to credit, and
for small enterprises like reliable energy to remote units across India have revival of Self-Help
dairy and poultry farming communities, supporting helped eliminate open Groups, enabling better
drives inclusive regional schools, healthcare, and defecation and ensure livelihood opportunities
growth. Youth Trained: businesses. Solar Lights dignity, especially for and promoting equality.
1,05,458 Installed: 61,000+ women. Household Toilets Women Enterprises
Constructed: 24,390+ Promoted: 10,725
Parivartan, through its six strategic pillars, With programs across 28 States and 8 Union
contributes to 10 of the 17 UN Sustainable Territories, Parivartan drives scalable impact
Development Goals by addressing poverty, while aligning with India’s 2030 agenda
inequality, education, healthcare, and through integrated social, economic, and
environmental sustainability. environmental initiatives.
171
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL – COMMUNITY
Employee Engagement FY 2024-25
Under the ongoing Parivartan initiative, the Bank continued to foster a culture of employee engagement and community
involvement throughout FY25. New activities included online sessions on financial literacy, corporate culture, and
management & sustainable living sessions to promote education and sustainability. In-office events like mock interview
sessions for marginal youth, sale exhibitions for SHG products, International Day on Persons with Disability were organised in
collaboration with existing NGO Partners.
Engaging Our Impact Makers Parivartan Volunteering Month
At HDFC Bank, we believe progress is reflected Now in its second year, Parivartan Volunteering
not just in financial results, but in the communities Month continued to drive inclusive community
we uplift. In FY 2025, employee volunteering engagement. Employees across India participated in
strengthened our culture of empathy and structured initiatives, including educational sessions,
responsibility. Employees contributed time and effort digital literacy, financial awareness camps, donation
to initiatives promoting inclusion, well-being, and drives and clean-up activities.
community development.
12,000+ 1,843+ Hours
Participation in volunteering activities Contributed towards volunteering efforts
5,000+ 2,144+ Employees
Volunteer hours Engaged in meaningful
community service
TATA Mumbai Marathon Blood Donation Drive
HDFC Bank Parivartan made a notable impact at Parivartan in collaboration with HDFC Bank’s
the TATA Mumbai Marathon 2025. Employees united operations team organised the All India Annual Blood
under the motto “Get Set Educate,” emphasising Donation Campaign. Over 3.39 lakh blood units
the importance of access to education. Additionally, were collected from individuals, college students,
the event featured the “Vigil Aunty” campaign, and employees through 5,533 camps across
which promotes safe banking habits and fraud multiple states. This initiative supports healthcare
awareness. This initiative is part of our broader and community engagement through voluntary
efforts to enhance financial literacy and build public blood donation.
confidence in digital banking.
1,500+ Employees 354,177 participants
Participated making it the Bank’s Registered for blood donation camps
largest ever corporate contingent
1,500 blood banks/ hospitals/
medical centres
Supported the campaign
172
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Other Volunteering Initiatives:
600+ employees participated 20+ employees participated, 300+ employees donated
in various awareness sessions volunteering 80+ hours in gifts and placed them under
related to environment, climate supporting an annual sports Christmas Trees installed in
change and waste management. event for hearing and speech corporate offices under the "Joy of
impaired students. Giving" programme.
3000+ employees engaged
during Diwali Exhibitions across 25+ employees participated, of 160+ employees attended the
multiple office locations. which 5 senior employees as jury online session on “Hour for Earth”
panels evaluated 13 young aspiring creating awareness on climate
300 seed balls including
entrepreneurs who presented their change and took pledge on
neem and chikoo were planted
pitches under enterprise support. conserving energy.
by employees.
40+ employees contributed Over 50 Senior Executives
22+ employees along with
in imparting Financial Literacy volunteered to evaluate startups
100+ students from govt
to 1300+ community members supported under the Parivartan
schools participated in Science
through 8 Camps in 5 states. Startup Grants.
Day celebration with a visit to
Spacelabs in Himachal Pradesh. J10+ lakhs were raised in
They were given hands on the SHGs /NGO product sale
experience towards space exhibition, supporting various
mission, ISRO advancement causes on Women’s Day. Total
& demonstration of robots, 9,100+ employees engaged
rockets and observed sunspots across Pan India locations.
with telescope.
173
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL – COMMUNITY
Development Programme. They
established 11 High Raised Platforms
(HRPs) and six animal rescue shelters
in Telahi, elevated to seven feet to
withstand floodwaters.
The HRPs are equipped with gender-
separate toilets and plantations to
prevent soil erosion. Each village
formed a Village Development
Committee (VDC), and a trained
taskforce equipped with microphones
for early warnings, ensuring
residents have time to evacuate and
seek shelter.
Beyond their role during floods,
HRPs function as offices for the
VDCs and as Farmers’ Resource
Centres, providing valuable support
and resources to the local agricultural
community. This dual functionality
Rural Development Flood Resilience in Assam ensures that the HRPs remain a vital
part of the community infrastructure,
HDFC Parivartan’s Holistic Rural Every year, Assam faces severe
even outside of the flood season.
Development Programme (HRDP) flash floods, particularly affecting
addresses rural challenges through communities near the Subansiri,
an integrated approach spanning rural Ranganadi, and Hingora rivers. In
1,200
development, education, healthcare response, HDFC Bank Parivartan,
& hygiene, skill development, in collaboration with the Indo Global Families impacted,
financial inclusion, and environmental Social Service Society, launched providing safe shelters
sustainability. Implemented over an initiative under the Holistic Rural
and essential resources
36–48 months in clusters of 15–20
villages, HRDP fosters systemic
change by tackling interlinked
issues simultaneously.
Rather than isolated efforts, this
comprehensive model builds resilient
rural ecosystems where progress in
one area reinforces gains in others—
boosting productivity, enhancing
livelihoods, and promoting sustainable
resource use. Collaboration with local
communities, NGOs, and government
bodies ensures long-term impact and
ownership at the grassroots level.
174
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Promoting Rural Tourism in the Northeast
Assam
HDFC Bank Parivartan, in system encourages responsible
200
collaboration with FXB India tourism practices. By blending
Suraksha, is driving a transformative sustainable infrastructure with active
Families benefited
initiative in the districts of Udalguri, community engagement, the initiative
from new employment
Darrang, and Kamrup in Assam to fosters local resilience and long-term
promote sustainable tourism and environmental stewardship. opportunities
climate action. By integrating eco-
To further enhance tourist experience,
tourism, clean energy, and local
investments have been made
craftsmanship, the project aims to 8 eco-homestays
towards infrastructure development
rejuvenate rural economies while
at Bhairabkunda Eco-tourism Picnic developed
preserving the region’s natural and
Spot, including:
cultural heritage. And projected to
− Public Toilets generate H4,00,000
At the heart of this initiative are
eco-friendly homestays constructed − A Waste-to-Wonder Learning Center annually with ~H2,68,000
using bamboo and recycled & Theme Park profit each
materials, offering sustainable − A Cultural Heritage Center
lodging options for visitors. − A Rural Huts Market: Supporting
Clean energy technologies—
the local economy and engaging
such as solar power systems 60 Solar-powered
women entrepreneurs
and rainwater harvesting—help streetlights
reduce the environmental footprint
Additional facilities like trekking
Installed, improving
of participating communities. A
trails, camping sites, and cycling
cycling centre with bike rental public safety
centers further promote eco-friendly
services promotes low-carbon
tourism while creating new economic
travel, while a waste segregation
opportunities for the region.
Meghalaya
In Umsaiprah village, located near − Riverside resort By December 2024, FXBIS
the Umiam River in Ri-Bhoi district, − Playgrounds and camping areas handed over all facilities to the
subsistence agriculture and traditional local community for management
− Kitchens, toilets, and
practices face market and climate and ownership. Umsaiprah is
visitor infrastructure
challenges that threaten their now a model of eco-tourism-
economic stability. This initiative thus These upgrades attract hundreds driven sustainable development,
integrates rural tourism with ongoing of tourists monthly, boosting local balancing economic growth
development efforts for sustainability income and employment. Further with environmental and
and local empowerment. developments include: cultural preservation.
Under the HRDP Meghalaya − Waste-to-Wonder Park
project, FXBIS and HDFC Parivartan − Tourist cottages and dormitories
introduced eco-tourism in 2023.
The Umsaiprah Eco-Tourism
Committee developed:
175
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL – COMMUNITY
Promoting Multi-Tier Cropping at Madhya Pradesh
HDFC Bank Parivartan, in
Jeevan Singh Dhurve from Mrs. Henkunwar Bai
partnership with Arpan Seva
Ameerganj village shared, from Manpura village
Sansthan, is transforming agriculture
"With the support of HDFC stated, "I shifted from
in 20 villages of Sehore, Madhya
Bank CSR, in collaboration traditional farming to
Pradesh, through vertical farming—
with Arpan Seva Sansthan, Multi-Tier Cropping with
an innovative approach that
I adopted multi-tier cropping support from HDFC Bank
maximises crop yield on small land
on one acre of land. This Parivartan and Arpan Seva
parcels and enables sustainable,
innovative approach allowed Sansthan. I planted 100
year-round income for farmers.
me to harvest multiple crops Taiwan Pink Guava trees
The initiative provided farmers with and earn K2,51,150 in a and various vegetables on
training in integrated and organic single season. This initiative one acre. In three years,
farming, crop rotation, soil health has not only improved I earned K1,05,600 from
management, and market-oriented my income but also guavas and K8,11,290
practices. A diverse range of fruit strengthened my confidence from vegetables, making
trees and vegetables—such as in sustainable farming a net profit of K9,16,890.
Taiwan Pink Guava, Drumstick, practices." Seeing this success, 54
Papaya, Lemon, Mango, Apple, more farmers adopted the
Malabar Neem, and various gourds technique, transforming
and tubers—were selected based The initiative has had a significant our community’s farming
on climate suitability, market impact on farmer incomes, livelihood practices."
potential, and nutritional value. stability, and local employment,
Organic fertilisers and natural pest though it faced challenges such as
control methods were promoted to initial hesitation, climate variability,
enhance sustainability. market fluctuations, and limited
credit access. Adoption of Taiwan 65,400 plant
Taiwan Pink Guava emerged as Pink Guava and the multi-tier saplings
the most successful crop due to cropping system has enhanced land
its high yield and market demand. productivity and resilience. Looking Facilitated by 436
Farmers were linked to the Budhni ahead, efforts will focus on expanding Multi-tier Cropping
Guava Processing Plant and local guava orchards, forming farmer Systems
markets, enabling direct sales, value cooperatives, and strengthening post-
addition, and better price realisation. harvest infrastructure furthering HDFC
The establishment of processing Bank Parivartan’s mission to reshape
units and storage facilities helped rural farming and uplift agricultural
reduce post-harvest losses and communities across India.
increase profitability, while improved
dietary diversity from fresh produce
reduced dependency on market-
purchased food and boosted
health outcomes.
176
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Case
Study
Empowering Single and In Kondagaon and Raigarh districts challenges, including gender
Differently Abled Women of Chhattisgarh, women—especially inequities and low agricultural
those who are single, differently productivity. To address these, the
in Kondagaon and
abled, widowed, or divorced—face Bank partnered with PRADAN on
Raigarh
deep-rooted socio-economic a project to double the income of
15,000 rural women by improving
farming methods and promoting
sustainable practices, especially
supporting vulnerable groups.
Through improved farming
techniques, resource management,
and infrastructure support, the
project significantly increased
crop yields and livelihood security.
Women leaders played a key
role in driving water conservation
and promoting equitable usage.
Participatory community planning
further empowered women by
enhancing their role in local
decision-making.
Key Interventions Raigarh: 7,500 women benefited from treatment, and improved
by Region: interventions such as vegetable shed agricultural techniques.
Kondagaon: 4,000 women net installation, pump sets with flexible This inclusive and community-
pipes, NADEP composting units,
participated. Activities included driven model has not only
trellises, tool banks, backyard poultry
farm pond construction, pump improved incomes and food
sheds, drip and sprinkler irrigation
set installation, trellis setup, tool security but also demonstrated
systems, land levelling, and modern
bank creation, drip and sprinkler the potential for replication in other
farming methods.
irrigation systems, land levelling, regions. By placing women at the
and adoption of improved Lailunga: 3,500 women participated center of agricultural development,
agricultural practices. in initiatives like sprinkler systems, the project advances both
pump sets, farm pond construction, gender equity and sustainable
land levelling, drainage line rural transformation.
177
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL – COMMUNITY
Case
Study
Harvest of Hope: Lal (HRDP) introduced sustainable farming pursuing vocational training and
Bahadur’s New Future methods, trellis farming, and modern nursing studies.
equipment to his village.
Lal Bahadur, a 60-year-old farmer For Bahadur, the change is not
"My income tripled, and yields
from Jamapur (Uttar Pradesh), just financial—it’s emotional. "I no
doubled," says Bahadur.
struggled with poor yields and longer work all day; I earn a good
low income for years. "Farming The formation of a Kisan Club helped income, and my family is happy."
was difficult with deteriorating soil farmers pool resources, access low-
This initiative has treated over 3,800
condition," he says. interest loans, and share knowledge.
acres and helped 750 villages,
Thanks to HRDP, Bahadur married
In 2022, HDFC Bank’s Holistic empowering farmers, improving
off his sons, and his daughter is now
Rural Development Programme yields, and promoting sustainability.
Our Goals Our Targets
Waste Implement solid waste management systems
Management in 1000 villages and establish material recovery
facilities in 15 Urban Local Bodies
Access to clean Provide clean drinking water access to
drinking water 1000 villages
Health & Hygiene Our projects under Healthcare and Hygiene
HDFC Bank is committed to improving
health and hygiene through a multi-
faceted approach. We support
health camps, mobile medical units,
and critical health infrastructure,
promoting health-seeking behaviour
in communities. We facilitate access
to healthcare services and assistive
devices for persons with disabilities,
promoting their dignity, inclusion and
well-being.
Parivartan on Wheels – Bengaluru, and Wayanad. Each unit
Our interventions include improving Medical Care Units conducts 528 annual health camps,
sanitation, advancing waste offering free primary care, diagnostics,
HDFC Bank CSR, in partnership
management systems, and driving and essential medicines, supported by
with Ramky Foundation, launched
behaviour change around waste a medical team. Quarterly specialist
Parivartan on Wheels—a mobile
disposal, with a focus on plastic waste camps address local health issues,
healthcare initiative serving
management through collection, while the program also promotes
underserved communities in Tamil
recycling, and awareness initiatives. preventive care, maternal and child
Nadu, Karnataka, and Kerala. Over
Additionally, we ensure access to health, and connects beneficiaries
three years, it will reach 1.2 lakh
safe drinking water by installing water to government schemes like
individuals through fully equipped
purification units and community Ayushman Bharat.
Medical Care Units deployed in
water systems.
20 locations each in Chennai,
178
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Case
Jaipur Foot Study
HDFC Bank Parivartan, in
collaboration with Shree Bhagwan Sh. Sachin Gupta’s Now, he earns H15,000–20,000 per
Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Journey: From Struggle month and works confidently in his
Samiti, is enhancing mobility for tent house business. “I am deeply
to Strength
marginalised individuals and Persons thankful to BMVSS and HDFC
with Disabilities (PwD) by providing Sh. Sachin Gupta, 41, from Jaipur, Parivartan for restoring my dignity,”
essential mobility aids. was a businessman running a tent he says. “With this artificial limb, I
house before a road accident in can support my family again and live
The initiative includes the distribution
2006 left him amputated below with purpose.”
of 18,180 artificial limbs and callipers,
the knee. The accident left him
1,413 crutches, 2,590 hand-pedalled
struggling with loss, unable to
tricycles, and 2,056 wheelchairs.
work, and feeling hopeless.
To further extend reach, five special
mobile workshops will be conducted Everything changed when he
over three years, bringing services learned about Shree Bhagwan
directly to those in need. Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata
Samiti (BMVSS), Jaipur. There, he
received a free artificial limb. After
the fitting and gait training, Sh.
Sachin regained his ability to walk
and returned to his business.
Behaviour Change Campaign – community-led approach, the project and socio-political hurdles, ongoing
Waste Warriors ensures long-term sustainability engagement and collaboration have
Between April 2022 and March through local capacity building, user helped establish a replicable rural
2025, a solid waste management fee collection, and recyclable sales. waste management model.
Despite challenges like tough terrain
system was implemented across 10
panchayats in Bir and Dharamshala
to tackle growing waste from
households, tourism, and commercial
activity—posing serious environmental
and health risks.
The project focused on behaviour
change, door-to-door collection, waste
segregation, and the establishment
of Material Recovery Facilities (MRFs)
through partnerships with local
authorities. Community engagement
tools such as art installations,
murals, Chai Pe Charcha sessions,
Swachhta Ki Pathshala, reverse
vending machines, and clean-up
drives, drove awareness and action.
In FY 2024–25 alone, over 200 metric
tonnes of dry waste were diverted
from landfills. Using a decentralised,
179
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL – COMMUNITY
Combating Tuberculosis in To combat tuberculosis (TB) in receive necessary medical attention
Uttarakhand Uttarakhand, we donated 13 portable without traveling long distances.
X-ray machines to the 13 District
Tuberculosis (TB) remains a significant Our project aligns with the National
TB Centres. This intervention aims
public health challenge in India, Tuberculosis Elimination Programme
to enhance early detection and
especially in rural and underserved (NTEP), emphasising the pillars of
diagnosis, benefiting approximately
areas. Early detection and treatment Detect, Treat, Prevent, and Build
39,000 individuals. The portability of
are crucial to control its spread and (DTPB).
the X-ray machines allows healthcare
reduce mortality rates. However,
workers to conduct screenings in
inadequate healthcare infrastructure
various settings, including community
leads to delayed treatment, increased
health camps and mobile clinics,
transmission, and higher rates of drug-
ensuring vulnerable populations
resistant TB.
Natural Resource Goals to be completed under NRM include:
Management
Our Goals Our Targets
In Financial Year 2024-25, we
introduced Natural Resource Bringing unirrigated − Two lakh acres of unirrigated land to be
Management as a new focus under land under irrigation brought under irrigation
Parivartan, to address climate and uncultivated land − One lakh acres of uncultivated land to be
vulnerabilities in rural communities. under cultivation
brought under cultivation
This aligns with global and domestic
efforts to combat climate change and
Reducing our carbon − Support 1,000 villages with clean and
protect vital resources, deepening
footprint renewable energy solutions
our commitment to building
climate resilience. − Plant 25 lakh trees
Rural communities increasingly face
Promoting chemical − One lakh acres to adopt chemical-free
climate related challenges such as
free farming farming practices
water stress, declining soil health,
and unpredictable weather which
impacts income, health, and food
security. We invest in solutions like
water conservation, afforestation,
solar-powered systems, and soil
quality improvement. These efforts are
integrated with our rural development
initiatives, strengthening climate
resilience and empowering farmers,
women, and vulnerable households.
180
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Key Interventions
Ladakh Ice Stupa Project Ice Stupas are artificial glaciers Kargil districts, improving livelihoods
that divert stream water during and quality of life.
HDFC Bank Parivartan partnered
winter, freezing it into cone-shaped
with Himalyan Institute of The Ice Stupa project offers a
structures. As they melt in spring,
Alternatives Ladakh (HIAL) on the lifeline to Ladakh, ensuring a stable
they provide a steady water supply for
Ice Stupa project in Ladakh to water supply, boosting agricultural
agriculture. Automation technology is
address critical water shortages output, and securing livelihoods.
being integrated to regulate water flow,
due to climate change. Glaciers The evolving technology, with
optimise ice formation, and monitor
in the Drass basin, Ladakh, have automation systems, helps regulate
weather patterns, enhancing water
thinned by 1.27 meters from water flow and improve efficiency.
management and scalability.
2000 to 2020, leading to severe This partnership aims to make a
water shortages. Precipitation has With support from HDFC Bank significant impact on the region's
dropped by nearly 50% in some Parivartan, four new Ice Stupas water security and set an example
areas over the last two decades, serving seven villages were built for of sustainable innovation.
and rising temperatures have the winter season 2024-25, with a
accelerated glacial melt as per an storage capacity of over 35 million
IIT Kanpur study, threatening water liters of water. This project can benefit
security and agricultural livelihoods. nearly 200 more villages in Leh and
Solar Interventions in potential of solar energy in diverse − Tamil Nadu: Solar fencing in
South India applications, improving livelihoods and Krishnagiri has reduced crop
sustainability in rural areas. Innovative losses from wild animals.
Under its Natural Resource
Solar Projects include: Solar pumps in the Nilgiris and
Management pillar, HDFC Bank
Coimbatore enable year-round
Parivartan has installed 61,655+ − Karnataka: Solar streetlights in
farming, raising yields by up
solar lights across 22 states. Solar Raichur have made roads safer
to 30%. Terrain-specific solar
panels have been installed in and extended working hours for
irrigation systems in Pillur and
government schools and hospitals small vendors.
Masinagudi support high-value
to ensure uninterrupted power − Andhra Pradesh: In Karraguda, a crop cultivation.
supply. Additionally, we have solar-powered lift irrigation system
− Telangana: In Bheemraopally,
implemented innovative solar supports year-round farming. In
a shared solar irrigation
initiatives to enhance rural life by Peramvandlapalli, a solar-driven bio-
system has tripled income
improving street safety, access to resource centre promotes natural
through crop diversification.
clean water, farming efficiency, food farming. In Maniga, a solar-powered
In Nagaram, solar insect traps
processing, and livelihoods. energy cart aids irrigation and post-
have reduced pesticide use,
harvest processing.
The projects showcase the enhancing productivity and
versatility and transformative health outcomes.
Solar Shiksha The initiative addresses energy government schemes and
challenges in semi-urban communities subsidies. Educational materials
India receives an average of
by promoting awareness and are delivered in multiple regional
seven hours of sunlight for over
adoption of solar solutions such languages for accessibility.
300 days a year, making it the
as solar pumps, panels, cookers,
world's third-largest solar power 90+ awareness workshops have
stoves, streetlights, and water
generator. This abundant resource been conducted in eight states,
heaters. It provides education and
can unlock H30 lakh crore in solar empowering 3,000+ individuals
practical demonstrations to overcome
power generation. across 450+ communities.
barriers and misconceptions about
solar energy, and information on
181
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL – COMMUNITY
Shaping the Future through Outputs Outcomes
NRM Activities
The "SMART" (Sustainable Management of − Construction of water − Improved Water
Agriculture with Resourceful Techniques in harvesting structures Access to households
Tribal Area) project, led by Mahatma Gandhi and farm ponds. established nearby
Seva Ashram (MGSA) in partnership with − Establishment of a − Average daily income
HDFC Bank under the Parivartan initiative, community seed increased by H800– H900
focused on transforming the tribal agricultural bank and Farmer for smallholder farmers
ecosystem in the Ghatigaon block of Gwalior, Field School. who shifted to vegetable
Madhya Pradesh. Targeting 60 villages—15 cultivation and roadside
of which were situated in the historically marketing, reducing
significant Chambal Ghati region—the project migration and enhancing
aimed to uplift marginalised tribal communities family stability.
by promoting sustainable agriculture,
enhancing natural resource management, and
fostering inclusive livelihood development.
To promote self-reliance, we support
entrepreneurship through capacity
building, financial literacy, and
market linkages. Our partners work
with farmers, artisans, and small
entrepreneurs to strengthen value
chains by building technical capacities
and integrating technological solutions,
improving productivity and income.
Sericulture Project
The Sericulture Focus Development
Project aims to revitalise the sericulture
sector by addressing key challenges
faced by farmers—such as poor
cocoon marketing, limited value
addition, lack of advisory support, and
inadequate access to capital assets.
The primary goal is to empower
1,415 farmers and strengthen rural
economies through sustainable
Skill Development and livelihood initiatives. Our partners offer
sericulture practices.
NSQF-aligned vocational courses to
Livelihood Enhancement
enhance employability and connect The project sets out to:
India's economic growth and candidates to job opportunities. We
− Increase farmer incomes
demographic dividend present a also focus on future skills by training
significant opportunity, with over 65% youth in digital technologies and − Establish two community enterprises
of the population in the working age green skills. − Bring 410 acres of unirrigated land
group. Under Parivartan, HDFC Bank under irrigation
empowers individuals through skill and
− Cultivate 100 acres of previously
fallow land
182
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Key Intervention include
Mulberry Cultivation Silk Reeling By strengthening every stage of
the sericulture value chain, the
To address low yields and A dedicated reeling unit employing 15
project enhances livelihoods
improper fertiliser use, the project workers will be established to improve
and contributes to long-term
is introducing improved mulberry cocoon quality, enable value addition,
rural development.
varieties to 100 farmers and and ensure better price realisation.
promoting bio-fertilisers and drip
Expected Outcomes:
irrigation systems.
− Increased cocoon yield from 80–90
Cocoon Production
kg to 90–100 kg per half acre
Support includes the distribution − Input cost reduction of 5–10%
of wooden rearing racks to 150 through efficient fertiliser use
farmers, expansion of Netrikae
− Additional farmer income of
and Chandrikae units for 200 and
approximately H9,000 per cycle
150 farmers respectively, and the
setup of compost pits for 240 − Sustainable employment and
farmers to enhance soil health and monthly profits of H60,000 through
waste management. the reeling unit
Support to Athletes and Para-Athletes
HDFC Bank Parivartan partnered with Olympic Gold Quest to empower Indian athletes and para-athletes, focusing on
shooters and wrestlers. The project aims to enhance performances at national and international levels, providing professional
training, health check-ups, nutrition guidance, and participation in tournaments. Over five years, 839 athletes and 74 para-
athletes have been supported. Project Leap aims to identify and nurture talented young shooters, providing them with
comprehensive support to improve their performance at national and international levels.
− 8 medals won at 65th National Shooting − 4 out of 7 medal winners for India at Tokyo 2020
Olympics were supported by HDFC and OGQ.
Championship 2022 by Project Leap shooters.
− 153 international medals won by Project Leap − 10 out of 19 medal winners at Tokyo 2020
Paralympics were supported by HDFC and OGQ.
shooters since 2016-17, with 40 in 2024-25.
− 12 out of 24 medals at ISSF Junior Shooting
World Championship 2024 were by Project Leap
shooters, including 9 Gold medals.
− 2 shooters from 10X Shooting Academy won − 6 wrestlers from Virender Akhada won medals at
the National level, with 2 parts of the Indian team
medals at ISSF Junior World Championship
at Senior Asian Wrestling Championship 2025,
2024, potential contenders for LA 2028 Olympics.
potential contenders for LA 2028 Olympics.
− 6 shooters from Project Leap are key medal
prospects for LA 2028 Olympics.
− 9 medals won by HDFC and OGQ supported
athletes in World Championship 2019 across
badminton, boxing, wrestling, and archery.
183
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL – COMMUNITY
Case
Support to Women Athletes
Study
The 'Unstoppable: Karke Dikhaungi'
athlete scholarship program, Aishwarya Mishra – From World Athletics Championships.
supported by HDFC Bank and curated Setback to Podium Her transformation was recognised
by GoSports Foundation, addresses with the “Sports Person of the
After missing Olympic qualification
barriers faced by female athletes. It Year” title and Maharashtra’s Shiv
in early 2024 with a time of
supports athletes in archery, athletics, Chhatrapati Award.
53.79 seconds, 400m athlete
badminton, swimming, table tennis,
Aishwarya Mishra faced
and weightlifting, providing coaching,
challenges in confidence and
training, living expenses, competition
clarity. Under the HDFC UKD
costs, equipment, and sports
programme, she received targeted
science support.
support—physical training in
Trivandrum, mental conditioning
and technique refinement
under Olympian Dai Greene at
Loughborough University.
By 2025, Aishwarya clocked a
personal best of 51.12 seconds,
won Gold and Silver at the National
Games, and qualified for the
Case
Since 2022, the program has Study
supported 38 female athletes, who
have collectively won 204 medals, Gyaneshwari Yadav – Gyaneshwari returned stronger—
including 97 gold, 56 silver, and 51 winning Gold at the National
Lifting Beyond Limits
bronze. Among these, 36 medals were Championships, finishing 5th at
earned at international competitions. In June 2024, weightlifter the IWF World Championship, and
Notable achievements include Gyaneshwari Yadav was sidelined lifting a personal best of 191 kg to
Aishwarya Mishra's silver medal at by a serious knee injury, disrupting secure Gold at the 38th National
the 2022 Asian Games and Tanisha her training and casting doubt over Games. Her steady rise positions
Crasto's Olympic debut at Paris 2024. her competitive future. her as a strong contender for the
With support from the Asian Games and the Los Angeles
HDFC UKD programme, she 2028 Olympics.
began rehabilitation at ABTP
Bhubaneswar, followed by
high-performance training.
The focus was on joint stability,
muscle activation, and load
management, complemented
by mental conditioning and
sustained physiotherapy.
184
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Skill Training and Livelihood Outputs Outcomes
Enhancement
The project aimed to enhance livelihoods and − 1,460 youth enrolled − 1,320 youth completed
secure socio-economic empowerment for in two NSQF-alligned training, with 954
marginalised and unemployed youth across trades - General Duty successfully placed (72%
Bilaspur through market-relevant skill training Assistant (460 trainees placement rate)
and job placement. Special focus was given across 23 batches) & − Total annualised income
to female aspirants, youth from forest and Retail Sales Associate generated by placed
hilly areas, those impacted by COVID-19, and (1,000 trainees across candidates (based on
individuals involved in hazardous or informal 50 batches) retention): H6.86 crore
work. As part of the initiative, industry- − 73 training batches
aligned skill training was provided under conducted with
NSDC guidelines to ensure relevance and integrated soft skills,
quality. The project also facilitated placement IT skills, and career
opportunities to help youth establish mentoring support
sustainable career paths.
infrastructure and resource access technology and the internet, especially
in underserved schools is essential in remote areas. Inclusive education
for holistic learning. Equally vital is remains a key focus, addressing
teacher training to equip educators the needs of children with special
with the skills and tools to guide requirements and promoting equality
students effectively. We also prioritise and diversity throughout the system.
digital literacy by ensuring access to
Promoting Education
India’s education system has evolved,
shifting focus from access and equity
to improving learning outcomes
through quality education. While
foundational goals have been met,
schools still need better resources,
teaching materials, and technology to
prepare students for the future. Our Goals Our Targets
Our initiatives complement Creation of To convert 3,500 traditional schools to
government efforts by addressing Smart Schools smart schools
gaps in infrastructure, resources, and
teacher training, aligning with the New Education Crisis To support 25,000 meritorious students with
Education Policy 2020. Scholarship scholarships by 2025-26
Support
Our projects aim to close the
achievement gap through Improving To cover 20 lakh students in grade-appropriate
scholarships, mentorship, and Learning Level learning levels in all intervention schools
learning resources. Strengthening Outcomes by 2025-26
185
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL – COMMUNITY
Case
Study
Jagruti's prioritised her education. She discovered HDFC Bank Parivartan's
Scholarship Story excelled academically with ECSS Program in 2023-24.
their support.
From a young age, Jagriti, from "Securing a scholarship of INR
Roorkee Uttarakhand, witnessed However, Jagriti faced the stark 50,000 was a turning point for
her family's sacrifices for her reality of her family's health me, empowering me to finance
welfare, particularly evident through struggles - her father's respiratory my education independently and
her father's diligent management issues and subsequent heart attack relieved my loved ones of monetary
of a cotton and flour mill business. placed immense strain on her stress." shares Jagriti. Jagriti aims
Despite financial constraints and family. With limited external support, to join the corporate sector as a
health setbacks, her parents she sought opportunities and Computer Applications Specialist.
Improving Learning Outcomes languages. The initiative reached Following the positive outcomes
through EdTech nearly 2 lakh students in Grades of the program, the Government
6–8 across over 2,000 schools, and of Uttar Pradesh announced an
HDFC Bank Parivartan, in
trained more than 5,000 teachers— expansion of the partnership in 2023.
collaboration with Khan Academy
including active engagement with The extended initiative is expected
India, supported a four-year initiative
1,200+ educators from Jawahar to cover up to 65,000 schools and
aimed at improving foundational
Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs) and benefit approximately 5 lakh students
mathematics skills among middle
government schools such as KGBVs, across the state over the next three to
school students through quality
ATS, Basic, and PM SHRI schools in four years.
learning resources in regional
Uttar Pradesh.
186
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Educational Crisis Scholarship the underserved sections of society. risk of dropping out are provided with
Scheme The scholarship program is meant monetary assistance of up to H75,000
for school students from Class 1 to for their studies. The initiative aims
Many students in India are forced to
12 and those pursuing diploma, ITI, to reduce dropout rates and ease
drop out due to unforeseen financial
polytechnic, UG and PG (general and the financial burden of education. In
hardships. To address this, HDFC
professional) program. Under the FY 2024-25, the program provided
Bank Parivartan, in partnership with
ECSS program, the students who are over 7400 scholarships across India.
Buddy4Study India Foundation, has
unable to bear the cost of education
launched a nationwide scholarship
due to personal/family crises or any
programme to support meritorious
other financial problems and are at a
and needy students belonging to
Teach for India Fellowship
HDFC Bank Parivartan supports the Teach for India Fellowship in Kolkata and
Ahmedabad, enabling graduates and professionals to teach in low-income
communities. The two-year programme includes recruitment, full-time teaching,
student vision-setting, teacher training, assessments, and alumni engagement—
fostering leadership and addressing educational inequity.
Foundational Literacy and Numeracy Program
To improve primary education outcomes, HDFC Bank Parivartan partnered
with Central Square Foundation to promote the FLN Mission in Telangana,
Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Assam, and Odisha. The programme targets basic reading
and math skills, benefiting around 70 lakh stakeholders across 150,000+
government schools. Key outcomes include reduced dropout rates, improved
attendance, enhanced teacher training, and better learning experiences.
187
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL – COMMUNITY
Financial Literacy and manage money effectively, and
Inclusion build financial confidence. Despite
the growing availability of financial
According to SEBI’s Garg report, only
services, many lack the awareness to
27% of Indians are financially literate—
use them efficiently. Financial literacy
significantly lower than in advanced
programs help bridge this gap through
economies and among the top five
targeted education.
emerging markets. To address this
gap, we aim to implement financial Financial inclusion complements these
literacy initiatives that equip individuals efforts by ensuring access to essential
with the knowledge and tools to make services such as banking, credit,
informed financial decisions and and insurance, encouraging broader
promote long-term financial well-being. participation in the formal financial
system and empowering individuals to
Financial literacy and inclusion are
take control of their financial futures.
critical for enabling individuals to
understand financial products,
Parivartan Financial Literacy Vigil Aunty Money Made Easy
Camps
Vigil Aunty is a public awareness Money Made Easy is a program
Between August and September campaign focused on educating designed for the working-age
2024, HDFC Bank held financial people about cyber fraud. It population, offering practical
literacy camps featuring interactive helps individuals recognise and knowledge on budgeting, saving,
sessions, product demos, and avoid scams, addressing the and navigating financial challenges
simulations. The initiative aimed to growing threat of cybercrime in the across different life stages. It equips
raise financial awareness, improve digital age. individuals with the tools they need
money management, and promote to plan and manage their finances
inclusion. Facilitated by 40 HDFC more effectively.
Bank employees, it saw strong
As part of this initiative, Financially
community engagement. Future
Ever After is an interactive quiz that
plans include expanding to more
helps couples assess their financial
states, customising content, and
compatibility and build a stronger
integrating microfinance and small
financial future together.
business training.
188
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
Small Grants Program 62 community-led projects across 20
FY 24-25 A Year of Local states, addressing diverse, localised
Action, Lasting Impact challenges—from enhancing digital
learning and healthcare access in
At HDFC Bank, we recognise that
remote regions to water conservation
meaningful change often stems from
and inclusive infrastructure for
quiet, sustained efforts that respond
persons with disabilities. Anchored
to real needs on the ground. Our
by Bharat Cares, these initiatives
Small Grants Program reflects this
remain aligned with our commitment
philosophy by supporting grassroots
to inclusive, need-based and human
organisations working at the forefront
centric development.
of India’s development landscape. In
FY 2024–25, the program enabled
Education Healthcare Livelihood and Skilling
984,000 children and youth 306,000 individuals benefitted via 125,000 youth and women
benefitted from bridge learning, mobile clinics, cancer treatment equipped with vocational
school enhancements, and support, and maternal care in training and pathways to
digital tools. underserved communities. income generation.
Environmental Sustainability Accessibility, Inclusion,
Gender Rights, and Sports
94,000 people benefitted with
advancing solar access, water Project reached a combined 59,000
At its core, the true impact of
conservation, and eco-literacy. individuals, helping build a more
the Small Grants Program lies in
equitable social fabric.
everyday transformations—renewed
access to education, livelihoods, and
essential services. Going forward, it
remains our commitment to enabling
grassroots changemakers through
trust, flexibility, and community-
led progress.
189
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SOCIAL – COMMUNITY
Parivartan Start-up Grants HDFC Bank’s Parivartan initiative Goals (SDGs). By actively engaging
continues to drive positive change employees and collaborating with
Under the flagship, Parivartan Start-
across India by empowering trusted partners, Parivartan is not just
up Grants, HDFC Bank launched its
communities, promoting inclusive transforming lives but also building a
eighth edition, supporting sustainable
growth, and fostering sustainable future where every individual has the
development aligned with the UN
development. Through a broad opportunity to thrive. As we move
SDGs. The program focuses on AI
range of impactful interventions, the towards our 2025-26 goals, HDFC
for social good, climate innovation,
Bank addresses key issues such Bank remains committed to creating a
financial inclusion, and agricultural
as poverty, education, healthcare, lasting, meaningful impact on society,
sustainability, with targeted support
gender equality, and environmental ensuring that no one is left behind in
in areas like assistive tech, circular
sustainability, aligning its efforts with the journey toward a more equitable
economy, green life sciences, and
global Sustainable Development and prosperous India.
electric mobility. Key partnerships
with DPIIT-Start-up India and India AI
are advancing AI-driven solutions in
banking, agriculture, SME financing, Supported 20 incubators and
and credit assessment. Notable
initiatives include TDCA grants with 87 startups in the Financial
IIT Madras and Swanari Techsprint for
Year 2024-25
women-focused fintech.
190
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
A Decade of Strengthening operated by veterans and their In parallel, our collaboration with
Partnerships, Deepening families. These centres provide India AI, under the Ministry of
pension-related support, Government- Electronics and Information
Impact
to-Citizen (G2C) services, and Technology (MeitY), advances national
As HDFC Bank Parivartan marks Business-to-Consumer (B2C) services innovation goals. By supporting AI-
its 10th anniversary, we reflect on within defence establishments, led solutions in digital infrastructure,
the transformative journey shaped ensuring continued dignity and agriculture, SME financing, and credit
by robust partnerships and shared assistance for our nation’s heroes. assessment, we aim to contribute
purpose. Over the past decade, our to India’s emergence as a global
Project HAKK (Hawai Anubhavi
collaboration with more than 150 AI hub while fostering inclusive
Kalyan Kendra)
implementing agencies, government technological progress.
bodies, and diverse stakeholders Extending our commitment to the
has enabled us to drive systemic defence community, Project HAKK
change and deliver long-lasting impact (Hawai Anubhavi Kalyan Kendra),
across communities. launched with the Indian Air Force and
CSC Academy, focuses on easing
Project NAMAN
administrative and financial processes
Among our initiatives is Project for Air Force veterans. Planned across
NAMAN, launched in partnership 25 Air Force units in major cities, these
with the Indian Army and CSC centres facilitate access to banking,
e-Governance. Renewed in pension services, and essential
FY 2024–25, the initiative now documentation. Further, targeted
spans 26 Directorate of Indian Army skilling and financial literacy training
Veterans (DIAV) locations, offering aim to empower veterans and their
comprehensive service delivery families to navigate their post-service
through Common Service Centres lives with greater confidence.
191
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
NATION BUILDING
Partnering in the
Nation’s Progress
In the Financial Year Mobilising Taxes and bringing convenience to customers
and augmenting collections for
2024-25, HDFC Bank Deposits for Government
the Government. HDFC Bank also
strengthened its of India
continued its robust growth in
collaboration with multiple HDFC Bank continues to be among collections of railway freight services.
tiers of Government— the top agency banks for collection In FY25, freight collections witnessed
of Government taxes. To enable this, more than 300 per cent growth
integrating systems,
the Bank has integrated with various over FY24.
enhancing features and
central Government systems including
The Bank completed integration with
expanding its solution TIN 2.0 (Direct Tax), GSTN, ICEGATE
Rajasthan eGRAS during FY25 to
suite. The Bank also (Custom Duties), FOIS and many state
enable collection of taxes in the state.
tax portals.
championed start-up
Its leading position in the collection
growth and financial The Bank continues to drive growth in
of taxes and support towards
collection of taxes where it witnessed
inclusion, reinforcing its mobilisation of deposits from citizens,
approximately 24 per cent growth
role as a trusted partner demonstrated its expanding customer
as compared to FY24 and helped
base, wide distribution network and
in driving innovation collect over H12.3 lakh crore in FY25.
strong commitment to leveraging its
and accelerating India’s It also introduced additional modes
strengths to contribute to the overall
of collections such as cards and UPI
nation-building journey. development of the nation.
for paying GST and Customs Duty
Digitalising Local
Administration
HDFC Bank continued to strengthen
its collaboration with urban and
rural bodies, playing a key role in
accelerating revenue realisation by
collecting taxes and fees digitally. This
has helped provide convenience to
citizens and increased efficiency in
fiscal management.
The Bank has facilitated the
digitalisation of collections from leased
and rented government properties
and the auction-based sale of assets.
Notably, institutions like the State Waqf
Boards, Development Authorities and
Housing Boards have benefited from
streamlined revenue collections.
In addition, the Bank has enabled
192
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
local bodies for online collection This has helped customers through government organisations in effectively
of construction and development- faster revenue realisation and efficient monitoring their financial operations
related fees and charges. This is fund management. across locations.
complemented by a governance
Disbursing HDFC Bank is also a key player in
platform that enables effective
the implementation of District Mineral
monitoring of these activities Government Funds
Foundation mandates by disbursing
transparently. Government entities
HDFC Bank continues to be one of funds directly to the beneficiaries
have benefited from such platforms
the leading banks to mobilise funds affected by mining related operations.
by driving revenue growth through
under the public welfare schemes.
enhanced collections. Reinforcing its commitment, the Partnering with Institutions
Bank has enhanced its systems and
Supporting Infrastructure The Bank is a preferred partner to
processes to adapt to the evolving
a significant number of societies,
Development
public expenditure guidelines. It
associations, NGOs, trusts, clubs,
The Bank partnered with the helped disburse over H90,000 crore educational and religious institutions.
Government in digitalising activities by processing approximately 10 crore In addition, it has been at the forefront
pertaining to infrastructure transactions, representing a volume of enabling the digital transformation
development like financial activities growth of 12 per cent over of such entities by providing a
associated with land acquisition and FY 2023-24. comprehensive suite of customised
project execution. Further, to enhance The Bank’s FARSight Dashboard, banking services and solutions thus
customer experience it has introduced offers a comprehensive and facilitating seamless management
a digital platform for submission and consolidated view across multiple of fees, donations and operational
validation of bank guarantees which is accounts in the parent child construct. transactions. Today, HDFC Bank
integrated with National e-Governance By offering in-depth analytics, the partners with over 2.7 lakh institutions
Services Limited (NeSL). platform has empowered various across the country supporting their
Across states, HDFC Bank has government entities to analyse end-to-end financial requirements.
partnered with government expenditure patterns better and make Leveraging its integrated ’CollectNow’
organisations, industrial development informed decisions. This has helped platform, the Bank has enabled
authorities and airport authorities to payments and collections for large
advance infrastructure projects. These numbers of customers that include
collaborations include digitalising development authorities, housing
the compensation process for land societies, clubs amongst others.
acquisition thereby contributing to ‘CollectNow’ is a one-stop solution
faster project execution and improved and is a first of its kind in the industry
beneficiary support. The Bank is offering users convenient and efficient
also working with port authorities to digital banking options. The Bank
provide solutions. These solutions has processed over H1,00,000 crore
are offered through a digital platform as collections in the Financial Year
which enables online rent collection 2024-25 for these users. It has helped
from various entities for utilising port the Government monetise over 20,000
infrastructure while handling freight.
193
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
NATION BUILDING
assets worth more than H60,000 crore The Garv Pension Saving Account related digital services. HDFC Bank
owned by 21 government entities. from HDFC Bank is designed with also facilitates skill development
a focus on the well-being of the through training sessions / awareness
CollectNow as part of its value-added
pensioner. In addition to offering a programme for defence pensioners
services offer is also integrated
secure avenue to park retirement thus empowering them in their post-
with a few of the third-party service
funds, the product is bundled with retirement journey.
providers to deliver digital solutions
a host of benefits including health,
to institutions offering education and Similarly, HDFC Bank has partnered
travel and cyber insurance.This leads
healthcare services which constitute with the Indian Air Force under its
to all-round security and peace of
the social infrastructure of the country. initiative, Project HAKK to extend the
mind. HDFC Bank provides dedicated
Along with seamless and efficient fee same set of services to veterans.
services to pensioners across its
collections through these solutions,
branch network. The pension services Building New Economy
educational institutions can align with
for defence pensioners are further
the NEP 2020, AICTE and NAAC Businesses
strengthened by the Bank’s integration
certification standards. Similarly, Leveraging Government
with SPARSH, a portal by Ministry
healthcare institutions can align with Partnerships to Fuel
of Defence. The Pension offering is
NABH certification and accreditation Entrepreneurship
suitably complemented by the Senior
standards and deliver on various
Citizens Savings Scheme deposit, HDFC Bank remains committed to
government initiatives like Ayushman
a government-sponsored financial fostering innovation by supporting
Bharat (AB-PMJAY)amongst others.
instrument to promote savings among India’s growing Start-Ups ecosystem
Serving our Nation Builders, pensioners and senior citizens which by offering tailored banking solutions,
the Bank started collecting from access to loans through Credit
our Pensioners
January 2025. Guarantee Scheme for Start-Ups
HDFC Bank provides tailor made (CGSS) and integrated digital
HDFC Bank has signed an MoU with
financial products and services to platforms designed to meet the needs
the Indian Army under its flagship
assist pensioners. This includes of Start-Ups.
initiative, Project NAMAN, with a
specialised pension accounts,
focus on serving veterans. Through HDFC Tech Innovators 2024 was
investment options and retirement
this partnership, the Bank helps Army the first HDFC BANK Group level
planning services aimed at maximising
veterans to easily access government- initiative to promote innovations and
the value of their pension funds.
Top 10 winners of HDFC Tech Innovators 2024 with Mrs. Renu Karnad, Non-Executive Director; Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director;
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director; Mr. Parag Rao, Country Head – Payments, Liability Products, Consumer Finance & Marketing and
Mr. Vipul Roongta, MD & CEO, HDFC Capital
194
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
opportunities for Start-Ups across Leveraging HDFC Bank’s Serving the Underserved
segments including PropTech, Parivartan Initiative for HDFC Bank launched ‘GIGA’, a
FinTech, Sustainability Tech,
Start-Ups comprehensive suite of financial
Consumer Tech and New Age Tech.
products and services to meet the
This augmented engagement with In its eighth edition, HDFC Bank
manifold needs of various freelancer
the Start–Ups ecosystem to create Parivartan Grants were provided to
segments and gig workers. It’s a
mutual opportunities to do business, 20 incubators and 87 Start-Ups. In
digital-first offering with customised
share platforms, provide financing and addition, the Bank engaged with three
products like savings and current
investments, facilitate co-learning and nodal government partners with the
accounts which comes with a
co-creation of products / services. objective of contributing to specific
business debit and credit card with
The Bank announced 10 winners thematic areas namely -
curated offers, affordable health
from over 2,000 applicants who were Reserve Bank Innovation Hub: insurance, flexible investment products
selected by a grand jury comprising
and retail asset products.
Identifying/developing a product/
the HDFC Bank Group leadership,
process/policy to make banking
venture capitalists, senior industry Enabling Cross-Border
inclusive for women
executives and unicorn founders. Payments
Startup India:
The Bank has strengthened its Dedicated to facilitating smooth
engagements with government nodal Strategic partnership to support cross-border transactions for
agencies and key incubators. It has manufacturing Start-Ups Indian merchants, freelancers,
signed an MoU with the Department MEITY India AI Mission: MSMEs and exporters, HDFC
for Promotion of Industry and Internal Bank has collaborated with fintech
Strategic partnership towards
Trade (DPIIT), Government of India, partners under RBI regulations. This
nurturing AI solutions for large scale
the Start-up promotion councils/ partnership provides authorised dealer
socio-economic impact
incubators of various states and services, ensuring secure and hassle-
premier educational and technological free cross-border trade settlements.
institutes across the country.
195
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Responsible Business
CONNECTING THE CAPITALS
A Holistic Approach to
Value Creation
Finance
Value creation at the Bank is guided by the
Manufactured In FY 2025, we expanded our distribution
network by adding over 700 branches and understanding that capitals are interdependent.
200+ ATMs/CRMs, with 51% located in
semi-urban and rural areas. Branch banking Strategic outcomes—whether growth, resilience or
at HDFC Bank is evolving into a multi-format
model, designed for micro-market needs, inclusion—require thoughtful trade-offs and synergies
positioning branches as engagement centres
across financial, human, intellectual, manufactured,
to strengthen customer relationships and drive
feedback-led service enhancements and long-
social and natural capital. By embedding integrated
term deposit mobilisation.
thinking across our operations, we aim to strengthen
Intellectual In FY 2025, the Bank accelerated its digital Flagship platforms such as PayZapp 2.0 and
transformation journey, expanding digital Pixel Credit Card saw strong adoption. The long-term outcomes for all stakeholders.
coverage across 89% of common retail service bank also commenced the phased launch
interactions—up from 73% the previous year. of its new Mobile Banking and Net Banking
Anchored in the ‘Shift Right’ strategy, the Bank platforms during the year. The platforms offer
modernised its core systems and reinforced holistic, new-age banking experiences along
integration and resilience, laying the foundation with enhanced performance and advanced
for responsible GenAI deployment at scale. security which has garnered positive responses
from customers.
Human Strategic investments in capability-building We maintain a safe, healthy workplace through We continued to scale digital-first learning
and culture continue to drive productivity and updated safety policies, deployment of and HR systems to build workforce
performance. In FY 2025, employees logged protective technologies and regular awareness capability and enhance agility. The
over 1.25 crore learning hours—an 88% rise sessions. Alongside physical and environmental MPower platform, supported by 22
over the previous year. Institutionalised talent safety, we have a wellness framework which training centres and the GenAI Academy,
and succession frameworks ensure talent has four pillars i.e. physical, emotional, social enabled personalised, modular learning at
readiness, while tech-enabled HR systems and financial. This holistic approach ensures scale. AI tools streamlined hiring, service
enhanced efficiency and employee experience. our people feel secure and supported. delivery and employee engagement—
automating responses, improving
HR efficiency and capturing real-time
employee insights.
Social and The Bank remains committed to long-term The Bank’s physical infrastructure enables We continued to enhance customer Employee engagement remained integral
Relationship value creation for its stakeholders. Under access to essential services in underserved engagement through AI-powered service to Parivartan initiatives. Our employees
Parivartan, we continue to drive inclusive regions. Rural branches, partner platforms platforms, managing 3.7 crore+ monthly participated in structured volunteering across
growth through focused community and mobile interventions such as ‘Parivartan interactions across IVR, WhatsApp and financial literacy camps, SHG exhibitions and
interventions. In FY 2025, we spent H1,068.03 on Wheels’ support CSR intitatives of the digital channels, improving accessibility, inclusion-focused events. Collaborations with
crore on CSR initiatives across priority themes, Bank, while several branches also serve as efficiency and experience consistency. In NGO partners enabled office-led and field-
geographies and strategic partnerships. touchpoints for financial literacy and community parallel, digital tools scaled our community based programmes, while digital sessions on
engagement initiatives. initiatives, enabling remote water sustainability, corporate values and financial
monitoring and expanding skilling access. education supported wider participation.
Natural As operations expand, we continue to invest Sustainability is built into our infrastructure via The Bank continues to leverage digital The Bank continues to embed environmental Under Parivartan, the Bank’s community-led climate
in climate-aligned infrastructure to meet our energy-efficient systems, green materials, and systems and data analytics to monitor consciousness across employee initiatives are designed to respond to local environmental
Scope 1 and 2 carbon neutrality target by standardised eco-features. As of March 2025, energy usage patterns, supporting engagement and learning initiatives. In challenges while supporting resilient livelihoods. In
FY 2031–32. we commissioned 25 rooftop solar plants and emission reduction and operational FY 2025, over 5,000 volunteering hours were FY 2025, these efforts included planting over 17.63 lakh
shifted 19 premises to 100% green power. Our efficiency. Additionally, digital products recorded for initiatives promoting inclusion, trees (80 lakh trees planted since inception), enabling clean
Bangalore data centre is IGBC-certified as a and services, combined with automation, well-being, and community development. energy access through 61,000+ solar lights across 22
Green Data Centre. have further contributed to lowering states and strengthening water security through context-
paper consumption and minimising specific solutions such as artificial glaciers in Ladakh and
environmental impact. flood-resilient community infrastructure.
Finance Manufactured Intellectual Human Social and Relationship Natural
196 197
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Responsible Business
10 YEAR FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Creating
New Milestones
H Crore
2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2024-25
Interest income 60,221.45 69,305.96 80,241.35 98,972.05 1,14,812.65 1,20,858.23 1,27,753.12 1,61,585.54 2,58,340.58 3,00,517.04
Interest expense 32,629.93 36,166.74 40,146.49 50,728.83 58,626.40 55,978.66 55,743.53 74,743.32 1,49,808.10 1,77,846.95
Net interest income 27,591.52 33,139.22 40,094.86 48,243.22 56,186.25 64,879.57 72,009.59 86,842.22 1,08,532.48 1,22,670.09
Other income 10,751.72 12,296.49 15,220.31 17,625.87 23,260.82 25,204.89 29,509.90 31,214.83 49,241.00 45,632.28
Net revenues 38,343.24 45,435.71 55,315.17 65,869.09 79,447.07 90,084.46 1,01,519.49 1,18,057.05 1,57,773.48 1,68,302.37
Operating costs 16,979.69 19,703.32 22,690.36 26,119.37 30,697.53 32,722.63 37,442.19 47,652.08 63,386.02 68,174.88
Operating result 21,363.55 25,732.39 32,624.81 39,749.72 48,749.54 57,361.83 64,077.30 70,404.97 94,387.46 1,00,127.49
Provisions and contingencies 2,725.61 3,593.30 5,927.49 7,550.08 12,142.39 15,702.85 15,061.83 11,919.66 23,492.15 11,649.43
Loan loss provisions 2,133.63 3,145.30 4,910.43 6,394.11 9,083.32 11,450.19 10,119.38 11,783.25 10,764.66 12,803.11
Others 591.98 448.00 1,017.06 1,155.97 3,059.07 4,252.66 4,942.45 136.41 12,727.49 (1,153.68)
Profit before tax 18,637.94 22,139.09 26,697.32 32,199.64 36,607.15 41,658.98 49,015.47 58,485.31 70,895.31 88,478.06
Provision for taxation 6,341.71 7,589.43 9,210.57 11,121.50 10,349.84 10,542.46 12,054.12 14,376.60 10,083.03 21,130.70
Profit after tax 12,296.23 14,549.66 17,486.75 21,078.14 26,257.31 31,116.52 36,961.35 44,108.71 60,812.28 67,347.36
Funds :
Deposits 5,46,424.19 6,43,639.66 7,88,770.64 9,23,140.93 11,47,502.29 13,35,060.22 15,59,217.44 18,83,394.65 23,79,786.28 27,14,714.90
Subordinated debt 15,090.45 13,182.00 21,107.00 18,232.00 18,232.00 17,127.00 21,795.25 33,956.00 34,133.12 34,362.69
Stockholders’ equity 72,677.77 89,462.38 1,06,295.03 1,49,206.32 1,70,986.03 2,03,720.83 2,40,092.94 2,80,199.01 4,40,245.81 5,01,424.64
Working funds 7,40,796.07 8,63,840.19 10,63,934.32 12,44,540.69 15,30,511.26 17,46,870.52 20,68,535.05 24,66,081.47 36,17,623.09 39,10,198.94
Loans 4,64,593.96 5,54,568.20 6,58,333.09 8,19,401.22 9,93,702.88 11,32,836.63 13,68,820.93 16,00,585.90 24,84,861.52 26,19,608.62
Investments 1,95,836.29 2,14,463.34 2,42,200.24 2,93,116.07 3,91,826.66 4,43,728.29 4,55,535.69 5,17,001.43 7,02,414.96 8,36,359.67
Key Ratios :
Earnings per share (H)1 24.42 28.59 33.88 39.33 48.01 56.58 66.80 79.25 85.83 88.29
Return on equity 17.97% 18.04% 18.22% 16.30% 16.76% 16.60% 16.90% 17.39% 16.1% 14.56%
Tier 1 capital ratio 13.22% 12.79% 13.25% 15.78% 17.23% 17.56% 17.87% 17.13% 16.79% 17.69%
Total capital ratio 15.53% 14.55% 14.82% 17.11% 18.52% 18.79% 18.90% 19.26% 18.80% 19.55%
Dividend per share (H)1 4.75 5.50 6.50 7.50 Nil3 6.504 15.50 19.00 19.50 22.005
Dividend payout ratio 23.51% 23.32% 23.26% 23.36% NA3 11.54%4 23.28% 24.07% 24.38% 25.00%5
Book value per share as at March 31 (H)1 143.74 174.56 204.80 273.94 311.83 369.54 432.95 502.17 579.51 655.27
Market price per share as at March 31 (H)2 535.58 721.28 964.50 1,159.45 861.90 1,493.65 1,470.35 1,609.55 1,447.90 1,828.20
Price to earnings ratio 21.93 25.23 28.47 29.48 17.95 26.40 22.01 20.31 16.87 20.71
H1 Crore = H10 Million
The Profit and Loss Account for the year ended March 31, 2025 include the operations of eHDFC Limited which amalgamated with and into HDFC
Bank on July 01, 2023 and hence are not comparable with the Profit and Loss Account for the year ended March 31, 2024.
1 Figures for the years prior to 2019-2020 have been adjusted to reflect the effect of split of equity shares from nominal value of H 2 each into two
equity shares of nominal value of H1 each
2 Source : NSE (prices for years prior to 2019-2020 have been divided by two to reflect the sub-division of shares)
3 Basis RBI notifications dated April 17, 2020 and December 4, 2020
4 Basis RBI notification dated April 22, 2021
5 Proposed
198 199
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
AWARDS & ACCOLADES
Recognised for Excellence
The Asian Banker Global
Excellence in Retail Finance Euromoney Private Banking PWM & The Banker Global
Awards 2025 Awards 2025 Private Banking Awards 2024
Best Retail Bank in India India's Best for HNW Best Private Bank in India
2nd ICC Emerging Asia Banking Dun & Bradstreet BFSI &
The Economic Times Infra
Conclave and Awards 2024 FinTech Summit 2025
Leadership Awards 2024
Best Performance on Growth India's Leading Private Bank
Infra Financer of the Year
(Private Sector - Large Bank) (Large)
Doing Good for Bharat
Golden Peacock National CSR Journal Excellence
Awards 2024
Training Award 2025 Awards 2024
Winner in ‘Doing Good Through
Winner in ‘Financial Sector - Best Project Award in the
Business for Women and
Banking’ Category Education and Skill training
Inclusion’ category
Listings
Kantar BrandZ 2025
Most Valuable Global Brands
Only Indian Bank in the
Top 100 Most Valuable
Brands Globally
200
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
ASSURANCE STATEMENT
201
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ASSURANCE STATEMENT
202
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
203
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
GRI INDEX
GRI Standard Disclosure Description Page Number(s) URL(s)/ Section
General Disclosures
GRI 2: General 2-1 Organizational details 529 Business Responsibility and
Disclosures Sustainability Report
2-2 Entities included in the organization's 529 Business Responsibility and
sustainability reporting Sustainability Report
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point 04; 529 About the Report; Business
Responsibility and Sustainability Report
2-4 Restatements of information 04 About the Report
2-5 External assurance 04 About the Report
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business 48 Re-Imagining Value Creation
relationships
2-7 Employees 154-156 Social-People
2-8 Workers who are not employees 154 Social-People
2-9 Governance structure and composition 280-282 Report on Corporate Governance
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest 283 Report on Corporate Governance
governance body
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 18 Board of Directors
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in 113; 282 ESG Strategy Encompassing
overseeing the management of impacts Sustainable Finance; Report on
Corporate Governance
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts 96 Risk Management
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in 113; 282 ESG Strategy Encompassing
sustainability reporting Sustainable Finance; Report on
Corporate Governance
2-15 Conflicts of interest 541 Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
2-16 Communication of critical concerns 305-306 Report on Corporate Governance
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance 284 Report on Corporate Governance
body
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest 250-251 Directors’ Report
governance body
2-19 Remuneration policies 388-403 Schedules to Standalone Financial
Statements
2-20 Process to determine remuneration 388-403 Schedules to Standalone Financial
Statements
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 269-270 Annexure 4 to Directors’ Report
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy 528 Statement by the Director Responsible
for the Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
2-23 Policy commitments 305-306 Report on Corporate Governance
2-24 Embedding policy commitments 305-306; 536- Report on Corporate Governance;
538 Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts 56-59; 532-534 Stakeholder Engagement; Business
Responsibility and Sustainability Report
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising 56-59; 136-138 Stakeholder Engagement; Customer
concerns Centricity
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 540; 303-305 Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report; Report on
Corporate Governance
2-28 Membership associations 570 Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement 56-59; 552-555 Stakeholder Engagement; Business
Responsibility and Sustainability Report
2-30 Collective bargaining agreement 157 Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
204
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
GRI Standard Disclosure Description Page Number(s) URL(s)/ Section
Material Topics
GRI 3: Material 3-1 Process to determine material topics 60 Materiality
Topics 2021
3-2 List of material topics 61 Materiality
3-3 Management of material topics 62-73 Materiality
GRI 200: Economic
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 62, 63, 67 Materiality
Topics 2021
Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 40-41; 198-199; Financial Performance; 10 Year
Performance 211, 215-216 Financial Highlights; Directors' Report
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 128-133; 238- Environment; Director’s Report
opportunities due to climate change 239
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 547 Business Responsibility and
retirement plans Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 62, 66, 69 Materiality
Topics 2021
Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender 556 Business Responsibility and
compared to local minimum wage Sustainability Report
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the NA NA
local community
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 66, 71 Materiality
Topics 2021
Indirect Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 168-191 Social - Community
Impacts supported
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 168-191 Social - Community
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 67 Measuring What Matters: Impact and
Topics 2021 Value
Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 571 Business Responsibility and
Practices Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 62, 64 Materiality
Topics 2021
Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 64; 305 Materiality; Report on Corporate
corruption Governance
205-2 Communication and training about anti- 64 Materiality
corruption policies and procedures
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 64; 540-541 Materiality; Business
taken
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 62, 64 Materiality
Topics 2021
Anti-competitive 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti- 570 Business Responsibility and
Behaviour trust, and monopoly practices Sustainability Report
GRI 300: Environment
Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 119 Environment
302-3 Energy intensity 119 Environment
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 119-120 Environment
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products NA NA
and services
205
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
GRI INDEX
GRI Standard Disclosure Description Page Number(s) URL(s)/ Section
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 67, 72 Materiality
Topics 2021
Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 121 Environment
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 122 Environment
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 122 - 123 Environment
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 123 Environment
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 122, 124-126 Environment
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and 562-563 Business Responsibility and
other significant air emissions Sustainability Report
Waste 306-3 Waste generated 127 Environment
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 127 Environment
306-5 Waste directed to disposal 127 Environment
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 67 Materiality
Topics 2021
Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 568-569 Business Responsibility and
Environmental environmental criteria Sustainability Report
Assessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply 568-569 Business Responsibility and
chain and actions taken Sustainability Report
GRI 400: Social
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 70 Materiality
Topics 2021
Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 155-156 Social - People
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 161-162, 546- Social – People; Business
are not provided to temporary or part-time 547 Responsibility and Sustainability Report
employees
401-3 Parental leave 159 Social - People
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 62, 64, 70 Materiality
Topics 2021
Labor/ 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 157 Social - People
Management changes
Relations
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 70 Materiality
Topics 2021
Occupational 403-3 Occupational health services 549-552 Business Responsibility and
Health and Safety Sustainability Report
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and NA NA
communication on occupational health and
safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health NA NA
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health NA NA
and safety impacts directly linked by business
relationships
403-10 Work-related ill health NA NA
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 70 Materiality
Topics 2021
Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 153 Social - People
Education
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 150-153 Social - People
transition assistance programs
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 154; 548-549 Social – People; Business
performance and career development reviews Responsibility and Sustainability Report
206
HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business
GRI Standard Disclosure Description Page Number(s) URL(s)/ Section
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 64,70 Materiality
Topics 2021
Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 19; 159 – 161; Board of Directors; Social -People;
Equal Opportunity 530-531 Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women 556-557 Business Responsibility and
to men Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 64,70 Materiality
Topics 2021
Non- 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 557-559 Business Responsibility and
discrimination taken Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 70 Materiality
Topics 2021
Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights 306; 556 Report on Corporate Governance;
policies or procedures Business Responsibility and
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 62, 64, 70 Materiality
Topics 2021
Human Rights 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human 306,556 Business Responsibility and
Assessment rights reviews or impact assessments Sustainability Report
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or 556 Business Responsibility and
procedures Sustainability Report
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts 558 Business Responsibility and
that include human rights clauses or that Sustainability Report
underwent human rights screening
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 71 Materiality
Topics 2021
Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 170-171 Social - Community
Communities impact assessments, and development
programs
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 67 Materiality
Topics 2021
Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 558 Business Responsibility and
Assessment criteria Sustainability Report
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 558 Business Responsibility and
actions taken Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 68 Materiality
Topics 2021
Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 578 Business Responsibility and
of customer privacy and losses of customer data Sustainability Report
207
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Dear Shareholders, Net Revenue Distribution
Your Directors take great pleasure in presenting the 31st Annual 6.7%
Report on the business and financial operations of HDFC Bank
Limited (“HDFC Bank” or “Bank”), together with the audited 1,80,000
accounts for the year ended March 31, 2025.
1,60,000
The Bank’s key financial parameters continued to be healthy, 1,40,000 -7.33% 45,632
49,241
due to its robust credit evaluation of targeted customers and a 1,20,000
well-diversified loan book across sectors, customer segments
1,00,000
and products. Its performance is an outcome of its disciplined
approach to managing risk and return. 80,000
The Indian economy is expected to remain one of the fastest 60,000 108,532 13.0% 122,670
growing economies in 2025-26. RBI has forecast GDP growth 40,000
of 6.5 per cent. Rural demand is expected to be healthy on
20,000
account of robust agricultural output, lower food inflation and
easing input costs. Urban consumption is also likely to benefit 0
from tax cuts announced in the Budget, reduction in interest FY 2023-24 FY 2024-25
rates by the RBI and moderating inflation.
Net Interest Income Non-Interest Income
in ` crore
Global growth stood at 3.3 per cent in 2024, which was below
the historical average. The growth in countries like the US
Net Profit increased by 10.7 per cent to ` 67,347.4 crore from
remained strong at 2.8 per cent, while the growth contracted
` 60,812.3 crore. Return on Average Net Worth was 14.56
or remained muted in the Eurozone, Japan and UK.
per cent while Basic Earnings Per Share was ` 88.29 up from
` 85.83.
For more details, please refer to the Macroeconomic and
Industry section on page no. 214.
Net Profit
In this changing environment, your Bank continued to
prioritise growth while strengthening its focus on governance, 80,000 10.7% 67,347.4
70,000
sustainability and inclusive development. 60,812.3
60,000
50,000
Financial Parameters 40,000
30,000
The results for the year ended March 31, 2025 include the 20,000
10,000
operations of Housing Development Finance Corporation
0
Limited (“HDFC Limited”) and its subsidiaries (which became
FY 2023-24 FY 2024-25
subsidiaries of the Bank on amalgamation) effective from July in ` crore
01, 2023 and hence are not comparable with results for the
Total Advances grew by 5.4 per cent and Total Deposits grew
year ended March 31, 2024.
by 14.1 per cent year-on-year. Net Interest Margin (NIM) was
Based on Standalone Financial Statements at 3.48 per cent.
The income statement reflected a growth in revenue comprising
Net Interest Income and Non-Interest Income. While the former
grew by 13.0 per cent, the latter fell by 7.33 per cent year-
on-year. On an overall basis, Total Net Revenue for the year
ended March 31, 2025, reached ` 1,68,302.4 crore, reflecting
an increase of 6.7 per cent over the previous year.
208
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Growth in Advances and Deposits Gross Non-Performing Assets (GNPAs) stood at 1.33 per
cent as against 1.24 per cent. This is amongst the lowest in
the industry.
28,00,000
5.4%
26,19,609 14.1% 27,14,715
24,84,862
24,00,000 23,79,786 Gross Non-Performing Assets (GNPAs)
20,00,000
1.33
16,00,000 per cent
Amongst the lowest in the industry
12,00,000
8,00,000
4,00,000
-
Advances Deposits
in ` crore FY 2023-24 FY 2024-25
In a Snapshot (Standalone)
Return on
Average Assets:
1.91 per cent
Total Deposits: Total Advances:
H 27,14,714.9 crore H 26,19,608.6 crore
(YoY: Up 14.1 per cent) (YoY: Up 5.4 per cent)
Net Revenue: Net Profit: Capital
Adequacy Ratio:
H 1,68,302.4 crore H 67,347.4 crore
19.6 per cent (Tier
(YoY: Up 6.7 per cent) (YoY: Up 10.7 per cent)
1: 17.7 per cent)
Net Gross NPA:
Interest Margin: 1.33 per cent of
3.48 per cent Gross Advances
Net Profit
per Employee: Earnings Per
H 31,82,481.7
Share:H 88.3
209
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Merger
CSR Beneficiaries
Two years into the merger, the integration of HDFC Limited’s Over 10.56 crore
home loan expertise with HDFC Bank’s scale and reach has
Lives impacted cumulatively
solidified our position as a leading financial institution. Our
enhanced capacity to support large-scale and infrastructure (including both immediate and
financing underscores our continued commitment to nation- extended beneficiaries)
building and job creation. As our role expands, so does our
emphasis on strong governance across the HDFC Bank For further details on Parivartan please refer to
Group. We remain steadfast in upholding ethical practices, pages 168 to 191.
transparency, and strong risk management—ensuring we
retain the trust that defines our legacy. Summary
Parivartan
Indian GDP grew at 6.5 per cent in 2024-25. It had registered a
healthy average growth of 8.8 per cent over the previous three
Parivartan, HDFC Bank’s CSR initiative, is dedicated to
years. This was due to moderation in urban demand as inflation
supporting the inclusion of economically and socially
and elevated interest rates weighed on discretionary spending.
disadvantaged groups by fostering growth, development and
empowerment. With a commitment to creating sustainable
According to RBI, India is expected to grow at 6.5 per cent in
ecosystems, it identifies and supports programmes that
2025-26. Consumption demand in the rural areas is expected
nurture and uplift communities.
to be supported on account of healthy agricultural output,
Parivartan concentrates on six key areas: lower food inflation and moderating input costs. Urban
consumption demand will be supported by tax cuts, reduction
1. Rural Development in interest rates by RBI and moderating inflation. The RBI has
reduced its policy rate by 100 basis points since February
2. Promotion of Education
2025, bringing it to 5.50 per cent. This along with liquidity
3. Skill Development & Livelihood Enhancement infusion is likely to help reduce borrowing costs and spur credit
demand in the economy.
4. Healthcare & Hygiene
5. Financial Literacy & Inclusion In the year under review, the Bank focused on expanding
customer reach, maintaining balance sheet strength, and
6. Natural Resource Management.
advancing post-merger integration across business lines and
Each of these pillars is designed to foster holistic growth and systems. As the scale and complexity of operations increased,
empower communities, ensuring sustainable and inclusive a formal Group Oversight Framework was introduced
development. Through Parivartan, your Bank has reached out to ensure alignment of governance and risk practices
to underserved communities in the tribal belt, border villages across subsidiaries.
and locations with limited access. The Bank through its Holistic
Rural Development Programme (HRDP), has worked towards The Bank continued to contribute to national development by
creating self-reliant villages. enhancing access to financial services in underserved regions
and supporting rural prosperity through both commercial
Your Directors are pleased to announce that the Bank and social initiatives. We remain committed to responsible
successfully fulfilled its CSR obligation for the Financial Year corporate citizenship by contributing to the development of
2024-25. society and promoting sustainability.
These efforts are made possible by the resilience and
CSR Spend
dedication of over 2,14,000 employees whose contribution
` 1,068.03 crore remains integral to the Bank’s progress. We continue to focus
on attracting and retaining top talent, striving to be one of the
In the Financial Year 2024-25 industry’s premier employers.
210
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Mission and Strategic Focus The Bank is focusing on:
• Delivering a better experience and greater
Your Bank’s mission is to be a ‘World-Class Indian Bank’. Its
convenience to customers
business philosophy is based on five core values:
• Increasing market share in India’s growing banking
• Customer Focus
and financial services industry
• Operational Excellence
• Expanding geographical reach
• Product Leadership
• Cross-selling the broad financial product portfolio
• People
• Sustaining strong asset quality through disciplined
• Sustainability credit risk management
• Maintaining low cost of funds
Sustainability should be viewed in unison with Environmental,
Social and Governance performance. As a part of this your
Your Bank remains committed to the highest levels of ethical
Bank, through its CSR initiative Parivartan, seeks to bring
standards, professional integrity, corporate governance and
about change in the lives of communities mainly in rural India.
regulatory compliance. Every employee affirms to abide by the
Code of Conduct annually.
During the year under review, HDFC Bank continued building
a sound customer franchise across distinct businesses to
achieve healthy growth in profitability consistent with its
risk appetite.
Summary of Financial Performance
(` crore)
For the year ended For the year ended /
Particulars / As on As on
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Deposits and Borrowings 3,262,645.8 3,041,939.4
Advances 2,619,608.6 2,484,861.5
Total Income 346,149.3 307,581.6
Profit Before Depreciation and Tax 91,857.5 73,705.4
Profit After Tax 67,347.4 60,812.3
Profit Brought Forward 139,579.9 112,960.0
Additions on Amalgamation (net) - 3,570.1
Total Profit Available for Appropriation 206,927.3 177,342.4
Appropriations
Transfer to Statutory Reserve 16,836.8 15,203.1
Transfer to General Reserve 6,734.7 6,081.2
Transfer to Capital Reserve 507.0 4,166.4
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve - 529.4
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve - 378.0
Transfer to Special Reserve 3,200.0 3,000.0
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year 14,826.2 8,404.4
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet 164,822.4 139,579.9
211
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Dividend In general, your Bank’s dividend policy, among other things,
balances the objectives of rewarding shareholders and
The Board of Directors of the Bank, at its meeting held on April retaining capital to fund future growth. It has a consistent track
19, 2025, has recommended a dividend of ` 22.00 (Rupees record of dividend distribution, with the Dividend Payout Ratio
Twenty-two only) per equity share of ` 1/- (Rupee One only), ranging between 20 per cent and 25 per cent, which the Board
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025. This translates endeavours to maintain. The dividend policy of your Bank is
to a Dividend Payout Ratio of 25.00 per cent of the profits for available on the Bank’s website.
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025.
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/?path=/Footer/About%20Us/
Corporate%20Governance/Codes%20and%20Policie/pdf/Dividend-Distribution-Policy.pdf
Ratings
Instrument Rating Rating Agency Comments
Fixed Deposit CARE AAA (FD) CARE Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
Programme regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
IND AAA India Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
Fixed Deposit CRISIL AAA CRISIL Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
Programme regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
(Transferred from Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
HDFC Limited)* ICRA AAA ICRA Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
Certificate of Deposits CARE A1+ CARE Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have very strong degree of safety
Programme regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
IND A1+ India Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have very strong degree of safety
regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
Infrastructure Bonds CARE AAA CARE Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
CRISIL AAA CRISIL Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
IND AAA India Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
ICRA AAA ICRA Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Additional Tier I CARE AA+ CARE Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have high degree of safety regarding
Bonds timely servicing of financial obligations.
(Under Basel III) Such securities carry very low credit risk.
CRISIL AA+ CRISIL Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
IND AA+ India Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have high degree of safety regarding
timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry very low credit risk.
212
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Instrument Rating Rating Agency Comments
Tier II Bonds CARE AAA CARE Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
(Under Basel III) regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
CRISIL AAA CRISIL Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
IND AAA India Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
ICRA AAA ICRA Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Commercial Paper CRISIL A1+ CRISIL Securities with this rating are considered to have very strong degree of safety
(Transferred from regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
HDFC Limited)* Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Bank Loans CARE AAA CARE Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
(Transferred from regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
HDFC Limited)* Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
ICRA AAA ICRA Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Unsecured NCD CRISIL AAA CRISIL Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
(Transferred from regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
HDFC Limited)* Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
ICRA AAA ICRA Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Subordinated Debt CRISIL AAA CRISIL Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
(Transferred from regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
HDFC Limited)* Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
ICRA AAA ICRA Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
* The instruments / bank facilities have been transferred from Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (HDFC Limited) on account
of amalgamation of HDFC Limited into HDFC Bank Limited with effect from July 01, 2023.
Issuance of Equity Shares and Employee Stock regulatory minimum requirement of 11.7 per cent, including a
Option Scheme (ESOP) Capital Conservation Buffer of 2.5 per cent and an additional
requirement of 0.2 per cent on account of the Bank being
As on March 31, 2025, the issued, subscribed and paid-up
identified as a Domestic Systemically Important Bank. Tier I
capital of your Bank stood at ` 7,65,22,21,674.00 /- comprising
Capital was at 17.7 per cent as of March 31, 2025.
7,65,22,21,674 equity shares of ` 1/- each. Further, 5,53,11,012
equity shares of face value of ` 1/- each were issued by your
Bank pursuant to the exercise of Employee Stock Options Total CAR
(ESOPs) and Restricted Stock Units (RSUs).
19.6 per cent
For information pertaining to ESOPs, please refer Annexure 1
Well Above Regulatory Minimum
of the Directors’ Report.
Requirement of 11.7 per cent
Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)
As on March 31, 2025, your Bank’s total CAR, calculated as
per Basel III Regulations, stood at 19.6 per cent, well above the
213
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Management Discussion and Analysis conditions, private capex is expected to also see some
recovery. At the same time accommodative monetary policy,
Macroeconomic and Industry Developments
lower inflation and healthy balance sheets of financial institutions
India’s GDP growth moderated to 6.5 per cent in 2024-25, and corporates are likely to support private investments.
after registering a healthy average growth of 8.8 per cent over
the preceding three years. This was driven by a moderation in Inflationary pressures started to ease towards the end of
urban demand as inflation and elevated interest rates weighed Financial Year 2024-25, with headline Consumer Price Index
on discretionary spending, growth in fixed investments (CPI) averaging at 4.6 per cent from 5.4 per cent in Financial
remained muted and government spending was off to a slow Year 2023-24. Though inflation increased to a high of 6.2 per
start due to union and state elections in the first half of 2024- cent in October 2024, it has continuously moderated since
25. Further, Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) flows remained then, reaching 3.3 per cent in March 2025. The moderation
weak as rising global uncertainty related to US tariff threats in headline inflation was led by moderating food price inflation
led to outflow of capital in second half of Financial Year 2024- in H2-2024-25. Core inflation (which excludes the volatile
25. On the other hand, domestic growth was supported by food and fuel prices) continued to remain below 4 per cent
an improvement in rural demand conditions on the back of for most part of the fiscal year. Going forward, we expect
healthy agriculture output. In addition, exports also added headline inflation to moderate further to 3.7 per cent in 2025-
positively to growth increasing by 6.3 per cent. Export growth 26, with a continued easing in food inflation, assuming a
was led by strong momentum in net services exports, driven normal monsoon. The risk to inflation stems from weather-
by the continued expansion of global capability centers and related disruptions reigniting food inflation.
strong demand from large trading partners like the US.
Tariff threats and related disruptions in global trade flows pose
From the supply side, manufacturing growth slowed in 2024- the biggest risks to global and India’s growth prospects. The
25 with a rise in input costs and slower volume growth while US had imposed reciprocal tariffs across all countries with
service sector growth broadly held up above 7 per cent. India attracting a tariff of 26 per cent in early April, 2025. Higher
Elsewhere, growth in the construction sector remained healthy tariffs were later put on pause for a 90-day period and replaced
at 9.4 per cent. The biggest support to growth came from with a blanket tariff of 10 per cent on all countries except
above trend growth in the agriculture sector, as favourable China which attracts a 30 per cent tariff for now. The final tariff
monsoon conditions supported kharif output while healthy imposed will depend on country specific trade agreements
reservoir levels and soil moisture conditions supported including between India and the US. The diversification and
rabi crops. derisking of supply chains could open an opportunity for India
to expand its exports to the US in sectors like electronics
On the external front, global growth stood at 3.3 per cent in and textiles amongst others. Moreover, India could benefit
2024 - below the historical average. While growth in countries from closer trade ties with the US depending on the final
like the US remained strong at 2.8 per cent, growth contracted negotiations under the Bilateral Trade Agreement. That said,
or remained muted in the Eurozone, Japan, and UK. the risk of a sharp global growth slowdown, recession in the
US and supply chain disruptions due to US tariffs and any
Looking ahead, India is widely expected to remain one of the retaliation by other countries poses a risk for India’s overall
fastest growing economies in Financial Year 2025-26, with the exports in Financial Year 2025-26.
RBI forecasting GDP growth at 6.5 per cent. Consumption
demand in the rural areas is expected to be supported by Geopolitical tensions in the Middle East, Russia and Ukraine
healthy agricultural output, lower food inflation and moderating or closer home with neighbours could impact domestic
input costs. Tax cuts, reduction in interest rates by RBI and growth. The geopolitical tensions between India and Pakistan
moderating inflation are likely to support urban consumption have currently subsided but need to be closely monitored.
demand. The RBI has reduced its policy rate by 100 basis Similarly, a further escalation in Ukraine – Russia tensions
points since February 2025 bringing it down to 5.5 per could disrupt global trade and energy flows and negatively
cent. This along with liquidity infusion is likely to help reduce impact the domestic economy. Furthermore, financial market
borrowing costs and spur credit demand in the economy. volatility and climate induced uncertainties continue to pose
risks to growth.
The government is expected to continue supporting growth
through capital spending which is budgeted at `11 lakh crore Domestically, a slower than expected improvement in
for 2025-26. In addition, with an improvement in demand consumption demand due to weather related disruptions,
214
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
inflation spikes and any sharp corrections in the domestic Total Provisions and Contingencies were ` 11,649.4 crore
equity market could also weigh on growth prospects. as compared to ` 23,492.2 crore in the preceding year. The
decrease is mainly on account of floating provision created in
That said, India’s domestic economy remains resilient and the previous year of ` 10,900.0 crore. Your Bank’s provisioning
its financial system sound to navigate global headwinds. policies remain more stringent than regulatory requirements.
Moreover, proactive monetary and fiscal support are likely to
The Coverage Ratio based on specific provisions alone
provide further support to growth in Financial Year 2025-26.
excluding write-offs was 67.9 per cent and including general,
Financial Performance floating and contingent provisions was 172.1 per cent. Your
Bank made General Provisions of ` 198.4 crore during the
The financial performance of your Bank during the year ended year. Gross Non-Performing Assets (GNPAs) were at 1.33
March 31, 2025 remained healthy with Total Net Revenue per cent of Gross Advances, as against 1.24 per cent in the
(Net Interest Income plus Other Income) rising 6.7 per cent previous year. Net NPA ratio stood at 0.43 per cent as against
to ` 1,68,302.4 crore from ` 1,57,773.5 crore in the previous 0.33 per cent in the previous year.
year. Revenue growth was driven by an increase in Net
Profit Before Tax grew by 24.8 per cent to ` 88,478.1 crore.
Interest Income. Net Interest Income grew by 13.0 per cent
to ` 1,22,670.1 crore. Net Interest Margin (NIM) stood 3.48 After providing for Income Tax of ` 21,130.7 crore, Net Profit
increased by 10.7 per cent to ` 67,347.4 crore from ` 60,812.3
per cent.
crore. Return on Average Net Worth was 14.56 per cent while
Basic Earnings Per Share (EPS) was ` 88.29 up from ` 85.83.
TOTAL NET REVENUE
` 1,68,302.4 crore
NET PROFIT
6.7 per cent increase ` 67,347.4 crore
10.7 per cent increase in FY2025
Other Income fell by 7.33 per cent to ` 45,632.3 crore.
Excluding prior year transaction gains of ` 7,341.42 crore
from stake sale in subsidiary HDFC Credila Financial Services As on March 31, 2025, your Bank’s Total Balance Sheet
Ltd, Other Income grew by 8.91 per cent. The largest stood at ` 39,10,199 crore, an increase of 8.1 per cent over
component was Fees and Commissions at ` 31,898.6 crore. ` 36,17,623 crore on March 31, 2024. Total Deposits rose by
Profit on Revaluation and Sale of Investments was ` 1,754.3 14.1 per cent to ` 27,14,715 crore from ` 23,79,786 crore.
crore. Foreign Exchange and Derivatives Revenue was Savings Account Deposits grew by 5.3 per cent to ` 6,30,467
` 4,919.04 crore and recoveries from written-off accounts crore while Current Account Deposits rose by 1.3 per cent to
were ` 3,785.0 crore. ` 3,14,094 crore. Time Deposits stood at ` 17,70,155 crore,
representing an increase of 20.3 per cent. CASA Deposits
Operating (Non-Interest) Expenses rose to ` 68,174.9 crore accounted for 34.8 per cent of Total Deposits. Advances stood
from ` 63,386.0 crore. During the year, your Bank set up at ` 26,19,609 crore representing an increase of 5.4 per cent.
719 new branches and 201 ATMs / Cash Recycler Machines The Domestic Loan Portfolio at ` 25,73,450 crore grew by 5.2
(CRMs). The addition in expenses includes HDFC Limited per cent over March 31, 2024.
operating cost post-merger. This, along with higher spend
on IT resulted in higher infrastructure and staffing expenses. The Bank’s Debt Equity Ratio for the year ended March 31,
Staff expenses also went up due to employee additions and 2025 stood at 0.74 as compared to 1.21 in the previous year.
annual wage revisions. Further, Deposit Insurance and Credit
Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) premium cost increased due
to deposit growth. Despite higher Staff and Infrastructure
Expenses, the Cost to Income Ratio was 40.5 per cent as
compared to 40.2 per cent during the previous year.
215
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
HDFC Limited’s Borrowing Maturity Schedule The payments business is one of the stated strategic
pillars for the Bank.
Of the HDFC Limited’s borrowings of ` 2,87,923 crore as at
March 31, 2025, approximately 15 per cent is due for repayment With over 7.5 crore cards issued (credit, debit and pre-
in each of the two years up to FY27 and the balance 70 per paid) and a widely distributed acceptance network
cent is due thereafter. across the online and offline merchant ecosystem, HDFC
Bank continues to maintain a leadership position across
Business Review
multiple product offerings in the payments landscape.
Your Bank’s operations are split into Domestic and International.
In the Financial Year 2024-25, HDFC Bank scaled up
with a slew of new products launched across UPI, TATA,
A. Domestic Business comprises the following:
Swiggy in the Payments Business.
Retail Banking
The year ended March 31, 2025 saw 62 lakh new
Your Bank’s Retail Assets are built on three key credit cards being issued covering retail and business
principles: Strong Digital Offering, Optimal Risk Pricing segments. Of total cards in force in market, HDFC Bank
and Maintaining Pristine Portfolio Quality. Adherence to crossed 2.38 crore cards in force which is the highest
these principles combined with the strength of merger amongst all issuers. To provide better service to all card
boosted your Bank’s Retail Advances to ` 13,75,769 holders, the recently launched Mycards, emerged as a
crore witnessing a growth of about 9 per cent year-on- robust and comprehensive card servicing platform and
year. currently has 3.45 crore registered customers availing
several card related services.
Brief on segment performance:
Further, the Bank launched PayZapp 2.0 a comprehensive
The Bank’s increased focus on top corporates and mobile payment commerce app in March 2023. PayZapp
good credit score customers contributed to the overall not only supports a complete range of payments from
pristine portfolio quality. Personal Loans segment has credit cards, debit cards, wallet and UPI with customers
experienced strong growth with the overall portfolio getting the choice of form factor to make payments
touching ` 1,99,334 crore towards the end of the year. at merchant stores using Scan or Tap or at Online
Nearly all applications (99.6 per cent) of this segment are merchants with a Swipe action. The app has reached
originated digitally and 87 per cent of these applications the milestone of 1.6 crore registrations in FY 2025 and
are disbursed digitally. over 50 lakh (on an average) active users per month.
The Xpress car loans, offering seamless end-to-end To enhance and strengthen offerings to merchants,
digital disbursement, has increased the digital origination SmartHub Vyapar- an integrated payment, banking
to 36 per cent of the total New Car Loan business. and business solution that caters to the daily needs of
merchants and helps them drive business growth was
Two-Wheeler advances are close to ` 12,359 crore with formally launched in October 2022. The platform has
nearly 100 per cent digital acquisition. witnessed widespread adoption ever since and has
onboarded close to 19.3 lakh users across the country
Your Bank has exhibited significant year-on-year growth as on March 31, 2025.
of 28 per cent in Gold Loans capitalising on an expanded
branch network. SmartHub Payment Gateway, a unified payment platform
for online merchants was launched in February 2024 in
Post the merger, your Bank, has emerged as an line with the Bank’s endeavour to provide merchants a
institution with one of the largest mortgage loan portfolios comprehensive platform to cater to their payments and
in the country. The retail mortgage advances stood at banking needs and help drive their growth. This platform
` 8,35,656 crore compared to the previous year’s enables merchants to collect payments through 150
` 7,74,406 crore representing a growth of 8 per cent year plus methods and assists them in maximising sales
on year. with best-in-class success rate. SmartHub Payment
Gateway provides an insightful dashboard powered by
216
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
smart analytics and empowers merchants to provide a for auto loans and extends full-service capabilities even
frictionless check out experience for their customers. to new-to-bank customers.
The platform has onboarded over 1,600 Merchants
Other digitally enabled loan products—such as personal
with projected March exit volume of approximately
loans, gold loans and business loans—saw increased
1,000 crore.
adoption, supported by features like:
Lastly, in tune with the evolving payments landscape
• Pre-qualified offer journeys
the business continues to transform itself with significant
investments across Cloud Computing, Analytics, • Bank statement analytics
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Open APIs
• Automated underwriting
and Cyber Security. The objective is to manage large
scale and continuously grow volumes while processing • Real-time KYC and biometric authentication
transactions in a safe and secure manner.
Digital journeys were also introduced for Group
Key digital initiatives in the Retail segment in Health and Group Term insurance, embedded within
FY 2024-25: account and loan offerings for existing-to-bank (ETB)
customers—reflecting a growing focus on integrated
In the Financial Year 2024-25, the Bank continued to protection products.
expand and deepen its digital footprint across the retail
segment, with a strong emphasis on simplifying customer Expanded Digital Journeys Across Liabilities
journeys, scaling digital fulfilment, and embedding and Cards
services across channels and platforms.
In deposits and liabilities, the Bank launched new
journeys for:
Driven by the Bank’s broader Shift Right strategy, the
focus this year was on developing end-to-end journeys • Assisted and unassisted savings account onboarding
that minimise friction, reduce paperwork and enhance
• Minor-to-major conversions and salary
speed-to-fulfilment—while ensuring security, regulatory
family accounts
alignment and accessibility.
• Fixed deposits with external funding
Digital Origination and Fulfilment at Scale
• Standalone card and asset customer servicing
Retail customer acquisition through digital channels
reached new milestones during the year. 86 per cent Digital issuance and activation journeys for credit cards,
of all new retail products—including savings accounts, including DSA-assisted and corporate card variants,
loans, credit cards and deposits—were sourced digitally, were expanded during the year. These journeys were
up from 82 per cent in the previous year. The bank now integrated with real-time bureau checks and document
enables 97 per cent of all financial transactions through validations, reducing manual touchpoints and enabling
digital channels, highlighting the shift towards a self- faster disbursals.
service ecosystem. Additionally, 79 per cent of servicing
requests were fulfilled digitally, compared to 73 per Enhanced Customer Service and Post-Sale
cent in FY 2024. The Bank’s self-service and assisted Fulfilment
journeys now support onboarding across a diverse
Customer servicing continued to see strong digital
customer base, from digitally native users to first-time
adoption. The Bank now offers 89 per cent digital
users in semi-urban and rural markets.
coverage across common retail service interactions—up
from 73 per cent in FY 2024.
The Bank’s Xpress Car Loan (XCL) platform continued
to scale as India’s largest end-to-end digital auto loan Key services journeys rolled out during the year included:
journey. The platform processed over 1.3 lakh units,
disbursing ` 13,110 crore digitally in FY 2025. This zero- • Address update (cards and assets)
paper, zero-touch model is now the preferred channel • Re-KYC for standalone asset customers
• SmartHub and WhatsApp-based service ticketing
217
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Over 55 per cent of support interactions were resolved technology to connect with customers, build relationships
through self-service channels, powered by intelligent and promote banking products and services. This helps
routing, contextual nudges and fallback to live assistance the Bank to expand the managed customer base,
where required. generate leads and drive revenue growth.
Embedded Retail Journeys and Ecosystem Recognising employees and customers as the
Integration capitals for this business, your Bank has invested
heavily in training and development of its relationship
Retail journeys were also extended beyond the Bank’s managers. Training covers product knowledge, sales
direct platforms through embedded finance partnerships techniques, communication skills, compliance and
with e-commerce, fintech and mobility platforms. regulatory requirements and customer relationship
Strategic tie-ups with platforms like Tata Neu, Swiggy management skills.
and PhonePe enabled real-time, near 100 per cent
digital fulfilment of savings accounts, personal loans and As we transition into the digital age, a banking experience
credit cards. characterised by digital ease and personalised
conversations remains at the core of our Virtual
Behind the scenes, these embedded journeys were Relationship Management (VRM) strategy.
powered by the Bank’s growing library of secure,
reusable APIs and an orchestration framework that As a part of this strategy, relationship managers reach
enabled straight-through processing (STP), verification, out to customers through remote and digital platforms
and activation at the point of need. resulting in deeper and cost-effective engagement. As
digital literacy and exposure increases exponentially,
Inclusive and Assisted Digital Journeys
VRMs are gaining wider acceptance through deeper
engagement and relationships backed by a strong
The Bank continued to prioritise accessibility through
product offering thereby constituting an important
assisted digital journeys, especially in semi-urban and
component of the Bank’s customer engagement strategy.
rural markets. These journeys leverage field agents,
business correspondents and biometric-ready apps to With proper training, technology support, and adherence
support onboarding and fulfilment. to compliance, this channel is a highly effective tool for
the Bank to drive revenue growth, expand its customer
Key features included:
base and provide excellent customer service.
• Aadhaar and biometric-based KYC
Retail Banking – Mortgage Business
• Geo-tagged documentation
Post the merger, HDFC Bank, has emerged as an
• Offline-ready functionality for low-connectivity areas
institution with one of the largest mortgage loan portfolios
in the country. This brings together HDFC Limited’s
Products such as gold loans, microcredit, and deposits
segment expertise of over four and a half decades and
were offered through assisted apps, ensuring financial
in person customer connect with HDFC Bank’s extensive
inclusion while maintaining the speed and simplicity of
branch network and an ability to leverage technology
digital fulfilment.
platforms. The home loan business has opened a
Our Distribution Channel: fresh pathway for future growth for the Bank due to a
large customer base. This increases its ability to serve
The virtual channels of the Bank were set up to enhance customers better due to a longer tenure engagement and
coverage across customer segments and to ensure a enhances its ability to tap into opportunities for cross-
holistic service experience to all customers. This is one sell. The retail mortgage advances stood at ` 8,35,656
of the key engagement channels in the Bank. crore compared to ` 7,74,406 crore in FY 2024.
Cross-sell remains a primary focus for both existing and
Virtual Relationship Banking is an integrated customer
new customers. The Bank leverages its digital channels
centric approach covering three pillars - Virtual
to minimise acquisition costs. Post the merger, over 95
Relationship, Virtual Sales and Virtual Care serving as
per cent of the newly acquired home loan customers
a crucial component of the Bank’s sales and customer
hold a liability account with the Bank. The home loan
engagement strategy. This approach harnesses
218
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
customers also enjoy the benefit of a strong suite of and processes. To meet customer demands, additional
financial products and solutions that the Bank offers, like manpower has been deployed across non-life insurers.
credit cards, consumer durable loans, wealth products As on March 31, 2025, premium mobilisation in General
and insurance. This culminates in strengthening customer and Health Insurance reached a total of ` 4,381.6 crore
relationships and enables HDFC Bank to emerge as the representing a growth of 4 per cent over the previous year.
primary banker for these customers.
Premium Earned
Third Party Products
5,000
Your Bank distributes Life, General and Health Insurance 4,500 4% 4,381.6
4,208.4
4,000
as well as Mutual Funds (Third Party Products) to its
3,500
customers. In the Financial Year 2024-25, the income
3,000
from this business accounted for 24.7 per cent of the 2,500
Bank’s Total Fee Income. 2,000
1,500
1,000
Life Insurance
500
0
Your Bank has adopted an open architecture model
in ` crore FY 2023-24 FY 2024-25
for distributing insurance products from three trusted
partners with a focus on offering customers a diverse Mutual Funds
array of options. For the year ended March 31, 2025, the
Bank mobilised premium of ` 10,331 crore representing Your Bank follows an open architecture approach in
a year-on-year growth of 16 per cent. HDFC Bank’s distribution of Mutual Funds and is currently associated
extensive distribution network includes branches, virtual with 37 Asset Management Companies (AMCs).
channels, NRI services and wealth management. The
The Bank’s Assets Under Management (AUM) grew by
key focus would continue to be on staff training, robust
14 per cent to reach ` 1,56,321 crore for the year ended
quality and control processes uniformly implemented
March 31, 2025. The Bank offers digital on-boarding
across all partners as well as offering integrated and
platform to customers for Mutual Fund investments
seamless digital on-boarding journeys. Currently, the
through Investment Services Account (ISA) and
Bank’s NetBanking platform offers 66 insurance products
SmartWealth (app based).
across all partners accounting for over 49 per cent of the
total policies.
During the same period, HDFC Bank and HSL
(InvestNow) witnessed a significant growth of 40 per cent
Premium Earned
in Systematic Investment Plans (SIPs) mobilisation.
16%
Assets Under Management (AUM)
12,000 10,331
10,000 8,940
8,000 1,80,000 14%
6,000 1,56,321
1,60,000
4,000
1,37,343
2,000
1,40,000
0
in ` crore FY 2023-24 FY 2024-25 1,20,000
1,00,000
Non-Life Insurance
80,000
Your Bank, in collaboration with its four General Insurance
and two Standalone Health and Insurance partners, has 60,000
introduced innovative non-life insurance products to
40,000
expand the range of offerings and provide comprehensive
20,000
coverage to customers. These products are accessible
through both digital and physical platforms. Employees 0
across channels have been trained in the new products in ` crore FY 2023-24 FY 2024-25
219
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Wealth Management offerings in each segment. For Ultra-HNW clients, we
have more than doubled the number of products referred
In the Financial Year 2024-25, our team of over 1000 on our platform. Keeping our Super-Affluent clients in
Sales and Service experts have focused on extending mind, we’ve introduced State-of-the-art Wealthfy reports
Wealth services to clients ranging from Ultra-HNW to that provide detailed portfolio diagnostics and analysis.
Mass Affluent client segments.
We have developed an advanced unassisted digital
HDFC Bank was adjudged as “India’s Best for HNW” investment platform - SmartWealth that enables our clients
in the Euromoney Private Banking Awards 2025. In to track their portfolios and make investments along with
the Global Private Banking Awards 2024 organised by access to goal-based investment recommendations.
Professional Wealth Management (PWM), published by With highly intuitive client experience and gamification of
the Financial Times, HDFC Bank was adjudged the Best client journeys, this mobile first platform aims to provide
Private Bank in India. access of our research to all mass affluent clients. It has
more than six lakh downloads and nearly four lakh clients
Your Bank made continuous and incremental efforts to onboarded on SmartWealth.
generate as well as quantify the alpha delivered in each
client’s portfolio. In 2025, 87 per cent of our clients had HDFC Bank’s wide range of investment offerings
generated a positive alpha with the median client alpha successfully adapt to the changing economic landscape
at 2.6 per cent. Our aim is to incorporate alpha in all client to manage and create wealth for our clients, with “Protect,
reports and portfolio reviews. Manage, Grow.” being our brand identity.
With a sales force of over 850 team members supported Wholesale Banking
by 150+ service staff and over 100 Investment Analysts,
we have the largest Wealth bankers in the country. With The Wholesale Banking business focuses on institutional
an increase in manpower, we’ve put in consistent efforts customers such as the Government, PSUs, Large and
in providing the best education and training to our private Emerging Corporates and SMEs. Your Bank offers a
bankers. By conducting intensive training sessions in range of products and services encompassing working
collaboration with top-ranked business schools such capital and term loans, trade credit, cash management,
as Indian Institute of Management at Ahmedabad and supply chain financing, foreign exchange and investment
Bangalore, we have groomed our in-house talent. banking services.
Service First culture is the central pillar for our business Wholesale Banking business constituted about 42 per
as we focus on service led sales by prioritising client cent of your Bank’s Gross domestic advances as per
delight and relationship banking. Service Quality is an Basel II classification, with a book size of ` 10,82,413 crore.
essential part of RM scorecards and Supervisor KPIs.
Client engagement, portfolio servicing and Net Promoter The Bank has continued making significant inroads into
Score are key business performance assessment the banking consortia of a number of leading corporates.
measures. Our Service First Culture has led to an NPS Corporate Banking, focusing on large, well-rated
score of 87 in the Financial Year 2024-25 which is one of companies continued to be the biggest contributor to
the highest in the industry. Wholesale Banking in terms of asset size.
With this segment specific focus, we have been This business continued its attention towards engaging
consistent in growing our market share and proving to be with Multi-National Corporations (MNCs) and capitalised
one of the largest Wealth Managers in the country. With on the increasing trend among large companies to
the help of over 100 Investor Education Initiatives having consolidate their banking relationships. Your Bank
fund managers as expert guest speakers, your Bank has strengthened its existing relationships and expanded its
been able to reach across the length and breath of the market share by leveraging its extensive array of product
country, covering Tier II and III cities as well. offerings. The Emerging Corporates Group focuses on
the mid- market segment. Your Bank leveraged its vast
Your Bank has endeavoured to become the market geographical reach, technology backbone, automated
leader across all investor segments through curated processes, suite of financial products and quick
220
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
turnaround times to offer a differentiated service. The Your Bank has embarked on strategic digital
business continues to have a diversified portfolio in terms transformation to enhance Customer Engagement and
of both industry and geography. Employee Experience and create an ecosystem for
seamless banking.
In the year under review, the Bank continued its focus
on the MSME sector. There has already been increased It also leverages analytics to delve deeper into corporate
formalistion and digitalisation of the MSME sector owing ecosystems resulting in better product structuring, cross
to the implementation of the Goods and Service Tax sell opportunities, improved yields thus improving the
(GST). Through MyBusiness, which offers comprehensive Bank’s share of Revenue Pools from Corporates.
financial solutions like Business Banking, Easy Loans,
Trade Services and Digital Solutions, MSMEs can HDFC Bank provides a comprehensive suite of cutting-
conveniently access a suite of product / services tailored edge platforms tailored to meet the diverse needs of
to meet the business requirements. corporate clients. Among these, our Corporate E-Net
Banking platform stands out, offering both the reliable
Post the merger of HDFC Limited with HDFC Bank, the e-Net service and the more recently upgraded CBX
Bank inherited the realty finance business. During the platform. These platforms provide intuitive interfaces
year, the bank increased its focus to provide construction and robust functionalities empowering businesses
finance in the residential and commercial space as well with seamless control over their financial operations.
as lease rental discounting to leading developers in the Additionally, our Trade Platform - Trade on Net (TON)
country. The Bank increased its market share in existing serves as a cornerstone for facilitating efficient trade
relationships and added new customers. it plans to transactions. Also, our Supply Chain Finance (SCF)
increase its geographical presence in the coming year to transaction platform enables digital contract bookings
cater to new customers in key growing markets. The Bank and automated disbursements, streamlining end-to-
focuses on providing a gamut of banking services and end SCF transactions for the corporates. Your Bank
customised solutions to its customers in this segment. has integrated with all the three TReDS platforms.
We are also collaborating with Fintechs to integrate
The Investment Banking business further cemented its with Corporate ERP and offer Embedded Banking in
prominent position in the Debt Capital Markets, Equity Corporate Ecosystems journeys.
Capital Markets and INR Loan Syndication. Your Bank is
among the top three in the Bloomberg rankings of Rupee Treasury
Bond Book Runners for the Financial Year 2024-25 with a
The Treasury Department is the custodian of your
market share of 11.61 per cent. Your Bank is amongst the
Bank’s cash / liquid assets and handles its investments
top five in the Bloomberg rankings of Syndicated INR term
in securities, foreign exchange and cash instruments.
loans for Financial Year 2024-25. The Bank has provided
It manages the liquidity and interest rate risks on the
advisory services and actively assisted clients in equity
balance sheet and is also responsible for meeting
fund raising through five Initial Public Offerings (IPOs)
amounting to ` 17,250 crore (including one InvIT IPO) and reserve requirements. The vertical also helps manage
the hedging needs of customers and earns a fee income
one Institutional Placement of units of InvIT amounting to
` 8,400 crore, aggregating to about ` 25,650 crore for generated from transactions customers undertake with
your Bank while managing their foreign exchange and
the Financial Year 2024-25. Additionally, the Bank also
interest rate risks.
assisted in a government. disinvestment through an Offer
for Sale amounting to about ` 3,450 crore.
Revenue accrues from spreads on customer transactions
based on trade and remittance flows and demonstrated
In the Government Business, your Bank sustained its
hedging needs. Your Bank recorded a revenue of
focus on tax collections, collecting direct tax (CBDT) of
` 4,919.04 crore from foreign exchange and derivative
` 6,08,278.22 crore and Indirect tax - CBIC (Custom duty
transactions in the year under review.
+ GST) of over ` 5,15,558.20 crore during Financial Year
2024-25. It continues to enjoy a pre-eminent position As a part of its prudent risk management, your Bank
among the country’s major stock and commodity enters into foreign exchange and derivatives deals with
exchanges in both Cash Management Services and counterparties after it has set up appropriate credit limits
Cash Settlement Services. based on its evaluation of the ability of the counterparty
221
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
to meet its obligations. Where your Bank enters into As on March 31, 2025, the Balance Sheet size of
foreign currency derivatives contracts not involving the International Business was US $ 10.83 billion. Advances
Indian Rupee with its customers, it typically lays them off constituted 1.75 per cent of the Bank’s advances.
in the inter-bank market on a matched basis. For such The Total Income contributed by Overseas Branches
foreign currency derivatives, your Bank primarily carries constituted 1.44 per cent of the Bank’s Total Income for
the counterparty credit risk (where the customer has the year.
crystallised payables or ‘mark-to-market’ losses) and
may carry only residual market risk, if any. Your Bank International Business Balance Sheet
also deals in derivatives on its own account including for
the purpose of its own balance sheet risk management. US $ 10.83 billion
HDFC Bank is also a nominated agent for the
bullion imports and has a significant market share in
that business. C. Partnering with Government, Institutions and
Start–Ups
Your Bank maintains a portfolio of Government securities
in line with the regulatory norms governing the Statutory It has been another year of steady progress for
Liquidity Ratio (SLR). A significant portion of these SLR Government, Institutional Business and Start–Ups
securities are in ‘Held-to-Maturity’ (HTM) category, while within your Bank. Some of the key highlights and new
some are ‘Available for Sale’ (AFS). The Bank is also a initiatives include:
primary dealer for Government Securities. As a part of
this business, your Bank holds fixed income securities 1. Increased focus on the retail Government deposits
as ‘Held for Trading’ (HFT). resulted in your Bank acquiring over 10 per cent of
the market share in 201 districts.
In the year under review, your Bank continued to be a
significant participant in the domestic exchange and
2. Your Bank continues to rank among the top three
interest rate markets. It also capitalised on falling bond
leading Government Agency Banks for collecting
yields to book profits and is now looking at tapping
Central Government taxes. Substantial market
opportunities arising out of the liberalisation in the foreign
shares were acquired in collections of Direct Tax,
exchange and interest rate markets.
GST and Custom Duty as per tax collection data
reported through PIB & CGA, Government of India.
B. International Business
Your Bank has now started sourcing accounts
under the Senior Citizens Savings Scheme on
During the year, your Bank stayed on course to cater
behalf of the Central Government.
to NRI clients and deepen its product and service
proposition. HDFC Bank’s international operations
HDFC Bank’s Market Share:
comprise five branches, located in Hong Kong, Bahrain,
Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC), Singapore
and an IFSC Banking Unit in Gujarat International Finance
Tec-City. Additionally, it has four representative offices
in Kenya, Abu Dhabi, Dubai and London respectively,
catering to Non-Resident Indians and Persons of
Indian Origin.
The Bank’s product strategy in International Markets is
3. Your Bank facilitated the transfer of funds flowing
customer centric and it has products to cater to client
from the Central Government to various beneficiaries
needs across asset classes. GIFT City branch offers
under the aegis of the Centrally Sponsored
products such as trade credits and foreign currency
Schemes, Central Sector Schemes, and the 15th
term loans (including external commercial borrowings).
Finance Commission. The total flows processed
It is gradually widening the product offerings to cater
grew by 11 per cent year on year.
to the needs of Resident and Non-Resident clients and
capitalise on the growth in the financial centre.
222
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
4. Your Bank continues its initiatives on digitalisation 11. Your Bank continues to expand its presence in
of financial operations of government entities. the education sector and has successfully on-
For example, it has enabled online collection of boarded approximately 42 per cent of universities
revenues from wayside amenities for National nationwide. Some of the marquee additions during
Highway Logistics Management Limited. the year include IIM Kozhikode, IIM Visakhapatnam,
AIIMS Jammu, Mahadevappa Rampure (MR)
5. On disbursements, your Bank has helped digitalise Medical College, Shekhawati University and
payments to beneficiaries against land acquisition Central Sanskrit University. Additionally, your Bank
activities undertaken by various authorities for onboarded notable religious organisations, including
development of national infrastructure. Dwarkadhishji Mandir, Thakur Shri Bankey Bihari
Ji Maharaj Vrindavan, Shri Digamber Jain Atishay
6. Your Bank is now integrated with National Teerth Kshetra Chandragiri Dongargarh, Sri Rajapur
e-Governance Services Limited (NeSL) enabling Jagannath Mandir, Catholic diocese of Kottayam,
online access and validation of electronic Bank Shri Bhimakali Temple, Haryana Wakf Board and
Guarantees (eBGs) to serve customers better. the chain of ISKCON temples.
12. Your Bank has received positive customer feedback
7. Y our Bank is now integrated with treasury
for its recent digital products and solutions:
systems across six states to enable beneficiary
account validation, payments, transaction and
a. F arSight Dashboard: Building on the
balance reporting.
existing solution, your Bank has further
enhanced the FARSight Dashboard to provide
8. Your Bank has successfully harnessed the granular
visibility across accounts and offer cashflow
business opportunity at District-level, Block-level
forecasting capabilities for customers to plan
and Gram Panchayat-level. It has introduced a new
their finances.
bundled offering called “Panchayat Kavach” where
complimentary non-life insurance of ` 5 lakh and b. GIGA: Your bank launched GIGA – an industry
several exclusive benefits are provided to secure first banking programme tailored specifically
the Gram Panchayats from various calamities. for gig/platform workers. GIGA addresses an
underserved demographic, by understanding
9. Y our Bank has also driven digitalisation at district the unique challenges faced by them such as
level through solutions that enable expenditure irregular income, lack of financial security and
reporting and associated payments through limited access to traditional banking services.
integration with the Bank’s payment channels.
G IGA Program includes a specialised savings
account with relaxed quarterly balance requirements,
10. Your Bank has intensified its efforts to engage with
debit and credit cards with value added offers,
pensioners implementing the following measures:
affordable health insurance for themselves and their
family, unique flexible investment products which
a. Enhancing pension product for defence
enables them to ‘invest when they can and how
pensioners, with personal accidental death
coverage of ` 50 lakh till the age of 80. much they can’ instead of a traditional systematic
investment plan. Additionally, a range of loans to
meet their borrowing needs are also offered.
b. In the Financial Year 2024-25, we ensured that
99 per cent of pensioners (our customers)
13. Your Bank is committed to enabling smooth
successfully submitted their digital life
cross-border transactions for Indian merchants,
certificates in the Pension Processing System
freelancers, MSMEs and exporters. In line with
of the Bank through a hassle-free experience.
RBI’s regulations on online payment gateway
service providers/ payment aggregators – cross
c. Further, your Bank has extended its pension
border, your Bank is collaborating with fintech
disbursement services to non-HDFC
partners for providing authorised dealer services
Bank accounts thus servicing a wider
to enable secure and hassle free cross–border
pensioner population.
trade settlements.
223
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
14. Start–up Banking: Your Bank provides a a. Reserve Bank Innovation Hub: Identifying/
comprehensive range of banking products specially developing a product/process/policy to make
curated for the start-up ecosystem. In furtherance banking inclusive for women
of its objective to support the banking and financial
needs of start-ups, your Bank signed MoUs with b. S tartup India: Strategic partnership for
prominent start-up ecosystem partners. Most access to startup ecosystem
of them are government nodal agencies and
incubators located at educational institutions. Some c. MeitY India AI Mission: Strategic partnership
of the partners are: towards nurturing AI solutions for large scale
socio-economic impact.
a. Department for Promotion of Industry and
Internal Trade (DPIIT), Government of India d. Semi-Urban and Rural
b. Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship Your Bank has traditionally focused on the Semi-Urban
(SINE), IIT Bombay and Rural (SURU) markets. As rural incomes and
aspirations rise, your Bank’s focus on this market has
c. Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) only increased as it caters to the demand for better
quality financial products and services. The Bank has
d. Startup Odisha been increasing its presence in Semi-Urban and Rural
markets through various groups in the Bank with the
objective of increasing lending.
e. Startup Assam
Apart from meeting its statutory obligations under PSL
f. Hyderabad University
(Agri and Allied activities, Small and Marginal Farmers and
Weaker Sections), your Bank has been offering a wide
g. M anipal University, Jaipur–Technological
range of products on the asset side, such as Auto, Two-
Incubation Centre
Wheeler, Personal, Gold, Light Commercial Vehicle (LCV)
and Small Shopkeeper Loans in these markets. Having
h. Chitkara University
expanded the rural footprint to more than 2.35 lakh
15. H DFC Tech Innovators 2024: Your Bank along villages, HDFC Bank now plans to increase its coverage
in existing villages and deepen the relationships. The
with HDFC Capital Advisors spearheaded HDFC
Semi-Urban and Rural push has been backed by the
Tech Innovators 2024, a joint initiative of HDFC
Bank’s digital strategy. Your Bank’s operations in Semi-
Bank group companies - HDFC AMC, HDFC Ergo,
Urban and Rural locations are explained below:
HDB Financial Services, HDFC Life, and HDFC
Securities to promote innovations and opportunities
Agriculture and Allied Activities
for technology related start-up ventures. Over 2,000
applications were received across five categories -
Your Bank’s assets in Agriculture and Allied activities
Fintech, Proptech, Sustainability Tech, Consumer
(PSL + Non PSL) stood at ` 3,73,863.65 crore as on
Tech and New Age Tech. The top 10 winners
March 31, 2025.
were selected by a grand jury comprising HDFC
Bank Group leadership, venture capitalists, senior The Key to HDFC Bank’s success in the existing market has
industry executives and unicorn founders. been its ability to leverage various opportunities through:
16. Parivartan Start–Up grants: Your Bank 1. A diverse product range
supported 20 incubators associated with reputed
2. Faster turnaround time
academic institutions and 87 start-ups through the
eighth edition of the Parivartan Start-Up Grants.
3. Distribution strength
This year, your Bank partnered with three nodal
government agencies, each contributing to specific 4. Innovative digital solutions
thematic areas:
224
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
HDFC Bank’s extensive product portfolio encompasses crore for 3,529 projects and disbursed ` 1,843 crore for
pre and post-harvest Crop Loans, Farm Development 3,363 projects.
/ Investment Loans, Two-Wheeler Loans, Auto Loans,
• The Project Monitoring Unit, AIF, Ministry of
Tractor Loans, Small Agri Business Loans, Loan Against
Agriculture and Farmer Welfare has set specific
Gold, Loan to landless labourers and more. This
targets through various campaigns. Your Bank
comprehensive offering has enabled the Bank to establish
achieved 106 per cent of assigned target by
a robust presence in rural areas with its asset products.
approving ` 688 crore against target of ` 650 crore
Additionally, it has been a prominent participant in the
in AIF PRAGATI Campaign conducted between
Agri Infrastructure Fund Scheme consistently achieving
January 1 and February 15, 2025.
allocated targets set by the Government.
• In the ARISE Campaign conducted between
HDFC Bank is increasingly involved in facilitating various
June 18 and July 31, 2024, your Bank has secured
Government / Regulatory Schemes to other Non-crop
second position amongst all Scheduled Commercial
Segments, including Agri-allied and Small Agri-Business
Banks (SCBs) by approving 1,421 applications.
Enterprises, as well as Rural MSMEs. A unique business
model encompassing a wide variety of products and
Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Food and
services driven by a relationship management approach
Micro Enterprises (PMFME):
ensures suitable solutions as well as financial literacy
to farmers. The Bank has tailored a range of crop and
Your Bank is actively implementing the scheme and
geography-specific products to align with harvest cycles
passing the benefits to all eligible borrowers in the food
and address the specific needs of farmers across diverse
processing sector.
Agro-climatic zones. This customer-centric approach
has transformed the rural banking services, enabling the In the year under review, loans worth ` 549 crore were
delivery of personalised offerings to meet the evolving sanctioned for 2,929 projects and ` 567 crore has been
needs of rural customers effectively. disbursed for 3,319 projects.
Products such as post-harvest cash credit and Other Agri schemes, where your Bank has significantly
warehouse receipt financing facilitate faster cash flows to contributed include Agri Marketing Infrastructure Fund
farmers, while credit is also extended for Allied Agricultural (AMIF), Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Fund (AHIDF),
Activities such as Dairy, Pisciculture, and Sericulture. Credit Guarantee Fund for Micro Units, National
Moreover, HDFC Bank’s targeted branch expansion in Livestock Mission (NLM) as well as state-specific
SURU regions coupled with digital interventions aims to Government schemes.
create a superior customer experience and position it as
a future-ready institution. To address high volume and low-value ticket loans in
Agri-Business with a digital optimisation strategy, your
Participation in Government Schemes
Bank plans to onboard AgriTech-BCs with differentiated
business models. These BCs will help source and service
As a part of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the Government
small and marginal farmers.
of India has announced several schemes/enablers across
several sectors, particularly in the Agriculture sector. Your Funding Small and Marginal Farmers (SMFs):
Bank is implementing almost all such initiatives / schemes
Your Bank views lending to the agriculture sector,
targeting multiple stakeholders in the Agri ecosystem.
including to small and marginal farmers, as a huge
Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) Scheme: opportunity and not just a regulatory mandate to meet
Through this scheme, the Bank is offering medium to priority sector lending requirements. The Bank has
long-term debt for investment in viable projects pertaining leveraged its extensive knowledge of rural customers
to post-harvest management and infrastructure to create as well as deliver products and services at
development like construction of warehouses/silos. As affordable price points with a quick turnaround time. This
of March 31, 2025, under the AIF scheme, your Bank has has enabled HDFC Bank to establish a strong footprint
sanctioned ` 6,359 crore covering 8,859 projects and in the rural geographies which it has now leveraged to
disbursed ` 4,642 crore covering 7,494 projects. During increase its penetration of liability products.
the year under review, your Bank has sanctioned ` 1,991
225
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
In the Financial Year 2023-24, your Bank serviced Gold Loans:
customers in about 2.25 lakh villages. Through a plethora
Your Bank is making inroads into a market dominated
of interventions, the number of villages grew to over 2.35
by the unorganised sector, moneylenders and pawn
lakh in the Financial Year 2024-25. Your Bank has put in
brokers. The Bank is keen on making the gold loan
place a strategy to further penetrate these villages and
facility available across the length and breadth of the
add more customers through a variety of products for
country. As on March 31, 2025, the Bank is offering gold
farmer financing.
loans through 4,617 branches, with 46 per cent of these
HDFC Bank has financed and supported 35 lakh Small branches in Semi-Urban and Rural location. HDFC Bank
and Marginal Farmers. This was achieved through a ended the year with a Gold Loan Portfolio of ` 18,716
strategy to engage closely with small and marginal farmers crore with growth of 28 per cent over the previous year.
through customised agriculture loans. Leveraging the
Your Bank is implementing its blueprint of making gold
government schemes it has launched various secured/
loans available in most of its branches and thereby taking
unsecured loan products including Loan Against Gold as
this product within the reach of otherwise untapped
security, targeting small and marginal farmers in Agri and
customer segments
Allied segments.
Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs): Social Initiatives in Farm Sector
For agriculture productivity and incomes to grow, The farm sector faces threats arising out of climate
aggregation of farm holdings in the form of FPOs is the change as evident from the growing number of extreme
key strategy to double farmers’ income. Leveraging the weather events. In addition, factors like soil health, input
government scheme for formation and promotion of quality (seeds and fertilisers), water availability and
10,000 new FPOs (Credit guarantee is available from Government policy have significant impact, along with
NABARD / CGTMSE), your Bank has funded eligible price realisations and storage facilities. All this has an
FPOs for working capital and term loan requirements. As impact on farm yield and income.
of March 31, 2025, your Bank was able to reach 249 FPOs
covering about one lakh small and marginal farmers. Given the vulnerabilities, it is critical to strengthen climate
resilience and adaptability of the agri-food sector. In this
Digital Interventions
context, your Bank has launched a variety of initiatives
such as Holistic Rural Development Programme
Some of the digital interventions made by your
(HRDP), Crop Residue Management Project amongst
bank include:
others. Within regulatory guidelines, your Bank has also
Digitalising Milk Procurement: been providing relief to impacted farmers. It also has
put in place systems designed to enable Direct Benefit
This initiative brings transparency in the milk procurement Transfers in a time-bound manner.
and payment process which benefits both farmers and
Lending to the agriculture sector, including to small
dairy societies. Multi-function Terminals (MFTs), popularly
and marginal farmers, is a regulatory mandate as part
known as Milk-to-Money ATMs, are deployed in dairy
of priority sector lending requirements. The Bank has
societies. The MFTs link the milk procurement system of
leveraged its extensive knowledge of rural customers
the dairy society to the farmer’s account to enable faster
to create as well as deliver products and services at
payments. MFTs have cash dispensers that function
affordable price points and with a quick turnaround
as standard ATMs. Payments are credited without the
time. This has enabled it to establish a strong footprint
hassles of cash distribution. Further, this process creates
in the rural geographies which has now been leveraged
a credit history which can then be used for accessing
to increase penetration of liability products. Further,
bank credit. So far, the Bank has digitalised payments
your Bank has been working with a segment-specific
at various milk cooperatives across two states also
approach like funding to horticulture clusters, supply
279 milk cooperatives actively serving and benefitting
chain finance, agri business, MSMEs and dairy farmers. It
more than 1.66 lakh dairy farmers and facilitated 41.72
also continues to engage closely with farmers to mitigate
lakhs transactions. Apart from dairy and cattle loans,
risks and protect portfolio quality.
customers gain access to the Bank’s products including
digital offerings such as 10 Second Personal Loan, Kisan
Credit Card and Bill Pay.
226
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) trade. It enables them to initiate and track requests online
seamlessly, reducing time and costs.
The MSME sector serves as an important engine for
economic growth and is one of the largest employers in Financial Inclusion and Financial Literacy to
the economy. educate and empower the under-banked
As on March 31, 2025, your Bank’s assets in the MSME The philosophy of financial inclusion is about seamless
segment stood at ` 5,24,101.10 crore. delivery of financial services. This includes opening of
savings bank accounts to inculcate the savings habit/
The Micro Enterprises assets alone stood at transactions, extending credit for productive, personal
` 1,54,028.51 crore. and other purposes and offering value added services
such as micro-insurance, pension products among
The Union Government and the Reserve Bank of India
others. The Bank, through its wide network of branches
(RBI) have been providing support for lending to MSME
and business correspondents coupled with enhanced
segment on an ongoing basis. Apart from various
digital offerings such as BHIM UPI as well as Aadhaar and
schemes to support MSMEs during the pandemic, the
RuPay-enabled Micro-ATMs ensures a wide coverage
Government has also launched a revamped CGTMSE
pan-India.
scheme with an increased limit threshold for guarantee
cover and reduction of guarantee fee. Many other HDFC Bank is committed to extending banking services
schemes like Credit Guarantee to Start Ups (CGSS), to deeper geographies in the country to educate,
eNWR guarantee scheme have been rolled out. empower and enable citizens to be a part of the formal
financial system. The bank believes that financial literacy
Your bank emerged as one of the leading contributors to
is an important tool for promoting financial inclusion and
CGTMSE in the Financial Year 2024-25 also, supporting
has adopted an integrated approach, wherein its efforts
the MSME sector with guarantee-covered credit facilities.
towards Financial Inclusion and Financial Literacy go
This has further supported the growth of MSME loans
hand in hand.
which have shown a year-on-year growth of 4.07 per cent.
Through Financial literacy and education, the Bank
The pace of digitalisation among MSMEs has accelerated,
disseminates information on the general banking
which has helped to speed up the pace of disbursement
concepts to diverse target groups, including students,
and increase transparency in the sector. Customers can
women, rural and urban poor, pensioners and senior
now apply online and submit required documents digitally
citizens to enable them to make informed financial
and they can also execute post-sanction agreements
decisions as well as to make people understand the
digitally to avail of facilities quickly with straight-through
benefits of linking with the banking system.
disbursement. The Government’s digitalisation push,
the adoption of GST and reforms in return filings, such Your Bank has been actively committed to offering a
as income tax have made it easier to access customer multitude of Government schemes across diverse
cash flow and financial data, which can be used to geographies. Below are key highlights:
support decision making and portfolio monitoring. Your
Bank’s SME portal continues to offer ad hoc approvals • Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana and Social
and pre-approved Temporary Overdrafts (TODs) on a Security Schemes (PMJJBY, PMSBY and
simplified and faster basis to existing customers. They APY): To enhance financial inclusion coverage.
can request a top-up of loans and submit the required
S upport: Opened more than 50 lakh PMJDY
documents online. The SME portal also allows customers
accounts and enrolled 90.97 lakh customers in
to access your Bank’s services related to sanctioned
Social Security Schemes (PMJJBY, PMSBY and
credit facilities 24/7 from anywhere. Customers can
APY) since inception.
download various certificates and statements as needed
on an ongoing basis.
• F inancial Literacy Camps (FLCs): To educate
and empower citizens to understand the benefits
On the trade side, your Bank focuses on customer
of joining the formal financial system.
engagement to increase the penetration of Trade on Net
applications. Trade on Net is a complete enterprise trade
solution for customers engaged in domestic and foreign
227
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
S upport: The Bank has cumulatively covered Sustainable Livelihood Initiative
over 1.84 crore customers through its FLCs.
During the Financial Year 2024-25, the bank has Our Sustainable Livelihood Initiative (SLI) is a holistic approach
conducted 4.97 lakh FLC camps covering 30.65 that aims to deliver financial support to that section of the
lakh participants. population who lack access to formal banking services.
• P radhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY): To For details click on https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/
enable small borrowers to borrow upto ` 20 lakh borrow/other-loans/sustainable-livelihood-initiative
for non-farm income generating activities.
E. Environmental Sustainability
S upport: Since the launch of the scheme, the Bank
Sustainability is one of the core values of the Bank. The
has extended loans amounting to ` 88,664 crore to
details are covered in pages 112 to 135.
1.32 crore beneficiaries.
F. Business Enablers
• S tand Up India (SUPI): To empower Scheduled
Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Women borrowers. 1. People
S upport: Your Bank has extended loans amounting People is one of the core values of the Bank. Through
to ` 3,720 crore to 16,115 beneficiaries since continuous reinforcement and alignment with our
inception of the scheme. strategic objectives, the HDFC Bank Culture Framework
ensures that over 2.14 lakh employees are equipped to
• P rime Minister’s Employment Generation
succeed in an ever-evolving landscape. Our supervisory
Programme (PMEGP): A special scheme aimed
behaviour framework - Nurture, Care, Collaborate
at generating employment opportunities in rural
(NCC) - empowers our workforce with the knowledge
and urban areas through establishment of new
and guidance needed to lead transformation. We focus
self-employment ventures, projects and micro-
on acquiring diverse talent and prioritise their well-
enterprises.
being, safety and development, fostering an inclusive
environment where they can thrive and grow.
S upport: The Bank has disbursed funding of ` 390
crore since inception to micro-enterprise units in For details please refer to pages 150 to 167.
manufacturing and service sectors.
2. Leveraging Technology for Growth and
• P M-Street Vendors AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM- Technology Absorption
SVANidhi): Special scheme under micro-credit
facility for street vendors providing collateral-free, In the Financial Year 2024-25 HDFC Bank advanced
affordable term loans of ` 10,000 for one year in the its long-term technology strategy with an integrated
1st tranche. approach to digital, data, and risk transformation. Our
ambition to build a future-ready, inclusive financial
S upport: Your Bank has provided loans to 40,302 institution continued to gain ground—guided by the belief
Street Vendors since inception and educated and that technology must serve the customer, not complexity.
encouraged them to adopt digital transactions
through the “Main Bhi Digital” campaign. The year saw the convergence of three key forces:
• A adhaar Seva Kendras (Aadhaar enrolment
• A pivot towards platform-led architecture,
and updation service): Your Bank provides
Aadhaar enrolment and update services at branches
• A sharp focus on digitalising every meaningful
that are designated as Aadhaar Seva Kendras.
journey, and
S upport: More than 65.8 lakh enrolments and
• A proactive stance on resilience and responsible
updates undertaken since inception basis explicit
AI exploration.
customer request.
228
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Our “Shift Right” strategy, launched in FY 2024., served • We scaled integrations with partners like Tata Neu,
as the compass—anchoring transformation around five PhonePe and Swiggy enabling seamless API-led
pillars: Journeys, Channels, Core, Data, and Security. journeys for retail lending and cards.
Reimagining the Banking Experience • Over one lakh products were sourced monthly
through these ecosystems.
Across customer segments—retail, SME, and
enterprise—we reengineered critical touchpoints to be • Our co-branded cards portfolio expanded
more responsive, inclusive and insight-led. with curated benefits, contextual offers and
intelligent onboarding.
• 86 per cent of new account acquisitions and 79
per cent service requests were fulfilled digitally, We also enhanced our cross-border offering:
supported by simplified onboarding, real-time
validations, and assisted journeys where needed. • HDFC Bank now handles over 20 per cent of India’s
inbound remittances through tie-ups with Lulu
• High-volume lending products like Xpress Car Exchange, Flywire and PayMyTuition, supported by
Loans, Business Loans and Gold Loans saw scale over 115 correspondent arrangements.
through straight-through processing and biometric
KYC flows. A robust API-first orchestration layer continues to
drive plug-and-play capability for partners, enabling
• In rural and semi-urban India, digitally assisted secure, real-time access to banking infrastructure
journeys enabled credit and deposit access via local across platforms.
business correspondents—reducing onboarding
time and improving branch capacities. Modernising the Core for Real-Time, Resilient
Scale
Our customer-first design philosophy enabled us to deliver
outcome-based journeys, not just digital workflows— Financial Year 2024-25 marked a major milestone with
focused on speed, intuitiveness and self-resolution. the migration of our Core Banking System to a next-gen
engineered platform—making HDFC Bank one of the
Scaling Digital Interfaces with Intelligence
largest banks in the country to host its core ecosystem
on a modern, scalable architecture.
Our newly upgraded Mobile and NetBanking platforms—
rolled out in phases—have ushered in a cutting-edge
This was complemented by:
experience, featuring unified views, smart navigation and
enhanced security protocols that elevate every interaction.
• The first deployment under our “Lighten the Core”
strategy-Payments Hub-which modularised IMPS
Conversational interfaces through HDFC BankOne
processing with reduced latency.
handled over 3.7 crore customer engagements monthly,
while WhatsApp Banking emerged as the preferred
• Active-active data center configurations and
channel of our customers. Over half of all service
infrastructure upgrades across payments,
requests now flow through digital self-service channels,
origination and loan management platforms.
with fallback to agents only when required.
The launch of Pixel, a fully digital, app-native These foundational shifts allow us to handle
credit card, saw strong traction. It is built on the exponential digital growth while preserving availability
principles of configurability, real-time servicing and and performance.
contextual engagement.
Harnessing Data for Insight-Led Decisions
Deepening Ecosystem Play: Embedded and API
Banking The Bank initiated a Data Lake House programme to
centralise data from across systems, enabling scalable
Our embedded banking model evolved into an analytics, improving accuracy and regulatory compliance.
anchoring capability:
229
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Built on modern open-stack technologies, the platform Serving Enterprises and SMEs with Speed and
supports better decision-making, standardises master Simplicity
data, and strengthens governance through unified
Our Corporate and Wholesale Banking business saw
controls, lineage tracking and reduced duplication.
strong digital adoption through:
Cybersecurity and Digital Risk: A Measured
Approach • Rollout of fully digital onboarding journeys for
working capital and trade finance.
As the Bank expands its digital footprint, safeguarding
• Enhancements to CBX (Corporate Banking
customer data and ensuring system integrity remain
Exchange), which now processes large volume of
paramount. In FY 2025, HDFC Bank strengthened its
transactions monthly, with API share steadily rising.
cybersecurity architecture with a comprehensive suite of
tools and governance frameworks designed to manage
In parallel, our SmartHub suite scaled across SME and
evolving risks, ensure regulatory alignment and preserve
merchant communities with embedded finance, payments
operational continuity.
and loan origination stitched into a single interface.
The Bank continued to enhance its Zero Trust
Building at Scale: Agile Tech Delivery
Architecture, reducing reliance on perimeter defences
and embedding verification at every access point—
The Factory model continues to be the nucleus of
across users, systems and APIs. These principles now
digital execution at HDFC Bank—with dedicated units
underpin access controls, policy enforcement and cloud
focused on:
governance across business-critical environments.
• Experience design
The Bank protects its customer data and digital services
• Mobile and cloud engineering
through a range of advanced security measures. By
deploying PRISMA Cloud Infrastructure Entitlement • APIs and orchestration
Management (CIEM), the Bank effectively manages and
• Data and GenAI
restricts cloud permissions based on least-privilege
principles. The integration of Accops Secure Gateway • Secure-by-design architecture
provides MFA-protected access to crucial internet-
facing applications while Zscaler Private Access (ZPA) Various high-impact programmes were executed
ensures secure, policy-driven remote connectivity in in FY 2025 using this construct—ranging from core
line with the Bank’s Zero Trust roadmap. Additionally, modernisation to next-gen servicing platforms.
the Cloud Web Application Firewall (WAF) safeguards
against application-layer threats across digital channels. The Next Chapter: Responsible GenAI and
Continuous monitoring, detection and remediation of Platform-Led Innovation
cloud misconfigurations and vulnerabilities are achieved
Financial Year 2024-25 served as the foundation year for
through the Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM)
AI-readiness. A structured platform approach is being
and Cloud Workload Protection Platform (CWPP). The
developed with focus on:
Bank also employs Cloud Access Security Broker
(CASB), Browser Isolation and CI/CD Security Controls
• Secure, reusable models and components
to secure SaaS usage and development pipelines. Lastly,
for scalability
Attack Surface Monitoring (ASM) continuously scans and
secures exposed digital assets throughout the enterprise.
• Built-in observability and compliance
Collectively, these investments reinforce the Bank’s
T he Bank is exploring a Class of Problems
commitment to secure-by-design architecture ensuring
methodology—prioritising high-impact, enterprise-
that innovation, scale and resilience go hand in hand with
wide opportunities over isolated use cases. This
responsible risk management.
approach ensures scalability, consistency and
measurable business outcomes.
230
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Early pilots in documentation, support, underwriting testing, etc. for minimising the surface area for cyber
and productivity workflows have validated the potential security attacks and fortifying the Bank’s assets like
for GenAI to augment decision-making and reduce infrastructure and applications.
operational friction.
• Dedicated program for attack surface management
What Lies Ahead (ASM) that includes continuous attack surface discovery
and probing for weaknesses on the discovered assets.
Financial Year 2024-25 was a year of bold action, There has been a continuous effort to ensure that
modernisation and simplification. In FY 2026, our focus all significant weaknesses are remediated within a
sharpens towards: reasonable timeframe.
• Scaling digital platforms with embedded capabilities
• Adopting a zero-trust architecture approach to ensure
• Operationalising responsible GenAI protection against cyber-attacks.
• Delivering contextual experiences at the edge
• Implementation of Anti-Advanced Persistence Threat
• Sustaining resilience while enabling agility (Anti-APT) system agent on all endpoints in the Bank
to protect from zero-day malware attacks. All network
HDFC Bank’s technology and digital strategy remains elements such as email, web as well as endpoint
focused not just on keeping pace with change—but on computers are protected by the anti-APT system.
shaping the future of customer-centric, inclusive and
intelligent banking in India. • Enterprise solutions such as Data Loss Prevention (DLP)
to monitor sensitive data stored, transmitted and shared
Cybersecurity
by users, and to prevent and detect data breaches. All
endpoints have proxy agent configured to ensure that
Cybersecurity is at the heart of the technology transformation
only authorised websites are accessed. All outgoing
journey and the Bank is deeply committed to ensuring robust
e-mails are monitored through DLP solution.
cyber security with substantial advancements being made to
further fortify its infrastructure and applications. Key initiatives
• Laptop Encryption: Data encryption ensures that
in this regard include:
business-critical and sensitive data is not misplaced,
thereby preventing any reputational damage and
• Significant advancements to consolidate cyber security
curtailing monetary losses. Hard disk encryption is
through initiatives such as the foundation of a next-
implemented on all laptops.
generation Cybersecurity Operations Center (CSOC)
for predictive security and incident management,
• Implementation of Domain-based Message
introduction of Security Orchestration, Automation and
Authentication, Reporting and Conformance (DMARC)
Response (SOAR) to reduce incident response times and
system for protecting the Bank’s domain from
network micro-segmentation for better control, visibility
unauthorized use, commonly known as ‘email spoofing’.
and preparedness against ransomware.
Technology related challenges over the past few years have
• The initiative and approach to leverage AI and ML as an
only made the Bank’s resolve stronger to consolidate and
entire suite to proactively detect and respond to threats
fortify its technology environment. Focused technology /
is managed through the deployment of next generation
digital investments and programs in technology are pivotal to
Security Incident Event Management (SIEM) solution
the Bank in the new age of digital banking and experiences
augmented by Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine
for its customers.
Learning (ML) capabilities along with strong User Entity
Behavioral Analysis (UEBA) functionalities and built-in
Service Quality Initiatives and Grievance Redressal
threat modelling.
Customer Focus is one of the five core values of the Bank.
• 24/7 defacement monitoring and vulnerability Given a highly competitive business environment, especially
management of the bank’s internet properties, antivirus with diverse lines of businesses, we continuously strive to
/ malware program, patch management, penetration enhance customer experience. Delivering exceptional product
231
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
quality and customer service is a prerequisite for sustained Customer Compensation Policy duly approved by the Board
growth. The Bank strives to achieve this by seeking customer which outline a framework for resolving customer grievances
feedback, benchmarking with best-in-class business entities in an effective manner. These policies are accessible to
and implementing customer-centric improvements. We have customers through the Bank’s website and branch network.
adopted a well-defined three-step strategy towards Customer
Service - Define, Measure and Improve. Towards improving HDFC Bank has created multiple channels for customers
customer experience, the Bank has adopted industry best to provide feedback and register grievances facilitating
practices and continuously acts on customer feedback a transparent and accessible system. As a pioneer in
secured across multiple channels. innovative financial solutions and digital platforms, the
Bank has witnessed an increased utilisation of its digital
HDFC Bank has adopted a multi-pronged approach to channels. Keeping customer interest in focus, the Bank has
provide an omnichannel experience to its customers. On formulated a Board approved Protection Policy which limits
the one hand, it has traditional touchpoints like branches, the liability of customers in case of unauthorised electronic
email care and PhoneBanking. On the other hand, it has banking transactions.
state-of-the-art platforms like NetBanking, MobileBanking,
WhatsApp Banking, the chatbot Eva and the Bank’s exclusive This Bank is compliant with the RBI Internal Ombudsman
social care handles. The Bank also has a Virtual Relationship Scheme of RBI Guidelines. At the apex level, as a part of
Management programme to cater to various financial needs the Internal Grievance Redressal mechanism, the Bank has
in a personalised manner. appointed seasoned-retired bankers as Internal Ombudsmen
to independently review any customer grievance which is
One of the key strategies adopted by your bank is to leverage partly/wholly rejected by the Bank before the final decision is
the benefits of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Automation in communicated to the customer.
providing better customer service – which entails (a) Speed
of Response (b) Accuracy of Response (c) Response being In HDFC Bank is on a journey to measure customer loyalty
line with regulatory prescriptions and (d) in-depth root cause through a high velocity, closed loop customer feedback
analysis to reduce/eliminate recurrence of customer grievances. system. This customer experience transformation programme
helps employees to empathise better with customers and
Customer service performance and grievance redressal are improve turnaround times. Branded as ‘Infinite Smiles’,
regularly assessed at various levels, including Branch Level the programme helps establish behaviours and practices
Customer Service Committees, Virtual Level Customer that result in customer-centric actions through continuous
Service Committees, Standing Committee on Customer improvement in products, services, processes and policies.
Service and Customer Service Committee of the Board. HDFC
Bank has implemented robust processes to monitor and The Bank remains committed to placing the customer at the
measure service quality levels across touchpoints, including centre of its operations. By consistently improving customer
at product and process level through the efforts of the Quality experience, adopting an omnichannel approach and
Initiatives Group. implementing robust service quality and grievance redressal
mechanisms, it aims to build and nurture lasting relationships.
The service quality team conducts regular reviews across
Risk Management and Portfolio Quality
various products, processes and channels, focusing on
improving the customer experience. A unique Service Quality
Your Bank’s historical focus on Pillar 1 risks, including Credit
Index (SQI) has been developed to measure the performance
Risk, Market Risk and Operational Risk has been expanded
of key customer facing channels based on critical customer
in response to the evolving banking landscape. Liquidity
service parameters. This SQI enables customer facing
Risk, Information Technology Risk, Information Security Risk,
channels to identify improvement areas, thereby raising
Group Risk and Model Risk have also emerged as critical
service standards.
considerations. These risks not only impact your Bank’s
financial strength and operations but also its reputation. To
One of the basic building blocks of providing acceptable
address these concerns, your Bank has established Board-
level of customer service is to have an effective Internal
approved risk strategy and policies overseen by the Risk Policy
Grievance Redressal Mechanism / Framework. HDFC Bank
and Monitoring Committee (RPMC). RPMC is a Board level
has developed a comprehensive Grievance Redressal Policy,
committee, which supports the Board by supervising the
Customer Rights Policy, Customer Protection Policy and a
232
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
implementation of the risk strategy. It guides the development • Strategic Risk
of policies, procedures and systems for managing risk. It
ensures that these are adequate and appropriate to changing • Compliance Risk
business conditions, the structure and needs of the Bank and
the risk appetite of the Bank. It ensures that frameworks are • Reputation Risk
established for assessing and managing various risks faced
by the Bank, systems are developed to relate risk to the Financial Risks:
Bank’s capital level and methods are in place for monitoring
Credit Risk
compliance with internal risk management policies and
processes.
Credit Risk is the possibility of losses associated with
diminution in the credit quality of borrowers or counterparties.
The hallmark of your Bank’s risk management function is that it
Losses stem from outright default or reduction in portfolio
is independent of the business sourcing unit with convergence
value. Your Bank has a comprehensive credit risk architecture,
only at the CEO level.
policies, procedures and systems for managing credit risk
in its retail and wholesale businesses. Wholesale lending
The gamut of key risks faced by the Bank which are
is managed on an individual as well as portfolio basis. In
dimensioned and managed include:
contrast, given the granularity of individual exposures, retail
• Financial Risks: lending is managed largely on a portfolio basis across
various products and customer segments. Robust front-end
(cid:3) (cid:121) Credit Risk, and back-end systems are in place to ensure credit quality
and minimise default losses. The factors considered while
(cid:121)(cid:3) Market Risk
sanctioning retail loans include income, demographics,
credit history, loan tenure and banking behavior. In addition,
(cid:121) Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book
multiple credit risk models are developed and used to assess
(cid:121) Liquidity Risk different segments of customers based on portfolio behavior.
In wholesale loans, credit risk is managed by capping
(cid:121)(cid:3) Intraday Liquidity Risk exposures based on borrower group, industry, credit rating
grades and country, among others. This is backed by portfolio
(cid:121)(cid:3) Intraday Credit Risk
diversification, stringent credit approval processes, periodic
post-disbursement monitoring and remedial measures. Your
(cid:121)(cid:3) Credit Concentration Risk
Bank has ensured strong asset quality through volatile times
in the lending environment by stringently adhering to prudent
• Non-Financial Risks
norms and institutionalised processes. Your Bank also has a
(cid:3) (cid:121)(cid:3) Operational Risk robust framework for assessing Counterparty Banks, which
are reviewed periodically to ensure interbank exposures are
(cid:3) (cid:121)(cid:3) (cid:3)Information Technology and Information within approved appetite.
Security Practices
As on March 31, 2025, your Bank’s ratio of Gross Non-
(cid:121)(cid:3) Technology Risk
Performing Assets (GNPAs) to Gross Advances was 1.33 per
cent. Net Non- Performing Assets (Gross Non-Performing
(cid:3) (cid:121) Third Party Products Risk
Assets Less Specific Loan Loss provisions) was 0.43 per cent
(cid:3) (cid:121) Outsourcing Risk of Net Advances.
• Group Risk (various risks pertaining to subsidiaries) Your Bank has a conservative and prudent policy for specific
provisions on NPAs. Its provision for NPAs is higher than
• Model Risk the minimum regulatory requirements and adheres to the
regulatory norms for Standard Assets.
• People Risk
• Business Risk
233
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Credit Risk emanating from digital lending the banking book. The Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) is a
decision-making unit responsible for implementing the liquidity
Driven by rapid technological advancements, the banking and interest rate risk management strategy of the Bank in line
sector is witnessing the increasing importance of digitalisation with its risk management objectives and ensures adherence
as a critical differentiator for customer retention and service to the risk tolerance/limits set by the Board. ALCO reviews
delivery. Digital lending has emerged as a convenient and the policy’s implementation and monitoring of limits. While
quick method for customers to secure loans with just a the maturity gap, Basel III ratios, and stock ratio limits help
few clicks, often in minutes. However, addressing the risks manage liquidity risk, Net Interest Income impact and Market
associated with digital lending is crucial, and your Bank has Value of Equity (MVE) impact help mitigate interest rate risk
implemented appropriate measures to manage these risks in the banking book. This is reinforced by a comprehensive
effectively. Digital loans are sanctioned primarily to your Bank’s Board-approved stress testing programme covering both
existing customers. Often, they are customers across multiple liquidity and interest rate risk.
products, thus enabling the Bank ready access to their
credit history and risk profile. This accessibility facilitates the Your Bank conducts various studies to assess the behavioural
evaluation of their loan eligibility. Moreover, the credit checks pattern of non-contractual assets and liabilities and
and scores used by your Bank in process-based underwriting embedded options available to customers, which are used
are replicated for digital loans. This ensures consistency in the while managing maturity gaps and repricing risk respectively.
evaluation process. Further, your Bank has the necessary framework to manage
intraday liquidity risk.
Market Risk
The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) is one of the Basel
Market Risk arises primarily from your Bank’s statutory reserve
Committee’s key reforms to develop a more resilient banking
management and trading activity in interest rates, equity
sector. The LCR, a global standard, is also used to measure
and currency market. These risks are managed through a
your Bank’s liquidity position. LCR seeks to ensure that the
well-defined Board approved Market Risk Policy, Investment
Bank has an adequate stock of unencumbered High-Quality
Policy, Foreign Exchange Trading Policy and Derivatives Policy
Liquid Assets (HQLA) that can be converted into cash easily
that caps risk in different trading desks or various securities
and immediately to meet its liquidity needs under a 30-day
through trading risk limits/triggers. The risk measures include
calendar liquidity stress scenario. The LCR helps in improving
position limits, tenor restrictions, sensitivity limits, namely,
the banking sector’s ability to absorb shocks arising from
PV01, Modified Duration of Hold to Maturity Portfolio and
financial and economic stress, whatever the source, thus
Option Greeks, Value-at-Risk (VaR) Limit, Stop Loss Trigger
reducing the risk of spillover from the financial sector to the
Level (SLTL), Scenario-based P&L Triggers, Potential Loss
real economy.
Trigger Level (PLTL), YTD Trigger for AFS book. These limits
are monitored on an end-of-day basis by treasury mid office.
In addition, forex open positions, currency option delta and Average Liquidity Coverage Ratio
interest rate sensitivity limits are computed and monitored
119.04 per cent
on an intraday basis. This is supplemented by a Board-
approved stress testing policy and framework that simulates On a Consolidated Basis for the Financial Year
various market risk scenarios to measure losses and initiate
2024-25
remedial measures. Your Bank’s Market Risk capital charge is
Above the regulatory threshold of 100 per cent
computed daily using the Standardised Measurement Method
applying the regulatory factors.
Liquidity Risk The Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR), a key liquidity risk
measure under BCBS liquidity standards, is also used to
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank may not be able to
measure your Bank’s liquidity position. The NSFR seeks to
meet its financial obligations as they fall due without incurring
ensure that your Bank maintains a stable funding profile in
unacceptable losses. Your Bank’s liquidity and interest rate
relation to the composition of its assets and off-balance sheet
risk management framework is spelt out through a well-
activities. The NSFR promotes resilience over a longer-term
defined Board approved Asset Liability Management Policy.
time horizon by requiring banks to fund their activities with
As part of this process, your Bank has established various
more stable sources of funding on an ongoing basis. The RBI
Board-approved limits for liquidity and interest rate risks in
234
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
guidelines stipulated a minimum NSFR requirement of 100 per
cent at a consolidated level and your Bank has maintained
the NSFR well above 100 per cent since its implementation.
Based on guidelines issued by RBI, your Bank’s NSFR stood
at 119.80 per cent on a consolidated basis at March 31, 2025.
Non-financial Risks:
Operational Risk
This is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal
processes, people and systems or from external events. It also
includes risk of loss due to legal risk but excludes strategic
and reputational risk.
Given below is a detailed explanation under four different
heads: Framework and Process, Internal Control, Information
Technology and Information Security Practices and Fraud
Monitoring and Control.
A. Framework and Process * In order to achieve the aforesaid objective pertaining
to operational risk management framework, the ORMC
To manage Operational Risks, your Bank has established guides and oversees the functioning, implementation, and
a comprehensive Operational Risk Management maintenance of operational risk management activities of
Framework, whose implementation is supervised by the Bank, with special focus on:
Operational Risk Management Committee (ORMC) and
reviewed by the RPMC of the Board. An independent • Identification and assessment of risks across the Bank
Operational Risk Management Department (ORMD) through the Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA)
is responsible for implementing the framework. The and Scenario analysis
framework incorporates, three lines of defence to
ensure implementation. • Measurement of Operational Risk based on the actual
loss data
• Monitoring of risk through Key Risk Indicators (KRI)
• Management and reporting through KRI, RCSA and
operational risk losses of the Bank
B. Internal Control
Your Bank has implemented sound internal control
practices across all processes, units and functions. It has
well laid down policies and processes for the management
of its day-to-day activities. Your Bank follows established,
well-designed controls, which include traditional four eye
principles, effective segregation of business and support
functions, segregation of duties, call back processes,
reconciliation, exception reporting and periodic MIS.
Specialised risk control units function in risk- prone
products/ functions to minimise operational risk. Controls
are tested as part of the SOX control testing framework.
235
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
C. I nformation Technology and Information d. Our centralized patch management tool automates
Security Practices the discovery, management, and remediation of
endpoints and servers across various operating
Your Bank operates in a highly automated environment systems and environments for the available patches.
and makes use of the latest technologies available on It further facilitates patching, software deployment,
cloud or on-premises Data Centres to support various and compliance with security standards, thus
business segments. With the advent of new technology reducing the risk of the introduction of vulnerability
tools and increased sophistication, your Bank has due to lack of timely patching.
improved its efficiency, reduced operational complexities,
aided decision making and enhanced the accessibility of e. With the growing use of cloud infrastructure,
products and services. This results in various risks such tools such as Cloud Posture and Access Security
as those associated with the use, ownership, operation, Tools (CSPM & CASB) have been implemented
redundancy, involvement, influence, and adoption of IT to detect misconfigurations, enforce compliance
within an enterprise, as well as business disruption due requirements, and proactively reduce cloud-related
to technological failures. Additionally, it can lead to risks risks.
related to information assets, data security, integrity,
reliability, and availability, among others. Your Bank f. O ur Red Team proactively assesses our cyber
has put in place a governance framework, Information assets for vulnerabilities through various periodic
Security Practices, Business Continuity Plan, Disaster tests which also include red team assessments.
Recovery (DR) resiliency, Public Cloud and Cloud Native Any issues identified during the assessments are
Services Adoption and Enhanced Automated Monitoring remediated in a timely manner to ensure that the
mechanisms to mitigate Information Technology and banking services remain resilient and stay protected
Information Security-related risks. Our Bank continues against the evolving threats.
to enhance its information security posture through a
range of strategic and technology-driven initiatives aimed g. Our Bank has also adopted zero-trust architecture
at strengthening its information security and resilience approach to ensure protection against cyber-
against evolving cyber threats. attacks.
a. The Next-generation Cybersecurity Operations h. Bank’s comprehensive e-learning module, iSecurity
Center (CSOC) has brought in significant Ambassador (iSA), a mandatory assessment-based
advancements to improve overall cyber security course on information and cyber security, helps in
posture of the Bank by deploying a predictive promoting security awareness culture in the Bank.
/ proactive security monitoring of Bank IT
Infrastructure and Applications. We have deployed Overall, the bank’s cybersecurity measures are focused
next generation Security Incident Event Management on ensuring the highest level of protection against cyber
(SIEM) solution augmented by Artificial Intelligence threats, with proactive monitoring and automated incident
(AI) and Machine Learning (ML) capabilities along response capabilities, enhanced network visibility and a
with strong User Entity Behavioral Analysis (UEBA) zero-trust approach to security.
functionalities and built-in threat modelling.
The Bank has defined various policies and frameworks
b. The Bank’s dedicated Attack Surface Management for managing the IT and Information Security risks
(ASM) program is aimed at continuously identifying including risks emanating from third party engagements
and addressing vulnerabilities across its assets, and it follows the three lines of defence principle in
thereby ensuring a secure environment for the Bank managing these risks. With the evolving changes in the
and its customers. technology landscape, the Bank has been reviewing and
enhancing the scope for monitoring and mitigating the
c. Additionally, vulnerability management of the Bank’s risks through revision of frameworks and policies, tools,
internet properties, penetration testing, antivirus / and governance.
anti-malware program etc. minimize the surface
area for cyber security attacks.
236
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Your Bank has a well-defined Business Continuity and focus is on identifying and reducing risk by rigorously testing
Disaster Recovery plan that is periodically tested to products and also putting in place robust internal policies.
ensure that it can meet any operational contingencies. Products that adhere to regulatory norms are tested after
Further, there is a well-documented crisis management rollout and shortcomings, if any, are fully addressed till the
plan in place to address the strategic issues of a crisis product stabilises. Internal policies are reviewed and updated
impacting the Bank and to direct and communicate the periodically as per agreed frequency or based on market
corporate response to the crisis including cyber crisis. actions or regulatory guidelines/ actions. The compliance
In addition, employees periodically undergo mandatory team also seeks regular feedback on regulatory compliance
business continuity awareness training and sensitisation from product, business and operation teams through self-
exercises on a periodic basis. certifications and monitoring.
Group Risk
For details on Business Continuity Management,
Information and Cyber Security Practices and Data
Your Bank has diverse set of subsidiaries including NBFC,
Privacy Measures, please refer page 106 to 111 and
AMC, Life Insurance, General Insurance, Venture Capital
231 & 239.
entities, amongst others. In order to manage the risk arising
from subsidiaries with regard to potential uncertainties or
An independent assurance team within Internal Audit
adverse events that can impact the operations, financial
acts as a third line of defence that provides assurance
stability, reputation of the Group, your Bank has established
on the management of IT-related risks.
Group Risk Management function within the Risk Management
D. Fraud Monitoring and Control Group. Your Bank shall have a reasonable oversight on the
Risk Management Framework of the group entities on an
Your Bank has defined a comprehensive Fraud Risk ongoing basis through Group Risk Management Committee
Management Policy encompassing the life cycle, i.e. (GRMC) and Group Risk Council (GRC). The Board / Risk
prevention, detection, investigation, accountability, Management committees of respective subsidiary shall be
monitoring, recovery, analysis and reporting. Further, the driving the day to day risk management in accordance with
Bank has Whistle Blower and Vigilance Policies and there the requirements of the respective regulator. Stress testing
are designated functions responsible for implementation for the group is carried out by integrating the stress tests of
of fraud prevention measures. Frauds are investigated to the subsidiaries. Similarly, capital adequacy projections are
identify the root cause and relevant corrective steps are formulated for the group after incorporating the business/
recommended to prevent recurrence. capital plans of the subsidiaries. The Group Risk Management
Committee reports to the Bank’s Risk Policy & Monitoring
Fraud Monitoring committees at the senior management Committee (RPMC).
and Board level also deliberate on high value fraud
Group Oversight Framework:
events and advise preventive actions. Periodic
reports are submitted to the Board and senior
As HDFC Bank continues to grow in scale and complexity as the
management committees.
parent of a diversified financial group, the need for coordinated
oversight across group entities has become increasingly
Compliance Risk
important. In April 2024, the Bank formally introduced a
Group Oversight Framework to reinforce governance across
Compliance Risk is defined as the risk of impairment of your
subsidiaries. This initiative aligns with regulatory expectations
Bank’s integrity, leading to damage to its reputation, legal or
set out in the inter-regulatory forum reports by the Reserve
regulatory sanctions, or financial loss, as a result of a failure (or
Bank of India (RBI), Securities and Exchange Board of India
perceived failure) to comply with applicable laws, regulations
(SEBI) and Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
and standards. Your Bank has a Compliance Policy to ensure
of India (IRDAI) on the monitoring of systemically important
the highest standards of compliance. A dedicated team of
financial intermediaries.
subject matter experts in the Compliance Department works
with business, support and operations teams to ensure active
The Framework applies to HDFC Bank and its group companies
Compliance Risk management and monitoring. The team
that are consolidated in the Bank’s financial statements, with
also provides advisory services on regulatory matters. The
the exception of entities where the Bank neither exercises
237
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
significant control nor qualifies as a significant beneficial Owners, Model Users, Model Developers, and the Model Risk
owner—such as HDFC Mutual Fund, Alternative Investment Management (MRM).
Funds and Separately Managed Accounts managed or
advised by HDFC Asset Management Company Limited and There is Model Risk Management Committee (MRMC)
its international subsidiary. which is an executive committee to govern the Model Risk
Management Framework as defined in the MRM policy. It also
The Framework establishes a defined structure for oversight, oversees the development and implementation of MRM policy,
reporting and escalation across the Group. The Board of HDFC governance structure and ensure that necessary processes
Bank exercises overall oversight through periodic information and systems are put in place. The Committee reviews the
reported by various stakeholders. The Group Oversight results of the model validation/monitoring on a periodic basis.
Department reports critical matters to the Board, including The MRMC shall report to the Bank’s Risk Policy & Monitoring
critical overdue action items, material risks, exceptions in intra- Committee (RPMC).
group transactions, material related-party transactions and
significant governance concerns (if any). ICAAP
Your Bank has a structured management framework in the
Enabling and control functions of the Bank report Group-level
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) for
key metrics and any observed exceptions through designated
the identification and evaluation of all material risks that the
channels. Oversight responsibilities and escalation protocols
Bank is exposed to, which may have an adverse material
are set out in the framework and is illustrated as below.
impact on its financial position. Your Bank has identified
material risks which include, in addition to Pillar 1, several
Pillar 2 risks for which capital is primarily quantified using
stress testing approach. The ICAAP framework is guided by
the Board approved ICAAP Policy. The ICAAP encompasses
assessment of capital adequacy for the base period and for
the projected plan years.
Climate Risk
The risks from climate change are divided into (i) Physical risk
(acute and chronic) which captures economic losses from
acute impacts on account of extreme weather events or long-
term chronic impact on environment and (ii) Transition risks
which captures financial asset level losses due to the possible
Model Risk
process of adjustment to a low carbon economy.
The use of models invariably presents model risk, which is the
The CSR and ESG committee of the Board oversees your
potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on
Bank’s sustainability and climate change initiatives. This
incorrect or misused model outputs and reports. The Model
Committee monitors the ESG framework, the Environmental
Risk Management (MRM) under Risk Management Group
Policy framework, actionables and initiatives strategised and
is responsible for testing and verifying the accuracy and
executed by the management level ESG Apex Council and
reliability of models used within the Bank. By establishing a
the ESG Working Groups.
dedicated MRM team, your Bank ensures that its models are
independently evaluated before implementation and on an The Committee also maintains an oversight over your Bank’s
ongoing basis. ESG disclosures, highlighting your Bank’s ESG performance
and prioritisation of material topics. A dedicated ESG vertical
There is an established Model Risk Management Policy works in conjunction with several internal and external
(MRM Policy) which is a centralized, overarching policy whose stakeholders, to drive your Bank’s ESG agenda including
objective is to provide comprehensive guidance on model managing, mitigating and reporting on climate metrics. The
risk management across the Bank. The policy defines the Deputy Managing Director of the Bank has direct oversight on
roles and responsibilities across stakeholders i.e., Model the ESG function and reports to the Board on such matters.
Further, your Bank has formulated its ESG policy framework
238
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
and ESG Risk Management (ESGRM) Framework, which are Business Continuity Planning (BCP)
integrated into the Bank’s wholesale credit appraisal process.
Your Bank has a strong BCP programme in place that
Specifically, your Bank’s ESGRM Framework addresses
enables operational resilience and continuity in delivering
climate transition and mitigation plan and includes a prohibition
quality services across various business cycles. With our ISO
list criterion and ‘Category-A’ tagging of climate risk-related
22301:2019 certified Business Continuity Programme, we
vulnerable sectors. Your Bank’s commitment to enhance its
prioritise minimising service disruptions and safeguarding our
portfolio from a climate and ESG perspective is reflected in the
employees, customers and business during any unforeseen
development of the Board approved Sustainable Financing
adverse events or circumstances. The Programme is designed
Criteria Framework, which aligns with the overall sustainability
in accordance with the guidelines issued by regulatory bodies.
strategy of the Bank.
Further, our programme undergoes regular internal, external
and regulatory reviews.
Your Bank is in the process of evaluating appropriate
methodology and frameworks to assess climate transition risk
The Business Continuity Management function focusses
for the wholesale borrowers. Your Bank also estimates financed
on strengthening the Bank’s preparedness for continuity.
emissions in its lending portfolio and is firming up an internal
Oversight over programme is provided by the Business
strategy on tracking its portfolio-based financed emissions.
Continuity Steering Committee (BCSC), chaired by the Group
Additionally, your Bank has taken initiatives to engage in
Chief Risk Officer and Risk & Policy Monitoring Committee
capacity building programmes to familiarise the Board and
(RPMC), a Board-level committee.
its staff members on the key developments in climate risk
assessment, considering this risk is continuously evolving.
The programme is guided by an enterprise-wide Board
approved BCM Policy, supported by comprehensive processes
Additionally, your Bank is continuously striving to align itself
and procedures. These enable the Bank to effectively respond
to make increased climate risk related disclosures in line with
to, recover from, resume and restore critical business functions
domestic and global regulations. Your Bank endeavours to
following disruptions caused by internal or external risk events.
align with climate risk related disclosures as per Task Force on
The framework clearly defines roles and responsibilities for
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework and
teams involved in Crisis Management, Business Recovery,
has been reporting on ESG KPIs in alignment with the Global
Emergency Response and IT Disaster Recovery, ensuring a
Reporting Initiative (GRI) since FY2014, along with reporting
coordinated approach.
in line with the SEBI-mandated Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) framework in its
annual disclosures.
Stress Testing Framework
Your Bank has implemented a Board approved Stress
Testing Policy and Framework which forms an integral part of
the Bank’s ICAAP. Stress testing involves the use of various
techniques to assess your Bank’s potential vulnerability
to extreme but plausible stressed business conditions.
The changes in the levels of Pillar I risks and select Pillar
II risks, along with the changes in the on and off-Balance
Sheet positions of your Bank are assessed under assumed
‘stress’ scenarios and sensitivity factors. The suite of stress
scenarios includes topical themes depending on prevailing
geopolitical / macroeconomic / sectoral and other trends.
The stress testing outcome may be analysed through
capital impact and/or identification of vulnerable borrowers
depending on the scenario.
239
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Some of the key roles in this programme are as follows:
Steering Committee
It ensures centralised monitoring of your Bank's Business Continuity program implementation
Crisis Management teams
These work on effective management of recovery operations during disruptive events
Disaster Recovery (DR) Site
A dedicated DR site for recovery of critical core and customer facing applications
Functional recovery plans
Functional recovery plans ensure structured and expedited restoration of operations
Periodic drills
Periodic drills are conducted for testing the effectiveness of recovery plans.
As a responsible Bank, these steadfast practices have enabled and lay down policies and procedures by which the business
us to continue seamless service delivery to our customers functions manage risks, including compliance with applicable
through disruptive events and beyond. laws, compliance with regulatory guidelines, adherence to
operational controls and relevant standards of conduct. At the
Internal Controls, Audit and Compliance ground level, your Bank has a mix of preventive and detective
controls implemented through systems and processes,
Your Bank has put in place extensive internal controls and ensuring a robust framework in your Bank to enable correct
processes that are commensurate with the size and scale and complete accounting, identification of outliers (if any) by
of the Bank to mitigate Operational and other allied risks, the management on a timely basis for corrective action and
including centralised operations and ‘segregation of duty’ mitigating operational risks.
between the front and back-office. The front-office units
usually act as customer touchpoints and sales and service Your Bank has put in place various preventive controls, including:
outlets while the back-office carries out the entire processing,
accounting and settlement of transactions in the Bank’s a) Limited and need-based access to systems by users
core banking system. The policy framework, definition and
monitoring of limits is carried out by various mid-office and b) Dual custody over cash and near-cash items
risk management functions. The credit sanctioning and debt
c) Segregation of duty in processing of transactions vis-à-
management units are also segregated and do not have any
vis creation of user IDs
sales and operations responsibilities.
d) Segregation of duty in processing of transactions
Your Bank has set up various executive-level committees,
vis-à-vis monitoring and review of transactions
with participation from various business and control functions,
/ reconciliation
that are designed to review and oversee matters pertaining to
capital, assets and liabilities, business practices and customer e) Four eye principle (maker-checker control) for processing
service, operational risk, information security, business of transactions
continuity planning and internal risk-based supervision among
others. The second line of defence functions set standards f) Stringent password policy
240
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
g) B ooking of transactions in core banking system The Internal Audit Department, during the course of audit, also
mandates the earmarking of line/limit (fund as well as ascertains the extent of adherence to regulatory guidelines,
non-fund based) assigned to the customer legal requirements and operational processes and provides
timely feedback to the management for corrective actions. A
h) S TP processes between core banking system and strong oversight on the operations is also kept through off-site
payment interface systems for transmission of messages monitoring by use of data analytics and automation tools to
study trends/patterns to detect outliers (if any) and alert the
i) Additional authorisation leg in payment interface systems
management for due corrective action, wherever warranted.
in applicable cases
The Internal Audit Department also independently reviews
j) Audit logs directly extracted from systems
your Bank’s implementation of Internal Rating Based (IRB) -
k) Empowerment grid approach for calculation of capital charge for Credit Risk, the
appropriateness of your Bank’s ICAAP, as well as evaluates
Your Bank also has detective controls in place: the quality and comprehensiveness of your Bank’s disaster
recovery and business continuity plans and also carries out
l) Periodic review of user IDs and its usage logs
management self-assessment of adequacy of the Bank’s
internal financial controls and operating effectiveness of
m) Post-transaction monitoring at the back-end by way
such controls in terms of Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) Act and
of call back process (through daily log reports) by an
Companies Act, 2013. The Internal Audit Department plays
independent person, i.e., to ascertain that entries in the
an important role in strengthening of the control functions by
core banking system / messages in payment interface
periodically reviewing their practices and processes as well as
systems are based on valid/authorised transactions and
recommending enhancements thereof. Additionally, oversight
customer requests
is also kept on the functioning of the subsidiaries, related
n) Daily tally of cash and near-cash items at end of day party transactions and extent of adherence to the licensing
conditions of the RBI.
o) Reconciliation of Nostro accounts (by an independent
team) to ascertain and match-off the Nostro credits and Any new product / process introduced in your Bank is
debits (external or internal) regularly to avoid / identify reviewed by Compliance function in order to ensure adherence
any unreconciled/ unmatched entries passing through to regulatory guidelines. The Audit function may, if deemed
the system necessary also proactively recommend improvements
in operational processes and service quality for such new
p) Reconciliation of all internal/transitory accounts and
products / processes.
establishment of responsibility in case of outstanding
To ensure independence, the Internal Audit Function has a
q) Independent and surprise checks periodically
direct reporting line to the Audit Committee of the Board and
by supervisors.
an administrative line reporting to the Managing Director for
administrative purposes.
Your Bank has an Internal Audit Department which is
responsible for independently evaluating the adequacy
The Compliance function independently tracks, reviews and
and effectiveness of internal controls, risk management,
ensures compliance with regulatory guidelines and promotes
compliance with extant regulations, governance systems
a compliance culture in the Bank.
and processes and is manned by appropriately qualified and
experienced personnel.
Your Bank has a comprehensive Know Your Customer (KYC),
Anti Money Laundering (AML) and Combating Financing of
This department adopts a risk-based audit approach and carries
Terrorism (CFT) policy (based on the RBI guidelines/provisions
out audits across various businesses i.e., Retail, Wholesale and
of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002) incorporating
Treasury (for India and Overseas books), Audit of Operations
the key elements of Customer Acceptance Policy, Customer
units, Audit of Control functions, Management and Thematic
Identification Procedures, Risk Management and Monitoring
audits, Information Security audit, Revenue audit, Spot checks
of Transactions. The policy is subject to an annual review and
and Concurrent audit in order to independently evaluate the
is duly approved by the Board.
adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls on an ongoing
basis and proactively recommending enhancements thereof.
241
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Your Bank besides having robust controls in place to ensure Established in 2000, HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited
adherence to the KYC guidelines at the time of account (‘HDFC Life’ or the ‘Company’) is a leading provider of long-
opening also has monitoring processes at various stages of term life insurance solutions in India. It offers a broad range
the customer lifecycle including a continuous review process in of individual and group plans across the Protection, Pension,
the form of transaction monitoring carried out by a dedicated Savings, Investment, Annuity, and Health categories, with
AML CFT monitoring team, which carries out transaction a portfolio comprising over 70 products and optional riders
reviews for identification of suspicious patterns/trends that designed to meet the diverse needs of its customers.
enables your Bank to further carry out enhanced due diligence
(wherever required) and appropriate actions thereafter. The Financial Year 2024-25 was a year in which HDFC
Life deepened its reach, continued sharpening its value
The Audit team and the Compliance team undergo regular propositions and demonstrated the resilience of its business
training and certifications, both in-house and external to equip model. The Company reported 18 per cent growth in Individual
them with the necessary know-how and expertise to carry out APE (Annualised Premium Equivalent) for FY2025, in line with
the function. the stated growth aspirations for the year. This growth was
broad-based, driven in equal measure by an increase of 9
The Audit Committee of the Board reviews the effectiveness per cent in policies written and an increase of 9 per cent in
of controls, compliance with regulatory guidelines as also the average ticket size.
performance of the Audit and Compliance functions in your
Bank and provides direction, wherever deemed fit. The Audit Based on FY2025 industry data, HDFC Life outperformed
function is also subject to periodic external assurance reviews. both the private peers and the overall sector. HDFC Life’s
Your Bank has always adhered to the highest standards of overall industry market share expanded by about 70 bps to
compliance and has put in place appropriate controls and risk 11.1 per cent and about 30 bps to 15.7 per cent in the private
measurement and risk management tools to ensure a robust sector. Notably, the Company’s policy count grew faster than
compliance and governance structure. the overall industry and private sector. Almost 75 per cent of
the Company’s new customers on-boarded in FY2025 were
Performance of Subsidiary Companies first-time buyers from HDFC Life, reflecting its expanding reach
across Tier I, II and III markets.
Your Bank has five key subsidiaries, HDFC Life Insurance
Company Limited (HDFC Life), HDB Financial Services Limited In FY2025, HDFC Life known for its innovative products and
(HDBFSL), HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited customer-centric approach has secured about 5 crore lives
(HDFC ERGO), HDFC Asset Management Company Limited with an overall claim settlement ratio of 99.8 per cent. The
(HDFC AMC) and HDFC Securities Limited (HSL). HDFC Life company has over 650 branches across India.
is a leading, listed, long-term life insurance solutions provider
in India. HDBFSL is a leading NBFC that caters primarily to For FY2025, HDFC Life reported New Business Margin of
segments not covered by the Bank. HDFC ERGO offers a 25.6 per cent, Value of New Business of ` 3,962 crore, an
complete range of general insurance products. HDFC AMC is Embedded Value of ` 55,423 crore and delivered Profit After
Investment Manager to HDFC Mutual Fund, one of the largest Tax of ` 1,802 crore. As of March 31 2025, HDFC Life had an
mutual funds in the country while HSL is among India’s leading AUM of ` 3,36,282 crore.
retail broking firms.
HDFC Life has consistently delivered positive and range-bound
Amongst the Bank’s key subsidiaries, HDFC Life Insurance operating variance over the past nine years (excluding Covid),
Company Limited and HDFC ERGO General Insurance underscoring prudent risk management, disciplined execution
Company Limited prepare their financial results in accordance and strong fundamentals. Moreover, aligning with the stated
with Indian GAAP and other subsidiaries do so in accordance aspirations, the Company has nearly doubled all significant
with the notified Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind-AS’). metrics between FY21 and FY2025. The Company was also
recognised as a Great Place to Work and amongst the top 50
The detailed financial performance of the companies is companies in India for building a culture of innovation.
given below.
As the Company steps into its 25th year of operations, the focus
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (HDFC Life)
remains clear - to build a future-ready life insurer that grows
sustainably, serves responsibly and innovates purposefully.
242
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFSL) requirements. It comprises loans for consumer durables,
lifestyle products and digital products, personal loans,
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFSL) is a subsidiary of auto loans for new and used cars, two-wheeler loans and
HDFC Bank and is a Non-Banking Finance Company (NBFC). gold loans.
HDBFSL has a comprehensive bouquet of products and
service offerings that are tailor-made to suit its customers’ Enterprise Loans
requirements including first-time borrowers and the
HDBFSL offers loans to businesses for their growth and
underserved segments.
working capital requirements. Various loans offered to
HDBFSL is engaged in the business of lending, fee-based enterprises include: Unsecured Business Loan, Enterprise
products and BPO services. Business Loan, Loan Against Property, Loan Against
Securities. These loans cater to the financial requirements of
The company’s Profit After Tax stood at ` 2,176 crore as on enterprises for the purchase of new machinery, inventory or
March 31, 2025 compared to ` 2,461 crore as on March 31, revamping the business.
2024. The Total Loan Book stood at ` 1,06,878 crore as on
March 31, 2025 compared to ` 90,218 crore as on March 31, Asset Finance
2024, a growth of 18.47 per cent. The asset quality remained
HDBFSL provides loans for the purchase of new and used
robust, with Gross Non Performing Asset (GNPA) ratio at 2.26
commercial vehicles and provides refinance against existing
per cent and Net Non Performing Asset (NNPA) ratio at 0.99
vehicles for business working capital. It extends these
per cent as on March 31, 2025. GNPA stood at 1.90 per cent
offerings to fleet owners, first-time users, first-time buyers
and NNPA at 0.63 per cent for the year ended March 31,
and captive use buyers. Construction equipment loans are
2024. Capital Adequacy Ratio stood at 19.22 per cent as on
offered for the procurement of new and used construction
March 31, 2025.
equipment. The company also facilitates refinancing on
HDBFSL has continued to focus on diversifying its products existing equipment. HDBFSL also offers customised tractor
and expanding its distribution while augmenting its digital loans for the purchase of tractors or tractor-related implements
infrastructure and offerings to effectively deliver credit to meet both agricultural and commercial needs.
solutions. The company has a strong network of over 1,771
Micro Lending
branches spread across 1,170 cities. As on March 31, 2025,
your Bank held 94.32 per cent stake in HDBFSL.
HDBFSL offers micro-loans to borrowers through the Joint
Liability Group (JLG) framework to empower and promote
HDBFSL has a diverse range of product offerings (secured
financial inclusion for sustainable development.
and unsecured) to various customer segments. Given below
are the key product as well as service offerings to various
These loans were initiated in 2019 and are currently available in
customer segments.
seven states including Maharashtra, Bihar, Rajasthan, Gujarat,
Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Tamil Nadu
On October 19, 2024, the Board of Directors of HDFC Bank
covering 144 districts with more than 269 operational branches.
approved sale of such number of shares of HDBFSL equivalent
to up to ` 10,000 crore in the Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) of
Fee-Based Products / Insurance Services
HDBFSL, by way of Offer for Sale. The IPO also consists of a
fresh issue of such number of shares of HDBFSL equivalent HDBFSL has a licence from the Insurance Regulatory and
to up to ` 2,500 crore, and accordingly the IPO would be Development Authority of India (IRDAI) and is a registered
for an aggregate amount of ` 12,500 crore. The Red Herring Corporate Insurance Agent certified to sell both life and
Prospectus in relation to the IPO was filed on June 19, 2025 general (non-life) insurance products. The company has tie-
and the price band for the issue has been fixed at ` 700 to ups with HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited and Aditya
` 740 per share. The anchor bidding date would be June 24, Birla Sun Life Insurance for life insurance products. HDBFSL
2025 and the public issue would open on June 25, 2025 and has partnered with HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company
close on June 27, 2025. Ltd, Tata AIG General Insurance Company Ltd and Go Digit
General Insurance for general insurance products.
Consumer Loans
Consumer Loans are provided to individuals for personal
or household purposes to meet their short to medium term
243
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BPO Services Riding on the motto of ‘Customer First’, HDFC ERGO has
a comprehensive distribution network of over 1,20,000
The BPO service offerings include running collection call individual agents including Point of Sales Personnel (POSPs),
centres, sales support services, back office operations and 177 Banks / Corporate Agents and over 600 brokers with 299
processing support services. Under collection services, offices and over 600 digital offices spread across the country,
HDBFSL has a contract to run collection call centres for enabling it to ‘Insure More, Serve More, Reach More’.
HDFC Bank. These centres provide collection services for
the entire range of HDFC Bank’s retail lending products Product Segments
offering comprehensive end-to-end collection services. Under
Accident & Health Insurance: As an important stakeholder in
back office and sales support, HDBFSL offers sales support
building a ‘Healthy India’, HDFC ERGO offers various products
and back-office services like forms processing, document
under Accident & Health Insurance – retail health insurance
verification, finance and accounting operations and processing
to those seeking individual or family floater health insurance
support for HDFC Bank.
plans, group health insurance to insured groups, top-up health
Digital Presence insurance to those who seek to protect themselves from high
medical expenses, mass health insurance to those interested
HDBFSL’s presence across digital channels enables it to offer in participating in Government schemes. The Company is the
a wide range of financial solutions to its customers. They can fourth largest retail health insurer in the industry as of March
access and manage their loan account 24/7 through its new, 31, 2025.
upgraded version of Mobile Banking Application HDB-On-
the-Go with enhanced features, customer Service Portal to Commercial Business: HDFC ERGO has a track record
manage the loan account, missed call service, WhatsApp of providing customised insurance solutions to its corporate
Account Management and the Chatbot #AskPriya. clients. Be it property, engineering insurance, marine insurance
or liability insurance, the Company follows an advisory
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
approach to its clients based on a thorough understanding of
(HDFC ERGO)
their requirement. It is the fourth largest insurer in the private
sector in the Commercial segment in the Financial Year 2024-
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (HDFC
25.
ERGO), is a subsidiary of HDFC Bank. It offers a comprehensive
bouquet of general insurance products - such as Health, Motor Insurance: HDFC ERGO offers motor insurance for
Motor, Travel, Home, Personal Accident and Cyber Insurance various segments – private cars, two wheelers, passenger
to its retail customers. It also offers products like Property, vehicles, commercial vehicles, electronic vehicles as well as
Engineering, Marine and Liability Insurance to its SME & new and old vehicles.
Corporate Customers. For Rural Customers it offers Crop and
Cattle Insurance. Rural and Agri Business: HDFC ERGO’s rural market
development activities are spearheaded by crop insurance
HDFC ERGO has a track record of consistent profitable covering a large agrarian population which is frequently
growth. Over the past 17 years, it has grown faster than the affected by crop losses attributable to an irregular climatic
industry – with a 28 per cent CAGR vis-à-vis 15 per cent CAGR pattern. It is the second largest insurer in the private sector
for the General Insurance industry. As a result, HDFC ERGO in the crop insurance segment in FY2025. HDFC ERGO also
has improved its market share from 0.8 per cent in FY08 to supports deepening insurance penetration in rural India via its
5.1 per cent in FY2025. Common Service Centre (CSC) channel.
Profit After Tax for the year ended March 31, 2025 stood at Servicing
` 500 crore as compared to ` 438 crore for the year ended
The Company continues to invest in developing robust digital
March 31, 2024.
capabilities supported by Artificial Intelligence. Be it unique
Distribution Network insurance products, integrated customer service models, top
in-class claim processes or a host of technologically innovative
HDFC ERGO has a pan-India presence and a multi-channel solutions, the Company strives to consistently enhance the
distribution network. This enables it to provide its customers customer / partner experience. It has ISO certified processes
flexibility while availing its products and services. for Claims, Operations, Customer Services, Business
Continuity Management System and Information Security
Management System.
244
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
HDFC ERGO has a fair and robust claims management launches and enabling swift deployment of niche offerings and
practice. The Company provides prompt response and quick embedded insurance journeys.
claim settlement and equity of treatment to all its stakeholders,
HDFC ERGO continues to be future-ready by innovating and
through its wide network of motor workshops and empanelled
focusing on new-age technologies like AI, VR, Robotics, etc.
hospitals across the country. Customers are able to view and
to continue to provide superior customer experience.
track claims status and provide feedback through HDFC
ERGO’s website and mobile application thus bringing in
ESG
transparency. Over 47 per cent of motor insurance claim
surveys were conducted digitally in FY2025. About 92 per HDFC ERGO believes in building a sustainable ecosystem
cent of motor insurance claims and about 69 per cent of health to ensure it can continue providing value to its customers
insurance claims were settled in cashless mode in FY2025. and society at large. It has developed an ESG policy and
framework, and has been undertaking a number of initiatives
HDFC ERGO issued more than 3.4 crore policies in FY2025, of
across Environmental and Social aspects and further
which about 92 per cent were issued digitally. The Company
strengthening its Governance related processes.
has enabled multilingual support across digital platforms to
service the customers in their preferred language. It Introduced As an example, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) is a key
“1UP”, an AI-driven application that provides advisors with AI- part of the Company’s culture and embedded in various
powered contextual prompts for sales, retention, and daily processes. The share of women in overall workforce has
planning, optimising their workflow. It also embedded an improved from 19 per cent in FY22 to 27 per cent in FY2025.
AI-enabled inspection technology on its WhatsApp chatbot,
which allows the customers instant motor claim settlement HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (HDFC
feature for minor damages like dents, scratches among others. AMC)
In line with its customer centric philosophy, the Company’s
Established in 1999, HDFC AMC offers a comprehensive
grievance resolution TAT is lower than industry average by
suite of mutual fund and alternative investments across asset
about 5 days.
classes, including equity, fixed income, hybrid and multi-asset
HDFC ERGO’s Here app is a one-of-a-kind ecosystem which solutions. These offerings are available on both active and
aims to address consumers’ anxiety and provide convenience passive platforms, catering to a broad and diverse customer
towards healthcare & mobility needs and helps them save base. As of March 31, 2025, HDFC Bank held a 52.47 per cent
cost on their daily healthcare and vehicles expenses. The app stake in HDFC AMC.
is free for use by all, irrespective of whether or not one is an
As the investment manager to HDFC Mutual Fund – one of
HDFC ERGO policyholder, and has been well received, as
India’s leading mutual funds - HDFC AMC reported a closing
evident by over 70 lakh downloads since launch. The app also
AUM of over ` 7,54,453 crore, representing a market share
includes features to help people manage their cyber and pets
of 11.5 per cent as on March 31, 2025. It serves over 1.32
related requirements.
crore unique investors through 2.33 crore live accounts. With a
The Company continues to invest in developing robust strong nationwide presence across 280 offices and a network
digital capabilities to ensure long-term success in the digital of over 95,000 distribution partners, HDFC AMC is further
landscape. Its transition of the policy administration system enabled by modern digital platforms, ensuring broad and
to Duck Creek marks a significant stride towards future efficient access for clients across India.
readiness and unlocking growth. The new core system
facilitates dynamic product configuration, expediting product
HDCF AMC extends Portfolio Management, Segregated Account Services, along with Alternative Investment Funds to high net-
worth individuals, family offices, domestic corporates, trusts, provident funds and domestic cum global institutions.
Financial highlights (` in crore) FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Y-o-Y growth %
Total Income 4,058.3 3,162.4 28
Profit After Tax 2,461.1 1,945.9 26
Closing AUM 7,54,453 6,07,342 24
245
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Additionally, the company has a wholly owned subsidiary volatility during this period. This economic environment created
company - HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited in Gujarat a stark contrast in market performance, with the strong gains
International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City) offering investment achieved in the first half of the fiscal year largely erased in the
management, advisory and related services. second half, though a late recovery helped the Nifty 50 close
with a modest 5 per cent annual gain.
HDFC Securities Limited (HSL)
Other Statutory Disclosures
HDFC Securities Limited surpassed a key milestone of 25 years
of existence in April 2025. The company has demonstrated a Number of Meetings of the Board, attendance and
strong financial performance over the years underscored by constitution of various Committees
a 31 per cent CAGR in total income and a 24 per cent CAGR
in profit after tax, both over the last five years. As one of the During FY 2024-25 the Board met 14 (Fourteen) times. The
long-standing bank-based stockbrokers and a key subsidiary details of Board Meetings held during the year, attendance
of HDFC Bank, HDFC Securities Ltd. (HSL) leverages real- of Directors at the Meetings and constitution of various
time, data-driven insights and research-backed information to Committees of the Board are included separately in the Report
empower investors. HSL serves 68 lakh customers, offering a on Corporate Governance.
comprehensive range of investment and protection products.
Annual Return
HSL’s distribution footprint stood at 134 branches across 106
cities/towns as of March 31, 2025. Approximately, 96 per cent
In accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013
of its customers accessed its services digitally. HSL’s ranking
(“Act”), the Annual Return of the Bank in the prescribed Form
in NSE active clients has improved to the 6th position with
MGT-7 for FY 2024-25 is available on the website of the Bank
15.25 lakh customers from the 7th position last year.
at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/investor-
relations/annual-report.
HDFC Bank held a 94.5 per cent stake in HDFC Securities
Ltd. (HSL) as of March 31, 2025. Total equity raised, pursuant
Requirement for maintenance of cost records
to the rights issue in fiscal 2025 aggregated to ` 996 crore.
The cost records as specified by the Central Government
In FY 2024-25, HSL achieved a total income of ` 3,265 crore, under Section 148(1) of the Act, are not required to be
reflecting a 23 per cent increase from ` 2,661 crore in the maintained by the Bank.
previous financial year. Net revenue (total income less finance
costs) aggregated to ` 2,479 crore in the year ended March Details in respect of frauds reported by auditors
31, 2025, a 20 per cent year-on-year increase. Operating under Section 143(12)
expenses were ` 983 crore, resulting in a cost-to-revenue ratio
of 39.7 per cent. PAT for fiscal 2025 was ` 1,125 crore marking Pursuant to Section 143(12) of the Act and circular issued
an 18 per cent rise year-on-year, and registering an earnings by National Financial Reporting Authority on Statutory
per share of ` 638. The average margin trading funding (MTF) Auditors’ Responsibilities in relation to fraud in a company dated
portfolio increased significantly by 50 per cent year-on-year to June 26, 2023, there were 2 (Two) instances of fraud
` 8,343 crore, while equity trade volumes grew by 24 per cent committed during FY 2024-25, by the employees of the Bank
year-on-year to ` 8 lakh crore. and reported by the Statutory Auditors to the Audit Committee.
Details of the frauds are as under:
HSL launched its wealth advisory platform viz., HDFC TRU,
in fiscal 2025. It has an aggregate of ` 10,000 crore assets
under management. During the year under review, HSL has
incorporated a Wholly Owned Subsidiary namely HDFC
Securities IFSC Limited (HSIL) in the GIFT City-Gujrat.
India’s financial markets in FY2025 reflected a clear duality—
marked by strong domestic investor participation in the
first half, followed by a more subdued second half due to
weaker corporate earnings, rupee depreciation, and global
risk aversion. Foreign capital outflows also added to market
246
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Sr. Nature of fraud with Approximate Remedial action taken
No. description amount
involved
(Rs. in Lakh)
1 Cheating & Forgery 265.17 At the time of sanction:
Case pertains to fraud Various checks at the time of sanction of loan is conducted by evaluation of gold
perpetrated by borrowers in by a designated assayer and further dual valuation is carried out by an alternate
connivance with staff and third independent assayer for higher value loans crossing certain threshold limits.
parties by processing gold
loan in the name of dummy Post sanction of loan:
customers by pledging spurious Increase in proactive sample checks of gold jewellery packets by an independent
gold. team, which will help in identification of suspected fraud cases.
2 Misappropriation of funds and 385.55 For mitigating such frauds, a revised process has been shared with Retail
criminal breach of trust Branches.
Pursuant to customer 1. Process of Issuance Confirmation with the account holder by the
complaints received, a fraud Relationship Manager has been stopped and has been assigned to
was detected which involved the staff processing the transaction. Issuance Confirmation details are
a relationship manager in annotated on the reverse of cheque.
misappropriation of customer 2. At the end of day, this is re-verified through a Callback Report by an
funds. independent staff. In event of miss-out, the staff will seek issuance
confirmation from the account holder and annotate on reverse of the
cheque.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement Compliance with Secretarial Standards
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(c) and Section 134(5) of the Act, The Bank has complied with Secretarial Standards on Meetings
and based on the information provided by the Management, of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and General Meetings (SS-2)
the Board of Directors hereby confirm that: issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
• In the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable
Statutory Auditors
accounting standards have been followed along with
proper explanation relating to material departures; The Members of the Bank at the 28th Annual General Meeting
• Accounting policies have been selected and applied held on July 16, 2022 had approved the appointment of
consistently. Reasonable and prudent judgments M/s. Price Waterhouse LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI
and estimates have been made so as to give a true Firm Registration No. 301112E/E300264) [“PW”], as the Joint
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Bank as at Statutory Auditors of the Bank for a period of 3 (Three) years
March 31, 2025 and of the profit of the Bank for the year from FY 2022-23 till (and including) FY 2024-25. Further, the
ended on that date; Members of the Bank at the 30th Annual General Meeting
held on August 9, 2024 had approved the appointment of
• Proper and sufficient care has been taken for the
M/s. Batliboi & Purohit, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm
maintenance of adequate accounting records
Registration No. 101048W) [“B&P”] as the Joint Statutory
in accordance with the provisions of the Act, for
Auditors of the Bank for a period of 3 (Three) years from
safeguarding the assets of the Bank and for preventing
FY 2024-25 till (and including) FY 2026-27.
and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
In view of the completion of term of PW, the Board of Directors
• The annual accounts have been prepared on a going
based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee has
concern basis;
vide its resolution dated June 20, 2025 recommended the
• Internal financial controls have been laid down to be appointment of M/s. B S R & Co. LLP (ICAI Firm Registration
followed by the Bank and such internal financial controls No. 101248W/W-100022) [“BSR”] as the Joint Statutory
are adequate and operating effectively; and Auditors of the Bank for a period of 3 (Three) years from
FY 2025-26 till (and including) FY 2027-28, subject to approval
• Systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of
of the Members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting
all applicable laws are in place and such systems are
(“AGM”).
adequate and operating effectively.
247
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The said appointment shall also be subject to approval of Particulars of Contracts or Arrangements with
Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) every year. Accordingly, RBI vide Related Parties
its letter dated May 16, 2025 has approved the appointment
of BSR as the Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank along with There were no contracts or arrangements entered into with
B&P for FY 2025-26. related parties referred to in Section 188(1) of the Act during
FY 2024-25 and hence Form AOC-2 as required under
The resolution in this regard is being proposed at the ensuing Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, is
AGM for approval of the Members. not enclosed.
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the fees paid to
Further, the Policy on Related Party Transactions of the Bank
PW and B&P (“Joint Statutory Auditors”) as well as their
(“RPT Policy”) ensures that the related party transactions are
respective network firms, on aggregated basis, are as follows:
based on principles of transparency and arm’s length pricing.
` in Crore RPT Policy outlines the basis on which the materiality of related
party transactions will be determined and the manner of dealing
Fees (excluding taxes)* HDFC Bank to Subsidiaries of
Joint Statutory HDFC Bank to with the related party transactions by the Bank. Pursuant to
Auditor(s) Joint Statutory
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Auditors and its
network firms Amendment) Regulations, 2024, the RPT policy was amended
to align it with all the applicable amendments.
Statutory Audit 9.90 0.36
Certification & Other 1.76 0.02 RPT Policy is available at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/
Audit / Attestation
about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and-policies.
Services
Non-Audit Services - - Further, the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel who are
interested in the related party transaction(s) do not participate
Outlays 1.28 0.01
in the discussion / abstain from voting on the said matter at
Total 12.94 0.39
Board / Audit Committee meetings. The Bank has engaged
M/s. Vinod Kothari & Company as external consultant
*No fees were paid to network firms of Joint Statutory Auditor(s)
to advise the Bank on related party transactions and
by the Bank.
related compliances.
The aggregate fees paid to Joint Statutory Auditors were
Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments
within the limits approved by the Audit Committee.
Pursuant to applicable provisions of Section 186 of the Act,
Corporate Social Responsibility
the particulars of investments made by the Bank are disclosed
in Note no. 9 of Schedule 18 of the standalone financial
The composition of CSR & ESG Committee, brief outline of
statements as per the applicable provisions of the Banking
the CSR policy of the Bank and the initiatives undertaken by
Regulation Act, 1949.
the Bank on CSR activities during FY 2024-25 are set out in
Annexure 2 to this report in the format prescribed in Companies
Material Development
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014.
There were no material developments / changes / commitments
The CSR & ESG Committee confirms that the implementation
affecting the financial position of the Bank which occurred
and monitoring of the CSR Policy was done in compliance with
after March 31, 2025 till the date of this Report.
the CSR objectives and policy of the Bank.
Financial Statements of Subsidiaries and Associates
The Bank’s CSR Policy & Environmental Social & Governance
(ESG) Policy Framework are available on the Bank’s website
In terms of Section 134 of the Act read with Rule 8(1) of
at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate- the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, the highlights of
governance/codes-and-policies. the performance of the Bank’s subsidiaries & entity over
which control is exercised and their contribution to overall
performance of the Bank during FY 2024-25 are enclosed
248
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
as Annexure 3 to this Report. The Bank does not have any Disclosure under Foreign Exchange Management
associate companies or other joint venture companies. Act, 1999 (“FEMA”)
Pursuant to amalgamation of HDFC Limited with and into During FY 2024-25 the Bank has complied with the applicable
the Bank and conditions as stipulated by RBI, on October provisions of FEMA with respect to downstream investments
18, 2024, the Bank sold 18,20,00,000 equity shares of face made by it. Further, as required under the Foreign Exchange
value of ` 10 each of Edu Voyage Education Private Limited Management (Non-Debt Instruments) Rules, 2019, the
(formerly known as HDFC Education and Development Bank has obtained a certificate from M/s. Batliboi & Purohit,
Services Private Limited) (“Edu Voyage”), corresponding to Chartered Accountants, one of the Joint Statutory Auditors of
91% of its paid-up share capital, to Vama Sundari Investments the Bank, to this effect.
(Delhi) Private Limited (“Vama Sundari”). Accordingly, Edu
Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism
Voyage ceased to be a subsidiary of the Bank with effect from
October 18, 2024. Further, on December 20, 2024, the Bank
The Bank encourages an open and transparent system of
completed the sale of balance 1,80,00,000 equity shares of
working and dealing amongst its stakeholders.
face value of ` 10 each of Edu Voyage, corresponding to 9% of
paid-up share capital of Edu Voyage to Vama Sundari.
While the Bank’s “Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy” directs
Accordingly, as on March 31, 2025, the Bank does not have
employees to uphold Bank values and conduct business
any shareholding in Edu Voyage.
worldwide with integrity and highest ethical standards,
the Bank has also adopted a “Whistle Blower Policy”
HDFC Securities Limited (“HSL”), a subsidiary of the Bank,
(“WB Policy”) to encourage and empower the employees /
incorporated a wholly owned subsidiary, namely “HDFC
stakeholders to make or report any Protected Disclosures
Securities IFSC Limited” on October 1, 2024. Accordingly,
as defined under WB Policy, without any fear of reprisal,
HDFC Securities IFSC Limited has become a step down
retaliation, discrimination or harassment of any kind.
subsidiary of the Bank with effect from October 1, 2024.
WB Policy has also been put in place to provide a mechanism
Further, during FY 2024-25, the Bank made the following
through which adequate safeguards can be provided against
investments in its subsidiaries:
victimization of employees who avail this mechanism.
WB Policy covers and is applicable to the Protected
• In April 2024, pursuant to the rights issue of HSL, the
Disclosures related to violation / suspected violation of the
Bank was allotted 16,13,176 equity shares amounting to
Code of Conduct including:
` 9,53,22,56,984. The Bank held 94.55% shareholding
in HSL as on March 31, 2025.
(a) breach of applicable law;
• In August 2024, pursuant to the rights issue of HDFC
(b) fraud / criminal offence or corruption / misuse of office
ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (“HDFC
to obtain personal benefit / pecuniary advantage for self
ERGO”), the Bank was allotted 44,20,598 equity shares
or any other person;
amounting to ` 2,89,10,71,092. The Bank held 50.33%
shareholding in HDFC ERGO as on March 31, 2025.
(c) l eakage / suspected leakage of unpublished price sensitive
information which are in violation of SEBI (Prohibition of
• In accordance with the Employee Stock Option Plan
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and internal code of
2021 of HDFC Capital Advisors Limited (“HCAL”), the
the Bank i.e. Share Dealing Code of the Bank;
Bank acquired 69,330 equity shares of HCAL amounting
to ` 67,47,19,560 from the employees of HCAL. The
(d) w ilful data breach and / or unauthorized disclosure of
Bank held 89.34% shareholding in HCAL as on March
Bank’s proprietary data including customer data.
31, 2025.
WB Policy does not cover the following types of complaints
In accordance with the provisions of Section 136 of the Act,
which if made, is not considered as Protected Disclosure
the Integrated Annual report of the Bank including the annual
under WB Policy:
financial statements and related documents of the Bank’s
subsidiary companies are placed on the website of the Bank.
249
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(a) Matters relating to personal grievances on issues such as Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala and Mr. Santhosh Keshavan
appraisals, compensation, promotions, rating, behavioral are the Independent Directors on the Board of the Bank as
issues / concerns of the manager(s) / supervisor(s) / on March 31, 2025.
other colleague(s), complaint of sexual harassment at
workplace, etc. for which alternate internal redressal The Independent Directors have submitted declarations
mechanisms in the Bank are in place. that each of them meets the criteria of independence as
provided in Section 149(6) of the Act, along with the Rules
(b) Matters which are pending before a court of law, tribunal, framed thereunder and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI (Listing
other quasi- judicial bodies or any governmental authority. Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
(c) A nonymous / pseudonymous complaints will not be During FY 2024-25 there has been no change in the
considered as Protected Disclosures under this Policy. circumstances affecting their status as Independent Directors
of the Bank. In the opinion of the Board, the Independent
All Protected Disclosures made under WB Policy are made to Directors possess the requisite integrity, experience, expertise,
the Whistle Blower Committee through the following modes: skills, and proficiency required under all applicable laws and
the policies of the Bank.
(a) By letter in a closed / sealed envelope addressed to the
Whistle Blower Committee, or Evaluation of Board of Directors
(b) by submission of the same on the information portal of The performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees
the Bank, or and the individual members of the Board (including the
Part-Time Chairman) for FY 2024-25, was carried out internally
(c) b y way of an email addressed to whistleblower@ pursuant to the framework laid down by the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee (“NRC”). A questionnaire for the
hdfcbank.com. In exceptional circumstances, the Whistle
evaluation of the Board, its Committees and the individual
Blower may make such Protected Disclosures directly to
members of the Board (including the Part-Time Chairman),
the Chairperson of the Audit Committee of the Board.
covering various aspects of the performance of the Board and its
Committees, including composition, roles and responsibilities,
All Protected Disclosures received under WB Policy are
board processes, boardroom culture, adherence to Code of
examined by the Whistle Blower Committee and the
Conduct and Ethics, quality and flow of information, as well
investigation is further assigned to an appropriate investigating
as measurement of performance in the areas of strength as
Officer(s) depending on the nature of the subject matter of the
identified in the previous board evaluation, was sent out to
Protected Disclosure.
the Directors. The Committees were evaluated inter-alia on
parameters such as composition, terms of reference, quality
Details of whistle blower complaints received and subsequent
of discussions, contribution to Board decisions and balance
action taken and the functioning of the whistle blower
of agenda between the Committees and the Board.
mechanism are reviewed periodically by the Audit Committee.
During FY 2024-25, a total of 97 such complaints were
The responses received to the questionnaires on evaluation
received and taken up for investigation which has resulted in
of the Board, its Committees and Non-Independent Directors
certain staff actions in 41 cases, post investigation. The broad
were then placed before the meeting of the Independent
categories of whistle blower complaints were in the areas of
Directors for consideration. The assessment of performance
misappropriation of Bank / customer funds, forgery related
of Non-Independent Directors on personal and professional
cases, improper business practices and corruption.
attributes was also carried out at the meeting of Independent
Directors. The assessment of performance of the Independent
WB Policy is available on the website of the Bank at
Directors on the Board (including Chairman) was subsequently
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-
discussed at the Board meeting. In addition to the above
governance/codes-and-policies.
parameters, the Board evaluated and was satisfied that the
Statement on Declaration by Independent Directors Independent Directors of the Bank fulfill the independence
criteria as specified in SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Mr. M. D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and was independent from
Parekh, Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari, Mrs. Lily Vadera, the management.
250
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
The Board of Directors complimented the improved effective ultimate objective is to provide a fair and transparent structure
oversight on the group entities. Other areas such as code of that helps the Bank to retain and acquire the talent pool critical
conduct, board processes, board composition and boardroom to build competitive advantage and brand equity.
culture demonstrated the best corporate governance
practices adopted by the Bank. The Board appreciated the The Bank’s approach is to have a “pay for performance”
independent and transparent discussion at the meetings. culture based on the belief that the performance management
The Board noted that it has been dedicating significant time system provides a sound basis for assessing performance
in Strategic planning, Competitive positioning, Benchmark, holistically. The compensation system also takes into account
talent management & Succession planning and the same will factors such as roles, skills / competencies, experience and
continue. The Board further realised the need to focus more on grade / seniority to differentiate pay appropriately on the basis
Gen AI and Cyber Security aspect considering that the same of contribution, expertise and availability of talent on account
has become increasingly important. The Board also noted that of competitive market forces. The details of the Compensation
while there has been positive development in the areas of focus Policy are also included in Note No. 18 of Schedule 18 forming
identified in the previous evaluation, efforts need to continue in part of the standalone financial statements.
that direction. The appropriate feedback was conveyed to the
Board members on their respective evaluation. During FY 2024-25 based on the recommendation of the
NRC, the Compensation Policy of Bank was reviewed by the
Policy on Appointment and Remuneration of
Board of Directors and necessary changes were made to
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
the policy with respect to addition of clauses pertaining to
‘Special Payouts’ and inclusion of ‘Guidelines to grant LTI to
The Bank has in place a Policy for appointment and fit and New Joiners’.
proper criteria for Directors of the Bank. This Policy lays down
the criteria for identification of persons who are qualified as The NEDs including Independent Directors are paid
‘fit and proper’ to become Directors such as academic remuneration by way of sitting fees for attending meetings of
qualifications, competence, track record, integrity, relevant the Board and its Committees, which are determined by the
skills, etc. which shall be considered by the Nomination and Board based on applicable regulatory guidelines / circulars.
Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) while recommending the
appointment of proposed candidate as a Director of the Bank. Further, expenses incurred by them, if any, for attending
meetings of the Board and Committees in person are
This Policy also deals with the process for re-appointment of reimbursed at actuals. Pursuant to the relevant RBI guidelines
directors, annual affirmations, familiarization programme for and approval of the Members, the NEDs including Independent
Non-Executive Directors (“NEDs”), etc. and is available on the Directors, are paid fixed remuneration as detailed in the Report
website of the Bank at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/ on Corporate Governance.
about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and-policies.
The remuneration of all employees of the Bank, including
Whole Time Directors, Material Risk Takers, Key Managerial
Personnel, Senior Management and other employees is
governed by the Compensation Policy of the Bank. The same
is available at the https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-
us/corporate-governance/codes-and-policies.
The Compensation Policy of the Bank, duly reviewed and
recommended by the NRC has been articulated in line with
the relevant Reserve Bank of India guidelines.
The Bank’s Compensation Policy is aimed to attract, retain,
reward and motivate talented individuals critical for achieving
strategic goals and long-term success. The Compensation
Policy is aligned to business strategy, market dynamics,
internal characteristics and complexities within the Bank. The
251
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The following Directors of the Bank are also the director(s) of Board composition and the desired skill sets / areas of expertise
the Bank’s subsidiaries / step down subsidiaries as on the at the Board level are continuously reviewed and vacancies,
date of this report: if any, are reviewed in advance through a systematic process.
Succession planning at Senior Management level, including
Name of Directors Name of Subsidiary / Designation
business and assurance functions, is continuously reviewed
Step down Subsidiary
Company to ensure continuity and depth of leadership at two levels
Mr. M D Ranganath HDFC Pension Non-Executive below the Managing Director. Successors are identified prior
Fund Management Independent to the Senior Management positions falling vacant, to ensure
Limited (Subsidiary of Director
a smooth and seamless transition.
HDFC Life Insurance
Company Limited) Succession planning is a continuous process which is
Mr. Keki Mistry HDFC ERGO General Non-Executive periodically reviewed by NRC and the Board.
Insurance Company Director (Chairman)
Limited
Significant and Material orders passed by Regulators
HDFC Life Insurance Non-Executive
Company Limited Director (Chairman)
There are no significant and material orders passed by the
HDFC Capital Non-Executive
Advisors Limited Director regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going concern
Mrs. Renu Karnad HDFC Asset Non-Executive status and operations of the Bank in the future.
Management Director
Company Limited Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
HDFC ERGO General Non-Executive
Insurance Company Nominee Director In compliance with Section 152 of the Act and the Articles of
Limited (HDFC Bank)
Association of the Bank, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha and Mrs. Renu
HDFC Capital Non-Executive
Karnad will retire by rotation at the ensuing AGM and are eligible
Advisors Limited Director
for re-appointment. The resolutions for their re-appointment
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha HDFC Life Insurance Non-Executive
Company Limited Nominee Director are being proposed at the ensuing AGM for the approval of
(HDFC Bank) the Members. A brief profile of Mr. Bharucha and Mrs. Karnad
HDFC Capital Non-Executive is furnished elsewhere in the Integrated Annual Report and
Advisors Limited Nominee Director
Notice of the AGM for the information of the Members.
(HDFC Bank)
HDFC Securities Non-Executive
IFSC Limited Nominee Director During FY 2024-25 following were the changes in composition
(Subsidiary of HDFC (HDFC Bank) of the Board of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of
Securities Limited) the Bank:
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri HDFC Trustee Non-Executive
Company Limited Nominee Director 1. R e-appointment of Mr. Atanu Chakraborty
(HDFC Bank)
(DIN: 01469375) as the Part-Time Chairman and
HDFC Sales Private Non-Executive
Independent Director of the Bank for a period of 3 (Three)
Limited Nominee Director
(HDFC Bank) years with effect from May 5, 2024 to May 4, 2027 (both
[Chairman] days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation, as approved
HDFC Securities Non-Executive by RBI and the Members through Postal Ballot on May
Limited Nominee Director
3, 2024;
(HDFC Bank)
Mr. V Srinivasa HDFC Asset Non-Executive 2. Appointment of Mr. Santhosh Keshavan
Rangan Management Nominee Director (DIN: 08466631) as an Independent Director of the
Company Limited (HDFC Bank)
Bank for a period of 3 (Three) years with effect from
November 18, 2024 to November 17, 2027 (both days
Note: As per the Bank’s Policy, no sitting fees were paid to the Executive
Director(s) of the Bank nominated on the board of its subsidiary/ step inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation, as approved by the
down subsidiary. Members through Postal Ballot on January 11, 2025;
Succession Planning 3. Resignation of Mr. Santosh Haldankar (ICSI Membership
No.: A19201) as the Company Secretary and Compliance
The NRC and Board reviews succession planning and Officer of the Bank effective from July 20, 2024 (close of
transitions at the Board and Senior Management level. The business hours); and
252
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
4. Appointment of Mr. Ajay Agarwal (ICSI Membership as Secretarial Auditors of the Bank for FY 2024-25. The report
No.: F9023) as the Company Secretary and Compliance of Secretarial Auditors is enclosed as Annexure 5 to this
Officer of the Bank with effect from July 21, 2024. Report. There are no qualifications, reservations or adverse
remarks in the report of the Secretarial Auditors.
All the Directors of the Bank have confirmed that they satisfy
the fit and proper criteria as prescribed under the applicable Further, the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors of
regulations and that they are not disqualified from being the Bank at their respective meetings held on April 12, 2025
appointed as Directors in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act. and April 19, 2025 have recommended the appointment of
M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries
Particulars of Employees
(ICSI Firm Registration No. P1981MH043700), as Secretarial
Auditors of the Bank at an overall audit fees of Rs. 15,00,000
In accordance with the provisions of Section 197(12) of the
(Rupees Fifteen Lakh Only) per annum in addition to out of
Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and
pocket expenses, outlays and taxes as applicable, to conduct
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the
secretarial audit of the Bank for a period of 5 (Five) years i.e.
requisite details are set out in Annexure 4 to this Report.
from FY 2025-26 till (and including) FY 2029-30.
Further, the statement containing particulars of employees as
The resolution in this regard is being proposed at ensuing
required under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) and
AGM for approval of the Members.
Rule 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is given in an Annexure
Corporate Governance
and forms part of this Report. In terms of Section 136(1) of
the Act, the Integrated Annual Report including the financial
In compliance with applicable provisions of SEBI Listing
statements are being sent to the Members excluding the
Regulations, a separate report on Corporate Governance
aforesaid Annexure. The Annexure is available for inspection
along with a certificate of compliance from the Secretarial
and any Member interested in obtaining a copy of the Annexure
Auditors, forms an integral part of this Annual Report.
may write to the Company Secretary of the Bank.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
Compliance on Maternity Benefit Act, 1961
The Bank’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
The Bank has complied with the applicable provisions of forms an integral part of this Report.
Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 for female employees of the Bank
with respect to leaves and maternity benefits thereunder. Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual
Harassment of Women at the Workplace
Conservation of Energy and Technology Absorption
The relevant information is included in the Report on
Please refer to page nos. 119 to 120 and 125 of this Integrated Corporate Governance.
Annual Report for information on Conservation of Energy and
page no. 228 of this Integrated Annual Report for information Customer complaints and grievance redressal
on Technology Absorption.
Details of customer complaints and grievance redressal is
Foreign Exchange Earnings and outgo
enclosed as Annexure 6 to this Report.
During the year, the total foreign exchange earned by the
Unclaimed Deposits of HDFC Limited
Bank was ` 4,919.04 crore (on account of net gains arising
on all exchange / derivative transactions) and the total foreign
The Bank is a private sector bank registered with RBI and in
exchange outgo was ` 4,092.04 crore towards the operating
terms of applicable RBI norms, deposits remaining unclaimed /
and capital expenditure requirements.
unpaid for a period of 10 (Ten) years, need to be transferred by
the Bank to Depositor Education and Awareness (DEA) Fund
Secretarial Audit
maintained by RBI.
In terms of Section 204 of the Act and the Rules made
thereunder, M/s. BNP & Associates, Company Secretaries,
(ICSI Firm Registration No. P2014MH037400), were appointed
253
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
In accordance with applicable provisions of the Act read with Conclusion
Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting,
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, as amended, HDFC After two years of the merger, the integration of HDFC
Limited, has transferred deposits remaining unclaimed for a Limited’s home loan expertise with HDFC Bank’s extensive
period of 7 (Seven) years upto June 30, 2023, to the Investor scale and reach has strengthened our position as a
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) established by the leading financial institution. The merger has resulted in
Central Government. The deposit holders of HDFC Limited a much stronger Bank that is now poised to capitalise
can claim their respective unclaimed deposits from IEPF. The further on the growth opportunities in the market.
process of claiming the deposits from IEPF is uploaded on In FY 2024-25, the Bank reported healthy growth while
the website of the Bank. Post merger of HDFC Limited with maintaining pristine asset quality. There is immense
and into the Bank i.e. effective July 1, 2023, the Bank has opportunity for offering banking services in India as the
been transferring all the unclaimed deposits of HDFC Limited economy grows. HDFC Bank is well positioned to capitalise
(remaining unclaimed for more than 10 years) to the DEA Fund. on this due to its strong balance sheet as well as established
brand name. While pursuing growth, the Bank will not
Acknowledgement compromise on high corporate governance standards and
will continue focusing on its five core values: Customer
The Directors of the Bank would like to place on record their Focus, Operational Excellence, Product Leadership, People
gratitude towards the guidance and co-operation received and Sustainability.
from the Reserve Bank of India, Securities and Exchange
Board of India, Stock exchanges, Ministry of Corporate On behalf of the Board of Directors
Affairs and other Government and Regulatory Agencies. The
Directors of the Bank would like to take this opportunity to
express their appreciation for the hard work and dedicated Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
efforts put in by the Bank’s employees and look forward to Part-Time Chairman Managing Director
their continued contribution. and Independent Director and Chief Executive Officer
Place : Mumbai
Date : June 20, 2025
254
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
ANNEXURE 1 TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
255
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
eht“(
1202
,snoitalugeR
)ytiuqE
taewS
dna
stfieneB
eeyolpmE
desaB
erahS(
IBES
htiw
ecnailpmoc
ni
era
knaB
eht
fo
semehcS
USR
dna
POSE
ehT
latipaC
erahS(
seinapmoC
eht
fo
21
eluR
fo
)9(
elur
bus
ot
tnausrup
desolcsid
eb
ot
deriuqer
sa
dna
snoitalugeR
eht
rep
sa
sliated
eht
dna
)”snoitalugeR
:rednu
sa
era
,4102
,seluR
)serutnebeD
dna
/ snoitpO
latoT
/
snoitpO
/snoitpO
stinU/snoitpO
/snoitpO
,snoitpO
/snoitpO
ecirP
tnarG
fo
oN
latoT
sredloherahS
fo
etaD
semehcS
ecroF
ni
stinU
despaL
stinU
stinU
desicrexE
detseV
stinU
stinU
stinU
).sR(
stinU/snoitpO
lavorppA
hcraM
no
sa
detiefroF
serahS
&
-/1
.eR
VF
/ detnarG
gninepO
ecaF
devorppA
5202
,13
VF
fo
dettollA
,snoitpO
VF
ecnalab
fo
)VF(
eulav
-/1
.eR
stinU
/1
.eR
hcae
-/1
.eR
detatsnieR
-/1
.eR
VF
0
004,72
0
817,09,92
0
0
811,81,03
06.617
000,00,00,02
3102
,enuJ
ht72
72
SOSE-F
nalP
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
80.137
000,00,00,02
3102
,enuJ
ht72
82
SOSE-F
nalP
0
006,81
0
050,18,52
0
0
056,99,52
06.030,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
92
SOSE-G
nalP
0
0
0
019,66
0
0
019,66
30.300,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
03
SOSE-G
nalP
0
0
0
004,38
0
0
004,38
32.540,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
13
SOSE-G
nalP
004,82
009,7
0
008,12
0
0
001,85
81.701,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
23
SOSE-
G
nalP
000,40,46
000,93
0
004,11,20,1
0
0
004,45,66,1
00.922,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
33
SOSE-
G
nalP
004,03,1
0
0
000,01,3
0
0
004,04,4
58.288
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
43
SOSE-
G
nalP
003,45,00,2
003,24,1
005,98,4
002,69,35,1
001,06,11,1
0
003,28,06,3
08.532,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
53
SOSE-
G
nalP
002,21,15,1
008,39,1
007,78,4
007,01,37
003,01,65
0
004,40,13,2
54.624,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
63
SOSE-
G
nalP
004,33,1
0
0
006,40,1
006,95
0
000,83,2
59.615,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
73
SOSE-
G
nalP
035,09
0
0
002,03
002,03
0
037,02,1
05.394,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
83
SOSE-
G
nalP
298,50,4
0
023,67
004,54,1
006,96,1
0
216,72,6
50.782,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
93
SOSE-
G
nalP
778,79
0
0
0
005,42
0
778,79
57.063,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
04
SOSE-
G
nalP
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
01.6841
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
14
SOSE-
G
nalP
008,25,55,2
005,51
005,46,9
007,16,51
000,09,76
0
005,49,08,2
56.624,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
24
SOSE-
G
nalP
007,25
0
0
0
001,31
0
007,25
01.376,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
34
SOSE-
G
nalP
190,71,3
0
0
0
002,97
0
190,71,3
54.4851
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
44
SOSE-
G
nalP
086,39,74
006,2
082,54,2
008,33
009,26,21
0
063,57,05
09.636,1
000,00,00,02
0102
,enuJ
ht03
54
SOSE-
G
nalP
086,09,41,1
004,5
011,04,9
004,79
001,31,03
0
095,33,52,1
09.636,1
000,00,00,02
3102
,enuJ
ht72
64
SOSE-
G
nalP
057,47,91
0
018,83,2
0
005,59,4
0
065,31,22
09.636,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
74
SOSE-
G
nalP
066,31,52
0
418,07,3
002,84
001,56,8
0
476,23,92
50.605,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
84
SOSE-
G
nalP
065,47
0
0
0
006,81
0
065,47
50.605,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
94
SOSE-
G
nalP
024,67,9
0
006,64
005,11
009,74,2
0
025,43,01
50.605,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
05
SOSE-
G
nalP
314,45
0
355,6
060,2
067,71
0
620,36
50.605,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
15
SOSE-
G
nalP
750,63,3
0
0
0
000,48
0
750,63,3
58.874,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
25
SOSE-
G
nalP
340,07
0
0
003,32
003,32
0
343,39
58.874,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
35
SOSE-
G
nalP
076,42
0
0
0
002,6
0
076,42
09.914,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
45
SOSE-
G
nalP
033,3
0
0
0
000,1
0
033,3
09.914,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
55
SOSE-
G
nalP
114,44
0
0
0
0
0
114,44
48.552
114,44
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
7002
CFDHe
70-SOSE
249,04
0
0
0
0
0
249,04
97.061
249,04
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
8002
CFDHe
80-SOSE
384,21
0
0
0
0
0
384,21
69.306
384,21
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
4102
CFDHe
41-SOSE
216,74
767,51
0
745,95,1
0
0
629,22,2
44.439
091,59,4
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
1-7102
CFDHe
71-SOSE
0
0
0
069,021
0
0
069,021
43.110,1
069,02,1
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
2-7102
CFDHe
71-SOSE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
256
HDFC Bank Limited
/ snoitpO
latoT
/
snoitpO
/snoitpO
stinU/snoitpO
/snoitpO
,snoitpO
/snoitpO
ecirP
tnarG
fo
oN
latoT
sredloherahS
fo
etaD
semehcS
ecroF
ni
stinU
despaL
stinU
stinU
desicrexE
detseV
stinU
stinU
stinU
).sR(
stinU/snoitpO
lavorppA
hcraM
no
sa
detiefroF
serahS
&
-/1
.eR
VF
/ detnarG
gninepO
ecaF
devorppA
5202
,13
VF
fo
dettollA
,snoitpO
VF
ecnalab
fo
)VF(
eulav
-/1
.eR
stinU
/1
.eR
hcae
-/1
.eR
detatsnieR
-/1
.eR
VF
026,34
0
0
005,31
0
0
021,75
92.980,1
021,75
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
3-7102
CFDHe
71-SOSE
008,24,1
0
0
021,07
0
0
029,21,2
51.242,1
027,61,2
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
4-7102
CFDHe
71-SOSE
585,34,30,2
266
0
920,87,89
922,37,1
0
672,22,20,3
46.670,1
189,68,08,3
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
1-0202
CFDHe
02-SOSE
000,24
0
0
0
0
0
000,24
72.535,1
000,24
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
2-0202
CFDHe
02-SOSE
000,86,1
0
0
0
000,48
0
000,86,1
86.774,1
000,86,1
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
3-0202
CFDHe
02-SOSE
008,00,1
0
0
0
004,05
0
008,00,1
29.794,1
008,00,1
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
4-0202
CFDHe
02-SOSE
080,87,1
0
0
0
040,98
0
080,87,1
57.324,1
080,87,1
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
5-0202
CFDHe
02-SOSE
462,73,26
021,03
192,11,1
355,28,61
438,29,93
0
822,16,08
12.723,1
495,91,88
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
6-0202
CFDHe
02-SOSE
006,71,1
0
0
0
004,8
0
006,71,1
04.193,1
006,95,1
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
7-0202
CFDHe
02-SOSE
008,61
0
0
0
0
0
008,61
57.325,1
008,61
2202
,rebmevoN
ht52
8-0202
CFDHe
02-SOSE
056,69
0
0
0
0
056,69
0
53.3751
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
65
SOSE-
G nalP
051,77,4
0
0
0
0
051,77,4
0
50.506,1
000,00,00,02
6102
,yluJ
ts12
75
SOSE-
G nalP
032,65,12,2
0
0
0
0
032,65,12,2
0
02.437,1
000,00,05,9
4202
,tsuguA
ht9
85
SOSE-
H nalP
036,61,4
0
0
0
0
036,61,4
0
03.776,1
000,00,05,9
4202
,tsuguA
ht9
95
SOSE-
H nalP
004,015,1
058,64
023,26
036,41,7
058,15,6
0
002,43,32
00.1
000,00,00,01
2202
,yaM
ht41
100
USR
2202-SISE
024,8
021
003
083,4
007,3
0
022,31
00.1
000,00,00,01
2202
,yaM
ht41
200
USR
2202-SISE
041,11
075
058,1
006,6
050,5
0
061,02
00.1
000,00,00,01
2202
,yaM
ht41
300
USR
2202-SISE
011,954,4
094,2
074,35,2
021,41,9
078,68,9
0
091,92,65
00.1
000,00,00,01
2202
,yaM
ht41
400
USR
2202-SISE
083,695,2
001,1
756,26,3
005,21,7
270,23,11
0
736,27,63
00.1
000,00,00,01
2202
,yaM
ht41
500
USR
2202-SISE
751
0
0
15
07
0
802
00.1
000,00,00,01
2202
,yaM
ht41
600
USR
2202-SISE
706,52
52
690,3
207,2
119,7
0
034,13
00.1
000,00,00,01
2202
,yaM
ht41
700
USR
2202-SISE
936,91
0
831
289
958,6
0
957,02
00.1
000,00,00,01
2202
,yaM
ht41
800
USR
2202-SISE
515,14,06
0
0
0
0
515,14,06
0
00.1
000,00,00,01
2202
,yaM
ht41
900
USR
2202-SISE
060,89,1
0
0
0
0
060,89,1
0
00.1
000,00,00,01
2202
,yaM
ht41
010
USR
2202-SISE
000,51
0
0
0
0
000,51
0
00.1
000,00,00,01
2202
,yaM
ht41
110
USR
2202-SISE
839,95,26,51
402,05,5
903,16,64
210,11,35,5
542,46,17,3
532,10,49,2
822,18,37,81
latoT
210,11,35,5
52-4202
YF
gnirud
desicrexE
snoitpO
00.210,11,35,5
yenoM
latipaC
erahS
78.563,26,69,04,36
devieceR
yenoM
muimerP
erahS
00.198,55,66,58,01
detcelloC
tnuomA
xaT
etisiuqreP
78.862,92,61,23,47
detcelloC
tnuomA
latoT
tinU
kcotS
detcirtseR
/noitpO
kcotS
ytiuqE
)enO(
1
fo
esicrexe
no
esira
dluow
hcae
-/1
`
fo
eulav
ecaf
eht
fo
erahs
)enO(
1 :etoN
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Vesting Requirements Except for the death / permanent disablement or retirement of the employee, the options will vest
only if the employee is in the continuous and uninterrupted employment of the Bank as on the date
of vesting.
Maximum Term of Options Provided the employee is in the continuous and uninterrupted employment of the Bank, the
options vested under the ESOP Schemes 25 to ESOP Scheme 28 and ESOP Scheme 41 to
ESOP Scheme 59 will lapse in case the same are not exercised by the employee within four years
from the respective dates of vesting. However, for the grant of options under the ESOP Schemes
29 to ESOP Scheme 40 the vested options will lapse in case the same are not exercised by the
employee within two years from the respective dates of vesting. Further, for the grant of options
under the RSU 001 to 011 the vested options will lapse in case the same are not exercised by the
employee within one year from the respective dates of vesting. Further, for the grant of options
under the schemes of HDFC Limited, the vested will lapse in case the same are not exercised by
the employee within five years from the respective dates of vesting.
In case of death/ permanent disablement or retirement of the employee to whom the options are
granted, all unvested options shall get vested to the employee on the date of happening of such
event and should be exercised within one year period or its lapse date whichever is earlier from the
date of such event for options granted under ESOP Scheme 23 to ESOP Scheme 34 and RSU
001 to 011. However, in case of ESOP Scheme 35 to ESOP Scheme 40 the vesting will happen
on date of such event and exercisable within two years from the occurrence of the event or its
lapse date whichever is earlier and in case of ESOP Scheme 41 to 59 the vesting will happen on
date of such event and exercisable within four years from the occurrence of the event or its lapse
date whichever is earlier and in case of schemes of HDFC Limited, the vested will happen on date
of such event and exercisable within five years from the occurrence of the event or its lapse date
whichever is earlier.
Source of shares Primary
Variation in terms of ESOS None
DETAILS OF OPTIONS GRANTED TO DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL AND KEY
MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL AS ON MARCH 31, 2025
Sr. no. Name Grade Final Grant
1. Arvind Vohra CX 83,200
2. Ashish Parthasarthy CX 83,200
3. Bhavesh Zaveri ED 78,602
4. Gourab Roy CX 69,160
5. Jimmy M Tata CX 83,200
6. N Srinivasan CX 69,160
7. Nirav Vimal Shah CX 83,200
8. Parag Rao CX 83,200
9. Rakesh Kumar Rajput CX 47,030
10. Rakesh Singh CX 83,200
11. Ramesh Lakshminarayanan CX 83,200
12. Sanmoy Chakrabarti CX 48,510
13. Sashidhar Jagdishan MD 2,12,052
14. Srinivasa V Rangan ED 1,25,976
15. Srinivasan Vaidyanathan CX 59,440
16. Sudhir Kumar Jha CX 69,160
17. Suketu Kapadia CX 37,940
18. Sumant Vinay Rampal CX 69,160
19. Vinayak Ravindra Mavinkurve CX 55,310
20. Ajay Agarwal* C2 26,660
257
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
*Mr. Ajay Agarwal was appointed as Company Secretary and Head- Group Oversight with effect from July 21, 2024. He was further elevated as
Group Head-Secretarial & Group Oversight with effect from April 1, 2025.
i. Other employees who receive a grant in any one year of share-linked None
instruments (employee stock options and restricted stock units)
amounting to 5 % or more of share-linked instruments granted during
that year
ii. Identified employees who were granted share linked instruments, None
during any one year, equal to or exceeding 1 percent of the issued
capital (excluding outstanding warrants and conversions)
iii. Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) pursuant to the issue of shares on The diluted EPS of the Bank calculated after considering
exercise of share linked instruments calculated in accordance with the effect of potential equity shares arising on account of
Accounting Standard (AS) - 20 (Earnings Per Share) exercise of share- linked instruments is ` 87.90
iv. Where the company has calculated the employee compensation cost During the year, the compensation cost for share-linked
using the intrinsic value of the share-linked instruments, the difference instruments granted has been recognised basis the fair
between the employee compensation cost so computed and the value of the share-linked instruments calculated based on
employee compensation cost that shall have been recognized if the Black-Scholes model.
it had used the fair value of the share linked instruments, shall be
disclosed. The impact of this difference on profits and on EPS of the
company shall also be disclosed
v. Weighted average exercise prices and weighted average fair values The weighted average price of the stock options exercised
of share-linked instruments shall be disclosed separately for share- is ` 1,198.42 and the weighted average fair value cost is
linked instruments whose exercise price either equals or exceeds or ` 326.02
is less than the market price of the stock share-linked instruments.
The weighted average price of the RSU’s exercised is ` 1
and the weighted average fair value is ` 1,485.15
vi. A description of the method and significant assumptions used during The Bank calculated the fair value of share linked instruments
the year to estimate the fair value of share-linked instruments, at the at the time of grant, using Black-Scholes model with the
time of grant including the following weighted average information: following assumptions
I. Risk-free interest rate 6.73 percent to 7.19 percent
II. Expected life 1 to 8 years
III. Expected volatility 20.05 percent to 27.70 percent
IV. Expected dividends 0.77 percent to 1.58 percent
V. The price of the underlying share in the market at the time of share For ESOS, the market price per share at the time of grant
linked instrument grant of options was ` 1,561.30 for ESOS 56, and ` 1,615.55 for
ESOS 57, and ` 1,751.85 for ESOS 58 and ` 1,691.50 for
ESOS 59
For RSU, the market price per share was ` 1,751.85 for
RSU 009, RSU 010 and RSU 011
VI. The weighted average market price of Bank’s shares on NSE at the For ESOS, the weighted average market price at the time
time of share linked instruments grant of grant was ` 1,566.93 for ESOS 56, and ` 1,615.74 for
ESOS 57, and ` 1,744.14 for ESOS 58 and ` 1,685.73 for
ESOS 59
For RSU, the weighted average market price was
` 1,744.14 for RSU 009, RSU 010 and RSU 011
VII. Method used and assumptions made to incorporate effects of The Black-Scholes model is used to calculate the fair value
expected early exercise of options at the time of grant.
VIII. How expected volatility was determined, including explanation of the Stock expected volatility is completely based on GARCH
extent to which expected volatility was based on historical volatility volatility forecasting model using historical stock prices from
the market.
IX. Whether and how any other features of the share linked instrument Stock price and risk-free interest rate are variables based
grant were incorporated into the measurement of fair value, such as on actual market data at the time of share linked instrument
a market condition valuation.
258
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
ANNEXURE 2 TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
1. Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
The Bank’s CSR is implemented under the aegis of ‘Parivartan’ which is the umbrella brand for all the Bank’s social initiatives.
Parivartan aims to bring about a transformation in the communities in which the Bank operates through multiple initiatives
in the areas of education, skill training and livelihood enhancement, health care, sports, environmental sustainability and
rural development. The Bank’s programs are guided by CSR Policy duly approved by the Board which is driven by the
vision of “Creating Sustainable Communities.” The CSR policy and programs are aligned to comply with the requirements
of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and are monitored by a Board level Committee.
2. Composition of CSR Committee:
Sl. Name of Designation Number of meetings of CSR
No. Director / Nature of Directorship Committee attended / held during
the year
1 Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari Independent Director – Chairperson 5/5
2 Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Independent Director 2/2
Bhanwala*
3 Mrs. Renu Karnad Non-Executive Director 5/5
4 Mr. Santhosh Keshavan** Independent Director N.A.
4 Mr. Kaizad Bharucha Deputy Managing Director 5/5
* Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala was appointed as a Member of the CSR & ESG Committee with effect from October 19, 2024.
**Mr. Santhosh Keshavan was appointed as a Member of the CSR & ESG Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
3. Web-link(s) where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects approved by the Board.
https://v.hdfcbank.com/csr/our-commitment.html
4. Executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3)
of rule 8, if applicable.
The Bank carried out 78 mandatory impact assessment studies in FY 2024-25 as per compliance with the requirements
of CSR Rules. Below is the link and details of mandatory 78 impact assessment reports.
https://v.hdfcbank.com/csr/our-commitment.html
Sr. Project Code Focus of the Impact Assessment
No.
1 P0745 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to the Community Health Centers for proving
CT Scan machines
2 P0693 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided Banaras Hindu University Hospital for the
medical equipment
3 P0387 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
4 P0692 Assessment of the FDP project primarily focused on installing smart TVs in one classroom of the
intervention schools
5 P0335 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
6 P0336 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
7 P0338 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
259
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Sr. Project Code Focus of the Impact Assessment
No.
8 P0340 Assessment of the FDP project aimed at strengthening rural livelihoods by establishing robust value
chains around garlic and other high-value crops, thereby enhancing income opportunities for smallholder
farmers
9 P0342 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to the marginalized youth with future-ready skills
in the IT/ITES sector, thereby enhancing their employability and income-generating potential
10 P0343 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to marginalized youth with skills in the Healthcare
sector, thereby enhancing their employability and income-generating potential
11 P0349 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
12 P0354 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
13 P0358 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
14 P0359 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
15 P0436 Assessment of the FDP project for skill training provided to youth in AI, Digital Marketing, Core Java, and
Cloud Computing, aiming to boost employability through digital skill development
16 P0626 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
17 P0700 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to government hospitals for providing medical
equipment
18 P0754 Assessment of the FDP project for the support to the disabled persons provided with tricycles
19 P0327 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
20 P0350 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to promote sustainable livelihoods and socio-
economic development in rural communities, focusing on enhancing agricultural practices, improving
community infrastructure, and increasing income-generating opportunities
21 P0357 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
22 P0581 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for the school infrastructure development
23 P0638 Assessment of the FDP project focused on enabling digital skills for employability of rural youth by
ensuring well-equipped IT Labs with desktops
24 P0601 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for quality nursing education to young tribal
women from disadvantaged backgrounds
25 P0331 Assessment of the FDP project aimed to adopt a comprehensive area intervention approach combining
varied approaches, appropriate technologies and livelihood prototypes deployed or developed and
strengthen supply chains
26 P0382 Assessment of the FDP project for the support for skill development and livelihood enhancement of
marginalized communities
27 P0384 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for skill development and livelihood enhancement
of marginalized communities
28 P0388 Assessment of the FDP project for the support for skill development and livelihood enhancement of
marginalized communities
29 P0323 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
30 P0332 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
31 P0315 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
32 P0330 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
33 P0314 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
34 P0329 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
35 P0433 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
36 P0326 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
37 P0341 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
38 P0347 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
39 P0362 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
260
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Sr. Project Code Focus of the Impact Assessment
No.
40 P0398 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
41 P0413 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
42 P0317 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
43 P0312 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
44 P0322 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
45 P0503 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention
areas
46 P0316 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
47 P0319 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
48 P0320 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
49 P0289 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
50 P0334 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
51 P0364 Assessment of the FDP project aimed to enhance the livelihoods of rural villagers by promoting sustainable
farming practices, encouraging an entrepreneurial mindset, creating an enabling learning environment
and developing employability (self/wage) among rural youths/ farmers/ women by sharpening the existing
skills and knowledge to sustain in existing market
52 P0328 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
53 P0313 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
54 P0282 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
55 G0040 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for HPV vaccination drive.
56 G0166 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for CT scan and MRI machines to the Municipality
Hospital
57 P0627 Assessment of the FDP project supporting junior athletes for Olympics.
58 P0286 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
59 G0120 Assessment of the FDP project supported with artificial limbs calipers for differently abled.
60 G0161 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for the school infrastructure development.
61 P0311 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
62 P0400 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for women empowerment through creating
sustainable livelihood by providing vocational training.
63 P0212 Assessment of the FDP project for support provided to students for promoting education.
64 P0630 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention
areas.
65 P0635 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention
areas.
66 P0287 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
67 P0466 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
68 P0617 Assessment of the FDP project aiming at fostering competencies rather than content retention, the
program aimed to equip students with the tools needed for academic and lifelong success.
69 P0321 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
70 P0295 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for waste management in intervention areas.
71 P0648 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to strengthen the school infrastructure holistically.
72 P0526 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention
areas.
73 P0279 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
74 P0582 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for women empowerment through creating
sustainable livelihood by providing vocational training.
261
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Sr. Project Code Focus of the Impact Assessment
No.
75 P0280 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
76 P0310 Assessment of the FDP project aimed at improving learning attainment levels and enhancing the learning
experiences of students while fostering holistic development through edutainment methods.
77 P0478 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention
areas.
78 P0064 Assessment of the FDP project, Zero Investment Innovations for Education Initiatives (ZIIEI) aimed to
contribute towards quality education, personality development and skilling by introducing innovative
teaching methods such as arts, sports, storytelling, and project-based learning.
All amounts in INR crore rounded off.
5.
a) Average net profit of the Bank as per sub-section (5) of section 135: INR 53,001.70 Cr
b) Two percent of average net profit of the Bank as per sub-section (5) of section 135: INR 1,060.03 Cr
c) Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: 0.08 Cr
d) Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: INR 0 Cr
e) Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]: INR 1,060.11 Cr
6.
a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): INR 1,039.29 Cr
b) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: INR 20.92 Cr
c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: INR 7.82 Cr
d) Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: INR 1,068.03 Cr
e) CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year:
Total Amount Spent for Amount Unspent (in Rs.)
the Financial Year. (in Rs. Cr)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as
CSR Account as per sub- per second proviso to sub-section (5)
section (6) of section 135. of section 135.
Amount. Date of transfer. Name of the Fund Amount. Date of transfer.
1,068.03 0 NA NA NA NA
(b) Excess amount for set-off, if any:
Sl. Particular Amount (in ` Cr)
No. (rounded off)
(1) (2) (3)
(i) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135 1,060.03
(ii) Total amount spent for the Financial Year 1,068.03
(iii) Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)] 8.00
(iv) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous Financial Years, if any 0.08
(v) Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)] 7.92
262
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
7. Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial Years: NA
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Sl. Preceding Amount Balance Amount Amount transferred to a Fund Amount Deficiency if
No. Financial transferred to Amount in Spent in the as specified under Schedule VII remaining to any
Year(s) Unspent CSR Unspent CSR Financial Year as per second proviso to sub- be spent in
Account under Account under (in `) section (5) of section 135, if any succeeding
sub- section sub- section Financial
(6) of (6) of Years (in `)
section 135 section 135
Amount (in `) Date of Transfer
(in `.) (in `.)
1 FY-1
2 FY-2
3 FY-3
8. Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the
Financial Year:
(cid:51) Yes (cid:123) No
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/ acquired 20
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent
in the Financial Year:
Sl. No. Short particulars of the Pincode of Date of Amount of CSR Details of entity / Authority / beneficiary of the
property or asset(s) the property creation amount spent registered owner
[including complete or asset(s) (in ` )
address and location of
the property]
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
CSR Name Registered
Registration address
Number, if
applicable
1 Lenovo Desktop, Canon 414001, 03-05-2024 15,41,977.58 NA Mahar Regiment Khangabok
Printer, Biometric Matra 900461, (Infantry Desktops were
MFS 470001, Regiment of provided in
144005, Indian Army), 11 States as
734424, Mechanized Ahmed Nagar,
500087, Infantry Maharashtra;
284001, Regimental Dehradun,
342006, Centre, DIAV Uttarakhand;
194101, Dehradun, 2 Bangalore,
522006, ASC Training Karnataka;
273008, Centre Jalandhar,
226002, (Erstwhile ASC Punjab;
560001 Centre, Corps Darjeeling,
of Indian Army, West Bengal;
Indian Army Secunderabad,
Division, EME, Telangana;
Cantonment Jhansi,
Board, HQ Gorakhpur,
Sub Area C/o Lucknow,
56 APO, Leh Uttar Pradesh;
Sub Area, Jodhpur,
Guntur, Andhra Rajasthan;
Pradesh, DIAV Guntur, Andhra
Gorakhpur, Pradesh;
DIAV Lucknow Sagar, Madhya
Pradesh; Leh,
Ladakh
263
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Sl. No. Short particulars of the Pincode of Date of Amount of CSR Details of entity / Authority / beneficiary of the
property or asset(s) the property creation amount spent registered owner
[including complete or asset(s) (in ` )
address and location of
the property]
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
CSR Name Registered
Registration address
Number, if
applicable
2 Medical Grade Oxygen 110005 18-01-2024 1,30,04,273.65 NA Ayurvedic and Ayurvedic and
Generation Plant of Tibbia College Tibbia College,
capacity 57.60 Cu. Mtr Ajmal Khan
per hour equivalent to 960 Road, Block
LPM (catering to 195 beds 56, Karol Bagh,
at flow rate of 5 LPM) New Delhi
3 Ambulance T1 AMB 3350 402304 22-03-2024 21,31,684.00 NA Sahyadri House no 244,
FM 2.6 BS6.2 (9+D+P) AC Vanyajiv at Sambhe,
PS ABS Type-B Rakashnarth Post Kolad,
Samajik Taluka Roha,
Sanstha Raigarh
4 UPS & Server Room 560029 25-06-2024 67,51,283.70 NA National Hosur Road
Creation with Door & Institute / Marigowda
Ventilation; Meeting Room of Mental Road,
Creation with Door & Health and (Lakkasandra,
Ventilation; Meeting Room Neurosciences Wilson Garden),
Table with 6 Chairs (incl (NIMHANS) Bangalore,
2 chairs for Server room); Karnataka
Work Stations with Chair
& Pedestal ; Entrance
Door in Complete Glass;
Covering of Storage below
Granite area with Frame
& Shutter in MR Ply;
Electrical Total Turnkey –
LPSM; CCTV & its Cabling
with 8CH DVR; Painting
Approx & Lumpsum
– Only walls & Roof;
Transportation, Loading
& Unloading; Design &
Supervision & Warranty
Coverage; Vitrified Tiles
with Roff Laying 8x4 tiles
Approx; Grid Ceiling Hilux
Grof Tiling for Roof.
5 Portable Septage 629002 28-06-2024 30,89,500.00 NA Compost Yard Compost Yard
Treatment Unit Vallampurivilai Vallampurivilai,
Beach Road,
Kottar,
Nagarcoil,
Kanyakumari
district- 629002
6 Ambulance - T1 AMB 803116 04-07-2024 26,60,612.66 NA Nalanda Chabilapur
3350 FM2.6 BS VI.2 University road, Dist,
(9+D+P) AC PS ABS near Pilki gaon,
TYPE C Rajgir, Bihar
803116
264
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Sl. No. Short particulars of the Pincode of Date of Amount of CSR Details of entity / Authority / beneficiary of the
property or asset(s) the property creation amount spent registered owner
[including complete or asset(s) (in ` )
address and location of
the property]
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
CSR Name Registered
Registration address
Number, if
applicable
7 150 24-Watt Solar 249401 24-01-2025 34,82,033.62 NA Haridwar district 150 Streetlights
Lights with accessories has been
including installation and installed in
transportation charges different Gram
panchayats
of block
Bhadrabaad,
Haridwar
8 Ultra-portable digital 246401 14-12-2024 3,64,00,000.00 NA Netaji Subhash Set up of 13
-X Ray machine- make 262523 Chandra Bose X-ray machines
Prognosis 246171 Bhavan, Civil in 9 district
246001 Secretariat hospitals
263642 at Chamoli,
249401 Champawat,
263139 Rudraprayag,
262501 Garhwal,
248001 Bageshwar,
Paudi,
Haldwani,
Pithorgarh,
Dehradun
9 Motor vehicle Body 400601 15-04-2025 19,85,114.00 NA Assistant Assistant
Building, Mobile rest room Commissioner Commissioner
for Ladies police of Police, RTO of Police, RTO,
Thane, Near
Kalwa Bridge,
Thane 400601
10 Hemodialysis Machine 768107 14-12-2024 25,95,500.00 NA Community The Medical
4008S NG, RO Plant 500 Health Centre Office(I/C)
LPH, Online UPS 3KVA Fasimal CHC Fasimal
BPE Inbuilt Battery Block -
Jamankira
Dist-Sambalpur
Pin - 768107
11 Cruzio 5360WB OBD2 422222 23-12-2024 30,52,000.00 NA Yashwantrao Yashwantrao
44+D REG – School Bus Chavan Chavan
Maharashtra Maharashtra
Open University Open University,
Gat no -49,
Goverdhan
Village, Nashik
12 Hemodialysis Machine 767020 14-12-2024 25,95,500.00 NA Community The Medical
4008S NG, RO Plant 500 Health Centre Office(I/C) CHC-
LPH, Online UPS 3KVA Loisingha II, Loisingha
BPE Inbuilt Battery Dist-Balangir
Pin - 767020
265
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Sl. No. Short particulars of the Pincode of Date of Amount of CSR Details of entity / Authority / beneficiary of the
property or asset(s) the property creation amount spent registered owner
[including complete or asset(s) (in ` )
address and location of
the property]
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
CSR Name Registered
Registration address
Number, if
applicable
13 Solid waste management 221010 15-03-2025 3,80,05,208.22 NA Sankul Dhara Sankul Dhara
unit with 2-SC - 260 - Transfer Station, Transfer Station,
static Compactor with Varanasi Nagar Sankul Dhara,
tipcart, hopper and 2 Nigam Bhelupur Zone,
container change over Nagar Nigam,
system as per scope of Varanasi
supply; 2-Hook Loader
20253S with chasis (6X2),
GVW, 28T; 6-20 Cum
Container cylindrical type;
1-Civil work of 1 transfer
station
14 30 Carbon Dragon Boat 160001 02-12-2024 9,00,000.00 NA Water Sport Punjab
Paddle Chandigarh education
Department,
Mohali, Punjab
15 Equipment for medical 422004 04-03-2024 31,10,000.00 NA Maharashtra Maharashtra
lab - LC-20AD BLK University of University of
L20106298877, Washing Health Science Health Science,
Kit 20AD, Reservoir University
Tray 20A BLK, Mixer, research
Low Pressure Gradient department,
Unit, DGU-20A5R, Auto Dindori Road,
Sampler SIL-20ACHT, Mhasrul, Nashik
CTO-10ASVP BLK SUB 422004
P-N 228-45059-58,
SPD-M40 Photo Diode
Array, System Controller
CBM 20A LITE, LabSol
LC Connect CS Ready
& L54746101784-KE2,
Solvent Bottles with Cap
5/PKT
16 Neurosurgery Microscope 382007 12-03-2025 61,00,000.00 NA SMVS SMVS, 1,
Swaminarayan Swaminarayan
Hospital & Dham, Opp
Research Infocity, Koba
Foundation (1), Gandhinagar
Highway,
Kudasan,
Gandhinagar,
Gujarat
17 NEOFLY: Customized 160062 01-02-2024 2,11,862.20 NA Wheelchairs for Punjab School
Wheelchair & Neobolt 40 children with Education
Helmet for children with disability Board Complex,
disability in government E - Block, 5th
schools of Punjab floor, Phase -8,
Mohali, Punjab
266
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Sl. No. Short particulars of the Pincode of Date of Amount of CSR Details of entity / Authority / beneficiary of the
property or asset(s) the property creation amount spent registered owner
[including complete or asset(s) (in ` )
address and location of
the property]
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
CSR Name Registered
Registration address
Number, if
applicable
18 E-tricycle for specially 425103 09-03-2024 12,16,000.00 NA E- tricycles for Sugoki Lawns,
abled 400 Persons Shaam Colony,
with Disabilities Paladhi,
Dharangaon,
Jalgaon,
Maharashtra
19 Bailer Thresher Machine 751007 22-02-2024 8,55,900.00 NA Bhubaneshwar ICOMC Tower,
with fully Automatic Coir Municipal Infront of
Yarn Spinning, sensor Corporation Satya Nagar
and auto cut, Willowing Kali Temple
machine, Extraction on Janpath,
Machine, starter, belt, Unit-IX,
pully and conveyor from Bhubaneswar,
Extraction to screener, Odisha
Automatic 4bobbin type
rewinding machine with
sensor, Block making
machine 25HP, Coir
Dutch mat manual
weaving and other tools
and accessories such as
finishing scissor, clipping
scissor, needle & bitter
20 Brush Chipper with 751007 21-02-2024 10,62,000.00 NA Bhubaneshwar ICOMC Tower,
Standard Accessories for Municipal In front of
Bhubaneshwar Municipal Corporation Satya Nagar
Corporation Kali Temple
on Janpath,
Unit-IX,
Bhubaneswar,
Odisha
Note: We have disclosed only the capital assets created / acquired by Bank itself (i.e., invoice is in the name of Bank). The assets created / acquired by
IA where project directly belongs to creation / acquisition is disclosed in the following link: https://v.hdfcbank.com/csr/our-commitment.html. Further,
none of the capital assets created / acquired out of CSR funds, directly by Bank or by IA / other beneficiary have been capitalized in the books of
accounts of Bank and all the expenses have been debited to CSR expenditure in Profit & Loss Statement.
(All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office/Municipal Corporation/ Gram panchayat are
to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well as boundaries).
9. Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per sub-section (5) of
section 135. NA
Sashidhar Jagdishan Sunita Maheshwari
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Chairperson of CSR & ESG Committee
267
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNEXURE 3 TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Performance and financial position of the subsidiaries/entity over which control is exercised of the Bank as on March 31, 2025
Net assets as of March 31, 2025 Profit or (loss) for the year ended
March 31, 2025
Name of entity As % of As % of
Amount Amount
consolidated consolidated
Rs in crore Rs in crore
net assets** profit or loss
Parent:
HDFC Bank Limited 93.18% 501,424.64 91.70% 67,347.36
Subsidiaries:
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (Consolidated)*1 3.00% 16,153.93 2.39% 1,757.94
HDB Financial Services Limited* 3.00% 16,142.41 2.88% 2,117.32
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (Consolidated)*2 1.51% 8,130.96 3.35% 2,456.68
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited* 0.97% 5,201.60 0.66% 485.82
HDFC Securities Limited (Consolidated)*3 0.62% 3,340.85 1.51% 1,111.42
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited* 0.08% 428.16 0.19% 141.33
HDFC Sales Private Limited* 0.05% 273.26 0.10% 71.07
Griha Pte Limited 0.01% 39.17 (0.01%) (4.62)
Griha Investments 0.00% 6.86 (0.01%) (3.98)
HDFC Trustee Company Limited* 0.00% 3.88 0.00% 0.57
Entity over which control is exercised:
HDB Employee Welfare Trust* 0.14% 738.73 0.23% 169.79
Minority Interest 3.04% 16,359.04 3.61% 2,647.92
Inter-company adjustments (5.60%) (30,095.06) (6.60%) (4,858.45)
Total 100.00% 538,148.43 100.00% 73,440.17
*These are Indian entities.
**Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities.
1. HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary - HDFC Pension Fund
Management Limited and wholly owned foreign subsidiary HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited.
2. H DFC Asset Management Company Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary - HDFC AMC International
(IFSC) Limited.
3. HDFC Securities Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary – HDFC Securities IFSC Limited.
268
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
ANNEXURE 4 TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Disclosures on Remuneration 2. P ercentage increase in remuneration of each
Director and Key Managerial Personnel in the
1. Ratio of Remuneration of each Director to FY 2024-25
the median employees’ remuneration for the
FY 2024-25 Designation Percentage Increase
Name and Designation Ratio Directors
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Part-Time Chairman and 21.27 : 1 Managing DirectorA 00.00
Independent Director @
Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Independent Director 22.69 : 1 Deputy Managing DirectorB 00.00
Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Independent Director 27.35 : 1 Executive DirectorC 00.00
Dr. (Mrs). Sunita Maheshwari, Independent 12.46 : 1
Key Managerial Personnel
Director
Mrs. Lily Vadera, Independent Director 17.12 : 1 Chief Financial Officer 29.21
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala, Independent 18.23 : 1 Company SecretaryD 41.71
Director
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan, Independent Director ^ 4.68 : 1
A,B & C As per the salary review process thus far, the
Mr. Keki Mistry, Non-Executive Director 12.26 : 1 salary increment proposal to be effected from April 1st in
Mrs. Renu Karnad, Non-Executive Director 18.23 : 1 a given financial year has been made in the subsequent
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director & 161.28 : 1 financial year post assessment of performance for
Chief Executive Officer * the reference financial year. For e.g. salary increment
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director * 156.76 : 1 proposal to be made to the RBI effective April 01,
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director* 98.90 : 1 2024 is made post assessment of performance for the
Mr. V Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director* 150.69: 1 FY 2024–25. The approval received from the RBI will
therefore be retrospectively applied from April 01, 2024.
*In case of Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer, In light of aforementioned process, the salary increase
Deputy Managing Director and Executive Directors, given in FY 2024-25 is reported to be as zero.
the Bank has considered the annualised fixed pay for
the computation of ratios. Fixed pay includes - salary, The percentage increase in Fixed Pay for the Managing
allowances, retiral benefits as well as value of perquisites Director and Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Managing
as approved by the RBI. Variable Pay has been excluded Director and two Executive Directors for FY 2023-24
from the same. was 5.08%, 7.00%, 6.39% (Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri) & 5.84%
(Mr. V Srinivasa Rangan) respectively. The remuneration
For other Directors the actual remuneration paid for the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer,
during the FY 2024–25 has been considered while Deputy Managing Director and two Executive Directors
calculating the ratio of remuneration to the median for performance in FY 2023-24, effective April 01, 2023
employees’ remuneration. was approved by the RBI vide their letter dated January
07, 2025.
@Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was re-appointed as a Part-Time
Chairman and Independent Director of the Bank for a The salary increase for performance in previous financial
period of three (3) years from May 5, 2024 to May 4, 2027 year i.e. 2023 – 2024 paid retrospectively from April 01,
(both days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation. 2023 was approved by the RBI on January 07, 2025.
^Mr. Santhosh Keshavan was appointed as an DMr. Ajay Agarwal was appointed as the Company
Independent Director of the Bank for the period of three Secretary and Key Managerial Personnel w.e.f.
(3) years from November 18, 2024 to November 17, 2027 July 21, 2024. The percentage increase in Fixed Pay for
(both days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation. the Company Secretary, as shown above is considering
his Fixed Pay as on March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2025.
269
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Non-executive / Independent Directors: 3. Percentage Increase in the median remuneration
of employees in the FY 2024-25
The Non-Executive Directors are paid sitting fees
of ` 50,000 or ` 1,00,000 per meeting for attending The percentage increase in median remuneration of
Committee and Board meetings, the details of which employees in the FY 2024-25 was 9.27%. This includes
are provided in the Report on Corporate Governance. front line sales and overseas staff. This includes only
fixed pay.
Further, pursuant to the circular issued by RBI on
“Review of Fixed Remuneration Granted to Non- 4. T he number of permanent employees on the
Executive Directors” dated February 09, 2024 read rolls of the Bank
with the RBI circular on “Corporate Governance in
As of March 31, 2025, the number of permanent
Banks - Appointment of Directors and Constitution of
employees on the rolls of the Bank was 2,14,521.
Committees of the Board” dated April 26, 2021 and
subsequent resolution passed by the Members of the
5. Average percentage increase already made
Bank through Postal ballot on March 29, 2024, each
in the salaries of employees other than the
Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) of the Bank, other than
managerial personnel in the last financial
the Part-Time Chairman, were paid compensation in
year and its comparison with the percentage
the form of fixed remuneration of ` 30,00,000 (Rupees
increase in the managerial remuneration and
Thirty Lakhs Only) for FY 2024-25. This is in addition to
justification thereof and point out if there are
payment of sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses
any exceptional circumstances for increase in
for attending the Board and Committee meetings.
the managerial remuneration.
Further, pursuant to approval of the Members of The average percentage increase for Key Managerial
the Bank through postal ballot on May 3, 2024 and Personnel: 35.46%*
RBI, Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was re-appointed as the
Part-Time Chairman and Independent Director of the The average percentage increase for Non-Managerial
Bank for a period of 3 (three) years with effect from May Staff : 7.11%
5, 2024 up to May 4, 2027 (both days inclusive), not liable
to retire by rotation at a remuneration of ` 50,00,000 The average percentage increase in the salaries is
(Rupees Fifty Lakhs Only) per annum. inclusive of front-line sales and overseas staff and
is primarily on account of annual fixed pay increase
Accordingly, the details of remuneration paid to and promotions.
Mr. Chakraborty for FY 2024-25 is as under:
*The average percentage increase is only for Company
i. F rom April 1, 2024 to May 4, 2024- ` 35,00,000 Secretary and Chief Financial Officer. Whole Time
(Rupees Thirty Five Lakhs Only) per annum, on a Directors are excluded from the calculation since they
proportionate basis. did not receive increment for FY 2024 – 2025. For more
details please refer to the foot notes to point number 2.
ii. From May 5, 2024 to March 31, 2025- ` 50,00,000
(Rupees Fifty Lakhs Only) per annum, on a 6. Affirmation that the remuneration is as per
proportionate basis. the remuneration policy of the company:
In addition to the above, Mr. Chakraborty was also paid Yes
sitting fees, reimbursement of expenses for attending the
Board and Committee meetings and provision of car for
official and personal use, during FY 2024-25.
270
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
ANNEXURE 5 TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FORM NO. MR-3 III. The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT Rules made thereunder;
For the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025
IV. The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the
Rules / Regulations made thereunder to the extent of
[Pursuant to Section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013
Overseas / Foreign Direct Investments and External
and Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and
Commercial Borrowings;
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
V. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and
To,
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021;
The Members
HDFC Bank Limited,
VI. T he Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
HDFC Bank House,
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
Senapati Bapat Marg,
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
Lower Parel (W), Mumbai,
Maharashtra 400013.
VII. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, including
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance
maintenance of a ‘Structured Digital Database’;
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to
good corporate practices by HDFC Bank Limited, (CIN:
VIII. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial
L65920MH1994PLC080618) (hereinafter called the ‘Bank’)
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 (‘period under
audit’). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that
IX. T he Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
provided us with a reasonable basis for evaluating the
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
Bank’s corporate conducts / statutory compliances and for
expressing our opinion thereon.
X. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
Based on our verification of the Bank’s books, papers, minute
books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained
XI. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories
by the Bank and the information provided by the Bank, its
and Participants) Regulations, 2018;
officers, agents and authorized representatives, during the
conduct of Secretarial Audit, we hereby report that in our
XII. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Bankers to
opinion, the Bank has, during the period under audit, complied
an issue) Regulations, 1994;
with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that
the Bank has proper Board processes and compliance-
XIII. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject
Bankers) Regulations, 1992;
to the reporting made hereinafter.
XIV. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian)
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms
Regulations, 1996;
and returns filed and other records maintained by the Bank for
the period under audit according to the provisions of:
XV. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign
Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019;
I. T he Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the Rules
made thereunder;
XVI. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture
Trustees) Regulations, 1993;
II. The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder;
XVII. The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Intermediaries) Regulation, 2008;
271
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
XVIII. Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010; During the period under audit, provisions of the following
Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities
XIX. K YC / PML Policy on Securities of the Prevention of and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 were not applicable
Money Laundering Act, 2002; to the Bank:
XX. The Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars
Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations,
2002; and 1993 relating to the Companies Act, 2013 and dealing
with clients;
XXI. The Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial
Institutions Act, 1993. (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of
Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;
We have also examined compliance by the Bank with the
applicable clauses of the Secretarial Standard on Meetings of (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-back
Board of Directors and its Committees (SS-1) and Secretarial of Securities) Regulations, 2018.
Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) issued by the Institute
of Company Secretaries of India and notified by the Central We further report that:
Government under Section 118(10) of the Act which are
The Board of Directors of the Bank is duly constituted with
mandatorily applicable to the Bank.
a proper balance of Managing Director, Deputy Managing
Director, Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and
During the period under audit, the Bank has complied with
Independent Directors including women independent directors.
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Standards, as
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors and
mentioned above.
Key Managerial Personnel, which have taken place during the
period under audit were carried out in compliance with the
We have also examined, on test-check basis, the relevant
provisions of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations.
documents and records maintained by the Bank according to
the following laws applicable specifically to the Bank: We would report that there have been instances where the
Regulatory authorities have imposed penalties / fines on the
(a) Banking Regulation Act, 1949, Master Circulars, Bank which have been paid and duly reported to the Stock
Notifications, Guidelines and other directions pertaining Exchanges in accordance with the Regulations.
to commercial banking, issued by the Reserve Bank of
India (RBI), from time to time. The following changes have occurred in the composition of the
Board of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel, as follows:
(b) Other applicable general business laws, rules,
regulations and guidelines. i) Re-appointment of Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (DIN:
01469375), as a Part-time Chairman and Independent
Based on such examination and having regard to the Director of the Bank, for a second term of 3 (three) years,
compliance system prevailing in the Bank, we report that, the from May 05, 2024 to May 04, 2027 (both days inclusive),
Bank has complied with the provisions of the above laws during not liable to retire by rotation as per the approval of RBI,
the period under audit, except for the following observations: shareholders of the Bank through Postal Ballot on May
3, 2024.
a) The maintenance of secretarial records, the processes
relating to holding of meetings of the Board and its ii) Re-appointment of Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri (DIN: 1550468),
committees have shown improvement during the course as a Director of the Bank (Executive Director), liable to
of the Audit period. retire by rotation, at the 30th Annual General Meeting held
on August 09, 2024.
b) During the year, the Bank has received certain
administrative warnings from the regulatory authorities
iii) Re-appointment of Mr. Keki Mistry (DIN: 00008886), as
which have been duly reported to the Stock Exchanges
a Director of the Bank (Non-executive), liable to retire
from time to time. by rotation, at the 30th Annual General Meeting held on
August 09, 2024.
272
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
iv) A ppointment of Mr. Santhosh Iyengar Keshavan (DIN: named as HDFC Securities IFSC Limited, (CIN:
08466631), as an Independent Director of the Bank for a U64990GJ2024PLC155489), a Company limited by
period of 3 (three) years, with effect from November 18, shares, vide Certificate of Incorporation dated October
2024 to November 17, 2027 (both days inclusive), not liable 01, 2024, issued by the Registrar of Companies,
to retire by rotation, as approved by the shareholders of Ahmedabad, Gujarat.
the Bank through Postal Ballot on January 11, 2025.
iii) The Bank has disposed of its 100% stake in Edu Voyage
v) A ppointment of Mr. Ajay Giridharilal Agarwal (ICSI Education Private Limited (earlier known as HDFC
Membership No.: F9023) as the Company Secretary Education and Development Services Private Limited),
and Head of Secretarial & Group Oversight Department in tranches.
of the Bank on July 21, 2024, consequent upon the
iv) The Board of Directors of the Bank at its meeting held
resignation of Mr. Santosh Haldankar as the Company
on July 20, 2024, has provided an in-principle approval
Secretary of the Bank from the close of business hours
to initiate the process of listing of equity shares of HDB
on July 20, 2024.
Financial Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Bank,
through a potential Initial Public Offering (IPO) and to seek
Adequate notices have been given to all directors of the Bank
necessary approvals from the regulatory authorities in
as regards the schedule of the meetings of the Board (including
this regard.
the meetings of its Committees) except where consent of
directors / members of the Committees has been received for
v) The members of the Bank have approved the following
holding the meetings at a shorter notice. Agenda and detailed
at the 30th Annual General Meeting held on August
notes on Agenda were also sent to all the directors of the Bank
09, 2024:
at least seven days in advance, except in cases where consent
of directors / members of the Committees, was received for a. Declaration of Dividend of ` 19.50/- per Equity
circulation of the agenda and notes on Agenda at a shorter
Share of face Value of Re. 1 (Rupee One) each /-,
notice. A system exists for seeking and obtaining further
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024, as
information and clarifications on the agenda items before the
recommended by the Board;
meetings and for meaningful participation by the directors at
the meetings.
b. Appointment of M/s. Batliboi & Purohit, Chartered
Accountants as one of the Joint Statutory Auditors
All decisions at the meetings of the Board and the meetings
of the Bank for a period of 3 (three) years w.e.f.
of the Committees were carried out unanimously as recorded
FY 2024-25 till and including FY 2026-27 and
in the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and
overall audit for FY 2024-25 aggregating to a fee
its Committees. of ` 9,90,00,000 (Nine Crore and Ninety Lakhs) to
be allocated between the Joint Statutory Auditors
We further report that there are adequate systems and
as may be mutually agreed between the Bank and
processes in the Bank, which are commensurate with its
Joint Statutory Auditors.
size and operations, to monitor and ensure compliance with
applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
c. Issue of Long-Term Bonds (financing of infrastructure
and affordable housing), perpetual Debt Instruments
We further report that during the period under audit, the
(part of additional Tier I Capital) and Tier II Capital
following specific events / actions having major bearing on
Bonds of an amount in aggregate not exceeding
the Bank’s affairs have taken place in pursuance of the above ` 60,000/- crore through private placement mode.
referred laws, rules, regulations and standards:
d. G rant, offer, issue and allot 9,50,00,000 (Nine Crore
i) The Bank has allotted 5,53,11,012 equity shares of Re. and Fifty Lakhs) equity stock options (“ESOPs”),
1/- each to the eligible employees of the Bank during the
convertible into 9,50,00,000 (Nine Crore and Fifty
period under audit, pursuant to exercise of options under
Lakhs) equity shares of the nominal face value not
its Employees Stock Options Scheme (ESOS).
exceeding Re. 1 (Rupee One) per equity share under
the Employee Stock Option Master Scheme-2024
ii) A subsidiary of the Bank namely HDFC Securities (“ESOS-Plan H-2024” / “ESOS 2024”), fully paid
Limited has incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary
in one or more tranches.
273
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
vi) The members of the Bank have approved the following Annexure - A
through Postal Ballot involving the process of e-voting
To,
on March 26, 2025:
The Members,
HDFC Bank Limited
a. Material Related Party Transactions with HDB
Financial Services Limited, proposed to be entered HDFC Bank House,
during the financial year 2025-26 up to an amount Senapati Bapat Marg,
of Rs. 40,234 crores. Lower Parel (W), Mumbai,
Maharashtra 400013.
b. Material Related Party Transactions with HDFC
Re: Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read
Securities Limited, proposed to be entered during
along with this letter.
the financial year 2025-26 which could aggregate,
up to Rs. 8,248 crores. 1. M aintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility
of the Management. Our responsibility is to express an
c. Material Related Party Transactions with HDFC
opinion on the secretarial records based on our audit.
Life Insurance Company Limited, proposed to be
entered during the financial year 2025-26 which 2. We have followed the audit practices and processes
could in aggregate, be up to Rs. 40,695 crores. as were considered appropriate to obtain reasonable
assurance about the correctness of the contents of the
d. Material Related Party Transaction with HDFC ERGO secretarial records. The verification was done on test-
General Insurance Company Limited, proposed to check basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected
be entered during the financial year 2025-26 which in secretarial records. We believe that the process and
could in aggregate, be up to Rs. 9,249 crores. practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.
e. Material Related Party Transactions with PayU
3. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness
Payments Private Limited, proposed to be entered
of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Bank.
during the financial year 2025-26 which could, in
aggregate, be up to Rs. 1,521 crores.
4. Wherever required, we have obtained Management
representation about the compliance of laws, rules and
f. M aterial Related Party Transactions with HCL
regulations and happening of material events, etc.
Technologies Limited, proposed to be entered
during the financial year 2025-26 which could in 5. The compliance of the provisions or corporate and
aggregate, be up to Rs. 2,500 crores. other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards, is
the responsibility of the Management. Our examination
For BNP & Associates was limited to the verification of procedures on test-
Company Secretaries check basis.
[Firm Reg No: P2014MH037400]
6. The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as
PR No: 6316/2024
to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficacy or
Date: April 19, 2025 effectiveness with which the Management has conducted
the affairs of the Bank.
Place: Mumbai
For BNP & Associates
Sd/
Company Secretaries
Kalidas Ramaswami
[Firm Reg No: P2014MH037400]
Partner
PR No: 6316/2024
FCS: F2440 / COP: 22856
UDIN: F002440G000122549 Date: April 19, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date
which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part Sd/
of this report. Kalidas Ramaswami
Partner
FCS: F2440 / COP: 22856
UDIN: F002440G000122549
274
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
ANNEXURE 6 TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
1. Disclosure for complaints and grievance redressal
Summary information on complaints received by the Bank from the customers and from the Office of Ombudsman.
Sr. Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No
Complaints received by the bank from its customers
1 Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year 14,232 13,361
1.1 Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) NA 1,224
2 Number of complaints received during the year 4,57,466 4,85,339
3 Number of complaints disposed during the year 4,55,392 4,85,692
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the bank* 1,50,965 1,27,112
4 Number of complaints pending at the end of the year 16,306 14,232
Maintainable complaints received by the bank from RBIOs*
5 Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from RBIOs 13,578 14,563
5.1 Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the bank by RBIOs 6,515 6,834
5.2 Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation / mediation / advisories 7,063 7,729
issued by RBIOs
5.3 Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by RBIOs against NIL 1
the bank
6 Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than those NIL NIL
appealed)
* Total cases referred to Internal Ombudsman (IO) was 1,65,081 cases (previous year: 1,40,646 cases) of
which 1,50,965 cases (previous year: 1,27,112 cases) were complaints.
Overall complaints summary for the financial years:
Description March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
A Total number of complaints 7,25,047 7,39,759
B Complaints redressed by the bank within one working day / duplicate complaints 2,67,581 2,54,420
C Net Reportable Complaints (A - B) 4,57,466 4,85,339
275
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2025:
Grounds of complaints (i.e. Number of Addition Number of % increase / Number of Of 6, number
complaints relating to) complaints on amalg- complaints (decrease) in complaints of complaints
pending at amation received the number pending at pending
the beginning ( Refer during the of complaints the end of the beyond 30
of the year Schedule year received over year* days
18(1)) the previous
year
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
ATM / Debit Cards 3,013 - 1,19,694 (17%) 3,467 218
Credit Cards 2,565 - 1,16,242 23% 3,839 3
Internet / Mobile / Electronic 2,910 - 1,00,306 (11%) 3,160 21
Banking
Loans and advances 3,981 - 64,833 (13%) 3,927 6
Account opening / difficulty in 327 - 20,986 (14%) 386 1
operation of accounts
Others 1,436 - 35,405 3% 1,527 29
Total 14,232 - 4,57,466 (6%) 16,306 278
* All these cases were pending within the stipulated turnaround time (TAT) of the Bank.
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2024:
Grounds of complaints (i.e. Number of Addition on Number of % increase Number of Of 6, number
complaints relating to) complaints amalgamation complaints / (decrease) complaints of complaints
pending at the ( Refer received during in the number pending at the pending
beginning of Schedule 18(1)) the year of complaints end of the year* beyond 30 days
the year received over
the previous
year
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
ATM / Debit Cards 2,955 1,44,803 (12%) 3,013 72
Credit Cards 2,207 94,755 21% 2,565 0
Internet / Mobile / 3,621 1,12,279 16% 2,910 24
Electronic Banking
Loans and advances 3,168 1,208 74,491 66% 3,981 0
Account opening / 247 16 24,472 46% 327 2
difficulty in operation
of accounts
Others 1,163 34,539 21% 1,436 9
Total 13,361 1,224 4,85,339 13% 14,232 107
* All these cases were pending within the stipulated turnaround time (TAT) of the Bank.
276
HDFC Bank Limited
CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVSEtatuRtoryN RepAorts Nand FCinanEcia l Statements
To,
The Members of
HDFC Bank Limited
HDFC Bank House,
Senapati Bapat Marg,
Lower Parel (West),
Mumbai – 400013.
We, BNP & Associates have examined all relevant records of HDFC Bank Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Bank”)
as provided for the purpose of certifying the compliance ensured by the Bank of applicable disclosure requirements and
corporate governance norms as prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“LODR”), during the financial year ended March 31, 2025. We have obtained all the information
and explanations, which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were necessary for the purpose of this certification.
We state that the compliance with Corporate Governance requirements is the responsibility of the management of the Bank
and our examination is limited to procedures and implementation thereof, as adopted by the Bank for ensuring compliance. It
is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Bank.
In our opinion, and to the best of the information and explanations provided to us, we certify that the Bank has complied with
the conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in the LODR during the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
We further state that the above certification is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor the efficiency or
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Bank during the financial year.
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
(Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400)
PR No. 6316/2024
Kalidas Ramaswami
Partner
FCS No.: F2440
CP No.: 22856
UDIN: F002440G000423817
Date: May 23, 2025
Place: Mumbai
277
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
CERTIFICATE UNDER SEBI LISTING REGUL ATIONS
To,
The Members of
HDFC Bank Limited
HDFC Bank House,
Senapati Bapat Marg,
Lower Parel (West),
Mumbai – 400013.
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of HDFC Bank
Limited [CIN.: L65920MH1994PLC080618] (hereinafter called the “Bank”) having its Registered Office at HDFC Bank
House, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel (West), Mumbai – 400013 and also the information provided by the Bank, its officers
and the authorised representatives for the purpose of issuance of the Certificate, in accordance with Regulations 34 (3) read
with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10 (i) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements), Regulations, 2015 (“LODR”), as amended from time to time.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications {including Directors Identification Number
(DIN) status at the portal (www.mca.gov.in)} as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Bank and its
officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Bank as stated below for the Financial Year ended on
March 31, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of the Bank by Securities
and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.
S. No. Name of the Director DIN Date of Appointment in the
Bank *
1. Mr. Atanu Chakraborty1 01469375 05/05/2021
2. Mr. M.D. Ranganath 07565125 31/01/2019
3. Mr. Sandeep Parekh 03268043 19/01/2019
4. Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 01641411 30/03/2021
5. Mrs. Lily Vadera 09400410 26/11/2021
6. Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 06417704 25/01/2024
7. Mr. Santhosh Iyengar Keshavan2 08466631 18/11/2024
8. Mr. Keki Mistry 00008886 30/06/2023
9. Mrs. Renu Karnad 00008064 03/03/2020
10. Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 08614396 27/10/2020
11. Mr. Kaizad Bharucha 02490648 24/12/2013
12. Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri 01550468 19/04/2023
13. Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan 00030248 23/11/2023
* Date of appointment is taken from MCA
1. Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was re-appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank for a period of three (3) years from May
5, 2024 up to May 4, 2027 (both days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation.
2. Mr. Santhosh Iyengar Keshavan was appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank for the period of three (3) years
from November 18, 2024 to November 17, 2027 (both days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation.
278
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of
the Bank. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance
as to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs
of the Bank.
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
[Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
PR No. 6316/2024
Kalidas Ramaswami
Partner
FCS No.: F2440
CP No.: 22856
Date: May 13, 2025 UDIN: F002440G000327446
Place: Mumbai
279
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE commitment to nation-building and job creation. As Bank's
role expands, so does Bank's emphasis on strong governance
The corporate governance environment in India has evolved across the HDFC Bank Group. The Bank remains steadfast
significantly over the years, driven by regulatory reforms and in upholding ethical practices, transparency and strong risk
increasing emphasis on transparency, accountability and management—ensuring we retain the trust that defines
ethical business practices. our legacy.
India’s corporate governance landscape is characterized Commitment to good governance has a distinctive competitive
by a strong focus on compliance and the adoption of best advantage, enhances trust and creates long-term sustainability.
practices. Companies are encouraged to implement robust The Bank is committed to maintaining the highest level of
internal control systems, audit mechanisms and policies ethical standards, professional integrity, corporate governance
related to whistleblowing, anti-corruption and anti-bribery. and regulatory compliance. Its business philosophy is based
on five core values: Operational Excellence, Customer Focus,
The emphasis on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) further Product Leadership, People and Sustainability.
strengthens the governance framework, with companies
required to contribute to social and environmental causes. During FY 2024-25, the Bank strengthened its governance
architecture to reflect the growing complexity of operations
The digitisation of corporate governance is also a across the group. The Bank has formalised oversight
transformative trend that is reshaping how companies manage mechanisms across the group through the introduction of
their governance practices. a structured Group Oversight Framework. This aligns with
regulatory guidance on financial conglomerates and reinforces
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Securities and Bank's approach to responsible growth, risk management and
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) have continued to raise the institutional integrity.
bar on corporate governance standards in India. The Business
Responsibility and Sustainability Framework introduced by The Bank has a strong corporate governance framework
SEBI, is rightly urging companies to increase their non-financial comprising robust board governance processes, internal
disclosures which helps to provide a more holistic perspective control systems and audit mechanisms, which are implemented
about a company. through its policies, procedures, code of conduct and ethics
and corporate governance guidelines.
Philosophy on Code of Corporate Governance
The Bank has a two-tiered Board structure with the Board of
The Bank is one of India’s leading private bank and was
Directors at helm, supported by Committees of the Board.
among the first to receive approval from the RBI to set up a
The Board of Directors comprised of seasoned and diverse
private sector bank in 1994. Since its inception, the Bank has
professionals, serve as the principal steward of the Bank’s
imbibed the principles of kindness, fairness, efficiency and
governance philosophy. They ensure that oversight is both
effectiveness in all its activities.
strategic and values-driven. Through its formally constituted
Committees, the Board provides active oversight across
Corporate governance also plays a crucial role during mergers
operational conduct, regulatory compliance, technology and
to ensure transparency, accountability and compliance
cyber resilience, risk management, financial stewardship,
with regulatory standards. During the merger of Housing
succession planning and other critical areas that shape
Development Finance Corporation Limited (HDFC Limited)
the Bank’s sustained performance. Bank's approach to
with and into the Bank, the corporate governance standards
governance is anchored in a firm commitment to ethical
were meticulously followed to facilitate a smooth transition and
leadership, robust internal controls and alignment with
integration of the systems and processes and adherence to all
stakeholder expectations. This is reflected in practices such
regulatory requirements.
as linking executive compensation to long-term performance
outcomes and maintaining a vigilant whistle-blower mechanism
Two years into the merger, the integration of HDFC Limited’s
that safeguards transparency. The continued engagement of
home loan expertise with the Bank’s scale and reach has
the Board and its Committees ensures that accountability,
solidified the Bank’s position as a leading financial institution.
responsiveness, and trust remain embedded in how the Bank
The Bank has also enhanced its capacity to support large-
operates and grows.
scale financing and infrastructure financing with its continued
280
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Shareholders Board of Directors Regulators
Stakeholders’ Nomination & Risk Policy &
Audit CSR & ESG
Relationship Remuneration Monitoring
Committee Committee
Committee Committee Committee
Managing Director
External and
Internal Auditors
Whole-Time Directors
The Bank has set the highest standards by adhering to sound promotes alignment between performance, accountability
and effective corporate governance practices and strong and sustainable value creation.
leadership. The Bank has complied with the requirements
stipulated under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure We have instituted a structured Grievance Redressal
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (SEBI Listing Regulations), Mechanism to ensure prompt and transparent resolution
the Companies Act, 2013, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 of customer concerns. Further information on complaints
and corporate governance norms issued by the RBI from time addressed during the year is available in Annexure 6 of the
to time. Directors’ Report.
Culture of Transparency and Accountability We also maintain a strong commitment to workplace dignity
and safety. The Bank adopts a zero-tolerance approach to
At the Bank, transparency and accountability are foundational sexual harassment, supported by an Internal Committee
to how we govern and engage. Anchored in globally recognised established under the Prevention of Sexual Harassment
governance principles, we strive to ensure that our disclosures Framework. Disclosures relating to this are available further
are timely, accurate and structured to support regulatory down in this Report.
compliance as well as informed stakeholder dialogue.
Group Oversight Framework
This ethos is reflected in a coherent set of governance policies
As the Bank continues to grow in scale with a diversified financial
that uphold consistency, fairness and disciplined conduct.
group, the need for coordinated oversight across Group
These include the Share Dealing Code and the Code of
entities has become increasingly important. With effect from
Practices and Procedure for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished
April 2024, the Bank formally introduced a Group Oversight
Price Sensitive Information, which ensures responsible
Framework to reinforce governance across subsidiaries.
communication and safeguard of price-sensitive information.
Our standards of integrity are articulated through the Code The Framework outlines a structured approach for Group-
of Ethics and Conduct, which applies across all levels of the wide effective oversight, reporting and escalation. The Bank’s
organisation. These principles are reinforced by our Whistle- Board is kept informed through periodic updates, with critical
blower Policy, which provides a secure and impartial platform matters—such as key risks, governance issues and related-
for reporting concerns, and a Compensation Policy that party exposures by the Group Oversight Department. Group
281
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
entities and control functions report relevant developments Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Section
and metrics through defined channels, as set out in the 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and are independent of the
framework. Detailed disclosure in relation to the same is management of the Bank.
included in the Management Discussion and Analysis section
Each of the Directors of the Bank have confirmed that he/she
of this Integrated Annual Report.
is not debarred from holding the office of director by virtue
ESG Principles of any order by SEBI or any other authority. The Directors
have ascertained that neither they nor any other company on
At the Bank, Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) which they serve as Directors have been identified as a wilful
principles are integrated into both decision-making and long- defaulter. Each of the Directors of the Bank have confirmed
term strategy. We recognise that ESG plays a critical role in that he/she satisfies the fit and proper criteria as prescribed
strengthening risk management, operational discipline and under the applicable regulations and none of the Directors are
stakeholder value. related to each other.
To support these commitments, we have implemented a As on the date of this report, the Board consists of thirteen
structured ESG governance framework with oversight at (13) Directors.
both the Board and executive levels. Detailed disclosure
can be found in the Environment section of this Integrated
Board Diversity by Gender
Annual Report.
As on March 31, 2025 Board Average Tenure
Board of Directors
Male 10 4.15 years
The composition of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“Board”)
Female 3
is governed by the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, SEBI Listing Regulations and
other applicable laws. Details of the Board of Directors including their directorships/
memberships in committees of public companies as at the
In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors continue
date of this report are as under:
to fulfil the criteria prescribed for an independent director in
Directorships on Memberships of
Sr.
Category Name of Director the Board of other committees of other
No.
companies companies*
1. Independent i. M r. Atanu Chakraborty (Part-time Chairman and Independent - -
Directors Director)
ii. Mr. M. D. Ranganath 1 1
iii. Mr. Sandeep Parekh - -
iv. Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 1 -
v. Mrs. Lily Vadera - -
vi. Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 1 1
vii. Mr. Santhosh Keshavan - -
2. Non-Executive i. Mr. Keki Mistry 5 (2) 5 (3)
(Non-Independent) ii. Mrs. Renu Karnad 6 (1) 7 (2)
Directors
3. Executive Directors i. M r. Sashidhar Jagdishan (Managing Director and Chief - -
Executive Officer)
ii. M r. Kaizad Bharucha (Deputy Managing Director) 3 -
iii. Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri 3 (1) 3 (1)
iv. Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan 2 3
* The figures in brackets indicate chairpersonships.
Note: For the purpose of considering the limit of the directorships and committees on which the directors are members / chairpersons, all public limited
companies (whether listed or not) have been included. All Private companies, foreign companies, companies under Section 8 of the Companies Act,
2013, Partnership Firms, LLP, HUF, Sole Proprietorship and Association of Individuals (Trust, Society) have not been included. Further, chairpersonships
/ memberships of only the Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee have been considered.
The number of directorships held by all Directors as well as their membership/chairmanship in committees is within the prescribed
limits under the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI Listing Regulations.
282
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Appointment of Director(s) approved by the shareholders of the Bank through Postal
Ballot on January 11, 2025.
The Bank has a Board approved Policy on Appointment and Fit
and Proper Criteria for Directors, based on which an existing Profile of Board of Directors
director whose appointment is intended to be continued and
The profile of the Directors of the Bank is provided elsewhere
a new director proposed to be appointed, is evaluated.
in this Integrated Annual Report.
The said policy is available on the Bank’s website at
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate- Responsibilities of the Board
governance/codes-and-policies
The Board represents the interests of the Bank’s stakeholders
The Bank recognizes the importance of a diverse Board in optimising long-term value by providing the management
which leverages different perspectives, knowledge, with guidance and strategic direction. The Board’s
experience and expertise, which would help the Bank retain mandate is to oversee the Bank’s strategic direction, review
its competitive advantage. corporate performance, maintain highest ethical standards
of governance, assess the adequacy of risk management
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of Directors
and mitigation measures, evaluate internal financial controls,
recommends and the Board approves the appointment/
authorise and monitor strategic investments, facilitate and
re-appointment of non-executive and executive directors,
review Board and senior management succession planning
subject to the approval of the shareholders. The process for
and oversee regulatory compliance, environmental and
re-appointment of non-executive directors entails a detailed
corporate social responsibility activities.
evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience
of the existing Directors. New Directors are inducted after The responsibilities of the Board also include ensuring that
assessing skill requirements of the Board and identifying areas the Bank is transparent in all its dealings with its stakeholders,
of expertise which would be beneficial to the Bank. overseeing the effectiveness of key executives of the Bank and
aligning the remuneration policy with the long-term interests
During the year, pursuant to approval of the Shareholders
of the Bank and its stakeholders.
of the Bank through postal ballot on May 03, 2024 and the
RBI, Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was re-appointed as the Part-
The Bank has a Directors’ & Officers’ liability insurance policy,
time Chairman and Independent Director of the Bank for a
which provides indemnity to its Directors and all employees
period of 3 (three) years with effect from May 05, 2024 up to
in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office. All
May 04, 2027 (both days inclusive) and not liable to retire by
the Board members ensure that their work in other capacities
rotation. Further, the shareholders and the RBI also approved
does not impinge on their fiduciary responsibilities as Directors
an increase in remuneration payable to Mr. Chakraborty from
of the Bank.
` 35,00,000 (Rupees Thirty-Five Lakhs Only) per annum to
` 50,00,000 (Rupees Fifty Lakhs Only) per annum with effect
from May 5, 2024.
Further, the Board at its meeting held on November 18,
2024 appointed Mr. Santhosh Keshavan as an Independent
Director of the Bank for a period of 3 (three) years with effect
from November 18, 2024 to November 17, 2027 (both days
inclusive) and not liable to retire by rotation, which was also
283
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
A chart or a matrix setting out the skills /expertise / competence of the Board of Directors:
The Board comprises directors that bring a wide range of skills, expertise and experience which enhances overall Board
effectiveness. The Bank has identified the core skills/expertise (see table below) required by the Directors of the Bank, keeping in
mind the business requirements which span across parameters such as industry experience, technical/strategic competencies,
behavioural, other attributes and skills in line with the relevant provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and relevant
circulars issued by the RBI from time to time.
Our Board is distinguished by a diverse array of skills and
9 BBBuussiinness Management eexxppeertise, spanning accountancy, business managemeenntt,,
bbaannking, payment and risk management etc. We emphassiizzee 3 Law
iinnddeependence and inclusion, ensuring a rich tapestryy ooff
88 RRRiisskk Management bbaacckgrounds and proficiencies among our members. Frroomm
ffiinnaancial acumen to industry insights, our Boarrdd''ss
3 IInnffoorrrmation Technology
ccoommposition epitomizes a commitment to effecttiivvee
777 FFiinnaaanncce ddeeccision-making and accountability. Furthermore, wwee
aaccttiively seek input from external experts to continuaallllyy
rreeffiinne our governance processes. This collective wisddoomm 22 SSSmmaall Scale Industry
eennssuures strategic oversight and propels our unwaverriinnggg
6 AAAccccoouunntancy ddeeddication to governance excellence.
2 Human Resource
66 BBBaannkkiinng
13 11 CCCoo--ooperation
55 Economics
Board of
1 Agriculture and Rural Economy
33 Payment & Settlement Systems Directors
A tabular representation of the same is as below:
Skill Areas Mr. Atanu Mr. M.D. Mr. Dr. (Mrs.) Mrs. Lily Dr. (Mr.) Mr. Mr. Keki Mrs. Renu Mr. Mr. Kaizad Mr. Mr. V.
ChakrabortyRanganath Sandeep Sunita Vadera Harsh Santhosh Mistry Karnad Sashidhar Bharucha Bhavesh Srinivasa
Parekh Maheshwari Kumar Keshavan Jagdishan Zaveri Rangan
Bhanwala
Business (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590)
Management
Risk (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590)
Management
Finance (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590)
Accountancy (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590)
Banking (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590)
Economics (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590)
Payment & (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590)
Settlement
Systems
Law (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590)
Information (cid:1590) (cid:1590) (cid:1590)
Technology
Small-Scale (cid:1590) (cid:1590)
Industry
Human (cid:1590) (cid:1590)
Resources
Co-operation (cid:1590)
Agriculture (cid:1590)
and Rural
Economy
284
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Board Meetings and Annual General Meeting presentations on various matters including the financial results,
(AGM) annual plans and strategies, liquidity, cyber security and
information technology, operational and business continuity
The meetings of the Board are normally held at the Bank’s
measures of the Bank, customer grievances and customer
office in Mumbai. Meetings are generally scheduled well in
services framework, credit portfolio quality, IT strategic
advance and the notice of each Board meeting is given in
initiatives, ESG & climate risk, Sustainable Livelihood (SLI),
writing to each director. The Board Members endeavor to
compliance and risk management strategy, rewards strategy,
attend and participate in all Board meetings, unless he/she is
Enterprise-Wide Risk Management (ERM) Framework, global
unable to attend the meeting on account of reasonable cause
macro environment and any other relevant matter which the
for which leave of absence is requested, which is considered
Board needs to be apprised of.
by the Board for approval. Video-conference (VC) facility is
also provided in case any director is unable to attend the The minutes of each Board meeting are finalised and recorded
meeting physically but wishes to participate through VC. in the minutes book. Post the board meetings, the Bank has
a system of communication and follow up on actions required
The Board meets at least once a quarter to review the quarterly
to be taken by the management as suggested by the Board
performance and financial results of the Bank. Members of the
and the same is updated to the Board.
Board are free to convene a Board meeting at any time and
shall inform the company secretary regarding the same. In Directors are also encouraged to attend relevant programs
case of a special and urgent business need, Board approval and seminars conducted by reputed external organizations.
is taken by passing resolutions by circulation as permitted
by law, which is noted and confirmed at the subsequent During the financial year under review, fourteen (14) Board
Board meeting. meetings were held. The meetings were held on April 20, 2024,
April 29, 2024, June 20, 2024, July 20, 2024, August 21, 2024,
The company secretary in consultation with the Chairman, September 20, 2024, October 19, 2024, November 18, 2024,
the whole-time directors and the Group Heads prepares a November 27, 2024, December 20, 2024, January 22, 2025,
detailed agenda for the meetings. The Board is provided February 20, 2025, March 27, 2025 and March 28, 2025.
with the relevant information as stipulated in the SEBI
Listing Regulations. The Board members have access to The Bank endeavors that the gap between the approval
all information of the Bank. The Board papers, agenda and of financial results by the Audit Committee and the Board
explanatory notes are circulated to the directors well in is kept to minimum, as required under the provisions of
advance and are made available on a digital platform. The SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. The
members of the Board are free to recommend inclusion of any attendance of the Directors at the above-mentioned Board
matter in the agenda for discussion. The Chairman moderates meetings and at the 30th Annual General Meeting held on
August 9, 2024, are listed below:
the overall discussion to arrive at a conclusive and consensus
opinion and also summarizes the discussions to ensure that
decisions taken are appropriately recorded.
Senior management of the Bank is invited to attend the Board
meetings to discuss matters pertaining to their respective
business verticals so as to provide additional inputs on the
matters being discussed by the Board. At the Board meetings,
the whole-time directors and senior management make
285
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Name of the Director No. of Board Meetings held No. of Board Meetings Attendance at last AGM
during the financial year* attended during the financial (August 9, 2024)
year
Non-Executive (Independent)
Directors
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty 14 14 Present
Mr. M. D. Ranganath 14 13 Present
Mr. Sandeep Parekh 14 14 Present
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 14 12 Present
Mrs. Lily Vadera 14 14 Present
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 14 14 Present
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan1 6 6 N.A.
Non-Executive (Non-Independent)
Directors
Mr. Keki Mistry 14 13 Present
Mrs. Renu Karnad 14 14 Present
Executive Directors
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 14 14 Present
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha 14 13 Present
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri 14 13 Present
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan 14 14 Present
* The maximum number of meetings that a Director was eligible to attend during the financial year
1. Mr. Santhosh Keshavan was appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank with effect from November 18, 2024.
Leave of absence was granted to the concerned director who could not attend the concerned board meeting
Composition of Committees of Directors, Terms of Reference and Attendance at the Meetings
To enable better and more focused attention on the affairs of the Bank, the Board delegates particular matters to Committees
of the Board set up for the purpose. These Committees prepare the groundwork for decision-making and report the same to
the Board at the subsequent meetings. These Committees monitor the activities as per the scope defined in their charter and
terms of reference.
There have been no instances wherein the Board has not accepted the recommendations of any committee.
The composition and functioning of these Board committees is in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies
Act, 2013, SEBI Listing Regulations and applicable guidelines issued by RBI.
286
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Composition of Committees of Directors as on the date of this Report is as follows:
Name of the Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors
Committee
Mr. Atanu Mr. M.D. Mr. Dr. (Mrs.) Mrs. Lily Dr. (Mr.) Mr. Mr. Keki Mrs. Mr. Mr. Kaizad Mr. Mr. V.
ChakrabortyRanganath Sandeep Sunita Vadera Harsh Santhosh Mistry Renu Sashidhar Bharucha Bhavesh Srinivasa
Parekh Maheshwari Kumar Keshavan Karnad Jagdishan Zaveri Rangan
Bhanwala
Audit
Nomination and
Remuneration
Stakeholders’
Relationship
CSR & ESG
Risk Policy and
Monitoring
Fraud Monitoring
Customer
Service
Credit Approval
IT Strategy*
Review
Committee for
Wilful Defaulters’
Identification
Review
Committee for
Non-Cooperative
Borrowers
Premises
Investments
Strategy
Committee for
Resolution of
NCLT Matters
*Includes external IT consultant in addition to the above members.
Chairperson of the Committee Member of the Committee
287
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
BRIEF TERMS OF REFERENCE OF BOARD COMMITTEES
Audit Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• Review and discuss with management and the independent auditor, the Bank’s annual financial statements, interim financial statements, auditor’s report thereon
and all internal control reports before submission to the Board for approval, with particular reference to:
(cid:3) (cid:123) matters required to be included in the director’s responsibility statement to be included in the board’s report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the
Companies Act, 2013;
(cid:123)(cid:3)(cid:3)changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same;
(cid:123)(cid:3)(cid:3)major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by management;
(cid:123)(cid:3)(cid:3)s(cid:3)ignificant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings;
(cid:123)(cid:3)(cid:3)compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements;
(cid:123)(cid:3)(cid:3)disclosure of any related party transactions;
(cid:123)(cid:3)(cid:3)modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report.
• Overseeing the Bank’s compliances with legal and regulatory requirements.
• Overseeing the independent auditor’s qualifications and independence.
• Overseeing the performance of the Bank’s independent auditor and internal audit, compliance and vigilance functions.
• Overseeing the Bank’s systems of disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls over financial reporting, and compliance with ethical standards adopted
by the Bank.
• Reviewing the disclosure required by Section 303A.11 of NYSE Continued Listing Standards in Form 20-F.
• (cid:3)Review of modus operandi / findings of any internal investigations, quarterly analysis of suspected / actual frauds or irregularity reported by the bank, failure of
internal control system of material nature, etc.
• (cid:3)Review important guidelines, circulars, notifications / directions etc. issued by RBI, SEBI, MCA and other regulatory bodies.
•(cid:3)(cid:3) Review the functioning of the whistle blower mechanism.
• Establish, review and update periodically a code of business conduct and ethics and determine whether management has established a system to enforce this
code.
• Review of compliance with the Bank’s Share Dealing Code and SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and verify that the systems for internal
control are adequate and are operating effectively.
• Grant of approval / omnibus approval for related party transactions as defined in the Board-approved ‘Policy on Related Party Transactions’ of the Bank and for
their subsequent modifications, if any.
• Review at least on a quarterly basis, the details of related party transactions entered into by the Bank pursuant to the approvals given.
Capitals Impacted FFinancial, Social and Relationship capital
Stakeholders Impacted IInvestors and Government and Regulatory Bodies
Composition MMMr. M. D. Ranganath (Chairman), Mrs. Lily Vadera and Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala, all of whom are Independent Directors. Mr. M. D.
RRanganath and Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala are the members of Audit Committee having financial expertise.
DDDuring the financial year under review, the Audit Committee met 17 (seventeen) times on April 5, 2024, April 16, 2024, April 29, 2024, June
Meetings 66, 2024, June 28, 2024, July 15, 2024, August 3, 2024, August 20, 2024, September 27, 2024, October 17, 2024, November 25, 2024,
DDecember 5, 2024, January 10, 2025, February 18, 2025, March 5, 2025, March 13, 2025 and March 30, 2025.
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• Formulating criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a director and recommending to the Board of Directors a policy relating
to the remuneration of the Directors, key managerial personnel and other employees.
• Scrutinizing the nominations of candidature for the purpose of appointment as Directors, inter alia with reference to their qualifications and experience, confirming
compliance with ‘Fit and Proper’ criteria, assessing competency of the persons and making suitable recommendations to the Board.
• Reviewing compensation levels of the Bank’s employees vis-à-vis other banks and the banking industry in general.
• Formulation of criteria and specifying manner for evaluation of performance of individual Directors including Independent Directors, the Board of Directors and its
Committees.
• Formulation and administration of the Bank’s Employee Stock Options (ESOP) schemes, plans/ schemes for Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and such other stock
or stock-based incentive plans/schemes, including granting of ESOPs and RSUs and prescribing terms and conditions applicable to such instruments.
• Overseeing the implementation of the respective Codes of Conduct & Ethics Policy of the Bank established and approved by the Board, applicable to the Board
members as well as all employees of the Bank.
• Recommending remuneration of whole-time directors as well as recommending appointment including remuneration of Senior Management Personnel, to the
Board.
Capitals Impacted HHuman capital
Stakeholders Impacted EEmployees
Composition DDDr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala (Chairman), Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Mr. M.D. Ranganath and Mr. Sandeep Parekh. All the members of the
CCommittee are independent Directors.
DDDuring the financial year under review, the Nomination & Remuneration Committee met 17 (seventeen) times on April 19, 2024, May 3, 2024,
Meetings JJune 10, 2024, June 18, 2024, July 5, 2024, July 19, 2024, August 5, 2024, August 20, 2024, September 19, 2024, October 18, 2024, October
229, 2024, November 15, 2024, November 25, 2024, December 9, 2024, January 21, 2025, January 30, 2025 and March 26, 2025.
288
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• Monitoring the grievances /complaints relating to transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual reports, non-receipt of dividend, issue of duplicate share
certificates and new certificates on split / consolidation / renewal, general meetings, non-receipt of interest on debentures / bonds, etc.;
• Noting of investor service requests relating to transmission, sub-division/ splitting and consolidation of securities certificate, issue of letter of
confirmation, claim from unclaimed suspense account, and to consider requests for dematerialization and re-materialization of shares.
• Reviewing the measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders and reviewing adherence to the service standards adopted in respect of
various services being rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
• Reviewing various measures and initiatives taken by the Bank for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants
annual reports / statutory notices by the shareholders of the Bank.
• Resolving grievances of debenture holders, payment of interest / principal, maintenance of security cover and any other covenants.
• Noting of allotment of shares to the employees of the Bank on exercise of stock options and any other incentive-based instrument(s) granted under the various
Schemes of the Bank.
Capitals Impacted FFinancial, Human, Social and Relationship capital
Stakeholders Impacted IInvestors, Employees, Government and Regulatory Bodies
MMMr. Keki Mistry (Chairman), Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mrs. Lily Vadera, Mrs. Renu Karnad, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha and Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan.
Composition DDetails of re-constitution: Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan was inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025. Out of the
ttotal Directors, 2 Directors are independent.
Meetings During the financial year under review, the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee met 5 (five) times on April 15, 2024, July 16, 2024, October
16, 2024, November 19, 2024 and January 16, 2025.
CSR & ESG Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• Formulation of Bank’s CSR and ESG Strategy, Policy and Goals and recommending the CSR Annual Action Plan to the Board.
• Identification of the areas of CSR activities and recommend to the Board the amount of CSR expenditure.
• Monitoring the Bank’s CSR policy and performance.
• Reviewing the CSR projects / initiatives from time to time.
• Ensuring legal and regulatory compliance from a CSR viewpoint.
• Ensuring reporting and communication to the Bank’s stakeholders on the Bank’s CSR activities.
• Monitoring the Bank’s ESG Framework, strategy, goals and disclosures.
Capitals Impacted FFinancial, Human, Natural, Social and Relationship capital
Stakeholders Impacted CCustomers, Employees, Community, Investors, Employees, Suppliers Government and Regulatory Bodies.
DDr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari (Chairperson), Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala, Mr. Santhosh Keshavan, Mrs. Renu Karnad and Mr. Kaizad
BBharucha.
Composition
DDetails of Re-constitution: Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala and Mr. Santhosh Keshavan were inducted as Members of the Committee with
eeffect from October 19, 2024 and March 27, 2025, respectively. Out of the total Directors, 3 Directors are independent.
Meetings DDDuring the financial year under review, the CSR & ESG Committee met 5 (five) times on April 15, 2024, July 16, 2024, October 16, 2024,
December 4, 2024 and January 17, 2025.
289
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• Monitoring the compliance of risk parameters/aggregate exposures with the appetite set by the Board and ensuring that frameworks are established for
assessing and managing various risks faced by the Bank, systems are developed to relate risk to the Bank’s capital level and methods are in place for monitoring
compliance with internal risk management policies and processes.
• Ensuring that the Bank has a suitable framework for Risk Management and oversees the implementation of the risk management policy.
• Reviewing of the enterprise-wide risk frameworks viz. Risk Appetite framework (RAF), Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), stress testing
policy & framework, Enterprise Model Validation Policy, Group Risk Management Policy, Bank’s exposure to Central Counterparties including exposures arising
from trading through CCP and exposures arising from CCP membership obligations such as default fund contributions, outcome of Money Laundering and
Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment etc.
• Reviewing impaired credits and material risks faced by the subsidiaries.
• Reviewing the cyber security framework of the Bank, evaluating the probable risks associated with cyber security and ensure that appropriate measures and
procedures have been put in place to mitigate the same.
Capitals Impacted FFinancial capital
Stakeholders Impacted IInvestors, Government and Regulatory Bodies
Mrs. Lily Vadera (Chairperson), Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mrs. Renu Karnad and Mr. Sashidhar
Composition
Jagdishan. Out of the total Directors, 4 Directors are independent.
During the financial year under review, the Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee met 10 (ten) times on April 19, 2024, June 19, 2024, June 27,
Meetings
2024, July 19, 2024, September 19, 2024, October 18, 2024, November 26, 2024, January 21, 2025, February 20, 2025 and March 26, 2025.
Fraud Monitoring Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• Identifying the systemic lacunae, if any, that facilitated perpetration of the fraud and put in place measures to plug the same.
• Identifying the reasons for delay in detection, if any, reporting to top management of the Bank and Reserve Bank of India.
• Monitoring progress of CBI / Police Investigation, and recovery position.
• Ensure that staff accountability is examined at all levels in all the cases of frauds and staff side action, if required, is completed quickly without loss of time.
• Reviewing the efficacy of the remedial action taken to prevent recurrence of frauds, such as strengthening of internal controls.
• Put in place other measures as may be considered relevant to strengthen preventive measures against commission of frauds.
• Monitoring and reviewing the Red Flag Accounts as and when they are classified as per the guidelines prescribed by the RBI.
• Monitoring the progress of mitigating steps taken by the Bank in case of electronic frauds and the efficacy of the same in containing fraud numbers and values.
• Reviewing and monitoring cases of frauds, including root cause analysis, and suggest mitigating measures for strengthening the internal controls, risk
management framework and minimising the incidence of frauds.
Capitals Impacted FFinancial, Social and Relationship capital
Stakeholders Impacted IInvestors, Government and Regulatory Bodies
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala (Chairman), Mrs. Lily Vadera, Mrs. Renu Karnad, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha. Out of
Composition
the total Directors, 2 Directors are independent.
During the financial year under review, the Fraud Monitoring Committee met 4 (four) times on April 15, 2024, July 16, 2024, October 16, 2024
Meetings
and January 15, 2025.
290
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Customer Service Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• Formulation of comprehensive deposit policy incorporating the issues arising out of the demise of a depositor for operation of his account, the product approval
process, annual survey of depositor satisfaction and the triennial audit of such services.
• Striving for continuous improvements in the quality of customer services provided by the Bank.
• Overseeing the function of the Standing Committee on Customer Service, and also bring out innovative measures for enhancing the customer experience and
quality of customer service thereby enhancing the customer satisfaction level across all categories of clientele, at all times.
Capitals Impacted FFinancial, Social and Relationship capital
Stakeholders Impacted CCustomers
Mr. Sandeep Parekh (Chairman), Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan and Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri.
Details of Re-constitution:
Composition Mr. Sandeep Parekh was appointed as a Chairman of the Committee with effect from September 20, 2024 and Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri was
inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ceased to be Member of the Committee with effect from close of business hours on March 27, 2025.
Out of the total Directors, 2 Directors are independent.
DDDuring the financial year under review, the Customer Service Committee met 5 (five) times on May 29, 2024, May 31, 2024, August 20, 2024,
Meetings
November 26, 2024 and February 19, 2025.
Committee for Resolution of NCLT Matters
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• Reviewing and deciding on requests/ requirements involving principal write-off of over ` 5 crores and up to ` 500 crores only for wholesale & SME accounts.
• Deciding on voting in favour or against a proposal submitted to the CoC/ lenders in relation to the above categories of loans, for and on behalf of the Bank.
Capitals Impacted FFinancial, Social and Relationship capital
Stakeholders Impacted IInvestors, and Government and Regulatory Bodies
Mr. Sandeep Parekh (Chairman), Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha and Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan.
Details of Re-constitution:
Composition
Mr. Sandeep Parekh was appointed as a Chairman of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala was inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
Out of the total Directors, 2 Directors are independent.
DDDuring the financial year under review, the Committee for Resolution of NCLT Matters met 3 (three) times on September 10, 2024, February
Meetings
19, 2025 and March 13, 2025.
Credit Approval Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• Evaluation and approval of credit appetite on borrower/counterparties proposed in credit appetite memorandum and product programs within the threshold
ceilings in accordance with the Board approved Credit Polices and Procedure Manual, as amended from time to time.
Capitals Impacted FFinancial, Social and Relationship capital
Stakeholders Impacted IInvestors and Customers
Composition MMr. Sandeep Parekh, Mrs. Renu Karnad and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha. Out of the total Directors, 1 director is independent.
DDuring the financial year under review, the Credit Approval Committee met 28 (twenty-eight) times on April 23, 2024,May 08, 2024,
MMay 27, 2024, May 29, 2024, June 14, 2024, June 22, 2024, June 28, 2024, July 11, 2024, July 29, 2024, August 19, 2024,
Meetings AAAugust 26, 2024, September 09, 2024, September 18, 2024, September 23, 2024, September 25, 2024, September 30, 2024,
OOctober 17, 2024, October 28, 2024, November 19, 2024, December 04, 2024, December 21, 2024, January 10, 2025, January
113, 2025, January 27, 2025, February 14, 2025, February 17, 2025, March 05, 2025 and March 27, 2025.
291
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
IT Strategy Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• Approving IT strategy and related policy documents and reviewing the same from time to time and ensuring that the management has put an effective strategic
planning process in place.
• Approving the Bank’s IT strategy and budget to ensure it aligns with the business needs and approving re-allocation of resources within IT to facilitate meeting
priorities and business needs.
• Reviewing and approving IT implementation plans and providing guidance on the review of third-party assessment outcomes, risks and compliance pertaining
to IT outsourcing.
• Review the plans for managing IT Security and mitigating potential vulnerabilities and overseeing IT risks and controls and reviewing actions taken by the IT
department to address such risks.
• Framing of the Bank-level strategy and action plans for achieving the target of digital transactions in an organized manner, as may be set by the Government,
regulatory authorities, Indian Banks’ Association, etc. from time to time.
• Monitoring the progress of achievement in digital transactions in line with the Bank’s strategy and action plans.
• Exploring new opportunities for increasing the digital transactions of the Bank from time to time and providing necessary directions in implementing and
improving high level of digitalization in Bank.
• Reviewing the Digital Banking strategy of the Bank as and when required thereby providing direction on focus areas.
• Reviewing the progress made on the initiatives relating to Digital Banking covering performance initiatives as determined by the Board and
Government of India from time to time and reviewing the customer services rendered on digital platform from time to time.
Capitals Impacted FFinancial, Social, Relationship and Intellectual capital
Stakeholders Impacted IInvestors, Customers, Government and Regulatory Bodies and Suppliers
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan (Chairman), Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan,
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan and Prof. H. Krishnamurthy (external IT consultant).
Details of Re-constitution:
Composition Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari ceased to be a Chairperson of the Committee with effect from November 27, 2024.
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan was appointed as a Member with effect from November 18, 2024 and as a Chairman of the Committee with effect
from November 27, 2024.
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan was inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
Out of the total Directors, 4 Directors are independent.
DDDuring the financial year under review, the IT Strategy Committee met 5 (five) times on June 19, 2024, August 13, 2024, November 25, 2024,
Meetings
January 20, 2025 and March 27, 2025.
Premises Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• Approving the acquisition and / or leasing / leave & license including renewal of lease and leave & license, of any property / premises/ building/ commercial
& residential plot, as proposed by the Central Infrastructure Team of the Bank, for the purpose of setting up of Branch / Back Office / ATM / Currency Chest
/ Residential Training Centre/ Storage / Godown/ Guest House, etc., as per the terms and conditions stipulated and in accordance with the guidelines as
prescribed and approved by the Board.
• Approving the acquisition of residential premises for the eligible employees of the Bank on lease / leave and license basis/ as per the terms and conditions
stipulated and in accordance with the guidelines as prescribed and approved by the Board.
• Approving any other acquisition of property / space, which is proposed by the Central Infrastructure Team of the Bank, as per the terms and conditions stipulated
and in accordance with the guidelines as prescribed and approved by the Board.
• Approving the construction of office building, residential tower etc. on (freehold / leasehold) properties acquired by the Bank as per the terms and conditions
stipulated and in accordance with the guidelines as prescribed and approved by the Board.
• Approving the divestment of Bank owned properties / land parcel / flats, etc., not gainfully utilised.
Capitals Impacted FFinancial and Manufactured capital
Stakeholders Impacted IInvestors and Suppliers
MMrs. Renu Karnad (Chairperson), Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari and Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan.
Composition DDetails of re-constitution:
MMr. V. Srinivasa Rangan was inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025. Out of the total Directors, 2 Directors
aare independent.
Meetings DDDuring the financial year under review, the Premises Committee met 4 (four) times during the year on April 15, 2024, July 16, 2024, October
16, 2024 and January 17, 2025.
292
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Investments Strategy Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• Exploring and evaluating feasibility of various monetization initiatives and potential opportunities in respect of investment/divestment in the various subsidiary and
/ or group companies of the Bank, including but not limited to sale, divestment of equity stake, monetising investments under the process of Initial Public Offer
or Further Public Offer or other strategies.
• Appointing merchant bankers / legal advisors / consultants and other agencies towards such exploration/ evaluation of potential investment/ divestment
opportunities, as it may deem fit.
• Reviewing progress, for the proposals approved by the Committee/Board or provide the relevant recommendations, if any, to the Board.
Capitals Impacted FFinancial capital
Stakeholders Impacted IInvestors
Composition MMr. Keki Mistry (Chairman), Mr. M.D. Ranganath and Mr. Sandeep Parekh. Out of the total Directors, 2 Directors are independent.
DDDuring the financial year under review the Investments Strategy Committee met 15 (fifteen) times on April 8, 2024, May 27, 2024, July 18,
Meetings 22024, August 3, 2024, August 20, 2024, September 2, 2024, September 18, 2024, October 3, 2024, October 16, 2024, October 25, 2024,
NNovember 23, 2024, November 26, 2024, December 21, 2024, February 6, 2025 and March 23, 2025.
Review Committee For Willful Defaulters’ Identification
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• Providing an opportunity for a personal hearing to the borrower / guarantor / promoter / director / persons who are in charge and responsible for the management
of the affairs of the entity.
• In case the opportunity is not availed or if the personal hearing is not attended by the borrower/ guarantor/ promoter/ director / persons who are in charge and
responsible for the management of the affairs of the entity, the Committee shall, after assessing the facts or material on record, including written representation,
if any, consider the proposal of the Executive Identification Committee and take a decision.
• Passing a reasoned order and the same shall be communicated to the wilful defaulter.
Capitals Impacted FFinancial, Social and Relationship capital
Stakeholders Impacted IInvestors and Customers
MMMr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (Chairman), Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Parekh, and Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri
DDetails of Re-constitution:
Composition MMr. Bhavesh Zaveri was inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
MMr. Kaizad Bharucha ceased to be a Member of the Committee with effect from close business hours on March 27, 2025. Out of the total Directors,
22 Directors are independent.
DDuring the financial year under review, the Review Committee for Wilful Defaulters’ Identification met 2 (twice) on April 12, 2024 and May 28,
Meetings
22024.
Review Committee For Non-Cooperative Borrowers
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• To review matters related to Non-Co-Operative Borrowers which are handled by the Internal Committee of Executives appointed for this purpose.
Capitals Impacted FFinancial, Social and Relationship capital
Stakeholders Impacted IInvestors and Customers
MMMr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (Chairman), Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Parekh and Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri.
DDetails of Re-constitution:
Composition MMr. Bhavesh Zaveri was inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
MMr. Kaizad Bharucha ceased to be a Member of the Committee with effect from close business hours on March 27, 2025. Out of the total Directors,
22 Directors are independent.
Meetings NNo meetings of the Committee were held during the year.
Detailed terms of reference of the above-mentioned committees are placed on the Bank's website at https://www.hdfcbank.
com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and-policies
293
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
294
HDFC Bank Limited
52-4202
YF
GNIRUD
DLEH
/ DEDNETTA
SGNITEEM
EETTIMMOC
rof
eettimmoC
weiveR
stnemtsevnI
@ygetartS
TI
sesimerP
tiderC
remotsuC
duarF
ksiR
GSE
&
RSC
s’redlohekatS
noitanimoN
tiduA
rotceriD
eht fo emaN
.rS
fo
noituloseR
eettimmoC
ygetartS
lavorppA
ecivreS
gnirotinoM
dna
yciloP
pihsnoitaleR
dna
oN
srettaM
TLCN
lufliW rof
gnirotinoM
noitarenumeR
’sretluafeD
noitacfiitnedI
-
-
5/5
-
-
-
-
01/01
-
-
71/71
-
ytrobarkahC unatA .rM
.1
-
2/2
51/41
5/5
-
-
-
-
01/9
-
-
71/61
71/71
htanagnaR .D .M .rM
.2
3/3
2/2
51/51
-
4/4
82/82
5/5
-
01/01
-
5/5
71/71
-
*hkeraP peednaS .rM
.3
-
-
-
5/5
4/4
-
5/5
-
-
5/5
-
-
-
$irawhsehaM
atinuS ).srM( .rD
.4
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4/4
01/01
-
5/5
-
71/71
aredaV yliL .srM
.5
AN
-
-
-
-
-
-
4/4
-
2/2
-
71/71
71/71
**alawnahB
ramuK hsraH ).rM( .rD
.6
-
-
-
5/3
-
-
-
-
-
AN
-
-
-
***navahseK hsohtnaS .rM
.7
-
-
51/51
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
5/5
-
-
yrtsiM ikeK .rM
.8
-
-
-
-
4/4
82/82
-
4/4
01/9
5/5
5/5
-
-
danraK uneR .srM
.9
-
2/1
-
5/5
-
-
5/3
4/4
01/01
-
-
-
-
nahsidgaJ ihsaS .rM
.01
3/3
2/2
-
-
-
82/62
5/4
4/4
-
5/5
5/5
-
-
#ahcurahB daziaK .rM
.11
-
AN
-
-
-
-
AN
-
-
-
-
-
-
##irevaZ hsevahB .rM
.21
3/3
-
-
AN
AN
-
-
-
-
-
AN
-
-
###nagnaR asavinirS .V .rM
.31
gniteem
eettimmoC
denrecnoc
eht
dnetta
ton
dluoc
ohw
rotceriD
denrecnoc
eht
ot detnarg
saw ecnesba fo
evaeL
tceffe
htiw
srettaM
TLCN
fo
noituloseR
rof
eettimmoC
eht
fo
namriahC
a
sa
dna
4202
,02
rebmetpeS
morf
tceffe
htiw
eettimmoC
ecivreS
remotsuC
eht
fo namriahC
a sa detnioppa
saw hkeraP peednaS
.rM*
.5202,72 hcraM
morf
.4202
,72
rebmevoN
morf
tceffe
htiw
eettimmoC
ygetartS
TI
eht
fo
nosrepriahC
eht
eb ot desaec
irawhsehaM
atinuS ).srM(
.rD$
.ylevitcepser
,5202
,72 hcraM
dna
4202
,91
rebotcO
morf
tceffe
htiw
srettaM
TLCN
fo
noituloseR
rof
eettimmoC
dna
eettimmoC
GSE
&
RSC
eht
fo
rebmeM
a sa
detnioppa
saw
alawnahB
ramuK hsraH ).rM(
.rD **
.4202
,72
rebmevoN
morf
tceffe
htiw
eettimmoC
ygetartS
TI
eht fo
namriahC
a
sa
dna
4202
,81 rebmevoN
morf
tceffe
htiw
eettimmoC
ygetartS
TI
eht
fo
rebmeM
a sa
detnioppa
saw
navahseK hsohtnaS
.rM ***
.5202
,72
hcraM
morf
tceffe
htiw
eettimmoC
GSE
&
RSC eht fo
rebmeM
a sa detnioppa ,rehtruF
tceffe
htiw
sreworroB
evitarepooC-noN
rof
eettimmoC
weiveR
dna
noitacfiitnedI
s’retluafeD
luflliW
rof
eettimmoC
weiveR
,eettimmoC
ecivreS
remotsuC
eht
fo
rebmeM
a eb
ot desaec
ahcurahB daziaK
.rM#
.5202 ,72 hcraM
morf
tceffe
htiw
sreworroB
evitarepooC-noN
rof
eettimmoC
weiveR
dna
noitacfiitnedI
s’retluafeD
luflliW
rof
eettimmoC
weiveR
,eettimmoC
ecivreS
remotsuC
eht fo
rebmeM
a sa detnioppa
saw irevaZ hsevahB
.rM##
.5202 ,72 hcraM
morf
.5202
,72
hcraM
morf
tceffe
htiw
eettimmoC
pihsnoitaleR
s’redlohekatS
dna
eettimmoC
sesimerP
,eettimmoC
ygetartS
TI
eht
fo
rebmeM
a sa
detnioppa
saw
nagnaR asavinirS .V
.rM###
.eetivni
tnenamrep
a
sa
yhtrumanhsirK
.H .forP
,tnatlusnoc
TI
lanretxe
na sedulcni eettimmoC@
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Meeting of the Independent Directors
The Independent Directors convene separate meetings to discuss various issues at their discretion without the presence of the
management of the Bank. The main objective of such meetings is for the Independent Directors to evaluate the performance of
the Whole-Time Directors and the overall performance of the Board and its committees.
At the meetings, apart from conducting performance evaluation, the Independent Directors assessed the quality, quantity and
timeliness of the flow of information between the Bank’s management and the Board and expressed its satisfaction on the same.
The Independent Directors met 9 (nine) times during the year on June 18, 2024, July 19, 2024, August 21, 2024, September
19, 2024, October 18, 2024, November 26, 2024, January 21, 2025, February 19, 2025 and March 27, 2025. All Independent
Directors were present at all the Meetings except for the following wherein leave of absence was granted:
• Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari could not attend the Independent Directors’ meetings held on August 21, 2024, September
19, 2024, October 18, 2024 and February 19, 2025;
• Mr. M. D. Ranganath could not attend the Independent Directors’ meetings held on September 19, 2024 and October 18,
2024; and
• Mr. Santhosh Keshavan could not attend the Independent Directors’ meeting held on February 19, 2025.
Remuneration of Directors
Executive Directors
The details of the remuneration paid to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Kaizad
Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director, Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director and Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director
during the FY 2024-2025 are as under:
(Amount in `)
Particulars Mr. Sashidhar Mr. Kaizad Bharucha Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri Mr. V. Srinivasa
Jagdishan Rangan
Basic 3,09,07,457 2,80,91,040 1,91,45,675 3,60,65,640
Allowances and Perquisites 3,46,43,301 3,24,64,367 2,14,07,698 2,15,65,108
Provident Fund 37,08,901 33,70,920 22,97,477 43,27,877
Superannuation 46,36,116 42,13,656 28,71,863 54,09,854
Performance Bonus 4,67,24,465 4,19,92,844 1,95,21,500* 2,11,23,294
Number of stock options Granted (Number of 2,12,052 1,30,206** 78,602 6,03,126***
ESOPs)
*This includes Cash Bonus paid in FY 2024-25 for the performance as Executive Director (effective April 19, 2023) and Group Head.
** Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was granted a total quantum of 1,30,206 employee stock options on May 10, 2025 for the performance
year 2023 -24. The same had been approved by the RBI vide their letter dated January 07, 2025.
*** Includes 2 grants of employee stock options as follows:
a) 4 ,77,150 employee stock options were granted for the period 2020-2023, i.e. for the period before his appointment as an
Executive Director of the Bank and as a one-time grant for his performance as an Executive Director of HDFC Limited (i.e.
prior to the amalgamation of HDFC Limited with and into the Bank w.e.f July 1, 2023.)
b) Further, 1,25,976 ESOPs were granted for the performance year 2023-24.
295
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Notes:
1. Mr. Aditya Puri former Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Bank retired from the services of the Bank
from the close of business hours on October 26, 2020. Mr. Aditya Puri was paid cash variable pay of ` 7,11,00,000 for
the performance period April 01, 2020 to October 26, 2020. The same was approved by RBI vide their letter dated
March 23, 2022. Basis RBI direction, 40% of the above-mentioned cash variable pay i.e. ` 2,84,40,000 was paid in the
FY 2021-2022 and the balance 60% of the cash variable pay was to be deferred and subject to payment over a period
of three years in three equal instalments. The first tranche of the aforementioned deferred amount of ` 4,26,60,000 i.e.
` 1,42,20,000 (Computed as 1/3rd of 4,26,60,000) was paid in April 2023 in line with the RBI directive. The second tranche
of the aforementioned deferred amount of ` 4,26,60,000 i.e. 1,42,20,000 (computed as 1/3rd of ` 4,26,60,000) was paid
on April 02, 2024 in line with the RBI directive. The Third tranche of the aforementioned deferred amount of ` 4,26,60,000
i.e. 1,42,20,000 (computed as 1/3rd of ` 4,26,60,000) was paid on April 23, 2025, in line with the RBI directive.
2. Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer was paid the following as part of cash variable
pay. This would also include payment received as part of deferred cash variable of previous years. The total cash
variable pay paid to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan in the FY 2024-25 is as follows:
A) 5 0% of the cash variable pay for the Performance B) T ranche 1 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
Year 2023-24 (Total cash variable pay approved by Performance Year 2022-23: ` 68,45,311 was paid
RBI was ` 5,25,38,346): ` 2,62,69,173. The same is on April 23, 2025.
in accordance with the RBI guidelines and was paid
in January 2025. C) T ranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
Performance Year 2021-22: ` 61,75,225 was paid
B) T ranche 1 of the deferred cash variable pay for the on April 23, 2025.
Performance Year 2022-23: ` 83,32,777 was paid
on April 23, 2025. D) T ranche 3 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
Performance Year 2020-21: ` 58,66,667 was paid
C) T ranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the on April 23, 2025.
Performance Year 2021-22: ` 86,15,293 was paid
Total Payout (A+B+C+D) = ` 4,19,92,844
on April 23, 2025.
D) T ranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 4. Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director (erstwhile Group
Performance Year 2020-21: ` 35,07,222 was paid Head and designated as Executive Director on April 19,
on July 25, 2024. 2023) was paid the following as part of cash variable pay.
This would include payment received as part of deferred
Total Payout (A+B+C+D) = ` 4,67,24,465
cash variable of previous years, post being designated
as Executive Director as well as deferred cash variable
3. Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director
pay for the period served as Group Head. Accordingly,
(erstwhile Executive Director) was paid the following
the total cash variable pay paid to Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri in
as part of cash variable pay. This would also include
the FY 2024-25 is as follows.
payment received as part of deferred cash variable
of previous years. The total cash variable pay paid to
A) 50% of the cash variable pay for the Performance
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha in the FY 2024-25 is as follows.
Year 2023-24 (Total cash variable pay approved by
RBI was ` 2,63,59,624): ` 1,31,79,812. The same
A) 5 0% of the cash variable pay for the Performance
is in accordance with the RBI guidelines and was
Year 2023-24 (Total cash variable pay approved by
paid in January 2025 (Performance as Executive
RBI was ` 4,62,11,282): ` 2,31,05,641. The same is
Director)
in accordance with the RBI guidelines and was paid
on 23rd April 2025.
296
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
B) Tranche 1 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 4. Mr. V Srinivasa Rangan:
Performance Year 2022-23: ` 13,29,724 was paid in
Mr. V Srinivasa Rangan was granted a total quantum of
September 2024 (Performance as Group Head)
6,03,126 employee stock options in Financial 2024-25
which was done through 2 grants:
C) T ranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
Performance Year 2021-22: ` 27,58,892 was paid in
a) 4,77,150 employee stock options were a one-time
September 2024 (Performance as Group Head)
grant for the period 2020-2023, i.e. for the period
before his appointment as an Executive Director of
D) T ranche 3 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
Performance Year 2020-21: ` 22,53,072 of which the Bank and as a one-time grant for his performance
` 9,52,889 was paid in October 2024 and ` 13,00,183 as an Executive Director of the erstwhile HDFC
Limited (i.e. prior to the amalgamation of erstwhile
was paid in January 2025 (Performance as Group Head)
HDFC Limited with and into the Bank.). This was
Total Payout (A+B+C+D) = ` 1,95,21,500 granted on July 30, 2024 ^
5. Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, designated as Executive Director b) 1,25,976 employee stock options granted for
effective from November 23, 2023 was paid the following Performance Year 2023-24 on January 30, 2025.
as part of cash variable pay in FY 2024-25: The same had been approved by the RBI vide their
letter dated January 07, 2025.
A) 50% of the cash variable pay for the Performance
Year 2023-24 (Total cash variable pay approved by ^The vesting schedule for the 4,77,150 stock options granted
RBI was ` 4,22,46,588): ` 2,11,23,294. The same is to Mr. V Srinivasa Rangan on July 30, 2024 is 33% of options
in accordance with the RBI guidelines and was paid after expiry of twelve months from date of grant, 33% options
in January 2025. after expiry of twenty-four months from the date of grant and
Total Payout (A): ` 2,11,23,294 the balance options after expiry of thirty-six months from date
of grant.
*Grant of Employee Stock Options to Directors
The vesting schedule for the stock options granted to
1. Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan: Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Mr. Bhavesh
Zaveri and Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan (except 4,77,150 ESOPs
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan was granted a total quantum granted to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan on July 30, 2024) is 25%
of 2,12,052 employee stock options for the performance of options after expiry of twelve months from date of grant,
year 2023-24 on January 30, 2025. The same had been 25% options after expiry of twenty-four months from the date
approved by the RBI vide their letter dated January of grant, 25% of options after expiry of thirty-six months from
07, 2025. the date of grant and the balance options after expiry of forty-
eight months from date of grant.
2. Mr. Kaizad Bharucha:
The notice period for each of the Whole-Time Directors,
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was granted a total quantum of
as specified in their respective terms of appointments is
1,30,206 employee stock options on May 10, 2025 for
three months.
the performance year 2023 -24. The same had been
approved by the RBI vide their letter dated January
Pursuant to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the appointment
07, 2025.
and tenure of Whole-Time Directors is subject to the approval
of RBI.
3. Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri :
The Bank provides for gratuity in the form of lump-sum
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri was granted a total quantum of 78,602
payment on retirement or on death while in employment or
employee stock options for the performance year 2023-
on termination of employment of an amount equivalent to 15
24 on January 30, 2025. The same had been approved
(fifteen) days basic salary payable for each completed year
by the RBI vide their letter dated January 07, 2025.
of service.
297
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Bank makes annual contributions to funds administered Additionally, sitting fees of ` 1,00,000 is paid to Non-Executive
by trustees and managed by insurance companies for Directors for attending Board Meetings and to Independent
amounts notified by the said insurance companies. The Bank Directors for attending Independent Directors' meetings.
accounts for the liability for future gratuity benefits based on an
independent external actuarial valuation carried out annually. The details of sitting fees and remuneration paid to
Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors during
No sitting fees were paid to Executive Directors for attending the FY 2024-25 is as under:
meetings of the Board and / or its Committees.
(Amount in `)
Details of Remuneration / Sitting Fees Paid to
Director Sitting Fees Remuneration
Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty 55,00,000 48,58,871
Criteria for remuneration/sitting fees paid to Non- Mr. M.D. Ranganath 82,00,000 30,00,000
Executive Director Mr. Sandeep Parekh 1,05,00,000 30,00,000
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 31,50,000 30,00,000
All the non-executive directors including the Independent
Mrs. Lily Vadera 54,50,000 30,00,000
Directors and the Chairman receive sitting fees and
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar 60,00,000 30,00,000
reimbursement of out of pocket expenses for attending each
Bhanwala
meeting of the Board and its various Committees. No stock
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan1 12,00,000 11,11,644
options are granted to any of the non- executive directors.
Mr. Keki Mistry 30,50,000 30,00,000
The sitting fees paid for attending the committee meetings Mrs. Renu Karnad 60,00,000 30,00,000
held during the FY 2024-25 is as follows: Total 4,90,50,000 2,69,70,515
1 Mr. Santhosh Keshavan was appointed as an Independent
List of Committees wherein List of Committees wherein
sitting fees of ` 1,00,000 is paid sitting fees of ` 50,000 is paid Director of the Bank with effect from November 18, 2024.
per meeting per meeting
i. Audit Committee i. Stakeholders’ Relationship Pursuant to the circular issued by the RBI on “Review of Fixed
Committee
Remuneration Granted to Non-Executive Directors” dated
ii. Nomination & Remuneration ii. CSR & ESG Committee February 09, 2024 read with the RBI circular on “Corporate
Committee
Governance in Banks - Appointment of Directors and
iii. Risk Policy & Monitoring iii. Fraud Monitoring Constitution of Committees of the Board” dated April 26, 2021
Committee Committee
and subsequent resolution passed by the shareholders of
iv. Customer Service iv. Premises Committee
the Bank through Postal ballot on March 29, 2024, the Non-
Committee
Executive Directors (NEDs) of the Bank, other than the Part-
v. Credit Approval Committee v. Review Committee
time Chairman, were paid compensation in the form of fixed
for Non-Cooperative
remuneration of ` 30,00,000 (Rupees Thirty Lakhs Only) each
Borrowers
for financial year 2024-25. This is in addition to payment of
vi. IT Strategy Committee vi. Review Committee
for Wilful Defaulter’s sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses for attending the
Identification Board and Committee meetings.
vii. Investments Strategy vii. Committee for Resolution
Committee of NCLT Matters Further, pursuant to approval of the Shareholders of the Bank
through postal ballot on May 03, 2024 and RBI, Mr. Atanu
The Board at its meeting held on March 27, 2025 approved Chakraborty was re-appointed as the Part-time Chairman
the increase in amount of sitting fees payable to the members and Independent Director of the Bank for a period of 3
of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, CSR & ESG (three) years with effect from May 05, 2024 up to May 04,
Committee, Fraud Monitoring Committee, Committee for 2027 (both days inclusive) and not liable to retire by rotation.
Resolution of NCLT Matters and Premises Committee from Further, the Shareholders and RBI also approved an increase
` 50,000 to ` 1,00,000 per meeting, with effect from the in remuneration payable to Mr. Chakraborty from ` 35,00,000
said date. (Rupees Thirty Five Lakhs Only) per annum to ` 50,00,000
(Rupees Fifty Lakhs Only) per annum with effect from May
5, 2024.
298
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Accordingly, Mr. Chakraborty was paid remuneration for the Employee name Designation
financial year 2024-25 as follows:
Mr. Rakesh Kumar Rajput3 Group Head- Compliance and Chief
Compliance Officer
i. F rom April 1, 2024 to May 4, 2024- ` 35,00,000
Mr. Rakesh Singh Group Head - Financial Institutions,
(Rupees Thirty Five Lakhs Only) per annum, on a International Banking, Private Banking
proportionate basis. & BaaS
Mr. Sanmoy Chakrabarti Group Head – Risk Management and
ii. From May 5, 2024 to March 31, 2025- ` 50,00,000 (Rupees Chief Risk Officer
Fifty Lakhs Only) per annum, on a proportionate basis. Mr. Srinivasan Chief Financial Officer
Vaidyanathan
In addition to the above, Mr. Chakraborty was also paid sitting Mr. Suketu Kapadia4 Group Head- Internal Audit
fees, reimbursement of expenses for attending the Board Mr. Sudhir Kumar Jha Group Head - Legal and Group General
and Committee meetings and provision of car for official and Counsel
personal use, during the financial year 2024-25. Mr. Sumant Rampal Group Head - Mortgage Business
Mr. Vinayak Ravindra Group Head - Realty Business Finance
There were no other pecuniary relationships or transactions Mavinkurve
of Non-Executive Directors vis-a-vis the Bank (except banking Mr. Vinay Razdan5 Group Head – Human Resources and
transactions in the ordinary course of business and on arm’s Chief Human Resources Officer
length basis) during financial year 2024-25. Mr. Ajay Agarwal6 Company Secretary and Group Head-
Secretarial and Group Oversight
EVALUATION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
1Mr. Gourab Roy was elevated as Group Head- Transactional Banking
Operations with effect from June 1, 2024.
The Bank has put in place a mechanism for performance
2Mr. N. Srinivasan was elevated as Group Head- Retail Asset Operations
evaluation of the Board, Committees of the Board and the
with effect from June 1, 2024.
individual members of the Board (including the Chairman). The
3Mr. Rakesh Kumar Rajput, Chief Compliance Officer in terms of RBI
details of the same have been included in the Directors’ Report.
regulations was elevated as Group Head - Compliance with effect from
June 1, 2024.
PARTICULARS OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT
4Mr. Suketu Kapadia was appointed as Group Head - Internal Audit with
effect from April 1, 2024.
The details of Senior Management of the Bank as on March
5Mr. Vinay Razdan, Group Head – Human Resources and Chief Human
31, 2025 is as follows:
Resources Officer resigned from the services of the Bank with effect from
close of business hours on June 18, 2025.
Employee name Designation 6Mr. Ajay Agarwal was appointed as Company Secretary and Head-Group
Oversight with effect from July 21, 2024. He was further elevated as Group
Mr. Ashish Parthasarthy Group Head - Branch Banking,
Head-Secretarial and Group Oversight with effect from April 1, 2025.
Infrastructure, Treasury and Virtual
Channels Mr. Arvind Kapil, Group Head- Mortgage Business resigned from the
services of the Bank with effect from April 26, 2024.
Mr. Arvind Vohra Group Head - Retail Assets, RBG & SLI
Mr. Gourab Roy1 Group Head-Transactional Banking Mr. Santosh Haldankar, Company Secretary, resigned from the services
Operations of the Bank with effect from July 20, 2024.
Mr. Jimmy M Tata Group Head – Credit and Chief Credit Mr. Chakrapani Venkatachari, Group Head - Change Agent, superannuated
Officer from the services of the Bank with effect from January 31, 2025.
Mr. N. Srinivasan2 Group Head-Retail Asset Operations Mr. Sanjay John D’Souza, Group Head- Business Banking, Emerging
& Micro Enterprises Group has been included as a part of the senior
Mr. Nirav Vimal Shah Group Head - Corporate Banking,
management with effect from April 8, 2025.
Emerging Corporate Group and
Healthcare Finance Mr. Prasun Singh has been elevated as Group Head- Ethics with effect
from June 1, 2025.
Mr. Parag Rao Group Head - Payments Business,
Liability Products, Consumer Finance &
Marketing
Mr. Rahul Shukla Group Head - Commercial and Rural
Banking
Mr. Ramesh Group Head – Tech & Digital and Chief
Lakshminarayanan Information Officer
299
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
Following are the details of general body meetings for the previous three (3) financial years:
Sr. Particulars Venue Day, Date and Number Nature of Special Resolution(s)
No. of Meeting Time of Special
Resolutions
passed, if any*
1 28th Annual Held through Video- Saturday, July 1 (one) Issue Unsecured Perpetual Debt Instruments (part of Additional Tier
General Conferencing 16, 2022 at I capital), Tier II Capital Bonds and Long-Term Bonds (financing of
Meeting 2.30 P.M. infrastructure and affordable housing) on a private placement basis.
2 Meeting Held through Video- Friday, 1 (one) Approval of the Composite Scheme of Amalgamation of:
Convened Conferencing November 25, (i) HDFC Investments Limited and HDFC Holdings Limited, wholly-
by National 2022 at 2.30 owned subsidiaries of Housing Development Finance Corporation
Company P.M. Limited (“HDFC Limited”), with and into HDFC Limited and
Law Tribunal
(ii) HDFC Limited with and into HDFC Bank Limited and their
respective shareholders and Creditors.
3 29th Annual Held through Video- Friday, August 1 (one) Issue Unsecured Perpetual Debt Instruments (part of Additional
General Conferencing 11, 2023 at Tier I capital), Tier II Capital Bonds and Long-Term Bonds (financing
Meeting 01.30 P.M. of infrastructure and affordable housing) on a private placement basis.
4 30th Annual Held through Video- Friday, August 2 (two) 1. I ssue Long-Term Bonds (financing of infrastructure and affordable
General Conferencing 09, 2024 at housing), Perpetual Debt Instruments (part of additional Tier I
Meeting 02.30 P.M. capital) and Tier II capital bonds through private placement mode
2. Grant equity stock options under Employees Stock Option Master
Scheme - 2024
*All the resolutions as mentioned above were passed with the requisite majority.
POSTAL BALLOT
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 110 and all other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 read with
Rule 22 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations,
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (“SS-2”) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, including any
statutory modification(s), clarification(s), substitution(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force, guidelines/ circulars
prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (the “MCA”), Government of India, for holding general meetings/ conducting
postal ballot process through electronic voting (remote e-voting) and any other applicable laws and regulations, the approval of
the Members of the Bank for below mentioned resolutions were obtained through Postal Ballot Notices dated November 27,
2024 and February 20, 2025 via remote e-voting.
Particulars Postal Ballot Notice Dated November 27, 2024 Postal Ballot Notice Dated February 20, 2025
Resolution(s) Appointment of Mr. Santhosh Keshavan (DIN: 08466631) 1) To approve Material Related Party Transactions
as an Independent Director of the Bank for a period of with HDB Financial Services Limited- Ordinary
three (3) years with effect from November 18, 2024 Resolution
to November 17, 2027 (both days inclusive)- Special 2) To approve Material Related Party Transactions with
Resolution HDFC Securities Limited- Ordinary Resolution
3) To approve Material Related Party Transactions with
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited- Ordinary
Resolution
4) To approve Material Related Party Transactions with
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited-
Ordinary Resolution
5) To approve Material Related Party Transactions
with PayU Payments Private Limited- Ordinary
Resolution
6) To approve Material Related Party Transactions with
HCL Technologies Limited- Ordinary Resolution
300
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Particulars Postal Ballot Notice Dated November 27, 2024 Postal Ballot Notice Dated February 20, 2025
Remote e-voting National Securities Depository Limited (the “NSDL”)
Scrutinizer Ms. Manisha Maheshwari, Partner of M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries
Cut-off Date for Friday, December 6, 2024 Friday, February 14, 2025
determining the members
eligible to vote
Dispatch Date of notice Tuesday, December 10, 2024 Monday, February 24, 2025
Remote e-voting period Commenced on Friday, December 13, 2024 at 10:00 Commenced on Tuesday, February 25, 2025 at 10:00
A.M. (IST) and ended on Saturday, January 11, 2025 at A.M. (IST) and ended on Wednesday, March 26, 2025 at
5:00 P.M. (IST) 5:00 P.M. (IST)
The procedure undertaken for aforesaid postal ballots was in Resolutions % of votes % of votes in % of votes
accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. polled on favour on votes against on votes
outstanding polled polled
shares
A Scrutinizer report was submitted to the Authorized
Resolution No. 1 66.834 99.965 0.035
Officer, Mr. Ajay Agarwal, Company Secretary, Group Head-
Resolution No. 2 66.834 99.965 0.035
Secretarial and Group Oversight of the Bank with respect to
Resolution No. 3 66.833 99.965 0.035
the Postal Ballots conducted by the Bank. The results of the
voting conducted through Postal Ballots were as under: Resolution No. 4 66.832 99.965 0.035
Resolution No. 5 66.834 99.964 0.036
For resolution(s) as specified in the Postal Ballot Resolution No. 6 66.834 99.964 0.036
Notice dated November 27, 2024:
Accordingly, the Resolutions as set out in the Postal Ballot
There were total of 39,62,399 shareholders of the Bank as Notice dated February 20, 2025 were passed with requisite
on the cut-off date i.e. Friday, December 6, 2024, out of majority on March 26, 2025.
which 12,237 Members holding 5,17,53,39,470 equity shares
representing 67.70% of the share capital participated in the The Bank may consider passing resolutions including special
e-voting process. A snapshot of the voting results of the postal resolutions through Postal Ballot as and when required.
ballot is as follows:
DISCLOSURES
Resolution % of votes % of votes in % of votes
polled on favour on votes against on votes Material Subsidiary
outstanding polled polled
shares HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (“HDFC Life”) is
Resolution No. 1 67.697 99.652 0.348 a material subsidiary of the Bank as per the SEBI Listing
Regulations. HDFC Life was incorporated on August 14,
Accordingly, the Resolution as set out in the Postal Ballot 2000 in Mumbai. M/s. G M Kapadia & Co. and M/s BSR &
Notice dated November 27, 2024 was passed with requisite Co LLP, Chartered Accountants are the Statutory Auditors of
majority on January 11, 2025. HDFC Life. M/s. G.M. Kapadia & Co. was appointed on July
14, 2016 (re-appointed on July 19, 2021) and M/s BSR & Co
For resolution(s) as specified in the Postal Ballot
LLP, Chartered Accountants was appointed on July 15, 2024
Notice dated February 20, 2025:
as Statutory Auditors of HDFC Life.
There were 39,23,592 shareholders of the Bank as on the
Further, the Bank has formulated a policy for determining
cut-off date i.e., Friday, February 14, 2025, out of which 12,322
material subsidiary and the same is available on the Bank’s
Members holding 5,13,31,83,464 equity shares representing
website at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/
67.10 % of the paid- up share capital participated in the
corporate-governance/codes-and-policies
e-voting process. A snapshot of the voting results of the postal
ballot is as follows:
During the year, the Policy for determining material subsidiary
was amended to align the same with the amendments made
to the SEBI Listing Regulations.
301
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Related Party Transactions Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism
The Bank has a Board approved policy on Related Party The details of establishment of whistle blower policy / vigil
Transactions. The policy intends to ensure that proper mechanism are included in the Directors’ Report. No one
reporting, approval and disclosure processes are in place for has been denied access to the Audit Committee to express
all related party transactions. All the related party transactions concerns or report grievances under the Whistle Blower Policy
entered into by the Bank have been in its ordinary course of and / or vigil mechanism.
business and at arm’s length basis.
Familiarization of Directors
Loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/companies
in which Directors are interested, are disclosed along with The Bank conducts familiarisation programmes for its
other related party transactions, in the notes forming part of Directors from time to time. The familiarisation programme
financial statements. ensures that the directors are updated on the business and
regulatory environment and the overall operations of the Bank.
During the year, the Bank has not entered into any materially This enables the Directors to make better informed decisions
significant transactions with the related parties, which could in the interest of the Bank and its stakeholders.
lead to a potential conflict of interest between the Bank and
During the year, at the Board / Committee meetings,
these parties. Transactions with related parties were placed
presentations and deep dive sessions were made covering
before the Audit Committee for approval.
important areas such as annual plans and strategies, artificial
intelligence, global economic crisis, climate risks impact of
The Shareholders of the Bank have approved all the material
inflation, risk management, priority sector lending, liquidity,
related party transactions to be entered into by the Bank as
stress testing, movement in Foreign Exchange (FX) etc.
per SEBI Listing Regulations.
The Directors are encouraged to participate in external training,
Details of related party transactions entered into during the year learning and development programmes, and during financial
ended March 31, 2025 are given in Note No. 29 in Schedule year 2024-25, the Directors have attended programmes on
18, forming part of 'Notes to Accounts' to standalone financial cyber security, Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti Money
statements in accordance with Accounting Standard (AS) – 18. Laundering (AML) etc. organized by various organizations
such as Data Security Council of India, Centre for Advanced
During the year, the Bank has amended its policy on related Financial Research and Learning by RBI etc.
party transactions which was approved by the Board on
January 22, 2025 to align the same with various amendments A monthly compendium containing updates about the Bank
in the applicable laws and regulations, and the same is and its subsidiary companies, synopsis of relevant regulatory
available on the Bank’s web-site at https://www.hdfcbank. changes, gist of circulars issued by various regulators and case
com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and- laws is circulated to all the Directors for their ready reference.
policies.
Orientation programmes are being conducted for the new
ACCOUNTING TREATMENT Directors in order to familiarise them with the Bank, its
subsidiary companies, the management, key areas of
The financial statements have been prepared and presented business and regulations.
under the historical cost convention and accrual basis of
accounting, unless otherwise stated and are in accordance The details of familiarization programmes imparted to Directors
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (‘Indian are available on the website of the Bank at https://www.
GAAP’), statutory requirements prescribed under the Third hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
Schedule of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, directions, familiarization-of-independent-directors
circulars, notifications and guidelines issued by the RBI from
time to time (RBI guidelines), Accounting Standards (‘AS’) Strictures and Penalties for last three financial years:
specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read
together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the During the last three financial years, the RBI and other
Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, in so far as regulatory / statutory authorities have imposed the following
they apply to banks. penalties / strictures / prohibitions / restrictions on the Bank:
302
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
FY 2024-25 Administrative warning was issued by SEBI vide letter dated
March 18, 2025 pursuant to inspection of DDP activities.
During the year ended March 31, 2025, RBI vide its letter dated Administrative warning was issued for (i) not periodically
September 10, 2024 levied a penalty of `1,00,00,000 (Rupees incorporating changes in the checklist/manual in response to
One crore only) on the Bank for soliciting gifts to the depositors regulatory changes notified by SEBI to assess the FPI eligibility
at the time of accepting deposits; for opening certain savings before granting the FPI registration (ii) failure to determine
accounts in the names of ineligible entities and for failure to that there is a delay in intimation of change of Investment
ensure that customers are not contacted after 7 p.m. and manager of FPI as the effective date of change was not
before 7 a.m.; in contravention to the Reserve Bank Directions obtained and failure to report the said case to SEBI for further
on ‘lnterest Rate on Deposits’ and ‘Recovery Agents engaged action (iii) granting an exemption to FPI without independently
by Banks’. The penalty was paid by the Bank on September validating the accuracy of documents/disclosures and without
17, 2024. The Bank has already taken corrective measures, conducting necessary due diligence (iv) informing the details
as necessary, to align the operations / procedures in line with of invalid FPI to NSDL with a delay of more than 4 months.
the applicable regulations.
Administrative warning was issued by SEBI vide its letter dated
RBI vide its letter dated March 26, 2025, levied a penalty of December 9, 2024, for alleged violation of (i) (a) Clause 8(I) of
` 75,00,000 (Rupees Seventy Five Lakh only) on the Bank Part A of Schedule VI read with Regulation 24(2)(b) of the SEBI
for not categorising certain customers into low, medium (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
and high risk category based on its assessment and risk 2018 ("ICDR") (b) Regulation 24(3) of the ICDR (c) Clause 4 of
perception and for allotting multiple customer identification Schedule III Code of Conduct read with Regulation 13 of SEBI
code to certain customers instead of a Unique Customer (Merchant Banking) Regulations, 1992 (ii) Violation of Regulation
ldentification Code (UCIC) for each customer, which were 9A(1)(f) of the SEBI (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992 read
in contravention to Reserve Bank directions on ‘Know Your with Clause 1 of Chapter I of the SEBI Master Circular SEBI/
Customer (KYC)’. The penalty was paid by the Bank on March HO/CFD/PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/157 dated September 26, 2023
28, 2025. The Bank has already taken corrective measures, (iii) Violation of Regulation 9(1) read with Schedules B and C
as necessary, to align the operations / procedures in line with of the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.
the applicable regulations. Action taken report was placed before Board and update was
submitted to SEBI on December 26, 2024.
Administrative warning letter dated August 30, 2024 was
Administrative warning was issued by SEBI vide its letter dated
issued by SEBI pursuant to thematic inspection of depository
December 10, 2024 with reference to alleged violation of para
operations undertaken in July 2024. Warning letter was
7 of Part A of Annexure I to SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/
issued for discrepancies observed with respect to (i) State
CFD1-PoD/P/Cir/2023/123 dated July 13, 2023 read with
not mentioned in KRA form in one instance (ii) name mismatch
clause 7 of Para A of Part A of Schedule III and Regulation 30(2)
observed in KRA system in one instance (iii) documents
of SEBI Listing Regulations and alleged violation of second
uploaded in KRA system were not clear in four instances (iv)
proviso to Regulation 30 (6) of SEBI Listing Regulations.
address proof not submitted to KRA in one instance. ATR
was submitted to SEBI vide letter dated September 26, 2024.
NCL issued warning vide letter dated February 14, 2025
No further communication in the matter is received.
pursuant to inspection conducted in Futures & Options
segment for the period October 01, 2022 to September 30,
Central Depository Services (India) Limited, vide its letter
2024. Warning letter stated that (i) the Bank has accepted that
dated October 30, 2024 intimated about levy of penalty of
inadvertently it has missed uploading the G-sec de-allocation
` 5000 (Rupees Five Thousand Only) due to non-submission
file which resulted in excess allocation (ii) excess allocation
of complete compliance report within stipulated time from
funds were not utilized by the client and after subtracting
the first intimation of non-compliance letter. Necessary
this allocation, the allocated collateral of the said client
clarification along with request for waiver of penalty was
was sufficient against the margin requirement of the client.
submitted to CDSL vide letter dated November 4, 2024.
Sufficient collaterals were always available with the member
CDSL, vide email dated March 28, 2025 informed that Bank’s
and there was no margin shortfall. The Bank has already taken
request for the waiver of penalty was considered favorably by
corrective action by updating its process.
the committee. Accordingly, no penalty was concluded. The
matter stands closed.
303
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FY 2023-24 disablement request was processed by NSE. A request for
waiver of imposed penalty was also submitted to NSE. The
RBI vide its letter dated November 30, 2023 levied a penalty NSE has apprised that the Bank’s response shall be placed
of ` 10,000 (Rupees Ten Thousand only) on the Bank under before relevant authority for further action. NSE vide its email
Section 11(3) of FEMA, 1999 for violation of Regulation 3 of dated May 27, 2024 informed, that the Bank’s request for the
FEMA 5(R) – FEMA Deposit Regulation 2016. The Bank was penalty waiver was considered favorably and credit note will
required to open a Special Non-Resident Rupee Account be issued to the Bank shortly. The matter stands closed.
(SNRR) whereas it continued with Resident Current Account of
a non-resident bank, even after it ceased its operation in India During FY 2023-24, pursuant to various tax demands,
in June 2016. Considering the facts of the case, steps were penalties aggregating to the tune of ` 1.17 crores imposed
taken by the bank in ensuring that no interest was paid on on the Bank have been disclosed to the Stock Exchanges
the balances in the account, clear explanation was provided as required under the SEBI Listing Regulations. The Bank is
by the Bank in the personal hearing with RBI and certification taking appropriate legal remedies including, but not limited to,
from statutory auditors that transactions in the account post pursuing appeals, as per law.
June 2016 were related to winding up activities of the bank.
FY 2022-23
The penalty was paid by the Bank.
SEBI had a issued Show Cause Notice in the matter of a No penalties and strictures were imposed by any regulatory
Foreign Portfolio Investor not meeting eligibility criteria under authority during the FY2022-23 on the Bank.
SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations. The Bank had
Details of utilization of funds
submitted Settlement Application which was accepted by
SEBI and settlement amount of ` 9,18,750 (Rupees Nine Lakhs
During the year under review, the Bank has not raised any
Eighteen Thousand Seven Hundred and Fifty only) was paid
funds through Preferential Allotment or Qualified Institutions
by the Bank. SEBI issued settlement order dated February
Placement and through issuance of non-convertible securities.
29, 2024. In terms of the Settlement Order, the proceedings
initiated in terms of the SCN against the Bank have been Disclosure of certain types of agreements binding
disposed of without admitting or denying the findings of fact listed entities
and conclusions of law contained in the SCN.
The Bank has not entered into any agreements as required
NSE vide email dated November 15, 2023 levied penalty of to be disclosed under clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of
` 7,500 (Rupees Seven Thousand Five Hundred only) for delay Schedule III of SEBI Listing Regulations.
in submission of Action Taken report (ATR) for non-compliance
Disclosures for complaints/requests received from
observed in Cyber Security audit report for FY 2022-23. The
shareholders
Bank submitted its detailed response to the NSE wherein inter-
alia, it was requested that as ATR was immediately submitted
The Bank is committed to providing effective and prompt
to NSE upon receipt of clarification from NSE regarding
service to its shareholders. The shareholders can also escalate
submission of ATR, the penalty imposed may be waived. NSE
their grievance in case of non-redressal of the same in the
has apprised that the Bank’s response and request for waiver
manner as made available on the Bank’s website.
of penalty shall be placed before its committee for approval.
NSE vide its mail dated July 22, 2024 informed that the waiver
The details of investor complaints received and redressed by
request has been approved. The matter stands closed.
the Bank during the last three financial years are as under:
NSE vide letter dated November 17, 2023 levied penalty of
Financial Year Number of complaints Number of complaints
` 5,000 (Rupees Five Thousand only) for operation of trading received during the pending as at the end of
terminals without having valid certification. The Bank has Financial Year the Financial Year
submitted its detailed response to NSE wherein inter-alia, it 2022-23 123 0
had stated that the Bank’s membership does not have any 2023-24 183 5*
trading rights. The ID was created for usage of member portal 2024-25 155 3*
for downloading of daily reports for clearing and settlement
* All complaints were duly attended and closed to the satisfaction of the
related activities and submission of compliance related shareholders as on the date of the Reports of the respective financial years
matters to the Clearing Corporation. Further, the Bank had
submitted its request for disablement of ID and subsequently
304
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
The Bank has established an accessible and responsive Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
means for its investors to raise concerns through shareholder. and Redressal) Act, 2013, the Bank has constituted an Internal
grievances@hdfcbank.com, which is monitored by the Committee to deal with the cases of sexual harassment of
company secretary. women at the workplace and the same is placed on the
Bank’s website.
Besides, 3,537 letters & requests were received from the
shareholders relating to change of address, updation of bank The Bank regularly communicates about the mechanism of
details, correction of name / bank details on the warrants, raising complaints to all employees. The Bank also reinforces
transmission of shares, death claim letters, documents for the awareness of the Act and the understanding of the same
deletion of name, letters related to issues on demat, electronic through its mandatory e- learning module that is available in
clearing service, email for address updation, exchange of both English and Hindi.
certificate(s), letter on exchange of certificates, indemnity
bond for duplicate certificate, indemnity bond for duplicate Details of the number of complaints received, disposed and
warrants, KYC updation, loss of share certificate /non receipt pending during the last three financial years pertaining to the
of certificate, permanent account / GIR number of income tax, sexual harassment of women at workplace are as under:
reminders on any subject, stop mark, transmission documents
Financial Year Number of Number of Number of cases
and various other investor related matters. These letters have
complaints complaints pending as on
also been responded to within the prescribed timelines. received disposed the end of the
Financial Year
Disclosures for complaints received by the Bank 2022-23 68 61 7
in relation to the Sexual Harassment of Women at
2023-24 77 65 12
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
2024-25 75 65 10*
Act, 2013
*The Ten (10) pending cases were disposed by the Internal Committee as
The Bank has a policy on prevention, prohibition and
on the date of this Report.
redressal of sexual harassment of women at the workplace.
Further, two (2) complaints were pending for more than 90 days during
In consonance with the statutory provisions of the Sexual the financial year 2024-25.
Our Policies and Frameworks
Within the Bank’s broader governance architecture, structured policies serve as the operating framework that translates intent
into action—guiding the conduct of its operations and decision-making processes.
Code of Conduct & Ethics Manual Whistleblower Policy / Vigil Mechanism Anti-corruption, Anti-bribery, and Anti-
money Laundering (AML)
O t w o b C to h r y o u h r g r o n r i e a c o u c p n s h g e u i o t s r a h r r a n a t n t t p W p i t d h o h o p a e n e h r r l . i i t i d r C e s a T s c s t l o h , l o e e d p o n a s - e r f c o b e c i e v o l r n p o o i r f t d n r w e s i E i n s n g s e t . c g r h r i i p t i a a c y l l P e s p l a s o la a l r l e a t i e n c f r v o d e y e a r r l m r C s e t a i i o c n f n o o n f u d o r f d l a r s u c t t t M e c h e a t d d f e y , f O c r s v c e a t o o u a s r r m k r i o r o u e p l u v W p h r i s e t o n i h h o l g d c i e n s e o n , t c r l n s i s e o m c i . b v m e p T e lo r p h r n f o w e r la s a p s e , i m e e n r r i t e c n s b P w o c u o m o l o u s l r r i i p d k n c l g i e y a n fo r s i g n i r s e e t r s v s i p e n a t e r c a s n a n e t b c c a c i l v t e o n i i s i c s n m c h e g e e p s f s r a . s a o n s o m d a s f T c m t s C a u o o o o r c g m d n h e d e e b t a y e e a o s m d t l f a i t o n i C u h n g n n e i o t s d i n a P t e d c t r r i r a u v e o in e t c v r e g s e t r u , n & a p t o w c io t u E r e i n o o r t h s h n o i s a c c , f v s o c C e r m b P o it i r i m o r m c i r b l u a i p i c e t l p l m y e r d t , i y m o o e , T n m n e r a t n a a A d t i n c e n e t t d d o s - ,
based Money Laundering, and Know Your
T m m a st n h a a a e d n n n d u a B c a a g a o l r e d n d n m s k i d r . ’ e e s u A c n c C t t t s t , t i o n h e d i g e m n e c p b o u o lo u f p r y e s h C e i o o n e o f l s e n d , t s d i h n i s u n is g c c w l t c u t o i a d h t m n h i e n d m g e v E i s t t a m h e t l h u n i e c i i e c o n a s s r t l D t c s e c o h t o m u t a a m a r k p i i l n n e p l g o o p h l a f y a o t i e r h 9 l n t d e e n 7 t e s e s F r r ( , N s s Y f . , i r n c o 2 e s u m 0 t u s 2 y c t 4 - o S h a -2 m e 5 v a d e , e s i r n v w s ) e , e s r w h s a h a e a d i r n s d e d t a r h l e e r o r s b a l v s l d o y e a e w d l r u e o s e a r , f C ( c o m A o n u o M m s n a t L e p o n ) y r m t e r i- l e a e h c g u r e o u ( n n K r l d r s a Y u i e t v i C p r o e i t ) n n i a o t g s r n n . a p d , i T n r A a h a in c n e n g t s t t i i i c e - - f M b e o i s r n r o i . b i o n ti e e a u r y t r y i v L , e e a m a s u n p n i d n l d o c e y a lu r e n i d n e ti g e s -
is adherence to the Code of Conduct, which
explicitly prohibits any involvement in child/ For further details, please refer the
forced labour within our operations. It also Directors’ Report.
addresses issues related to verbal abuse,
sexual abuse or harassment of employees.
For breaches related to Conflict of Interest,
kindly refer to Principle 1 of BRSR report.
305
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Policy on Related Party Transactions Policy for Determining Material Human Rights
Subsidiary
This Policy, framed under SEBI Listing The Bank places strong emphasis on
Regulations and the Companies Act, governs respecting and protecting human rights.
This Policy, formulated in line with SEBI
the identification, review, and approval The Human Rights Statement adopted
Listing Regulations, sets out the criteria
of Related Party Transactions (RPTs) at by the Bank is guided by the Universal
and governance framework for determining
the Bank. It ensures RPTs are conducted Declaration of Human Rights and reflects
material subsidiaries of the Bank. A
transparently, at arm’s length, and in the our commitment to conducting business
subsidiary is classified as material if its
Bank’s best interest. All RPTs and significant ensuring that all the stakeholders are treated
turnover or net worth exceeds 10% of the
modifications require prior approval from the with utmost respect and dignity.
Bank’s consolidated turnover or net worth,
Audit Committee, and where material, from
based on audited financials. All KMPs are
the Board and shareholders. The Policy The human rights principles are embedded
severally authorised to assess materiality
provides for defined thresholds, permitted in the Bank's Model Code of Conduct, which
and undertake necessary actions in
exclusions, and approvals of Related Party applies to all employees and stakeholders, it
line with applicable regulations. Once a
Transactions. It also mandates quarterly engages with.
subsidiary is identified as material, the Bank
review, public disclosure, and periodic
ensures compliance with SEBI-mandated
reporting to stock exchanges. The Bank strives to strengthen internal
requirements, with oversight from the
processes and awareness to prevent and
Company Secretary.
During the year, the Bank has amended address human rights violation across its
its policy on related party transactions value chain.
During the FY 2024-25, the Policy
which was approved by the Board on
for determining material subsidiary
January 22, 2025 to align the same with During FY 2024-25, 4,00,082 hours of
was amended to align the same with
various amendments in the applicable laws training on human rights awareness was
the amendments made to the SEBI
and regulations. imparted to Bank's employees.
Listing Regulations.
Among other critical policies that shape the Bank's COMPLIANCE WITH NON-MANDATORY
organisational ethos, the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) REQUIREMENTS
Policy further advances a culture of representation, openness,
and belonging within the workplace (for more details refer The Bank has complied with the applicable non-mandatory
Social-People section). requirements of the Code of Corporate Governance as
prescribed under the SEBI Listing Regulations and as
In addition, the Bank adheres to a formally adopted Tax Policy, given below:
which outlines a transparent and responsible approach to tax
strategy and compliance. a) The Board
A complete list of our publicly disclosed policies is available The Bank maintains an office for its Part-time Chairman,
at: https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate- expense whereof is borne by the Bank.
governance/codes-and-policies.
b) Shareholder’s Rights
COMPLIANCE WITH MANDATORY
The Bank publishes its results on its website at www.
REQUIREMENTS
hdfcbank.com which is accessible to the public at large.
The same are also available on the websites of the Stock
The Bank has complied with the applicable mandatory
Exchanges on which the Bank’s shares are listed.
requirements of the Code of Corporate Governance as
prescribed under the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The financial performance including summary of the
significant events is being sent separately to such
M/s. BNP & Associates, company secretaries, have certified
shareholders who have registered their e-email address
that the Bank has complied with the mandatory requirements
with Datamatics Business Solutions Limited (Registrar
as stipulated under the SEBI Listing Regulations. and the said
and Share Transfer Agent of the Bank) or their respective
certificate forms a part of this Report.
Depository Participant, on a quarterly basis. The Bank’s
results for each quarter are published in an English
Mr. Ajay Agarwal, Company Secretary, Group Head-
newspaper having a nation-wide circulation and in a
Secretarial and Group Oversight is the compliance officer of
Marathi newspaper having circulation in Maharashtra.
the Bank in accordance with the SEBI Listing Regulations.
306
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
The Shareholder’s rights are more particularly mentioned Further, the Bank also maintains a restricted list of securities
in the Shareholders’ Information Section annexed to of certain listed entities for those employees who are in
this Report. possession of or have access to UPSI in relation to those
entities and such employees are prohibited from trading in
c) Audit Qualifications listed securities of those entities.
During the period under review, there is no audit During the year under review, the Share Dealing Code of
qualification in the Bank’s financial statements. The Bank the Bank was amended to align the same with various
continues to adopt best practices to ensure regime of amendments in the applicable laws and regulations.
unmodified audit opinion.
CODE OF ETHICS / CONDUCT FOR DIRECTORS
d) Separate posts of Chairperson and Managing AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Director/ Chief Executive Officer
The Bank has framed and adopted a Code of Ethics/ Conduct
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty is the Part-time Chairman and
for Directors and Senior Management which is approved by
Independent Director of the Bank and Mr. Sashidhar
the Board. The Code is applicable to all Directors and Senior
Jagdishan is the Managing Director & Chief Executive
Management Personnel of the Bank.
Officer of the Bank.
On April 19, 2025, the Code was amended so as to align it with
e) Reporting of Internal Auditor
the changes in the applicable laws and the Bank’s practices.
The Internal Auditor of the Bank reports to the Audit
This Code is available on the Bank’s website at https://www.
Committee of the Bank.
hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
codes-and-policies. All the Directors and Senior Management
f) Independent Directors
Personnel have affirmed compliance with the said Code.
The Independent Directors of the Bank held nine
FEES FOR STATUTORY AUDITORS
meetings during the financial year 2024-25.
For the details of total fees for all services paid by the Bank and
CODE FOR PREVENTION OF INSIDER TRADING
its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the Joint Statutory
Auditors and all entities in the network firm / network entity of
The Bank has adopted a Share Dealing Code (Code) for the
which the Joint Statutory Auditors is a part, kindly refer to the
prevention of insider trading in the securities of the Bank as
Directors’ Report.
well as in other listed and proposed to be listed companies.
The Code is divided into 3 parts viz. Part A, Part B and Part C.
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
Part A of the Code deals with trading in HDFC Bank securities,
Part B deals with transactions in other listed and proposed to
The Board acknowledges its responsibility towards its
be listed companies and Part C deals with trading in the units
shareholders and therefore encourages open and active
of mutual funds.
dialogue with all its shareholders – be it individuals, domestic
institutional investors or foreign investors. The Bank believes
The share dealing code, inter alia, prohibits dealing in securities
that the Annual General Meeting is a principal forum which
of the Bank as well as in other listed and proposed to be listed
provides shareholders an opportunity to interact with the
companies by insiders while in possession of Unpublished
Board, auditors and senior management of the Bank.
Price Sensitive Information (UPSI). The persons designated
under Part A of the Code are prohibited from trading in the
During the year, in accordance with the circulars issued by
securities of the Bank during the Restricted Trading Period
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the shareholder meeting
(Ban Period) notified by the Bank, from time to time and whilst
was held through a two-way video conference, which enabled
in possession of any UPSI relating to the Bank. The Ban Period
shareholders of the Bank to participate at the meeting,
of the Bank starts 7 calendar days prior to the end of a financial
irrespective of their location and interact with the Board.
quarter or year and ends on expiry of two calendar days from
the date of publication of the results of the Bank.
307
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The quarterly and half-yearly un-audited / audited financial A section on ‘Shareholders’ Information’ is provided elsewhere
results are normally published in the newspapers, viz., the in the Integrated Annual Report.
Business Standard in English and Navshakti in Marathi
(regional language). The results are also displayed on the On behalf of the Board of Directors
Bank’s website at www.hdfcbank.com and the same is also
sent via email on a quarterly basis to those shareholders who
Atanu Chakraborty
have registered their email address with Datamatics Business
Part-time Chairman and Independent Director
Solutions Limited (Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the
Bank) or their respective Depository Participant.
June 20, 2025
The Bank communicates with its institutional shareholders
through meetings with analysts and discussions between fund DECLARATION
managers and management. The Bank also participates at
investor conferences and non-deal roadshows, from time I confirm that for the year under review, all Directors and
to time. All interactions with institutional shareholders, fund Members of Senior Management have affirmed their adherence
managers and analysts are based on generally available to the provisions of the Code of Conduct of Directors and
information that is accessible to the public on a non- Senior Management Personnel.
discriminatory basis. The presentations made to analysts
and fund managers are placed on the Bank’s website. The Sashidhar Jagdishan
transcripts of such meetings as well as the audio recordings Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
are also uploaded on the website.
The shareholders can visit the Bank’s website for financial
information, shareholding information, dividend policy,
Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Bank, etc. The
June 20, 2025
website also redirects to www.sec.gov where the investors
can view statutory filings of the Bank with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, USA. The information relating to the
Bank’s financial results and shareholding pattern are also
displayed on the websites of the Stock Exchanges on which
the Bank’s shares are listed. Other information such as official
news/press releases, stock exchange disclosures, etc. are
regularly displayed on the Bank’s website.
308
HDFC Bank Limited
Audited Standalone &
Consolidated Financial Statements ........................... 310
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report .......................................... 528
Shareholder Information ........................................... 584
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of HDFC Bank Limited
Report on Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
1. We have jointly audited the accompanying Standalone Financial Statements of HDFC Bank Limited (“the Bank”), which
comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, and the Standalone Profit and Loss Account and the
Standalone Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements including a
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (together known as the “Standalone Financial
Statements”).
2. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Standalone
Financial Statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013
(“the Act”) in the manner so required for banking companies and are in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in India and give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Bank as at March 31, 2025, and its profit and its
cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act
and other applicable authoritative pronouncements issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). Our
responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of Standalone
Financial Statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Bank in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued
by the ICAI together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements under
the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance
with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters
4. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the
Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025. These matters were addressed in the context of
our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide
a separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be
communicated in our report.
310
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Identification and Provisioning of Non-performing Advances (NPA):
Total NPA as at March 31, 2025: ` 35,194.95 crores
Provision for NPA as at March 31, 2025: ` 23,874.52 crores
(Refer Schedule 17 (C)(3), Schedule 18 note 10)
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank is required to comply with the Master Circular dated Our audit procedures included the following:
April 02, 2024 issued by the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) on
“Prudential Norms on Income Recognition, Asset Classification (cid:190) Understood the process and controls, and tested the
and Provisioning pertaining to Advances” (the “IRAC norms”) design and operating effectiveness of key controls, including
and amendments thereto, which prescribe the guidelines for Information Technology based controls, and focused on the
identification and classification of Non-performing Advances and following:
the minimum provision required for such assets.
• Monitoring of credit quality which amongst other things
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to determine includes the monitoring of overdue loan accounts and
the identification and provision required against Non-performing drawing power, pending security creation;
Advances considering various quantitative as well as qualitative
factors. The identification of Non-performing Advances is also
• Identification and classification of Non-performing
affected by factors like stress and liquidity concerns in certain
Advances in accordance with IRAC norms and
sectors.
consideration of qualitative factors; and
The provision for identified Non-performing Advances is estimated
• Testing of application controls including testing of
based on ageing and classification of Non-performing Advances,
automated controls, reports and system reconciliations.
nature of product, value of security etc., and is also subject to
the minimum provisioning norms specified by RBI. Since the
identification of Non-performing Advances and provisioning for Non- (cid:190) Evaluated the governance process and controls over
performing Advances requires considerable level of management calculations of provision for Non-performing Advances and
estimation, application of various regulatory requirements and in tested that the basis of provisioning is in accordance with the
view of its significance to the overall audit, we have identified this as Board of Directors approved policy and IRAC norms.
a key audit matter.
(cid:190) On a sample basis, recomputed the Days Past Due, verified
the date of Non-performing Advances and verified the
classification of Non-performing Advances.
(cid:190) On a test check basis, verified the classification of accounts
reported by the Bank as Special Mention Accounts (‘SMA’)
in RBI’s Central Repository of Information on Large Credits
(‘CRILC’).
(cid:190) With respect to provisions recognised towards Non-
performing Advances, calculated provision on a sample
basis taking into consideration the value of security, where
applicable, the IRAC norms and the policy of the Bank, and
compared our outcome to that prepared by the management
and evaluated relevant assumptions and judgements and
other qualitative factors considered by the management.
311
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Information Technology (“IT”) Systems and Controls impacting Financial Reporting
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The IT environment of the Bank is complex and involves a large Our procedures with respect to this matter included the following:
number of independent and interdependent IT systems used in the
operations of the Bank for processing and recording a large volume (cid:190) In assessing the controls over the IT systems of the Bank, we
of transactions. involved our technology specialists to obtain an understanding
of the IT environment, IT infrastructure and IT systems. We
As a result, there is a high degree of reliance and dependency on evaluated and tested relevant IT general controls over the “in-
such IT systems for the financial reporting process of the Bank. scope” IT systems and IT dependencies identified as relevant
for our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements and
Appropriate IT general controls and IT application controls are financial reporting process of the Bank. On such “in-scope”
required to ensure that such IT systems are able to process the data IT systems, we tested key IT general controls with respect to
as required, completely, accurately, and consistently for reliable the following domains:
financial reporting.
• Program change management, which includes that
We have identified certain key IT systems (“in-scope” IT systems) program changes are moved to the production
which have an impact on the financial reporting process and the environment as per defined procedures and relevant
related controls testing as a key audit matter because of the high segregation of environment is ensured.
level of automation, significant number of systems being used by
the Bank for processing financial transactions, the complexity of the • User access management, which includes user access
IT architecture and its impact on the financial records and financial provisioning, de-provisioning, access review, password
reporting process of the Bank. management, sensitive access rights and segregation
of duties to ensure that privilege access to applications,
operating systems and databases in the production
environment were granted only to authorized personnel.
• Program development, which includes controls over IT
application development or implementation and related
infrastructure, which are relied upon for financial reporting.
• IT operations, which includes job scheduling, monitoring
and backup and recovery.
(cid:190) We also evaluated the design and tested the operating
effectiveness of relevant key IT dependencies within the key
business process, which included testing automated controls,
automated calculations / accounting procedures, interfaces,
segregation of duties and system generated reports, as
applicable.
(cid:190) We communicated with those charged with governance and
management and tested a combination of compensating
controls or remediated controls and / or performed alternative
audit procedures, where necessary.
312
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Other Information
5. The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Annual report, but does not include the Standalone Financial Statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
The Annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor's report.
Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form
of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified
above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the
Standalone Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the Annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to
communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the relevant
laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of the Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Standalone
Financial Statements
6. The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation
of these Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance and
cash flows of the Bank in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Accounting
Standards specified under Section 133 of the Act, and the provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulations Act, 1949
and circulars, guidelines and directions issued by the RBI from time to time. This responsibility also includes maintenance
of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Bank
and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting
policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance
of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the
accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Standalone Financial Statements that give a true
and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
7. In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Bank’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern
basis of accounting unless Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, or has no realistic
alternative but to do so.
8. The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
9. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users
taken on the basis of these Standalone Financial Statements.
10. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism
throughout the audit. We also:
313
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate
in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether
the Bank has adequate internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements in place and the
operating effectiveness of such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant
doubt on the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are
required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Standalone Financial Statements or,
if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Bank to cease to continue
as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Standalone Financial Statements, including the
disclosures, and whether the Standalone Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a
manner that achieves fair presentation.
11. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing
of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during
our audit.
12. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
13. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the current year and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of
such communication.
Other Matters
14. The Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank for the year ended March 31, 2024, were jointly audited by M M Nissim &
Co LLP and Price Waterhouse LLP under the Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, who, vide their report dated April
20, 2024, expressed an unmodified opinion on those Standalone Financial Statements. Accordingly, Batliboi & Purohit do
not express any opinion on the figures reported in the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2024.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
314
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
15. In our opinion, the Standalone Balance Sheet and the Standalone Profit and Loss Account have been drawn up in
accordance with the provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Section 133 of the Act.
16. As required by sub-section (3) of Section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that:
(a) We have obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were necessary
for the purpose of our audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
(b) The transactions of the Bank, which have come to our notice, have been within the powers of the Bank, other than
those relating to leasing of immovable properties acquired on amalgamation of the erstwhile HDFC Limited with the
Bank, as disclosed in Schedule 18 note 1 to the Standalone Financial Statements; and
(c) During the course of our audit, we have visited 73 branches to examine the books of account and other records
maintained at the branch and performed other relevant audit procedures. Since the key operations of the Bank are
automated with the key applications integrated to the core banking system, the audit is carried out centrally at Bank’s
Head office located in Mumbai, as all the necessary records and data required for the purposes of our audit are
available there.
17. Further, as required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
(a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were
necessary for the purposes of our audit.
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Bank so far as it appears from our
examination of those books, except for the matters stated in paragraph 17(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g)
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended).
(c) T he Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone Profit and Loss Account and the Standalone Cash Flow Statement
dealt with by this report are in agreement with the books of account.
(d) In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under
Section 133 of the Act, to the extent they are not inconsistent with the accounting policies prescribed by RBI.
(e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as at March 31, 2025 taken on record by the
Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as at March 31, 2025 from being appointed as a director in
terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
(f) W ith respect to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith, reference is made to our
comment in paragraph 17(b) above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 17(h)(vi) below on reporting
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended).
(g) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements of
the Bank and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure A”.
(h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the
explanations given to us:
315
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
i. The Bank has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its financial statements –
Refer Schedule 12(I) and (II), Schedule 17(C)(18) and Schedule 18 note 19.5 and 32(b) to the Standalone Financial
Statements.
ii. The Bank has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material
foreseeable losses on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Schedule 17(C)(9) and 17(C)(18),
Schedule 18 Note 19.5 and 32(b) to the Standalone Financial Statements;
iii. T here has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and
Protection Fund by the Bank, during the year ended March 31, 2025.
iv. (a) T he management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in
the Schedule 18 note 36, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds
or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies),
including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise,
that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee,
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
(b) The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in the
Schedule 18 note 36, no funds have been received by the Bank from any person(s) or entity(ies), including
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the
Bank shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security
or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
(c) Based on such audit procedures that we considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances,
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (a)
and (b) contain any material misstatement.
v. The dividend declared and paid during the year by the Bank is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
vi. B ased on our examination, which included test checks, the Bank has used various accounting software for
maintaining its books of account which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility, which have operated
throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software, except that the audit trail feature was not
enabled for part of the year for certain masters in two accounting software and two databases and throughout
the year for other databases (also, refer Schedule 18 note 37 to the Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank).
During the course of performing our procedures, other than the aforesaid instances of audit trail not enabled,
where the question of our commenting does not arise, we did not notice any instance of audit trail feature being
tampered with. Further, the Bank has preserved the audit trail for the prior financial year in compliance with
statutory record retention requirements, except in relation to certain software and databases for which the audit
trail feature was not enabled.
316
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
18. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the provisions of Section
197 of the Act are not applicable to the Bank by virtue of Section 35B(2A) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Accordingly,
the reporting under Section 197(16) of the Act regarding payment / provision for managerial remuneration in accordance
with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act, is not applicable.
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: Firm Registration Number:
301112E/E300264 101048W
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta
Partner Partner
Membership Number: 101119 Membership Number: 116976
UDIN: 25101119BMIFBA5214 UDIN: 25116976BMOKOV9481
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025 Date: April 19, 2025
317
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 17(g) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of HDFC Bank Limited on the
Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements under
clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1. We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements of HDFC Bank Limited
(“the Bank”) as of March 31, 2025 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank for the
year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
2. The Bank’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal
control over financial reporting criteria established by the Bank considering the essential components of internal control
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (“the Guidance Note”) issued
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient
conduct of its business, including adherence to Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection
of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable
financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank's internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial
Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on
Auditing deemed to be prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial
controls, both applicable to an audit of internal financial controls and both issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the
Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements was
established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
4. Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls
system with reference to Standalone Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial
controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls
with reference to Standalone Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected
depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone
Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion
on the Bank’s internal financial controls system with reference to Standalone Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements
6. A Bank's internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Standalone Financial Statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A Bank's internal financial controls with
reference to Standalone Financial Statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
Bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of Standalone
Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
318
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
the Bank are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the Bank; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the Bank's
assets that could have a material effect on the Standalone Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements
7. B ecause of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements, including
the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may
occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone
Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone
Financial Statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8. I n our opinion, the Bank has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system with reference to
Standalone Financial Statements and such internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements
were operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established
by the Bank considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by ICAI.
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: Firm Registration Number:
301112E/E300264 101048W
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta
Partner Partner
Membership Number: 101119 Membership Number: 116976
UDIN: 25101119BMIFBA5214 UDIN: 25116976BMOKOV9481
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025 Date: April 19, 2025
319
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE BAL ANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital 1 7,652,222 7,596,911
Employees stock options outstanding 18 (5) 38,051,944 26,527,161
Reserves and surplus 2 4,968,542,229 4,368,333,979
Deposits 3 27,147,148,959 23,797,862,764
Borrowings 4 5,479,308,926 6,621,530,751
Other liabilities and provisions 5 1,461,285,166 1,354,379,303
Total 39,101,989,446 36,176,230,869
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India 6 1,443,550,296 1,786,832,228
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 7 952,156,416 404,641,953
Investments 8 8,363,596,736 7,024,149,587
Advances 9 26,196,086,171 24,848,615,188
Fixed assets 10 136,553,987 113,989,878
Other assets 11 2,010,045,840 1,998,002,035
Total 39,101,989,446 36,176,230,869
Contingent liabilities 12 26,474,170,018 22,967,583,363
Bills for collection 706,795,544 653,328,740
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 17 & 18
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Balance Sheet.
As per our report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta
Partner Partner Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976 Independent Director Independent Director
Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
Executive Director Executive Director
Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025 Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
320
HDFC Bank Limited
STANDALONE PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in ‘000)
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. INCOME
Interest earned 13 3,005,170,417 2,583,405,755
Other income 14 456,322,818 492,409,994
Total 3,461,493,235 3,075,815,749
II. EXPENDITURE
Interest expended 15 1,778,469,527 1,498,081,008
Operating expenses 16 681,748,820 633,860,240
Provisions and contingencies 18 (19.5) 327,801,307 335,751,716
Total 2,788,019,654 2,467,692,964
III. PROFIT
Net profit for the year 673,473,581 608,122,785
Balance in the Profit and Loss account brought forward 1,395,798,306 1,129,599,963
Additions on Amalgamation (net) 18 (1) - 35,701,097
Total 2,069,271,887 1,773,423,845
IV. APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve 168,368,395 152,030,697
Transfer to General Reserve 67,347,358 60,812,279
Transfer to Special Reserve 32,000,000 30,000,000
Transfer to Capital Reserve 5,069,983 41,664,119
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve Account (net) - 5,294,222
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve - 3,780,000
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year 148,261,930 84,044,222
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet 1,648,224,221 1,395,798,306
Total 2,069,271,887 1,773,423,845
V. EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE (Face value ` 1/- per share) 18 (31) ` `
Basic 88.29 85.83
Diluted 87.90 85.44
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
17 & 18
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Profit and Loss
Account.
As per our report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta
Partner Partner Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976 Independent Director Independent Director
Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
Executive Director Executive Director
Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025 Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
321
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in ‘000)
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before income tax 884,780,560 708,953,051
Adjustments for:
Depreciation on fixed assets 33,794,728 28,100,988
(Profit) / loss on revaluation of investments 2,683,978 (9,434,922)
Amortisation of premium / (discount) on investments (278,677) 8,449,479
Profit on sale of fixed assets (226,517) (738,174)
(Profit) / loss on sale of investment in subsidiary 80,000 (73,414,237)
Provision / charge for non performing assets 127,153,073 107,748,189
Floating provisions - 109,000,000
Provision / (write-back) for standard assets and contingencies (10,658,745) 18,173,261
Dividend from subsidiaries (21,870,101) (13,323,911)
Employee stock options / units expense 18,907,034 15,474,040
1,034,365,333 898,987,764
Adjustments for:
Increase in investments (1,302,003,741) (548,336,186)
Increase in advances (1,489,033,797) (2,894,442,171)
Increase in deposits 3,349,286,195 3,391,324,138
Increase in other assets (73,424,525) (292,254,127)
Increase / (decrease) in other liabilities and provisions 106,340,648 (6,692,396)
1,625,530,113 548,587,022
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds) (173,757,076) (198,437,376)
Net cash flows from operating activities 1,451,773,037 350,149,646
Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchase of fixed assets (31,986,944) (38,348,940)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 904,484 960,042
Investment in subsidiaries (13,097,695) -
Proceeds from sale of investment in subsidiary (net) 1,920,000 95,006,717
Dividend from subsidiaries 21,870,101 13,323,911
Net cash flow (used in) / from investing activities (20,390,054) 70,941,730
Cash flows from financing activities:
Proceeds from exercise of convertible equity warrants - 31,928,121
Proceeds from issue of share capital other than warrants 63,464,973 52,497,323
Decrease in other borrowings (1,144,291,825) (222,750,573)
322
HDFC Bank Limited
STANDALONE CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in ‘000)
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend paid during the year (148,261,930) (84,044,222)
Net cash flow used in financing activities (1,229,088,782) (222,369,351)
Effect of fluctuation in foreign currency translation reserve 1,938,330 1,012,629
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 204,232,531 199,734,654
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 2,191,474,181 1,937,650,831
Cash and cash equivalents acquired on amalgamation - 54,088,696
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 2,395,706,712 2,191,474,181
Cash and cash equivalents include Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India and Balances with banks and money at call and short notice
(Refer Schedule 6 and Schedule 7).
As per our report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta
Partner Partner Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976 Independent Director Independent Director
Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
Executive Director Executive Director
Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025 Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
323
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDLONE BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 1 - CAPITAL
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Authorised capital
11,90,61,00,000 (31 March, 2024: 11,90,61,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 1/- each 11,906,100 11,906,100
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital
7,65,22,21,674 (31 March, 2024: 7,59,69,10,662) Equity Shares of ` 1/- each 7,652,222 7,596,911
Total 7,652,222 7,596,911
SCHEDULE 2 - RESERVES AND SURPLUS
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Statutory Reserve
Opening balance 858,868,812 626,280,835
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 80,557,280
Additions during the year 18 (6) 168,368,395 152,030,697
Closing balance 1,027,237,207 858,868,812
II. General Reserve
Opening balance 538,526,919 248,677,940
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 229,023,281
Additions during the year 18 (6) 72,327,207 60,825,698
Closing balance 610,854,126 538,526,919
III. Share Premium
Opening balance 1,270,532,922 665,394,291
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 517,288,313
Additions during the year 70,640,779 87,850,318
Closing balance 1,341,173,701 1,270,532,922
IV. Special Reserve
Opening balance 262,681,815 5,000,000
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 227,681,815
Additions during the year 18 (6) 32,000,000 30,000,000
Closing balance 294,681,815 262,681,815
V. Amalgamation Reserve - I
Opening balance 10,635,564 10,635,564
Additions / (deductions) during the year - -
Closing balance 18 (6) 10,635,564 10,635,564
324
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
VI. Amalgamation Reserve - II
Opening balance (139,470,590) -
Additions / (deductions) on amalgamation 18 (1) - (139,470,590)
Closing balance 18 (6) (139,470,590) (139,470,590)
VII. Capital Reserve
Opening balance 97,941,784 56,275,415
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 414
Additions during the year 18 (6) 5,069,983 41,665,955
Closing balance 103,011,767 97,941,784
VIII. Investment Reserve Account
Opening balance 5,294,222 -
Additions during the year - 5,294,222
Deductions during the year 18 (6) (5,294,222) -
Closing balance - 5,294,222
IX. Investment Fluctuation Reserve
Opening balance 50,320,000 37,010,000
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 9,530,000
Additions during the year 18 (6) 5,294,222 3,780,000
Closing balance 55,614,222 50,320,000
X. Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
Opening balance 8,801,080 7,788,451
Additions during the year 1,938,330 1,012,629
Closing balance 18 (6) 10,739,410 8,801,080
XI. Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
Opening balance 8,403,145 (922,314)
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 9,370,530
Deductions during the year (8,730,454) (45,071)
Closing balance 18 (6) (327,309) 8,403,145
XII. AFS Reserve
Opening balance - -
Additions during the year 6,168,095 -
Closing balance 18(6) 6,168,095 -
XIII. Balance in Profit and Loss Account 1,648,224,221 1,395,798,306
Total 4,968,542,229 4,368,333,979
325
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDLONE BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 3 - DEPOSITS
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
A. I. Demand deposits
(i) From banks 41,498,542 37,047,391
(ii) From others 3,099,437,830 3,063,109,564
Total 3,140,936,372 3,100,156,955
II. Savings bank deposits 6,304,666,061 5,987,472,923
III. Term deposits
(i) From banks 325,992,858 177,670,784
(ii) From others 17,375,553,668 14,532,562,102
Total 17,701,546,526 14,710,232,886
Total 27,147,148,959 23,797,862,764
B. I. Deposits of branches in India 26,906,095,755 23,575,937,441
II. Deposits of branches outside India 241,053,204 221,925,323
Total 27,147,148,959 23,797,862,764
Deposits include lien marked deposits of ` 368,707.83 crore (previous year: ` 291,798.38 crore).
SCHEDULE 4 - BORROWINGS
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Borrowings in India
(i) Reserve Bank of India 63,350,000 45,560,000
(ii) Other banks 498,422,662 1,158,049,831
(iii) Other institutions and agencies 1,070,858,321 1,387,550,400
(iv) Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments 250,761,891 250,536,249
(v) Other bonds and debentures 2,391,764,562 2,710,439,699
Total 4,275,157,436 5,552,136,179
II. Borrowings outside India 1,204,151,490 1,069,394,572
Total 5,479,308,926 6,621,530,751
Secured borrowings included in I and II above: Nil (previous year: Nil) except borrowings of `13,039.60 crore (previous year: ` 5,654.13 crore) under
repurchase transactions (including tri-party repo) and transactions under Liquidity Adjustment Facility.
326
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SCHEDULE 5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Bills payable 136,557,423 141,013,564
II. Interest accrued 235,192,453 222,810,099
III. Contingent provisions against standard assets 108,629,049 106,637,109
IV. Others (including provisions) 980,906,241 883,918,531
Total 1,461,285,166 1,354,379,303
SCHEDULE 6 - CASH AND BALANCES WITH RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes) 121,276,593 130,246,313
II. Balances with Reserve Bank of India
(a) In current accounts 1,320,273,703 1,318,925,915
(b) In other accounts 2,000,000 337,660,000
Total 1,322,273,703 1,656,585,915
Total 1,443,550,296 1,786,832,228
SCHEDULE 7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. In India
(i) Balances with banks
(a) In current accounts 1,769,908 2,448,844
(b) In other deposit accounts 172,289 3,020,199
Total 1,942,197 5,469,043
(ii) Money at call and short notice
(a) With banks - 2,000,000
(b) With other institutions 309,634,683 -
Total 309,634,683 2,000,000
Total 311,576,880 7,469,043
II. Outside India
(i) In current accounts 190,673,763 103,044,784
(ii) In other deposit accounts 124,262,164 118,589,699
(iii) Money at call and short notice 325,643,609 175,538,427
Total 640,579,536 397,172,910
Total 952,156,416 404,641,953
327
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDLONE BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 8 - INVESTMENTS
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Investments in India in
(i) Government securities 7,652,301,388 6,448,063,974
(ii) Other approved securities - -
(iii) Shares 36,447,757 19,729,997
(iv) Debentures and bonds 287,230,834 200,747,321
(v) Subsidiaries / joint ventures 138,939,093 126,342,133
(vi) O thers (Units of Mutual funds / AIFs / REITs, Certificate of deposits, PTCs and 224,660,233 210,241,598
security receipts)
Total 8,339,579,305 7,005,125,023
II. Investments outside India in
(i) Government securities (including local authorities) 9,180,892 2,480,394
(ii) Subsidiaries / joint ventures abroad 54,061 54,061
(iii) Other investments:
(a) Shares 964,701 215,336
(b) Debentures and bonds 13,817,777 16,274,773
Total 24,017,431 19,024,564
Total 8,363,596,736 7,024,149,587
SCHEDULE 9 - ADVANCES
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
A. (i) Bills purchased and discounted 349,646,089 240,329,232
(ii) Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand 7,092,052,542 6,272,383,851
(iii) Term loans 18,754,387,540 18,335,902,105
Total 26,196,086,171 24,848,615,188
Net of Bills Rediscounted: Nil (previous year: ` 3,500.00 crore) and Inter Bank Participatory
Certificates of ` 77,703.73 crore (previous year: ` 62,920.05 crore)
B. (i) Secured by tangible assets* 20,064,100,012 19,143,339,472
(ii) Covered by bank / government guarantees 605,433,986 415,985,170
(iii) Unsecured 5,526,552,173 5,289,290,546
Total 26,196,086,171 24,848,615,188
* Including advances against book debts
C. I. Advances in India
(i) Priority sector 8,785,988,737 7,755,713,447
(ii) Public sector 1,214,696,329 1,405,546,990
(iii) Banks 21,224,114 25,671,224
(iv) Others 15,712,591,082 15,275,192,176
Total 25,734,500,262 24,462,123,837
328
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
C. II. Advances outside India
(i) Due from banks 27,698,862 27,561,578
(ii) Due from others:
(a) Bills purchased and discounted 5,441,025 7,148,584
(b) Syndicated loans 5,817,254 11,804,945
(c) Others 422,628,768 339,976,244
Total 461,585,909 386,491,351
Total 26,196,086,171 24,848,615,188
SCHEDULE 10 - FIXED ASSETS
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Premises (including land)
Gross block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year 45,179,729 24,353,113
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 17,158,133
Additions during the year 5,843,490 3,914,363
Deductions during the year (560,881) (245,880)
Total 50,462,338 45,179,729
Depreciation
As at 31st March of the preceding year 13,897,188 8,155,263
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 5,053,311
Charge for the year 1,831,059 886,959
On deductions during the year (414,754) (198,345)
Total 15,313,493 13,897,188
Net block 35,148,845 31,282,541
II. Other fixed assets (including furniture and fixtures)
Gross block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year 224,005,298 179,030,451
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 5,868,936
Additions during the year 51,196,574 43,904,034
Deductions during the year (13,711,393) (4,798,123)
Total 261,490,479 224,005,298
Depreciation
As at 31st March of the preceding year 141,297,961 115,062,891
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 3,547,773
Charge for the year 31,966,929 27,216,269
329
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDLONE BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
On deductions during the year (13,179,553) (4,528,972)
Total 160,085,337 141,297,961
Net block 101,405,142 82,707,337
III. Assets on lease (plant and machinery)
Gross block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year - 4,546,923
Additions during the year - -
Deductions during the year - (4,546,923)
Total - -
Depreciation
As at 31st March of the preceding year - 4,104,467
Charge for the year - -
On deductions during the year - (4,104,467)
Total - -
Lease adjustment account
As at 31st March of the preceding year - 442,456
Charge for the year - -
On deductions during the year - (442,456)
Total - -
Unamortised cost of assets on lease - -
Total 136,553,987 113,989,878
SCHEDULE 11 - OTHER ASSETS
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Interest accrued 290,278,036 221,272,886
II. Advance tax / tax deducted at source (net of provisions) 153,846,089 170,135,924
III. Stationery and stamps 653,834 641,440
IV. Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims 9,912,393 11,405,574
V. Security deposit for commercial and residential property 10,005,339 8,002,888
VI. Others 18 (22) 1,545,350,149 1,586,543,323
Total 2,010,045,840 1,998,002,035
330
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SCHEDULE 12 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
(` in ‘000)
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts - taxation 37,327,236 40,608,619
II. Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts - others 1,214,910 1,509,529
III. Liability for partly paid investments - -
IV. Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts 12,934,924,742 12,125,527,858
V. Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts 10,986,775,591 8,700,000,919
VI. Guarantees given on behalf of constituents - in India 1,492,273,572 1,260,307,896
- outside India 2,505,328 2,874,204
VII. Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations 966,848,695 710,083,810
VIII. Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable 52,299,944 126,670,528
Total 26,474,170,018 22,967,583,363
331
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDLONE PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
For the year ended March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED
(` in ‘000)
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Interest / discount on advances / bills 2,384,444,278 2,072,200,137
II. Income on investments 533,196,899 443,642,848
III. Interest on balance with RBI and other inter-bank funds 25,063,136 20,404,735
IV. Others 62,466,104 47,158,035
Total 3,005,170,417 2,583,405,755
SCHEDULE 14 - OTHER INCOME
(` in ‘000)
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Commission, exchange and brokerage 318,985,521 281,606,512
II. Profit / (loss) on sale of investments (net) 20,227,183 105,826,427
III. Profit / (loss) on revaluation of investments (net) (2,683,978) 9,434,922
IV. Profit / (loss) on sale of building and other assets (net) 1,568,130 1,983,223
V. Profit / (loss) on exchange / derivative transactions (net) 49,190,377 40,011,265
VI. Income earned by way of dividends from subsidiaries and / or joint ventures abroad / 21,870,101 13,323,911
in India
VII. Miscellaneous income 47,165,484 40,223,734
Total 456,322,818 492,409,994
SCHEDULE 15 - INTEREST EXPENDED
(` in ‘000)
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Interest on deposits 1,252,706,143 994,329,551
II. Interest on RBI / inter-bank borrowings 524,697,574 502,603,949
III. Other interest 1,065,810 1,147,508
Total 1,778,469,527 1,498,081,008
SCHEDULE 16 - OPERATING EXPENSES
(` in ‘000)
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Payments to and provisions for employees 239,005,294 222,402,099
II. Rent, taxes and lighting 31,313,950 26,790,093
III. Printing and stationery 8,414,626 9,405,133
IV. Advertisement and publicity 5,917,829 3,456,411
V. Depreciation on bank's property 33,794,728 28,100,988
VI. Directors' fees / remuneration, allowances and expenses 101,367 78,014
332
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(` in ‘000)
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
VII. Auditors' fees and expenses 129,379 177,927
VIII. Law charges 3,474,462 3,571,829
IX. Postage, telegram, telephone etc. 9,018,281 8,678,881
X. Repairs and maintenance 38,204,289 31,626,821
XI. Insurance 32,667,788 28,135,719
XII. Other expenditure* 279,706,827 271,436,325
Total 681,748,820 633,860,240
*Includes professional fees, commission to sales agents, card and merchant acquiring expenses and system management fees.
333
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 17 – Significant accounting policies at the date of the financial statements and the reported
appended to and forming part of the standalone income and expenses for the reporting year. Management
financial statements for the year ended March 31, believes that the estimates used in the preparation of the
2025 financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual
results could differ from these estimates. The impact of
A BACKGROUND
any revision in the accounting estimates is recognised
prospectively from the period of change.
HDFC BANK Limited (‘HDFC Bank’ or the ‘Bank’),
incorporated in Mumbai, India is a publicly held
C SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
banking company engaged in providing a range of
banking and financial services including retail banking, 1. Investments
wholesale banking and treasury operations. The Bank is
governed by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the The RBI, vide its master direction dated September 12,
Companies Act, 2013. During FY 2024, basis scheme for 2023, issued revised norms for the classification, valuation
amalgamation of (i) erstwhile HDFC Investments Limited and operation of investment portfolio of banks, which
(“eHDFC Investments”) and erstwhile HDFC Holdings became applicable from April 01, 2024 (herein after
Limited (“eHDFC Holdings”) with and into erstwhile referred as ‘revised norms on investments’).
Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
Classification:
(“eHDFC Limited”); and thereafter (ii) eHDFC Limited into
the Bank became effective from July 01, 2023, upon
In accordance with the revised norms on investments,
receipt of all requisite approvals. Accordingly, the financial
investments are classified on the date of purchase into
statements of the Bank included operations of eHDFC
“Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’), “Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) and
Limited, eHDFC Investments and eHDFC Holdings from
“Fair value through Profit and Loss” (‘FVTPL’) categories
July 01, 2023 onwards. The Bank has overseas branch
(hereinafter called “categories”). “Held for Trading” (‘HFT’)
operations in Bahrain, Hong Kong, Dubai, Singapore and
is a separate investment sub-category within FVTPL. All
an Offshore Banking Unit at International Financial Service
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
Centre (IFSC) in GIFT City, India. The financial accounting
are categorised in a distinct category Group companies
systems of the Bank are centralised and, therefore,
(“Group cos”). Under each of these categories, investments
accounting returns are not required to be submitted by
are further classified under six groups (hereinafter called
branches of the Bank.
“groups”) - Government Securities, Other Approved
Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, Investments
B BASIS OF PREPARATION
in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and Other Investments.
The standalone financial statements have been prepared
and presented under the historical cost convention and Hitherto, investments were classified on the date of
accrual basis of accounting, unless otherwise stated and purchase into “Held for Trading” (‘HFT’), “Available for
are in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’) categories.
Principles in India (‘Indian GAAP’), statutory requirements (hereinafter called “categories”). Subsequent shifting
prescribed under the Third Schedule of the Banking amongst the categories was done in accordance with
Regulation Act, 1949, directions, circulars, notifications the RBI guidelines. Under each of these categories,
and guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) investments were further classified into six groups
from time to time (RBI guidelines), Accounting Standards (hereinafter called “groups”), Government securities,
(‘AS’) specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, Other approved securities, Shares, Debentures and
2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, Bonds, Investments in subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and
2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, Other Investments.
2021, in so far as they apply to banks.
Purchase and sale transactions in securities are accounted
Use of estimates on settlement date except in the case of equity shares
which are accounted on trade date.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
Indian GAAP requires the management to make estimates
and necessary assumptions in the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as
334
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Basis of classification: appreciation, if any, in any of the six groups was
not recognised except to the extent of depreciation
Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity provided earlier.
and contractual terms there of gives rise to cash flows that
are solely payment of principal and interest on principal • Quoted investments are valued based on the trades /
outstanding (SPPI) are classified under HTM category. All quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or prices
investments in subsidiaries / associates / joint ventures published by Financial Benchmarks India Pvt Ltd.
are classified under the category of Group Companies (FBIL) or Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives
(Group Cos.). Investments which the Bank acquires with Association (FIMMDA). Investments denominated in
an objective that is achieved by both collecting contractual foreign currencies are valued based on the prices
cashflows and selling securities and where the contractual provided by market information providers such as
terms of the investment meet the SPPI criterion are Bloomberg, Refinitiv, etc.
classified under AFS category. Investments not classified
in any of the above categories are classified under FVTPL • Unquoted Government of India securities, state
category. HFT, which is a sub-category of FVTPL consists government securities and special bonds such as oil
of all instruments that meet the specifications for HFT bonds, fertilizer bonds etc. issued by the Government
instruments prescribed by the RBI. of India are valued as per the prices published by
FBIL. The valuation of other unquoted fixed income
Hitherto, investments which the Bank intended to hold securities (viz. other approved securities and bonds
till maturity were classified under HTM category and and debentures) and preference shares is done
investments that were held for resale within 90 days with appropriate mark-up, i.e. applicable FIMMDA
from the date of purchase were classified under HFT. published credit spreads over the Yield to Maturity
Investments which were not classified in either of the (YTM) rates for Government of India securities as
above categories were classified under AFS category. published by FBIL.
Acquisition cost:
• Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-
up value, ascertained from the company’s latest
Costs, including brokerage and commission paid at the
balance sheet. The date as on which the latest
time of acquisition of investments and broken period
balance sheet is drawn up does not precede the
interest on debt instruments, are recognised in the Profit
date of valuation by more than 18 months. In case
and Loss Account and are not included in the cost
the latest audited balance sheet is not available or is
of acquisition.
more than 18 months old, the shares are valued at
` 1 per company.
Valuation:
• Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest Net
In accordance with the revised norms on investments:
Asset Value (NAV) declared by the mutual fund.
• Investments classified under FVTPL and AFS
• Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of
categories are fair valued individually. Net gain or
deposits being discounted instruments are valued at
loss arising on such valuation of FVTPL category is
carrying cost.
directly taken to the Profit and Loss Account. The
net appreciation or depreciation (adjusted for the
• Investments in Security Receipts (SRs) and unquoted
effect of applicable taxes, if any) in AFS Category is
units of Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT) are
directly taken to AFS reserve without routing through
valued as per the net asset value provided by the
the Profit & Loss Account.
issuing Asset Reconstruction Company and InvIT
respectively.
H itherto, investments classified under AFS and HFT
categories were marked to market individually, and
• Investments in unquoted units of Alternative
depreciation / appreciation was aggregated for
Investment Fund (AIF) are valued at NAV provided
each group. Net depreciation, if any, compared to
by the AIF based on its financial statements. Where
the acquisition cost, in any of the six groups, was
an AIF fails to carry out and disclose the valuation of
charged to the Profit and Loss Account and net
335
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
its investments by an independent valuer as per the that the fair value is materially different from the
frequency mandated by SEBI, the value of its units acquisition cost, it is presumed that the acquisition
is treated as ` 1. In case AIF is not registered under cost is the fair value. In case of Level 1 and Level 2
SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulation, 2012, instruments, when acquisition cost is not equal to fair
and the latest disclosed valuation of its investments value, any Day 1 gain / loss is recognised in the Profit
by an independent valuer precedes the date of and Loss Account. In case of Level 3 instruments,
valuation by more than 18 months the value of its any Day 1 loss is recognized immediately in the
units is treated as ` 1. Profit and Loss Account whereas any Day 1 gain
is deferred. In case of Level 3 debt instruments, the
• Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) including Priority Day 1 gain is amortized on a straight-line basis up to
Sector-PTCs are valued by using FIMMDA credit the maturity date (or earliest call date for perpetual
spreads as applicable for the NBFC category, instruments), while for unquoted Level 3 equity
based on the credit rating of the respective PTC over instruments, the gain is set aside as a liability until
the YTM rates for Government of India securities the security is listed or derecognised.
published by FBIL.
• Non-performing investments (NPIs) are identified,
• Investments classified under HTM and Group Cos. and provision is made thereon based on the RBI
category are carried at their acquisition cost and guidelines. Provision for NPIs is not set-off against
not marked to market. Any diminution, other than appreciation in respect of performing investments.
temporary, in the value of investments in HTM Appreciation, if any, in the value of a NPI is not
and Group Cos. category is provided for. Hitherto, recognised. Income on NPIs is not recognised
any premium on investments classified under until received.
HTM category, was amortised over the remaining
maturity period of the security on a constant yield- Disposal of investments:
to-maturity basis.
In accordance with the revised norms on investments,
• For all debt securities meeting SPPI criteria (except Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid
short sale securities), any discount or premium categories is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account
on acquisition is accreted or amortised over the except for equity instruments designated under AFS at
remaining maturity period of the security on a the time of initial recognition, in respect of which the
constant yield-to-maturity basis. Such accretion or gains and losses are transferred from AFS Reserve to
amortisation of discount or premium is classified the Capital Reserve. Hitherto entire Profit / Loss on sale
under interest income from investments. of investments, were recognised in the Profit and Loss
Account. Cost of investments is determined based on
• The investment portfolio is categorised into three fair the weighted average cost method. The profit from sale of
value hierarchies viz. Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3: investment under HTM and Group Cos. categories, net-
off taxes and transfer to statutory reserve is appropriated
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:190) L evel 1 Financial Instruments are valued with from the Profit and Loss Account to “Capital Reserve”, in
inputs such as quoted prices in active markets accordance with RBI guidelines.
for identical instruments.
Short sale:
(cid:190) L evel 2 Financial Instruments are valued with
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central
inputs other than quoted prices, that are
Government dated securities in accordance with the RBI
observable for asset or liability either directly
guidelines. The short position is categorised under HFT
or indirectly.
and netted off from investments in government securities.
The short position along with other government securities
(cid:190) L evel 3 Financial Instruments are valued using
under HFT portfolio is marked to market and the resultant
unobservable inputs.
MTM profit or loss, is taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
Profit / Loss on short sale is recognised on settlement
• All investments are measured at fair value on initial
date.
recognition. Unless facts and circumstances suggest
336
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
2. Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions: The Bank maintains general provision for standard assets
including credit exposures computed as per the current
Repurchase (Repo) and reverse repurchase (Reverse
marked to market values of interest rate and foreign
Repo) transactions are reported as borrowing and
exchange derivative contracts and gold. The Bank also
lending (lending above 14 days tenor reported as
maintains general provision for unhedged foreign currency
advances) respectively.
exposures of borrowers, provision on loans to specific
borrowers in specific stressed sectors, provision on
Borrowing cost on repo transactions is accounted as
exposures to step-down subsidiaries of Indian companies
interest expense and revenue on reverse repo transactions
and provision on specified borrowers as prescribed by
is accounted as interest income.
RBI. In the case of overseas branches, general provision
on standard assets is maintained at the higher of the
3. Advances
levels stipulated by the respective overseas regulator or
Classification: RBI. The provision for standard assets is included under
other liabilities.
Advances are classified as performing and non-performing
based on the RBI guidelines and are stated net of bills In addition to the above, the Bank on a prudent basis
rediscounted, inter-bank participation with risk, specific makes provision on advances or exposures which are not
loan loss provision, interest suspense for non-performing NPAs, but has reasons to believe on the basis of the extant
advances, claims received from Credit Guarantors, environment or specific information or basis regulatory
provision for funded interest term loan and provision for guidance / instructions, of a possible slippage of a specific
diminution in the fair value of restructured assets. advance or a group of advances or exposures or potential
exposures. These are classified as contingent provisions
The Bank classifies its loans and investments, including and included under other liabilities.
overseas branches and overdues from crystallised
derivative contracts, into performing assets and non- Provision made in addition to the Bank’s policy for specific
performing assets (NPAs) in accordance with RBI loan loss provision for non-performing assets, possible
guidelines. Further the NPAs are classified into sub- slippage of specific exposures and regulatory general
standard, doubtful and loss assets based on the criteria provision is categorised as floating provision. Creation of
stipulated by RBI. Non-performing assets are upgraded floating provision is considered by the Bank up to a level
into standard as per the extant RBI guidelines. approved by the Board of Directors. Floating provisions
are used only for contingencies under extraordinary
Provisioning:
circumstances and for making specific provisions for non-
performing accounts. Floating provisions are included
Specific loan loss provision in respect of non-performing
under other liabilities.
advances is made based on management’s assessment
of the degree of impairment of advances, subject to the
Further to the provisions required to be held according
minimum provisioning prescribed by the RBI.
to the asset classification status, provision is held for
individual country exposures (other than for home country
The specific loan loss provision for retail non-performing
exposure). Countries are categorised into risk categories
advances is also made based on the nature of product
as per Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd.
and delinquency levels.
(‘ECGC’) guidelines and provisioning is made in respect
of that country where the net funded exposure is one
Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance
percent or more of the Bank’s total assets. Provision for
with the Bank’s policy. Recoveries from bad debts written-
country risk is included under other liabilities.
off are included under other income.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines on the prudential
Loans reported as frauds are classified as loss assets
framework for resolution of stressed assets and the
and fully provided for immediately without considering the
resolution frameworks for COVID-19 related stress and
value of security.
its Board approved policy, the Bank has implemented
resolution plans for eligible borrowers. The asset
classification and necessary provision thereon is made
337
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
in accordance with the said RBI guidelines. Restructured the corresponding stressed loans assuming the loans
assets involving compromise settlements, where the remained in the books of the Bank.
time for payment of the agreed settlement amount
exceeds three months are classified and provided for in The Bank invests in PTCs issued by Special Purpose
accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI from Vehicles (SPVs). These are accounted at acquisition cost
time to time. and are classified as investments. The Bank also buys
loans through the direct assignment route which are
The restructured loans are upgraded into standard classified as advances. PTCs are carried at acquisition
category as per the extant RBI guidelines. Further, in cost unless it is more than the face value, in which case
respect of restructuring of loans pertaining to projects the premium is amortised based on effective interest
under implementation, the asset classification and rate method.
necessary provision thereon is made in accordance with
the said RBI guidelines. The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank
participation with and without risk. In the case of
4. Securitisation and transfer of assets participation with risk, the aggregate amount of the
participation issued by the Bank is reduced from
Assets transferred through securitisation and direct
advances. In case where the Bank is assuming risk by
assignment of cash flows are de-recognised in the
participation, the aggregate amount of the participation
Balance Sheet when they are sold (true sale criteria
is classified under advances. In the case of issue of
being fully met with) and consideration is received.
participation certificate without risk, the aggregate amount
Sales / transfers that do not meet true sale criteria are
of participation issued by the Bank is classified under
accounted for as borrowings. For a securitisation or direct
borrowings and where the Bank is acquiring participation
assignment transaction, the Bank recognises profit upon
certificate, the aggregate amount of participation acquired
receipt of the funds and loss is recognised at the time of
is shown as due from banks under advances.
sale. Unrealised gains associated with expected future
margin income is recognised in profit and loss account
5. Fixed assets and depreciation
on receipt, after absorbing losses, if any.
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated
On sale of stressed assets, if the sale is at a price below depreciation as adjusted for impairment, if any. Cost
the net book value (i.e., funded outstanding less specific includes cost of purchase and all expenditure like site
provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the Profit and preparation, installation costs and professional fees
Loss Account and if the sale is for a value higher than incurred on the asset before it is ready to use. Subsequent
the net book value, the excess provision is credited to expenditure incurred on assets put to use is capitalised
the Profit and Loss Account in the year when the sum only when it increases the future benefit / functioning
of cash received by way of initial consideration and / capability from / of such assets.
or redemption or transfer of security receipts issued by
Securitisation Company (‘SC’) / Reconstruction Company Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life
(‘RC’) exceeds the net book value of the loan at the time of the fixed asset on a straight-line basis except for
of transfer. Where the sale consideration is comprised freehold land. The management believes that the useful
of only cash and SRs guaranteed by the Government of life of assets assessed by the Bank, pursuant to Part C
India, the excess provision is credited to the Profit and of Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013, taking into
Loss Account in the year of transfer. account changes in environment, changes in technology,
the utility and efficacy of the asset in use, fairly reflects its
In respect of stressed assets sold under an asset estimate of useful lives of the fixed assets. The estimated
securitisation, where the investment by the bank in SRs useful lives of key fixed assets are given below:
issued against the assets transferred by it is more than 10
percent of such SRs, provisions held against outstanding
SRs are higher of the provisions required in terms of net
asset value declared by the SC / RC and provisions
as per the extant norms applicable to the underlying
loans, notionally treating the book value of these SRs as
338
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent the
Estimated useful life as
Asset
assessed by the Bank carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated
Owned Premises 60 years recoverable amount.
Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) 10 years
Electrical equipments and 6 to 8 years 8. Translation of foreign currency items
installations
Office equipments 3 to 6 years Foreign currency income and expenditure items of
Computers 3 years domestic operations are translated at the exchange
Modems, routers, switches, 3 to 6 years rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. Income
servers, network and related IT and expenditure items of integral foreign operations
equipments
(representative offices) are translated at the weekly
Motor cars 4 years
average closing rates and of non-integral foreign
Safe deposit lockers 21 years
operations (foreign branches and offshore banking units)
Furniture and fittings 10 to 16 years
at the monthly average closing rates.
• Leasehold land is depreciated over the period
Outstanding foreign currency monetary items of domestic
of lease.
and integral foreign operations are translated at the
closing exchange rates notified by Foreign Exchange
• Improvements to leasehold premises are amortised
Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) as at the Balance
over the remaining period of lease.
Sheet date and the resulting net revaluation profit or loss
is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
• Software and system development expenditure is
amortised over a period upto 5 years.
Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency
assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations
• P oint of Sales (PoS) terminals (including sound box)
are translated at closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI
are depreciated over a period of 4 years.
at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss
arising from exchange differences are accumulated in the
• For assets purchased and sold during the year,
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve until disposal of the
depreciation is provided on pro-rata basis.
non-integral foreign operations in accordance with AS -
11, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
• Whenever there is a revision of the estimated useful
and the extant RBI guidelines.
life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable amount
is charged over the revised remaining useful life of
Foreign currency denominated contingent liabilities on
the said asset.
account of foreign exchange and derivative contracts,
guarantees, letters of credit, acceptances and
• Profit on sale of immovable property net of taxes
endorsements are translated at closing rates of exchange
and transfer to statutory reserve, are transferred to
notified by FEDAI as at the Balance Sheet date.
capital reserve.
9. Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
• Assets (other than PoS terminals) costing less than
` 5,000 individually, are fully depreciated in the year Foreign exchange spot and forward contracts,
of purchase. outstanding as at the Balance Sheet date and held for
trading, are revalued at the closing spot and forward
6. Non-Banking Assets rates respectively as notified by FEDAI and at interpolated
rates for contracts of interim maturities. The USD-INR
Non-Banking Assets (NBAs) acquired in satisfaction
exchange rate for valuation of contracts having longer
of claims are carried at lower of net book value or net
maturities i.e. greater than one year, is derived using the
realizable value.
USD-INR spot rate as well as relevant INR yield curve
and USD yield curve. For other currency pairs, and non-
7. Impairment of assets
deliverable contracts, the forward points (for rates / tenors
The Bank assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether not published by FEDAI) are obtained / derived basis
there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. data published by Refinitiv or Bloomberg for valuation of
339
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
the contracts. Valuation is considered on present value In relation to derivative contracts with non-performing
basis. For this purpose, the forward profit or loss on the borrowers, the Bank makes provision for the entire amount
contracts are discounted to the valuation date using the of overdue and future receivables relating to positive
discounting yields. The resulting profit or loss on valuation marked to market value of the said derivative contracts.
is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. Marked to
market value of foreign exchange contracts are classified 10. Revenue recognition
as assets when the fair value is positive or as liabilities
Interest income is recognised in the Profit and Loss
when the fair value is negative.
Account on an accrual basis, except in the case of non-
performing assets which is recognised when realised.
The Bank recognises all derivative contracts at fair value,
on the date on which such derivative contracts are entered
Interest income on investments in PTCs and loans bought
into and are re-measured at fair value as at the Balance
out through the direct assignment route is recognised at
Sheet date. Marked to market values of such derivatives
their effective interest rate.
are classified as assets when the fair value is positive or
as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Income on non-coupon bearing discounted instruments is
recognised over the tenor of the instrument on a constant
The Bank as part of its risk management strategy, makes
yield basis.
use of derivative instruments, including foreign exchange
forward contracts, for hedging the risk embedded in
Dividend on equity shares and preference shares is
some of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the
recognised as income when the right to receive the
balance sheet. The Bank identifies the hedged item (asset
dividend is established.
or liability) at the inception of the transaction itself. Hedge
effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception
Income from units of mutual funds / AIF is recognised on
of the hedge and at the reporting date thereafter.
cash basis.
Foreign exchange forward contracts and Principal only
Loan processing fee is recognised as income when due.
swaps (POS) not intended for trading, that are entered into
Syndication / Arranger fee is recognised as income when
to establish the amount of reporting currency required or
a significant act / milestone is completed.
available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are
outstanding at the Balance Sheet date, are accounted in
Gain / loss on sell down of loans is recognised in line with
accordance with AS-11. Accordingly, such contracts are
the extant RBI guidelines.
not marked to market and only translated at spot rate.
The premium or discount arising at the inception of such
Guarantee commission, commission on letter of credit,
forward exchange contract is amortised on a straight line
annual locker rent fees and annual fees for credit cards
basis as expense or income over the life of the contract.
are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period
The interest income / expense on such POS transaction
of contract. Other fees and commission income are
is accounted on accrual basis.
recognised when due, where the Bank is reasonably
certain of ultimate collection.
In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair
value of the hedging instruments and hedged items are
Fees paid / received for priority sector lending certificates
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of
(PSLC) is recognised on straight-line basis over the period
cash flow hedges, the changes in fair value of effective
of the certificate.
portion are recognised in Reserves and Surplus under
‘Cash flow hedge reserve’ and ineffective portion of an
11. Employee benefits
effective hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in
the Profit and Loss Account. The accumulated balance Stock based Employee Compensation:
in the cash flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging
relationship, is recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at The Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘the Scheme’)
the same time that the impact from the hedged item is provides for the grant of options to acquire equity shares
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. of the Bank to its employees and whole time directors.
The Employee Stock Incentive Master Scheme-2022
340
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(ESIS-2022) provides for the grant of Restricted Stock month’s basic salary for each completed year of service
Units (units) to acquire equity shares of the Bank to its till the effective date of amalgamation. The Bank makes
employees and whole time directors. The options / units contributions to a recognised Gratuity Trust administered
granted shall vest as per their vesting schedule and these by trustees and whose funds are managed by insurance
may be exercised within a specified period. companies. In respect of erstwhile Lord Krishna Bank
(eLKB) employees, the Bank makes contribution to a
The Bank followed the intrinsic value method to account for fund set up by eLKB and administered by the Board of
its stock-based employee compensation plans in respect Trustees. The defined gratuity benefit plans are valued
of options granted up to March 31, 2021. Compensation by an independent actuary as at the Balance Sheet
cost was measured by the excess, if any, of the market date using the projected unit credit method as per the
price of the underlying stock over the exercise price as requirement of AS-15, Employee Benefits, to determine
determined under the option plan. The market price is the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the
the closing price on the stock exchange where there is related service costs. The actuarial calculations entails
highest trading volume on the working day immediately assumptions about demographics, early retirement,
preceding the date of grant. salary increases and interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss
is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Effective April 01, 2021, the fair value of share-linked
instruments on the date of grant for all instruments granted Superannuation:
after March 31, 2021 is recognised as an expense in
accordance with the RBI guidelines on Compensation of The Bank has a Superannuation Plan under which
Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material employees of the Bank, above a prescribed grade, are
Risk Takers and Control Function staff. entitled to receive retirement benefits either through salary
or under a defined contribution plan. For those opting for
The fair value of the stock-based employee compensation a defined contribution plan, the Bank contributes a sum
is estimated on the date of grant using Black- equivalent to 13% of the employee’s eligible annual basic
Scholes model. salary (15% for the whole time directors and for certain
eligible employees of the erstwhile Centurion Bank of
The compensation cost is amortised on a straight-line Punjab (eCBoP staff)) to a Trust administered by trustees
basis over the vesting period after adjusting estimated and whose funds are managed by insurance companies.
forfeiture. Ultimately, the cost for all instruments that vest is The Bank has no liability towards future superannuation
recognised. The compensation expense is recognised in fund benefits other than its contribution and recognises
the Profit and Loss Account with a corresponding credit to such contribution as an expense in the year incurred.
Employee Stock Options Outstanding. On exercise of the
Provident fund:
stock options, corresponding balance in Employee Stock
Options Outstanding is transferred to Share Premium.
The Bank is covered under the Employees Provident Fund
In respect of the options which expire unexercised, the
and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and accordingly
balance standing to the credit of Employee Stock Options
all employees of the Bank are entitled to receive benefits
Outstanding is transferred to General Reserve.
under the provident fund. The Bank contributes an amount,
on a monthly basis, at a determined rate (currently 12%
Gratuity:
of employee’s basic salary). Of this, the Bank contributes
an amount equal to 8.33% of employee’s basic salary
The Bank has an obligation towards gratuity, a defined
up to a maximum salary level of ` 15,000/- per month,
benefit retirement plan covering all eligible employees.
to the Pension Scheme administered by the Regional
The plan benefit vests upon completion of minimum
Provident Fund Office. The balance amount out of the
prescribed period of continuous years of service and
12% employer’s share is contributed to an exempted Trust
is in the form of lump sum amount, without an upper
set up by the Bank and administered by the Board of
limit, equivalent to 15 days’ basic salary payable for each
Trustees. The Bank recognises such contributions as an
completed year of service to all eligible employees on
expense in the year in which it is incurred.
resignation, retirement or death while in employment or on
termination of employment, except in respect of employees
of eHDFC Limited, where the vesting is equivalent to one
341
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
Interest payable to the members of the exempted trust an independent actuarial valuation as at the Balance
shall not be lower than the statutory rate of interest Sheet date.
declared by the Central Government under the Employees
Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 National Pension System (NPS):
and shortfall, if any, shall be made good by the Bank.
In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the
The guidance note on implementing AS-15, Employee NPS, the Bank contributes certain percentage of the basic
Benefits, states that benefits involving employer salary of employees to the aforesaid scheme, a defined
established provident funds, which require interest contribution plan, which is managed and administered
shortfalls to be provided, are to be considered as defined by pension fund management companies. The Bank has
benefit plan. Actuarial valuation of this Provident Fund no liability other than its contribution and recognises such
interest shortfall is done as per the guidance note issued contributions as an expense in the year incurred.
in this respect by The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI)
12. Debit and credit cards reward points
and provision towards this liability is made.
The Bank estimates the probable redemption of debit
The overseas branches of the Bank make contribution
and credit card reward points and cost per point using an
to the respective applicable government social security
actuarial method by employing an independent actuary,
scheme calculated as a percentage of the employees’
which includes assumptions such as discount rate, block,
salaries. The Bank’s obligations are limited to these
withdrawal, cost per reward point, mortality, redemption
contributions, which are expensed when due, as such
and spends. Provisions for liabilities on the outstanding
contribution is in the nature of defined contribution.
reward points are made based on an independent
actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet date and
Pension:
included in other liabilities and provisions.
In respect of pension payable to certain eLKB employees
13. Bullion
under the Lord Krishna Bank (Employees) Pension
Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme, the Bank The Bank imports bullion including precious metal bars
contributes 10% of basic salary to a pension trust set up on a consignment basis or through exchange (India
by the Bank and administered by the Board of Trustees International Bullion Exchange – Gift City). The imports
and an additional amount towards the liability shortfall are typically on a back-to-back basis and are priced to the
based on an independent actuarial valuation as at the customer based on the price quoted by the supplier. The
Balance Sheet date, which includes assumptions about difference between the price recovered from customers
demographics, early retirement, salary increases and and cost of bullion is accounted at the time of sale to the
interest rates. customers and reported as ‘‘Other Income’’.
In respect of certain eLKB employees who had moved to The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending
a Cost to Company (CTC) based compensation structure basis and the interest thereon is accounted as interest
and had completed less than 15 years of service, the expense / income respectively.
contribution which was made until then, is maintained as
a fund and will be converted into annuity on separation 14. Segment information
after a lock-in-period of two years. For this category
The disclosure relating to segment information is in
of employees, liability stands frozen and no additional
accordance with AS-17, Segment Reporting and as per
provision is required except for interest as applicable to
guidelines issued by RBI.
Provident Fund, which is provided for.
15. Lease accounting
In respect of certain eLKB employees who moved to
a CTC structure and had completed service of more Lease payments including cost escalation for assets
than 15 years, pension would be paid on separation taken on operating lease are recognised as expense in
based on salary applicable as on the date of movement the Profit and Loss Account over the lease term on a
to CTC structure. Provision thereto is made based on straight-line basis in accordance with the AS-19, Leases.
342
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
16. Earnings per share provisions when it has a present obligation as a result of
a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources
The Bank reports basic and diluted earnings per equity
embodying economic benefits will be required to settle
share in accordance with AS-20, Earnings per Share.
the obligation and when a reliable estimate of the amount
Basic earnings per equity share has been computed
of the obligation can be made.
by dividing net profit for the year attributable to equity
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity
Provisions are determined based on management estimate
shares outstanding for the year. Diluted earnings per share
required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date,
reflect the potential dilution that could occur if securities or
supplemented by experience of similar transactions.
other contracts to issue equity shares were exercised or
These are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and
converted to equity during the year. Diluted earnings per
adjusted to reflect the current management estimates.
equity share are computed using the weighted average
number of equity shares and the dilutive potential equity
A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
shares outstanding during the year except where the
results are anti-dilutive.
• a possible obligation arising from a past event,
17. Income tax the existence of which will be confirmed by the
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more
Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current tax uncertain future events not within the control of the
and deferred tax expense incurred by the Bank. Current Bank; or
tax expense is determined in accordance with the relevant
provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and rules framed • a present obligation arising from a past event which
thereunder and considering the material principles set out is not recognised as it is not probable that an outflow
in the Income Computation and Disclosure Standards to of resources will be required to settle the obligation
the extent applicable. Deferred tax expense is determined or a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation
as per AS-22, Accounting for Taxes on Income. Deferred cannot be made.
tax assets and liabilities are recognised for the future tax
consequences of timing differences between the carrying When there is a possible obligation or a present obligation
values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax in respect of which the likelihood of outflow of resources
bases, and operating loss carried forward, if any. Deferred is remote, no provision or disclosure is made.
tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted
or substantively enacted tax rates as at the Balance Contingent assets, if any, are not recognised in the
Sheet date. financial statements since this may result in the recognition
of income that may never be realised.
Current tax assets and liabilities and deferred tax assets
and liabilities are off-set when they relate to income taxes
19. Cash and cash equivalents
levied by the same taxation authority, when the Bank has
a legal right to off-set and when the Bank intends to settle Cash and cash equivalents include cash, gold in
on a net basis. hand, rupee digital currency with RBI, balances with
RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent there short notice.
is reasonable certainty that the assets can be realised
in future. In case of unabsorbed depreciation or carried 20. Share issue expenses
forward loss under taxation laws, deferred tax assets are
Share issue expenses are adjusted against Share
recognised only if there is virtual certainty of realisation
Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies
of such assets. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at
Act, 2013.
each Balance Sheet date and appropriately adjusted to
reflect the amount that is reasonably / virtually certain to
21. Corporate social responsibility
be realised.
Expenditure towards corporate social responsibility, in
18. Accounting for provisions, contingent liabilities and
accordance with Companies Act, 2013, is recognised in
contingent assets
the Profit and Loss Account.
In accordance with AS-29, “Provisions, Contingent
Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, the Bank recognises
343
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 18 - Schedules forming part of the standalone financial statements for the year ended
March 31, 2025
Amounts in notes forming part of the standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 are denominated in
rupee crore to conform to extant RBI guidelines, except where stated otherwise.
1. Amalgamation of HDFC Limited
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 04, 2022, approved a composite Scheme of amalgamation (“Scheme”),
for the amalgamation of: (i) erstwhile HDFC Investments Limited (“eHDFC Investments”) and erstwhile HDFC Holdings
Limited (“eHDFC Holdings”), with and into erstwhile Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (“eHDFC Limited”);
and thereafter (ii) eHDFC Limited into HDFC Bank Limited (“Bank”), and their respective shareholders and creditors, under
Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws including the rules and regulations. The Scheme
was approved by the shareholders at the National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”) convened meeting of the shareholders
of the Bank held on November 25, 2022. The NCLT, in accordance with Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013
and rules thereunder, vide its order dated March 17, 2023 sanctioned the Scheme. Upon receipt of all requisite approvals,
the Bank filed form INC 28 with Registrar of Companies on July 01, 2023 and accordingly, the Scheme became effective
on July 01, 2023. As per the Scheme, the appointed date for the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into the Bank
is the same as effective date of the Scheme i.e. July 01, 2023. The Profit and Loss Account for the year ended March 31,
2025 include the operations of eHDFC Limited which amalgamated with and into HDFC Bank on July 01, 2023 and hence
are not comparable with the Profit and Loss Account for the year ended March 31, 2024.
The amalgamation was accounted under the ‘pooling of interest’ method as prescribed in Accounting Standard-14
“Accounting for amalgamation” (“AS-14”). Outstanding balances between eHDFC Limited and the Bank were eliminated as
on July 01, 2023. All assets and liabilities of eHDFC Limited were recognised by the Bank at their carrying amounts as on
that date except for adjustments to bring about uniformity of accounting policies as required under AS-14. The share capital
of ` 311.04 crore issued by the Bank as consideration pursuant to the Scheme was adjusted against the corresponding
share capital of eHDFC Limited of ` 370.29 crore and the difference was adjusted to Amalgamation Reserve. Further,
excess of cost over face value of Investment in shares of the Bank by eHDFC Limited of ` 14,006.31 crore was adjusted
to Amalgamation Reserve. Consequently, the Bank recognised a debit balance of ` 13,947.06 crore in the Amalgamation
Reserve as a result of these adjustments.
Summarized values of assets and liabilities taken over as at July 01, 2023 in accordance with the terms of the Scheme is
as detailed below:
Particulars (` crore)
Assets taken over
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 5,408.87
Investments 146,773.54
Advances 605,664.86
Fixed assets 1,442.60
Other assets 14,338.34
Total Assets (A) 773,628.21
Liabilities, reserves and surplus taken over
Equity share warrants 265.64
Employees stock options outstanding 123.81
Reserves and surplus 111,005.85
Deposits 157,259.22
344
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Particulars (` crore)
Borrowings 477,539.07
Other liabilities and provisions 27,064.33
Total Liabilities, reserves and surplus (B) 773,257.92
Net Assets C = (A-B) 370.29
Consequent upon amalgamation becoming effective, the authorised share capital of the Bank stood increased to ` 1,190.61
crore (11,90,61,00,000 shares of ` 1/- each) on account of transfer to and amalgamation / combination of authorised capital
of eHDFC Limited with the authorised share capital of the Bank. In terms of the Scheme, the Bank issued and allotted
3,11,03,96,492 equity shares to the shareholders of eHDFC Limited as on July 13, 2023, being the record date fixed by the
Board of Directors as per the Scheme, in accordance with the share exchange ratio i.e. 42 equity shares of face value of
` 1/- each of the Bank for every 25 equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each of eHDFC Limited. Accordingly, the paid-up
share capital of the Bank increased from ` 559.18 crore consisting of 5,59,17,98,806 equity shares of ` 1/- each to ` 753.76
crore consisting of 7,53,75,69,464 equity shares of ` 1/- each, post cancellation of 1,16,46,25,834 equity shares held by
eHDFC Limited in the Bank on that date in accordance with the provisions of the Scheme.
As part of the Scheme, certain leased out immovable properties of eHDFC Limited were transferred to the Bank on
amalgamation. The Bank has initiated necessary steps to foreclose these leases.
2. Proposed dividend
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 19, 2025 proposed a dividend of ` 22.00 per equity share (previous year:
` 19.50 per equity share) aggregating to ` 16,834.89 crore subject to the approval of shareholders at the ensuing Annual
General Meeting. During the year ended March 31, 2025, the dividend paid by the Bank in respect of the previous year
ended March 31, 2024 was ` 14,826.19 crore. In terms of the AS-4 “Contingencies and events occurring after the balance
sheet date”, the Bank has not appropriated the proposed dividend from the Profit and Loss Account and the same will
be recognised in the year of actual payout post approval. However, effect of the proposed dividend has been reckoned in
determining capital funds in computation of the capital adequacy ratio.
3. Change in accounting policy
The RBI, vide its master direction dated September 12, 2023, issued revised norms (herein after referred as ‘revised norms
on investments’) for the classification, valuation and operation of investment portfolio of banks, which became applicable
from April 01, 2024. While hitherto, the investment portfolio was classified under the Held to Maturity (HTM), Available for
Sale (AFS) and Held for Trading (HFT) categories, the revised norms bring in a principle-based classification of investment
portfolio and a symmetric treatment of fair value gains and losses. In accordance with the revised norms and the Bank’s
board approved policy, the Bank has classified its investment portfolio as on April 01, 2024 under the categories of Held to
Maturity (HTM), Available for Sale (AFS), subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and Fair Value Through Profit and Loss
(FVTPL) with Held for Trading (HFT) as a sub-category of FVTPL, and from that date, measures and values the investment
portfolio under the revised framework. On transition to the framework on April 01, 2024, the Bank has recognised a net
gain of ` 482.87 crore (net of tax of ` 127.00 crore) which has been credited to general reserve, in accordance with the said
norms. The impact of the revised framework subsequent to the transition is not ascertainable and as such the income /
profit or loss from investments for the year ended March 31, 2025, is not comparable with that of the previous year.
4. Capital adequacy
The Bank’s capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (‘Capital Adequacy Ratio’) is calculated in accordance with the RBI guidelines
on Basel III capital regulations (‘Basel III’). The minimum capital ratio requirement under Basel III as at March 31, 2025 and
March 31, 2024 is as follows:
345
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Minimum ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets (RWAs) % of RWAs
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) 8.2
Tier 1 capital 9.7
Total capital 11.7
The above minimum ratios include Capital Conservation Buffer (CCB) and additional capital applicable to the Bank being
Domestic-Systemically Important Bank (D-SIB).
The Bank’s capital adequacy ratio computed under Basel III is given below:
(` crore)
As at March 31,
Particulars
2025 2024
CET 1 capital 458,210.41 402,231.82
Additional Tier 1 capital 12,256.50 12,049.50
Tier 1 capital 470,466.91 414,281.32
Tier 2 capital 49,575.61 49,721.50
Total capital 520,042.52 464,002.82
Total risk weighted assets 2,660,003.89 2,468,028.06
Capital adequacy ratios under Basel III
CET 1 17.23% 16.30%
Tier 1 17.69% 16.79%
Tier 2 1.86% 2.01%
Total 19.55% 18.80%
Leverage Ratio 10.91% 10.40%
Percentage of the shareholding of Government of India Nil Nil
Amount of paid-up equity capital raised during the year (Refer Schedule 18(1)) 5.53 201.72
Amount of non-equity Tier 1 capital raised during the year, of which: Nil Nil
Basel III compliant Perpetual Debt instrument Nil Nil
Amount of Tier 2 capital raised during the year, of which: Nil Nil
Basel III compliant Cumulative Subordinated bonds Nil Nil
As on March 31, 2025, the Bank’s subordinated and perpetual debt capital instruments amounted to ` 22,000.00 crore
(previous year: ` 22,000.00 crore) and ` 12,286.50 crore (previous year: ` 12,079.50 crore) respectively.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, banks are required to make consolidated Pillar 3 and Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR)
disclosures under the Basel III Framework. These disclosures would be available on the Bank’s website at the following
link: https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/resources/regulatory-disclosures. These disclosures have not been subjected
to audit by the statutory auditors of the Bank.
Capital infusion
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank allotted 5,53,11,012 equity shares (previous year: 4,66,21,586 equity shares)
aggregating to face value of ` 5.53 crore (previous year: ` 4.66 crore) on exercise of stock options / units. Accordingly, the
share capital increased by ` 5.53 crore (previous year: ` 4.66 crore) and the share premium increased by ` 6,340.97 crore
(previous year: ` 5,245.07 crore).
346
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
During the previous year, the Bank issued and allotted 3,11,03,96,492 equity shares to the shareholders of eHDFC Limited
in terms of the Scheme. Accordingly, the paid-up share capital of the Bank increased from ` 559.18 crore consisting of
5,59,17,98,806 equity shares of ` 1/- each to ` 753.76 crore consisting of 7,53,75,69,464 equity shares of ` 1/- each,
post cancellation of 1,16,46,25,834 equity shares held by eHDFC Limited in the Bank on that date in accordance with the
provisions of the Scheme. Further, share premium increased by ` 51,728.83 crore on amalgamation of eHDFC Limited.
During the previous year, the Bank allotted 2,47,75,632 equity shares pursuant to exercise of convertible share warrants
issued by eHDFC Limited. Accordingly, the share capital and share premium of the Bank increased by ` 2.48 crore and
` 3,455.79 crore respectively, including money received by eHDFC Limited at the time of allotment of share warrants.
The details of the movement in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank are given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening balance 759.69 557.97
Addition pursuant to stock options / units / warrants exercised 5.53 7.14
Addition pursuant to amalgamation (net of cancellation) (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 194.58
Closing balance 765.22 759.69
5. Employees Stock Options Outstanding
The cost of stock-based compensation is determined using the fair value method. For the year ended March 31, 2025, an
amount of ` 1,890.70 crore (previous year: ` 1,547.40 crore) is recognised in the profit and loss account and credited to
Employees Stock Options Outstanding account. In the previous year, upon amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into
the Bank, the Bank recognised ` 123.81 crore as Employees Stock Options Outstanding on account of fair valuation of
share-linked instruments.
During the year ended March 31, 2025, on exercise of share-linked instruments, an amount of ` 723.11 crore (previous
year: ` 84.18 crore) is transferred from Employees Stock Options Outstanding to share premium and on lapses of share-
linked instruments, an amount of ` 15.11 crore (previous year: ` 1.34 crore) is transferred from Employees Stock Options
Outstanding to General reserve.
Accounting for employee share based payments
The shareholders of the Bank approved the grant of equity stock options under Plan “C” in June 2005, Plan “D” in June
2007, Plan “E” in June 2010, Plan “F” in June 2013, Plan “G” in July 2016 and Plan “H” in August 2024. The Bank also
approved the Employee Stock Incentive Master Scheme in May 2022. Under the terms of each of these plans, the Bank
may issue to its employees and Whole Time Directors, Equity Stock Options (‘ESOPs’) or Restricted Stock Units (‘Units’)
each of which is convertible into one equity share. Further, pursuant to the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into
Bank effective from July 01, 2023, the existing ESOP Schemes of the eHDFC Limited comprising of eHDFC 2007, eHDFC
2008, eHDFC 2014, eHDFC 2017 and eHDFC 2020 were taken over by the Bank.
All the plans were framed in accordance with the SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme & Employee Stock Purchase
Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to time and as applicable at the time of the grant. The accounting for the
stock options has been in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits
and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and RBI guidelines to the extent applicable.
The plans provide for the issuance of options at the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of
the Board (‘NRC’) at the closing price on the working day immediately preceding the date when options are granted. This
closing price is the closing price of the Bank’s equity share on an Indian stock exchange with the highest trading volume
as of the working day preceding the date of grant. Further, the units are issued at the face value of the equity share of ` 1/-
347
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
each. The vesting conditions applicable to the options / units are at the discretion of the NRC. These options / units are
exercisable on vesting, for a period as set forth by the NRC at the time of the grant. The period in which the options and
units may be exercised cannot exceed five years and one year respectively from the date of vesting period.
Movement in the options / units outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans / Restricted Stock Units.
• Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025 and March
31, 2024:
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average
Particulars of options exercise price (`) of options exercise price (`)
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2024
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year 17,56,59,424 1,307.93 15,16,82,461 1,264.86
Addition on amalgamation - - 4,85,59,681 1,124.77
(Refer Schedule 18(1))
Granted during the year 2,31,46,660 1,729.84 2,43,84,690 1,611.84
Exercised during the year 5,29,55,047 1,198.42 4,63,04,966 1,133.72
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year 44,76,527 1,458.89 26,62,442 1,096.34
Options outstanding at the end of the year 14,13,74,510 1,413.25 17,56,59,424 1,307.93
Options exercisable 8,13,35,537 1,279.91 9,88,29,856 1,201.65
• Movement in the Units outstanding under the Employees’ Stock Incentive Master Scheme as at March 31, 2025 and
March 31, 2024:
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average
Particulars of units exercise price (`) of units exercise price (`)
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2024
Units outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,17,21,804 1.00 28,91,000 1.00
Granted during the year 62,54,575 1.00 93,54,224 1.00
Exercised during the year 23,55,965 1.00 3,16,620 1.00
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year 7,34,986 1.00 2,06,800 1.00
Units outstanding at the end of the year 1,48,85,428 1.00 1,17,21,804 1.00
Units exercisable 12,07,198 1.00 3,76,070 1.00
• The following table summarizes the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Weighted
Number of Weighted
Range of exercise average life of
Plan shares arising average exercise
price (`) options
out of options price (`)
(in years)
Plan E 47,93,680 1,636.90 4.96 1,636.90
Plan F 1,14,90,680 1,636.90 4.94 1,636.90
Plan G 7,49,81,293 882.85 to 1,673.10 2.48 1,368.83
Plan H 2,25,72,860 1,677.30 to 1,734.20 6.06 1,733.15
e-HDFC 2007 44,411 255.83 - 255.83
e-HDFC 2008 40,942 160.79 - 160.79
e-HDFC 2014 12,483 603.95 - 603.95
e-HDFC 2017 2,34,032 934.44 to 1,242.15 1.48 1,151.06
e-HDFC 2020 2,72,04,129 1,076.64 to 1,535.27 2.58 1,142.74
348
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
• The following table summarizes the information about units outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Weighted
Number of Range of Weighted
average life of
Plan shares arising exercise average exercise
units
out of units price (`) price (`)
(in years)
ESIS-2022 1,48,85,428 1.00 2.39 1.00
• The following table summarizes the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Number of shares Weighted average
Range of exercise Weighted average
Plan arising out of life of options
price (`) exercise price (`)
options (in years)
Plan E 50,75,360 1,636.90 5.92 1,636.90
Plan F 1,55,51,708 716.60 to 1,636.90 4.84 1,458.30
Plan G 11,54,13,810 882.85 to 1,673.10 2.66 1,333.78
e-HDFC 2007 44,411 255.83 - 255.83
e-HDFC 2008 40,942 160.79 - 160.79
e-HDFC 2014 12,483 603.95 - 603.95
e-HDFC 2017 6,13,926 934.44 to 1,242.15 1.84 1,070.72
e-HDFC 2020 3,89,06,784 1,076.64 to 1,535.27 3.51 1,134.61
• The following table summarizes the information about Units outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Weighted Weighted
Number of shares Range of exercise
Plan average life of average
arising out of units price (`)
units (in years) exercise price (`)
ESIS-2022 1,17,21,804 1.00 2.65 1.00
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend yield 0.77% to 1.36% 0.65% to 0.91%
Expected volatility 21.64% to 27.7% 22.01% to 29.45%
Risk-free interest rate 6.73% to 7.19% 7.17% to 7.54%
Expected life of the options 1 to 8 Years 1 to 8 Years
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the units granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend yield 0.83% to 1.58% 0.59% to 1.85%
Expected volatility 20.05% to 24.95% 17.68% to 27.50%
Risk-free interest rate 6.82% to 6.88% 7.18% to 7.50%
Expected life of the units 1 to 5 Years 1 to 5 Years
349
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
6. Reserves and Surplus
Statutory Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 16,836.84 crore (previous year: ` 15,203.07
crore) out of profits for the year to the Statutory Reserve pursuant to the requirements of Section 17 of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 read with RBI guidelines.
General Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 6,734.74 crore (previous year: ` 6,081.23
crore) out of profits for the year to the General Reserve. Further, the Bank has transferred ` 15.11 crore (previous year:
` 1.34 crore) from Employee Stock Options Outstanding to General Reserve on lapses of share-linked instruments.
On transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has recognised a net gain of ` 482.87 crore (net of tax ` 127.00
crore) which has been credited to General Reserve.
Special Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 3,200.00 crore (previous year: ` 3,000.00
crore) to the Special Reserve as per Section 36(1) (viii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
Amalgamation Reserve I
The balance of ` 1,063.56 crore represents excess of net assets taken over the paid-up value of equity shares issued as
consideration with respect to amalgamation of Times Bank Limited during FY 2000 and Centurion Bank of Punjab Limited
during FY 2009 with the Bank.
Amalgamation Reserve II
During the previous year, the share capital of ` 311.04 crore issued by the Bank as consideration pursuant to the scheme
was adjusted against the corresponding share capital of eHDFC Limited of ` 370.29 crore and the difference was adjusted
to Amalgamation Reserve. Further, excess of cost over face value of Investment in shares of the Bank by eHDFC Limited
of ` 14,006.31 crore was adjusted to Amalgamation Reserve. Consequently, the Bank recognised a debit balance of
` 13,947.06 crore in the Amalgamation Reserve as a result of these adjustments.
Capital Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation ` 507.00 crore (previous year: ` 4,166.42
crore), being the profit on sale of investments under HTM category and profit on sale of immovable properties, net of taxes
and transfer to statutory reserve, from the Profit and Loss Account to the Capital Reserve.
Investment Reserve Account
On transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has transferred ` 529.42 crore from the Investment Reserve
Account (IRA) to Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR).
In the previous year, the Bank had transferred ` 529.42 crore (net) from the Profit and Loss Account to the IRA as per the
RBI guidelines.
350
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
On transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has transferred ` 529.42 crore from the IRA to IFR.
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of Nil (previous year: ` 378.00 crore) to IFR.
As per RBI guidelines, banks are required to maintain an IFR equivalent to 2.00% of their AFS and FVTPL investment
portfolios. The balance in the IFR as at March 31, 2025 is 2.55% (previous year: 3.48%^) of the Bank’s AFS and FVTPL
investment portfolios.
^ For the year ended March 31, 2024 the ratio represents closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments in AFS and
HFT categories.
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
As at March 31, 2025, the Bank has recognised ` 1,073.94 crore (previous year: ` 880.11 crore) as Foreign Currency
Translation Reserve on account of translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations.
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
As at March 31, 2025, the Bank has recognised debit of ` 32.73 crore (previous year: credit of ` 840.31 crore) as Cash
Flow Hedge Reserve on derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedge.
AFS Reserve
Pursuant to the revised norms on investments, the net appreciation or depreciation on all performing investments held under
AFS category is directly credited or debited to AFS Reserve. Accordingly, as at March 31, 2025 the Bank has recognised
` 616.81 crore, net of taxes as AFS Reserve.
Draw down from Reserves
The Bank has not undertaken any drawdown from reserves during the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
351
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
352
HDFC Bank Limited
seitilibail
dna
stessa
fo
smeti
niatrec
fo
nrettap
ytirutaM
.7
.IBR
eht
yb
deussi
senilediug
eht
rep
sa
stekcub
ytirutam
eht
ni
defiissalc
era
seitilibail
dna stessA
)erorc
`(
latoT
revO
3
revO
1
revO
6 revO
3 revO
2 revO
syad
13
03
ot
51
41
ot
8
7
ot
2
yad
1
ta sA
sraey
5
ot
sraey
ot
raey
shtnom
shtnom
shtnom
2 ot
syad
syad
syad
,13 hcraM
sraey
5
sraey
3
raey
1
ot
6
ot
3 ot
shtnom
5202
shtnom
shtnom
26.806,916,2
47.680,236
26.539,892
60.891,680,1
50.840,632
26.914,151
24.325,06
29.181,17
31.050,04
02.798,21
01.293,72
67.578,2
& snaoL *secnavda
76.953,638
97.889,581
81.783,12
43.318,361
26.775,65
61.222,33
36.761,42
87.949,61
79.469,03
39.858,8
31.104,91
41.820,572
*stnemtsevnI
09.417,417,2
57.728,248
39.094,61
36.467,998
20.215,953
31.313,961
05.528,19
76.009,78
53.654,16
83.374,94
88.609,79
66.342,83
*stisopeD
98.039,745
61.132,851
73.547,08
80.332,331
42.077,75
40.925,93
67.623,92
50.172,51
97.892,41
22.093,2
22.631,01
69.899,6
*sgniworroB
23.461,041
68.466
55.580,2
06.693,7
72.753,11
06.278,51
18.202,01
35.677,51
86.456,31
72.472,5
07.225,53
54.653,22
ngieroF ycnerruc stessa
47.921,122
89.976,7
97.440,51
97.144,37
86.194,15
71.119,52
11.779,7
72.130,31
31.637,9
32.219,3
92.938,8
03.460,4
ngieroF ycnerruc seitilibail
.secnalaB
ycnerruC
ngieroF
edulcni
detneserper
stnuoma
ehT*
.IBR
eht
ot
dettimbus
nruter
eht
gnilipmoc
rof
knaB
eht
yb
desu
sa
snoitpmussa
dna
setamitse
emas
eht
no
desab
si
stekcub
ytirutam
eht
rednu
seitilibail
dna
stessa
fo
noitacfiissalC
.smeti
teehs
ecnalab-ffo
sedulcxe
seitilibail
dna
stessa
ycnerruc
ngierof
fo
elfiorp
ytirutaM
)erorc
`(
latoT
revO
3
revO
1
revO
6 revO
3 revO
2 revO
13
03
ot
51
41
ot
8
7
ot
2
yad
1
ta sA
sraey
5
ot
sraey
ot
raey
ot shtnom
ot shtnom
ot shtnom
ot
syad
syad
syad
syad
hcraM
sraey
5
sraey
3
raey
1
shtnom
6
shtnom
3
shtnom
2
4202 ,13
25.168,484,2
93.470,156
44.347,403
88.975,210,1
55.848,802
31.289,201
79.722,85
94.310,65
59.104,23
46.004,01
75.193,82
15.791,91
& snaoL *secnavda
69.414,207
01.709,641
40.240,71
52.797,771
96.684,94
06.487,82
74.226,61
52.431,71
92.053,81
58.205,7
71.584,61
52.203,602
*stnemtsevnI
82.687,973,2
98.660,526
45.340,52
52.215,888
00.656,192
99.844,141
47.586,28
65.614,78
81.932,26
92.783,44
28.107,29
20.826,83
*stisopeD
80.351,266
19.455,281
08.623,77
75.895,372
15.681,94
36.201,22
78.681,11
04.613,91
47.360,61
08.258,2
58.369,7
-
*sgniworroB
56.879,101
45.043
62.917,1
83.139,9
55.183,8
90.467,01
97.352,5
63.830,01
17.531,71
87.053,2
50.654,32
41.706,21
ngieroF ycnerruc stessa
63.753,481
78.121,6
74.157,31
27.464,18
03.164,52
94.293,61
36.781,6
38.532,9
67.727,11
78.185,3
14.014,8
10.220,2
ngieroF ycnerruc seitilibail
.secnalaB
ycnerruC
ngieroF
edulcni
detneserper
stnuoma
ehT*
.IBR
eht
ot
dettimbus
nruter
eht
gnilipmoc
rof
knaB
eht
yb
desu
sa
snoitpmussa
dna
setamitse
emas
eht
no
desab
si
stekcub
ytirutam
eht
rednu
seitilibail
dna
stessa
fo
noitacfiissalC
.smeti
teehs
ecnalab-ffo
sedulcxe
seitilibail
dna
stessa
ycnerruc
ngierof
fo
elfiorp
ytirutaM
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
353
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
oitar
egarevoc
ytidiuqiL
.8
:woleb
nevig
si
5202
,13
hcraM
dedne
raey
rof
)RCL(
oitaR
egarevoC
ytidiuqiL
no noitamrofni
evitatitnauQ
)erorc
`(
dedne
retrauQ
dedne
retrauQ
dedne
retrauQ
dedne
retrauQ
4202
,03
enuJ
4202
,03
rebmetpeS
4202
,13
rebmeceD
5202
,13
hcraM
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
sralucitraP
dethgieW
dethgiewnU
dethgieW
dethgiewnU
dethgieW
dethgiewnU
dethgieW
dethgiewnU
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
*)egareva(
*)egareva(
*)egareva(
*)egareva(
*)egareva(
*)egareva(
*)egareva(
*)egareva(
stessA
diuqiL
ytilauQ
hgiH
37.658,236
64.960,966
26.888,117
18.865,527
)ALQH(
stessA
diuqiL
ytilauQ
hgiH
latoT
1
swofltuO
hsaC
45.049,321
03.907,334,1
12.281,721
75.663,564,1
94.687,131
26.864,805,1
28.840,531
34.229,835,1
llams
morf
stisoped
dna stisoped
liateR
2
:hcihw
fo
,sremotsuc
ssenisub
83.034,91
17.706,883
44.453,91
78.880,783
73.060,91
43.702,183
34.348,81
15.868,673
stisoped
elbatS
)i(
61.015,401
95.101,540,1
77.728,701
07.772,870,1
21.627,211
82.162,721,1
93.502,611
29.350,261,1
stisoped
elbats
sseL
)ii(
56.429,773
31.428,995
19.000,183
19.311,406
35.207,904
73.315,846
84.238,434
41.060,596
:hcihw
fo ,gnidnuf
elaselohw
derucesnU
3
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
)seitrapretnuoc
lla(
stisoped
lanoitarepO
)i(
44.070,953
29.969,085
17.587,863
17.898,195
83.780,593
22.898,336
76.981,814
33.714,876
)seitrapretnuoc
lla( stisoped
lanoitarepo-noN
)ii(
12.458,81
12.458,81
02.512,21
02.512,21
51.516,41
51.516,41
18.246,61
18.246,61
tbed
derucesnU
)iii(
08.829,1
13.937,1
99.230,2
34.268,3
gnidnuf
elaselohw
deruceS
4
61.168,721
51.881,122
34.491,921
11.676,622
53.609,221
08.588,022
56.718,141
79.459,142
:hcihw
fo ,stnemeriuqer
lanoitiddA
5
28.237,811
28.237,811
36.591,911
36.591,911
59.818,211
59.818,211
39.533,131
39.533,131
dna
serusopxe
evitavired
ot detaler
swofltuO
)i(
tnemeriuqer
laretalloc
rehto
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
tbed
no
gnidnuf
fo ssol
ot detaler
swofltuO
)ii(
stcudorp
43.821,9
33.554,201
08.899,9
84.084,701
04.780,01
58.660,801
27.184,01
40.916,011
seitilicaf
ytidiuqil
dna
tiderC
)iii(
48.591,23
48.591,23
79.242,23
79.242,23
42.524,34
42.524,34
86.906,54
86.906,54
noitagilbo
gnidnuf
lautcartnoc
rehtO
6
57.593,84
30.604,350,1
13.328,05
66.147,701,1
72.101,35
57.737,061,1
11.546,55
31.579,712,1
snoitagilbo
gnidnuf
tnegnitnoc
rehtO
7
47.642,217
41.381,227
78.459,267
71.618,618
swofltuO
hsaC
latoT
8
swoflnI
hsaC
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
)oper
esrever
.g.e(
gnidnel
deruceS
9
10.805,66
28.184,611
18.357,06
73.938,501
75.059,95
91.049,301
56.409,95
79.196,701
serusopxe
gnimrofrep
ylluf
morf
swoflnI
01
80.088,131
90.679,431
79.908,431
72.588,831
60.323,431
36.367,731
78.269,641
88.965,151
swoflni
hsac
rehtO
11
90.883,891
19.754,152
87.365,591
46.427,442
36.372,491
28.307,142
25.768,602
58.162,952
swoflnI
hsaC
latoT
21
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
detsujdA
detsujdA
detsujdA
detsujdA
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
37.658,236
64.960,966
26.888,117
18.865,527
ALQH
LATOT
31
56.858,315
63.916,625
42.186,865
56.849,906
swofltuO
hsaC
teN
latoT
41
%61.321
%50.721
%81.521
%69.811
)%(oitaR
egarevoC
ytidiuqiL
51
.sretrauq
evitcepser
eht
rof
noitavresbo
yliad
no
desab
egareva
elpmis
gnikat
detaluclac
era
stnuoma
dethgiewnu
dna
dethgiew
egareva
ehT
*
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
354
HDFC Bank Limited
:woleb
nevig
si
4202
,13
hcraM
dedne
raey
rof
)RCL(
oitaR
egarevoC
ytidiuqiL
no
noitamrofni
evitatitnauQ
)erorc
`(
dedne
retrauQ
dedne
retrauQ
dedne
retrauQ
dedne
retrauQ
3202
,03
enuJ
3202
,03
rebmetpeS
3202
,13
rebmeceD
4202
,13
hcraM
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
dethgieW
dethgiewnU
dethgieW
dethgiewnU
dethgieW
dethgiewnU
dethgieW
dethgiewnU
sralucitraP
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
*)egareva(
*)egareva(
*)egareva(
*)egareva(
*)egareva(
*)egareva(
*)egareva(
*)egareva(
stessA
diuqiL
ytilauQ
hgiH
86.153,994
03.046,575
42.917,145
49.424,855
)ALQH(
stessA
diuqiL
ytilauQ
hgiH
latoT
1
swofltuO
hsaC
41.570,89
81.141,661,1
50.606,011
83.394,892,1
60.287,411
50.128,843,1
76.307,811
29.302,983,1
llams
morf
stisoped
dna
stisoped
liateR
2
:hcihw
fo
,sremotsuc
ssenisub
79.835,81
15.977,073
82.342,91
86.568,483
50.001,02
29.000,204
27.612,02
93.433,404
stisoped
elbatS
)i(
71.635,97
76.163,597
77.263,19
07.726,319
10.286,49
31.028,649
59.684,89
35.968,489
stisoped
elbats
sseL
)ii(
78.564,382
07.847,464
98.527,743
45.906,145
50.713,953
93.177,165
32.303,553
15.389,065
:hcihw
fo
,gnidnuf
elaselohw
derucesnU
3
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
)seitrapretnuoc
lla(
stisoped
lanoitarepO
)i(
59.213,572
87.595,654
82.922,823
39.211,225
87.928,933
21.482,245
98.000,833
71.186,345
)seitrapretnuoc
lla( stisoped
lanoitarepo-noN
)ii(
29.251,8
29.251,8
16.694,91
16.694,91
72.784,91
72.784,91
43.203,71
43.203,71
tbed
derucesnU
)iii(
01.260,6
49.101,5
79.179,2
49.772,2
gnidnuf
elaselohw
deruceS
4
61.359,111
01.633,261
72.020,521
10.533,152
14.094,641
18.312,662
94.564,041
67.701,632
:hcihw
fo ,stnemeriuqer
lanoitiddA
5
97.224,301
97.224,301
99.892,111
99.892,111
46.555,431
46.555,431
77.637,921
77.637,921
dna
serusopxe
evitavired
ot
detaler
swofltuO
)i(
tnemeriuqer
laretalloc
rehto
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
tbed
no
gnidnuf
fo ssol
ot
detaler
swofltuO
)ii(
stcudorp
73.035,8
13.319,85
82.127,31
20.630,041
77.439,11
71.856,131
27.827,01
99.073,601
seitilicaf
ytidiuqil
dna
tiderC
)iii(
66.980,33
66.980,33
88.904,54
88.904,54
60.686,53
60.686,53
30.174,33
30.174,33
snoitagilbo
gnidnuf
lautcartnoc
rehtO
6
98.945,73
71.851,808
68.762,93
61.158,948
18.198,44
45.537,779
67.116,74
90.705,430,1
snoitagilbo
gnidnuf
tnegnitnoc
rehtO
7
28.591,075
98.131,376
63.931,407
21.338,796
swofltuO
hsaC
latoT
8
swoflnI
hsaC
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
)oper
esrever
.g.e(
gnidnel
deruceS
9
56.521,65
35.827,201
72.058,45
30.740,101
55.839,06
01.959,011
99.889,66
29.068,811
serusopxe
gnimrofrep
ylluf
morf
swoflnI
01
69.235,511
57.931,121
69.050,931
20.803,641
29.356,841
71.781,251
24.921,441
10.456,741
swoflni
hsac
rehtO
11
16.856,171
82.868,322
32.109,391
50.553,742
74.295,902
72.641,362
14.811,112
39.415,662
swoflnI
hsaC
latoT
21
latoT
latoT
latoT
latoT
detsujdA
detsujdA
detsujdA
detsujdA
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
eulaV
86.153,994
03.046,575
42.917,145
49.424,855
ALQH
LATOT
31
12.735,893
66.032,974
98.645,494
17.417,684
swofltuO
hsaC
teN
latoT
41
%03.521
%21.021
%45.901
%37.411
)%(
oitaR
egarevoC
ytidiuqiL
51
.sretrauq
evitcepser
eht
rof
noitavresbo
yliad
no
desab
egareva
elpmis
gnikat
detaluclac
era
stnuoma
dethgiewnu
dna
dethgiew
egareva
ehT
*
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Qualitative disclosure on LCR
The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) is one of the Basel Committee’s key reforms to develop a more resilient banking sector.
The objective of the LCR is to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of banks. It does this by ensuring
that banks have an adequate stock of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) that can be converted easily and
immediately into cash to meet their liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day liquidity stress scenario. The LCR is expected to
improve the banking sector’s ability to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stress, whatever the source,
thus reducing the risk of spillovers from the financial sector to the real economy.
The Liquidity Risk Management of the Bank is governed by the Asset Liability Management (ALM) Policy approved by the
Board. The Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) is a decision-making unit responsible for implementing the liquidity and interest
rate risk management strategy of the Bank in line with its risk management objectives and ensures adherence to the risk
tolerance / limits set by the Board. The Bank has also set up a senior level management committee, viz., the Group Risk
Management Committee (GRMC) under the ICAAP framework of the Bank, to establish a formal and dedicated structure
to periodically assess the nature / quantum of material risks of the subsidiaries and adequacy of its risk management
processes, including providing oversight for managing liquidity risk. Liquidity for the Bank’s domestic banking operations
is directly managed at the Head Office. The overseas branches and offshore unit of the Bank independently manage their
liquidity requirements with support from the Head Office. Similarly, the Bank’s subsidiaries independently manage their
liquidity requirements under guidance of the GRMC, which, along with senior management of the subsidiaries, reviews
the risk assessment of material risks at the subsidiaries. Further, the Bank maintains suitable systems and processes to
monitor liquidity requirements in other currencies as appropriate.
In order to determine cash outflows, the Bank segregates its deposits into various customer segments, viz., Retail (which
include deposits from individuals), Small Business Customers (those with deposits upto ` 7.5 crore), and Wholesale (which
would cover all residual deposits). Other contractual funding, including a portion of other liabilities which are expected
to run down in a 30-day time frame are included in the cash outflows. These classifications, based on extant regulatory
guidelines, are part of the Bank’s LCR framework, and are also submitted to the RBI.
The LCR is calculated by dividing a Bank’s stock of HQLA by its total net cash outflows over a 30-day stress period. The
present minimum requirement, as on March 31, 2025, is 100%.
In the Indian context, the run-off factors for the stressed scenarios are prescribed by the RBI, for various categories
of liabilities (viz., deposits, unsecured and secured wholesale borrowings), undrawn commitments, derivative-related
exposures, and offset with inflows emanating from assets maturing within the same time period. Given below is a table of
run-off factors and the average LCR maintained by the Bank quarter-wise over the past two years:
Particulars Run-off factors
Retail deposits 5% - 10%
Small business customers 5% - 10%
Operational deposits 5% - 25%
Non-financial corporates, sovereigns, central banks, multilateral development banks, and PSEs 40%
Other legal entities 100%
355
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
LCR Maintained LCR Required
Quarter ended (average)
March 31, 2025 118.96% 100.00%
December 31, 2024 125.18% 100.00%
September 30, 2024 127.05% 100.00%
June 30, 2024 123.16% 100.00%
March 31, 2024 114.73% 100.00%
December 31, 2023 109.54% 100.00%
September 30, 2023 120.12% 100.00%
June 30, 2023 125.30% 100.00%
The average LCR for the quarter ended March 31, 2025, was at 118.96% as against 114.73% for the quarter ended March
31, 2024, and above the present prescribed minimum requirement of 100%. The average HQLA for the quarter ended March
31, 2025, was ` 725,568.81 crore, as against ` 558,424.94 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2024. During the same
period the composition of government securities and treasury bills in the HQLA was at 96.55% as compared to 95.74% in
the previous year.
For the quarter ended March 31, 2025, derivative exposures (net of cash inflows) / collateral requirements and undrawn
commitments constituted around 0.47% and 1.28% respectively of average cash outflow as against 0.59% and 1.54%
respectively for quarter ended March 31, 2024. The Bank has a significant portion of funding through deposits. As of March
31, 2025, the top 20 depositors comprised of 4.32% of total deposits indicating a healthy and stable deposit profile.
356
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
357
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
stnemtsevnI
.9
eht
,4202
,10
lirpA
morf
elbacilppa
emaceb
hcihw
,sknab
fo
oiloftrop
tnemtsevni
fo
noitarepo
dna
noitaulav
,noitacfiissalc
rof
smron
desiver
eht
rep
sA
:woleb
nevig
si
etad
taht
no
sa
tnemtsujda
noitisnart
tneuqesnoc
)erorc
`(
4202
,10
lirpA
no
sa
krowemarF
desiveR
lanoitisnarT
eulaV
riaF
krowemarF
suoiverP
,seiraidisbuS
eulaV
kooB
teN
tnemtsujda
tfiorP
hguorhT
rof
elbaliavA
ytirutaM
ot
dleH
latoT
&
setaicossA
,13
hcraM
no
sa
ssoL
dna
)SFA(
elaS
)MTH(
sVJ
4202
)LPTVF(
)79.478,1(
85.385,655
26.936,21
57.484,1
99.334,441
22.520,893
55.854,855
)MTH(
ytirutaM
ot
dleH
59.974,2
40.662,131
37.428
44.489,33
23.806,78
55.848,8
90.687,821
)SFA(
elaS
rof
elbaliavA
98.4
12.571,51
-
12.571,51
-
-
23.071,51
)TFH(
gnidarT
rof
dleH
78.906
38.420,307
53.464,31
04.446,05
13.240,232
77.378,604
69.414,207
teN
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
358
HDFC Bank Limited
)stnemtsevni
no
smron
desiver
eht
rep
sa(
5202
,13
hcraM
ta
sa
stnemtsevni
fo
noitisopmoC
)erorc
`(
aidnI
edistuo
stnemtsevnI
aidnI
ni
stnemtsevnI
latoT
srehtO
seiraidisbuS
tnemnrevoG
latoT
srehtO
seiraidisbuS
serutnebeD
serahS
rehtO
tnemnrevoG
latoT
stnemtsevnI
ro
/
dna
seitiruceS
stnemtsevnI
ro
/
dna
sdnoB
dna
devorppA
seitiruceS
stnemtsevnI
edistuo
tnioj
gnidulcni(
aidnI
ni
tnioj
seitiruceS
aidnI
serutnev
lacol
serutnev
)seitirohtua
*ytirutaM
ot dleH
45.232,816
14.5
-
14.5
-
31.722,816
96.187,7
19.398,31
-
-
-
35.155,695
ssorG
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
noisivorP
:)sseL(
gnimrofrep-non
rof
)IPN(
stnemtsevni
45.232,816
14.5
-
14.5
-
31.722,816
96.187,7
19.398,31
-
-
-
35.155,695
teN
elaS
rof
elbaliavA
19.914,551
84.144,1
16.035
-
78.019
34.879,351
78.162,5
-
12.909,21
-
-
53.708,531
ssorG
45.828
81.8
69.0
-
22.7
63.028
70.85
-
89.15
-
-
13.017
MTM
:)ssel(
/ ddA
/ noitaicerppa-
dna
noitaicerped
IPN
rof
noisivorp
54.842,651
66.944,1
75.135
-
90.819
97.897,451
49.913,5
-
91.169,21
-
-
66.715,631
teN
^LPTVF
93.471,26
50.829
50.829
-
-
43.642,16
56.219,9
-
81.876,51
80.398,3
-
34.267,13
ssorG
)07.592(
36.81
36.81
-
-
)33.413(
)62.845(
-
17.38
)03.842(
-
25.893
MTM
:)ssel(
/ ddA
/ noitaicerppa-
dna
noitaicerped
IPN
rof
noisivorp
96.878,16
86.649
86.649
-
-
10.239,06
93.463,9
-
98.167,51
87.446,3
-
59.061,23
teN
48.628,538
49.473,2
66.854,1
14.5
78.019
09.154,338
12.659,22
19.398,31
93.785,82
80.398,3
-
13.121,467
latoT
stnemtsevnI
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
noisivorP
:sseL
-non
rof
gnimrofrep
rof stnemtsevni yrogetac
MTH
48.235
18.62
95.91
-
22.7
30.605
)91.094(
-
96.531
)03.842(
-
38.801,1
MTM
:)ssel(
/ ddA
noitaicerppa- noitaicerped
/
noisivorp
dna
SFA
rof
IPN rof
^LPTVF
dna
seirogetac
86.953,638
57.104,2
52.874,1
14.5
90.819
39.759,338
20.664,22
19.398,31
80.327,82
87.446,3
-
41.032,567
teN
,stnemtsevni
no
smron
desiver
eht
rep
sa
seinapmoc
puorg
sedulcnI
*
.stnemtsevni
no
smron
desiver
eht
rep
sa
yrogetac-bus
sa
TFH
sedulcnI
^
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
359
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
4202
,13
hcraM
ta
sa
stnemtsevni
fo noitisopmoC
)erorc
`(
aidnI
edistuo
stnemtsevnI
aidnI
ni
stnemtsevnI
tnemnrevoG
latoT
latoT
seiraidisbuS
seitiruceS
latoT
seiraidisbuS
rehtO
stnemtsevnI
serutnebeD
tnemnrevoG
stnemtsevnI
srehtO
tnioj
ro
/
dna
gnidulcni(
stnemtsevnI
srehtO
tnioj
ro
/ dna
serahS
devorppA
sdnoB
dna
seitiruceS
aidnI
edistuo
serutnev
lacol
aidnI
ni
serutnev
seitiruceS
)seitirohtua
ytirutaM
ot
dleH
55.854,855
14.5
-
14.5
-
41.354,855
60.638
12.436,21
93.971,3
-
-
84.308,145
ssorG
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
rof noisivorP
:sseL
gnimrofrep-non )IPN(
stnemtsevni
55.854,855
14.5
-
14.5
-
41.354,855
60.638
12.436,21
93.971,3
-
-
84.308,145
teN
elaS
rof
elbaliavA
82.210,921
32.409,1
91.656,1
-
40.842
50.801,721
66.425,51
-
86.287,31
77.070,2
-
49.927,59
ssorG
91.622
81.7
81.7
-
-
10.912
-
-
80.121
39.79
-
-
noisivorP
:sseL
noitaicerped
rof
IPN
dna
90.687,821
50.798,1
10.946,1
-
40.842
40.988,621
66.425,51
-
06.166,31
48.279,1
-
49.927,59
teN
rof
dleH
gnidarT
36.605,51
-
-
-
-
36.605,51
57.999,4
-
47.332,3
61.0
-
89.272,7
ssorG
13.633
-
-
-
-
13.633
13.633
-
-
-
-
-
noisivorP
:sseL
noitaicerped
rof
IPN
dna
23.071,51
-
-
-
-
23.071,51
44.366,4
-
47.332,3
61.0
-
89.272,7
teN
64.779,207
46.909,1
91.656,1
14.5
40.842
28.760,107
74.063,12
12.436,21
18.591,02
39.070,2
-
04.608,446
latoT
stnemtsevnI
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
noisivorP
:sseL
-non
rof
gnimrofrep
rof
stnemtsevni
yrogetac
MTH
05.265
81.7
81.7
-
-
23.555
13.633
-
80.121
39.79
-
-
noisivorP
:sseL
noitaicerped
rof
rof
IPN
dna
TFH
dna
SFA
seirogetac
69.414,207
64.209,1
10.946,1
14.5
40.842
05.215,007
61.420,12
12.436,21
37.470,02
00.379,1
-
04.608,446
teN
:raey
suoiverp(
erorc
87.183,1
`
fo
serutnebed
dna
sdnob
dna
)erorc
35.12
`
:raey
suoiverp(
erorc
74.69
`
fo
serahs
sedulcni
5202
,13
hcraM
ta
sa
aidnI
edistuo
tnemtsevni
rehtO
.)erorc
84.726,1
`
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
• Movement in provisions held towards depreciation on investments & Investment Fluctuation Reserve:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
i) Movement in provisions held towards depreciation on investments
a) Opening balance 562.49 1,392.27
b) Add: Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 103.37
c) Less: Transition adjustment* 447.00 -
d) Add: Provision made during the year$ 0.73 364.66
e) Less: Write-off, write back of excess provision during the year$ 88.53 1,297.81
f) Closing balance$ 27.69 562.49
ii) Movement of Investment Fluctuation Reserve
a) Opening balance 5,032.00 3,701.00
b) Add: Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 953.00
c) Add: Amount transferred during the year# 529.42 378.00
d) Less: Drawdown - -
e) Closing balance 5,561.42 5,032.00
iii)Closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments in 2.55% 3.48%
AFS and FVTPL category^
Movement in provisions held towards depreciation on investments has been reckoned on a yearly basis.
* Reduction on transition pursuant to the revised norms on investments.
$ Represents provision in respect of NPIs for the year ended March 31, 2025 and provision for depreciation on investments (including NPIs)
for the year ended March 31, 2024.
# Transferred from investment reserve account on transition as per the revised norms on investments.
^ For the year ended March 31, 2024 the ratio represents closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments in AFS
and HFT categories.
• Sale and transfers to / from HTM category
D uring the year ended March 31, 2025, there has been no sale from HTM category in excess of 5% of the book value
of investments held in the HTM category at the beginning of the year. The 5% threshold is excluding sale which are
exempted as per extant RBI guidelines.
D uring the year ended March 31, 2024, there has been no sale from, and transfer to / from, HTM category in excess
of 5% of the book value of investments held in the HTM category at the beginning of the year. The 5% threshold is
excluding the sale and transfer which are exempted as per extant RBI guidelines.
360
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
• Non-SLR investment portfolio
(cid:57) Non-performing non-SLR investments:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening balance 116.67 6.65
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 99.76
Additions during the year 26.17 65.08
Reductions during the year 115.15 54.82
Closing balance 27.69 116.67
Total provisions held 27.69 115.49
(cid:57) Issuer-wise composition of non-SLR investments as at March 31, 2025:
(` crore)
Extent of “below Extent of Extent of
Sr. Extent of private
Issuer Amount investment grade” “unrated” “unlisted”
No. placement#
securities#(1) securities#(2) securities#(2)
1 Public sector undertakings 889.34 404.63 - - -
2 Financial institutions 7,729.90 2,972.28 - - -
3 Banks 8,283.77 6,536.28 611.50 - -
4 Private corporate 17,631.89 14,893.10 - 58.51 1,275.97
5 Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures(3) 13,899.32 13,705.21 - - -
6 Others 23,271.30 15,646.13 - - -
7 MTM - appreciation / (575.99)
depreciation and provision for
NPI
Total 71,129.53 54,157.63 611.50 58.51 1,275.97
# Amounts reported under these columns are not mutually exclusive.
(1) Represents overseas investment of ` 611.50 crore in bond and debentures issued by entities having domicile in India, where the
issuer rating given by domestic rating agencies is above investment grade.
(2) Excludes investments in securities issued by foreign sovereigns, equity shares, units of equity oriented mutual fund schemes,
equity / debt instruments / units issued by Category I and II Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs), commercial paper, certificate of
deposits, securities acquired by way of conversion of debt, security receipts, pass through certificates and unlisted convertible
debentures.
(3) Investments in debt securities issued by Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures have been classified under Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures.
(cid:3) (cid:3)
361
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:57) Issuer-wise composition of non-SLR investments as at March 31, 2024:
(` crore)
Extent of “below
Extent of Extent of Extent of
Sr. investment
Issuer Amount private “unrated” “unlisted”
No. grade”
placement# securities#(2) securities#(2)
securities#(1)
1 Public sector undertakings 1,871.55 1,682.03 - - -
2 Financial institutions 2,145.00 861.71 - - -
3 Banks 5,272.25 4,036.97 359.04 - -
4 Private corporate 14,634.12 12,040.96 - 100.91 2,035.82
5 Subsidiaries / Joint ventures(3) 12,639.62 12,445.52 - - -
6 Others 21,608.51 16,092.11 - - -
7 Provision held towards depreciation (562.49)
Total 57,608.56 47,159.30 359.04 100.91 2,035.82
# Amounts reported under these columns are not mutually exclusive.
(1) Represents overseas investment of ` 359.04 crore in bond and debentures issued by entities having domicile in India, where the
issuer rating given by domestic rating agencies is above investment grade.
(2) Excludes investments in securities issued by foreign sovereigns, equity shares, units of equity oriented mutual fund schemes,
equity / debt instruments / units issued by Category I and II Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs), commercial paper, certificate of
deposits, securities acquired by way of conversion of debt, security receipts, pass through certificates and unlisted convertible
debentures.
(3) Investments in debt securities issued by Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures have been classified under Private Corporates.
• Repo transactions
(cid:57) Details of repo / reverse repo deals excluding tri-party repo / reverse repo done during the year ended March
31, 2025:
(` crore)
Minimum Maximum Daily average Outstanding
Particulars outstanding outstanding outstanding as at March
during the year during the year during the year 31, 2025
FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2
Securities sold under repo
1. Government securities - - 46,454.86 47,000.00 7,928.72 8,068.64 7,572.50 7,918.96
2. Corporate debt securities - - 131.37 123.62 39.03 36.72 128.21 120.64
3. Any other securities - - - - - - - -
Securities purchased
under reverse repo
1. Government securities - - 65,402.40 64,988.25 4,474.82 4,484.70 29,295.27 30,963.47
2. Corporate debt securities - - - - - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - - - - - -
1. FV: Face Value
2. MV: Market Value
362
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(cid:57)(cid:3) Details of repo / reverse repo deals excluding tri-party repo / reverse repo done during the year ended March
31, 2024:
(` crore)
Minimum Maximum Daily average Outstanding
Particulars outstanding outstanding outstanding as at March
during the year during the year during the year 31, 2024
FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2
Securities sold under repo
1. Government securities - - 121,168.11 119,495.43 22,036.86 22,016.52 5,567.14 5,654.30
2. Corporate debt securities - - - - - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - - - - - -
Securities purchased
under reverse repo
1. Government securities - - 49,785.56 51,006.65 6,426.30 6,447.30 - -
2. Corporate debt securities - - - - - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - - - - - -
1. FV: Face Value
2. MV: Market Value
(cid:57) Details of tri-party repo / reverse repo deals done during the year ended March 31, 2025*:
(` crore)
Minimum Maximum Daily average Outstanding
Particulars outstanding outstanding outstanding as at March
during the year during the year during the year 31, 2025
FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2
Securities sold under repo
1. Government securities - - 74,860.20 74,860.20 17,126.54 17,126.54 5,000.00 5,000.00
2. Corporate debt securities - - - - - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - - - - - -
Securities purchased
under reverse repo
1. Government securities - - 30,287.00 30,287.00 1,335.83 1,335.83 - -
2. Corporate debt securities - - - - - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - - - - - -
* FV and MV represent the amount borrowed or lent in tri-party repo / reverse repo deals
1. FV: Face Value
2. MV: Market Value
363
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(cid:57) Details of tri-party repo / reverse repo deals done during the year ended March 31, 2024*:
(` crore)
Minimum Maximum Daily average Outstanding
Particulars outstanding outstanding outstanding as at March
during the year during the year during the year 31, 2024
FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2
Securities sold under repo
1. Government securities - - 95,823.40 95,823.40 33,986.83 33,986.83 - -
2. Corporate debt securities - - - - - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - - - - - -
Securities purchased
under reverse repo
1. Government securities - - 22,587.55 22,587.55 431.30 431.30 - -
2. Corporate debt securities - - - - - - - -
3. Any other securities - - - - - - - -
* FV and MV represent the amount borrowed or lent in tri-party repo / reverse repo deals.
1. FV: Face Value
2. MV: Market Value
(cid:57) Details of Government Security Lending (GSL) transactions:
T he Bank has not done any Government Security Lending transactions during the year ended March 31, 2025
and March 31, 2024, under the Reserve Bank of India (Government Securities Lending) Directions, 2023 effective
December 27, 2023.
• Securities kept as margin
The details of securities that are kept as margin are as under:
(` crore)
Sr. Face value as at March 31,
Particulars
No. 2025 2024
I. Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards:
a) Collateral and funds management – Securities segment 9,100.00 9,100.00
b) Collateral and funds management –Tri-party Repo 116,250.00 39,000.00
c) Default fund – Forex Forward segment 362.10 247.10
d) Default fund – Forex Settlement segment 86.05 51.05
e) Default fund – Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) segment 199.15 199.15
f) Default fund – Securities segment 255.00 255.00
g) Default fund –Tri-party repo segment 55.00 55.00
II. Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards:
a) Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) 91,562.48 64,687.48
b) Repo transactions 174,419.38 65,172.27
III. Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India - -
(NSCCIL) towards NSE Currency Derivatives segment.
IV. Securities kept as margin with Indian Clearing Corporation Limited towards BSE 458.72 358.72
Currency Derivatives segment.
V. Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 1,900.00 1,400.00
(NSCCIL) towards Capital market.
364
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
10. Asset quality
• Classification of assets and provisions held as at March 31, 2025
(` crore)
Standard Non-Performing
Total Total Non- Total
Standard Substandard Doubtful Loss Performing
Advances Assets
Gross Standard Advances and
NPAs^
Opening Balance 2,476,770.96 11,508.47 17,063.72 2,601.13 31,173.32 2,507,944.28
Add: Addition on -
amalgamation
(Refer Schedule 18(1))
Add: Additions during the 31,977.43
year
Less: Reductions during the 27,928.11
year
Closing balance 2,608,288.19 14,452.42 17,643.58 3,126.64 35,222.64 2,643,510.83
Reductions in Gross NPAs
due to:
i) Upgradation* 11,536.99
ii) Recoveries (excluding 4,545.32
recoveries from upgraded
accounts)
iii) Technical / Prudential 10,054.32
Write-offs
iv) Write-offs other than those 1,791.48
under (iii) above
Provisions (excluding
Floating Provisions)^^
Opening balance of 10,663.71 5,001.84 15,479.47 2,600.27 23,081.58 33,745.29
provisions held
Add: Addition on -
amalgamation (Refer
Schedule 18(1))
Add: Fresh provisions made 21,175.51
during the year
Less: Excess provision 20,354.88
reversed / Write-off loans
Closing balance of provisions 10,862.90 5,506.83 15,268.74 3,126.64 23,902.21 34,765.11
held
Net NPAs
Opening Balance 6,506.63 1,584.25 0.86 8,091.74
Add: Addition on -
amalgamation (Refer
Schedule 18(1))
Add: Fresh additions during 10,801.92
the year
Less: Reductions during the 7,573.23
year
Closing Balance 8,945.59 2,374.84 - 11,320.43 11,320.43
365
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
^ NPAs represents advances aggregating to ` 35,194.95 crore (previous year: ` 31,056.65 crore) and investments and foreign exchange
and derivatives of ` 27.69 crore (previous year: ` 116.67 crore) that are classified as non-performing by the Bank.
^^ Closing balance in provisions represents provisions on advances aggregating to ` 23,874.52 crore (previous year: ` 22,966.09 crore)
and provisions on investments and foreign exchange and derivatives of ` 27.69 crore (previous year: ` 115.49 crore).
* Includes those accounts where all overdue have been paid.
• Classification of assets and provisions held as at March 31, 2024
(` crore)
Standard Non-Performing
Total Total Non- Total
Standard Substandard Doubtful Loss Performing
Advances Assets
Gross Standard Advances and
NPAs^
Opening Balance 1,596,217.76 7,827.16 8,745.35 1,446.52 18,019.03 1,614,236.79
Add: Addition on amalgamation 12,281.15
(Refer Schedule 18(1))#
Add: Additions during the year 27,980.95
Less: Reductions during the year 27,107.81
Closing balance 2,476,770.96 11,508.47 17,063.72 2,601.13 31,173.32 2,507,944.28
Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:
i) Upgradation* 11,893.91
ii) Recoveries (excluding recoveries 4,183.95
from upgraded accounts)
iii) Technical / Prudential Write-offs 9,343.08
iv) Write-offs other than those 1,686.87
under (iii) above
Provisions (excluding Floating
Provisions)^^
Opening balance of provisions 6,988.66 3,842.87 8,361.21 1,446.52 13,650.60 20,639.26
held
Add: Addition on amalgamation 9,130.85
(Refer Schedule 18(1))
Add: Fresh provisions made during 19,365.78
the year**
Less: Excess provision reversed / 19,065.65
Write-off loans
Closing balance of provisions held 10,663.71 5,001.84 15,479.47 2,600.27 23,081.58 33,745.29
Net NPAs
Opening Balance 3,984.29 384.14 - 4,368.43
Add: Addition on amalgamation 3,150.30
(Refer Schedule 18(1))
Add: Fresh additions during the 8,615.17
year
Less: Reductions during the year 8,042.16
Closing Balance 6,506.63 1,584.25 0.86 8,091.74 8,091.74
^ NPAs represents advances aggregating to ` 31,056.65 crore (previous year: ` 18,011.85 crore) and investments and foreign exchange
and derivatives of ` 116.67 crore (previous year: ` 7.18 crore) that are classified as non-performing by the Bank.
^^ Closing balance in provisions represents provisions on advances aggregating to ` 22,966.09 crore (previous year: ` 13,643.70 crore)
and provisions on investments and foreign exchange and derivatives of ` 115.49 crore (previous year: ` 6.90 crore).
366
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
** Includes NPA of ` 214.44 crore and provision thereon ` 83.76 crore that has been debited to Balance in Profit and Loss Account as on
the effective date of amalgamation, in respect of harmonisation on common borrower exposure.
* Includes those accounts where all overdue have been paid.
• Technical or prudential write-offs
As per RBI circular dated June 08, 2023 on “Framework for Compromise Settlements and Technical Write-offs”.
Technical Write-offs are cases where the non-performing assets remain outstanding at borrowers’ loan account level
but are written-off (fully or partially) by the Bank only for accounting purposes, without involving any waiver of claims
against the borrower, and without prejudice to the recovery of the same. Movement in the stock of technically or
prudentially written-off accounts is given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening balance of technical / prudential write-offs 42,661.39 32,768.64
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))* - 4,988.87
Technical / Prudential write-offs during the year 10,054.32 9,343.08
Recoveries made from previously technically / prudentially written-off accounts during the (3,079.42) (2,692.25)
year
Sacrifice made from previously technical / prudential written-off accounts during the year (2,836.86) (1,746.95)
Closing balance of technical / prudential write-offs 46,799.43 42,661.39
* Special purpose financial statement of eHDFC Limited as at the day beginning on July 01, 2023, had reported technical write-offs amounting
to ` 4,645.03 crore. Subsequently, the Bank identified additional technical write-offs amounting to ` 343.84 crore. Accordingly, addition
on amalgamation reported above is after including those additional technical write-offs.
• Floating provisions
Floating provision of ` 12,351.28 crore (previous year: ` 12,351.28 crore) has been included under “Other Liabilities”.
Movement in floating provision is given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening balance 12,351.28 1,451.28
Provisions made / reinstated during the year - 10,900.00
Draw down made during the year - -
Closing balance 12,351.28 12,351.28
Floating provisions shall be utilised as per the Board approved policy for contingencies under extraordinary circumstances
and for making specific provision for impaired accounts in accordance with the RBI guidelines / directions.
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Gross non-performing assets to gross advances1 1.33% 1.24%
Gross non-performing advances to gross advances 1.33% 1.24%
Net non-performing assets2 to net advances3 0.43% 0.33%
Provision coverage ratio4 67.86% 74.04%
1 Gross advances are net of bills rediscounted and interest in suspense for non-performing advances.
2 Net NPAs are non-performing assets net of specific provisions, claims received from Credit Guarantors, provisions for funded interest
term loans classified as NPAs and provisions in lieu of diminution in the fair value of restructured assets classified as NPAs.
367
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
3 Net advances are equivalent to gross advances net of specific loan loss provisions, claims received from Credit Guarantors, provision
for funded interest term loans classified as NPA and provisions in lieu of diminution in the fair value of restructured assets.
4 Provision coverage ratio does not include assets written-off.
• Sector-wise Advances and Gross NPAs
(` crore)
Sr. Sector As at March 31, 2025 As at March 31, 2024
No.
Gross Gross % of gross Gross Gross % of gross
advances non- non- advances non- non-
performing performing performing performing
assets assets assets assets
to gross to gross
advances in advances in
that sector that sector
A Priority sector
1 Agriculture and allied 208,341.69 8,009.42 3.84% 180,358.48 5,312.08 2.95%
activities
2 Advances to industries 237,782.88 2,211.48 0.93% 215,907.22 1,568.12 0.73%
eligible as priority sector
lending
- Power 1,147.06 1.85 0.16% 736.94 1.85 0.25%
3 Services 299,475.81 4,687.34 1.57% 245,362.07 4,788.76 1.95%
- Consumer Services 47,347.94 231.07 0.49% - - -
- NBFC 13,738.32 - 0.00% 11,837.99 - 0.00%
- Real Estate & Property 22,497.05 1,770.27 7.87% 16,285.78 1,795.40 11.02%
Services
4 Personal loans 143,455.20 2,090.54 1.46% 143,433.21 1,412.86 0.99%
- Home Loan 139,362.67 1,624.17 1.17% 143,056.82 1,404.67 0.98%
Sub-total (A) 889,055.58 16,998.78 1.91% 785,060.98 13,081.82 1.67%
B Non Priority sector
1 Agriculture and allied 8,168.31 161.66 1.98% 6,402.27 388.64 6.07%
activities
2 Industry 333,313.99 2,898.80 0.87% 318,400.59 2,768.53 0.87%
- Power 62,486.99 544.66 0.87% 65,220.92 551.71 0.85%
3 Services 463,859.09 7,912.05 1.71% 521,219.28 9,008.06 1.73%
- Consumer Services 44,540.68 307.85 0.69% - - -
- NBFC 117,264.48 215.32 0.18% 146,538.31 231.50 0.16%
- Real Estate & Property 73,220.20 4,097.92 5.60% 84,724.58 4,608.73 5.44%
Services
4 Personal loans 949,086.17 7,251.35 0.76% 876,744.49 5,926.27 0.68%
- Home Loan 484,814.90 2,698.32 0.56% 439,245.80 2,071.38 0.47%
- Vehicle / Auto Loans - - - 102,783.94 1,261.43 1.23%
Sub-total (B) 1,754,427.56 18,223.86 1.04% 1,722,766.63 18,091.50 1.05%
Total (A) + (B) 2,643,483.14 35,222.64 1.33% 2,507,827.61 31,173.32 1.24%
368
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
• Overseas assets, NPAs and revenue
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Total Assets 92,529.86 75,579.83
Total NPAs 125.52 108.37
Total Revenue 4,969.60 4,638.76
• Details of Resolution Plan (RP) implemented under Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed
Assets dated June 07, 2019:
Resolution Plan Amount
implemented (` crore)
during the year
March 31, 2025 1 52.00
March 31, 2024 - -
369
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
370
HDFC Bank Limited
gnirutcurtser
ot
detcejbus
stnuocca
fo
sliateD
•
latoT
gnidulcxe(
liateR
dna
llamS
,orciM
)EMSM
gnidulcxe(
setaroproC
seitivitca
deilla
dna
erutlucirgA
dna
erutlucirga
muideM
)EMSM
)EMSM(
sesirpretnE
,13
hcraM
,13
hcraM
,13
hcraM
,13
hcraM
,13
hcraM
,13
hcraM
,13
hcraM
,13
hcraM
,13
hcraM
,13
hcraM
4202
5202
4202
5202
4202
5202
*4202
5202
4202
5202
087,4
215,4
915,4
524,4
271
71
82
81
16
25
fo rebmuN
dradnatS
sreworrob
98.783,2
03.608
82.45
71.87
28.32
29.41
90.903,2
85.017
07.0
36.2
tnuomA
ssorG
)erorc
`(
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
dleh
noisivorP )erorc
`(
996
673,91
946
395,81
92
322
1
761
02
393
fo rebmuN
dradnatsbuS
sreworrob
94.741
22.293
69.01
24.212
73.2
03.52
80.431
15.441
80.0
99.9
tnuomA
ssorG
)erorc
`(
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
dleh
noisivorP )erorc
`(
07
529,31
62
438,21
24
472
2
15
-
667
fo rebmuN
luftbuoD
sreworrob
66.512
17.094
81.4
52.681
19.61
63.36
75.491
72.302
-
38.73
tnuomA
ssorG
)erorc
`(
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
dleh
noisivorP )erorc
`(
-
97
-
17
-
5
-
3
-
-
fo rebmuN
ssoL
sreworrob
-
16.12
-
65.5
-
78.9
-
81.6
-
-
tnuomA
ssorG
)erorc
`(
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
dleh
noisivorP )erorc
`(
945,5
298,73
491,5
329,53
342
915
13
932
18
112,1
fo rebmuN
latoT
sreworrob
40.157,2
48.017,1
24.96
04.284
01.34
54.311
47.736,2
45.460,1
87.0
54.05
tnuomA
ssorG
)erorc
`(
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
^
dleh
noisivorP )erorc
`(
.detimiL
CFDHe
ot
gniniatrep
stnuocca
sedulcni
,evoba
detroper
,4202
,13
hcraM
no
sa
stnuocca
derutcurtseR
*
.yna
fi
,ecfiircaS
eulaV
riaF
yna
fo
tcepser
ni
si
dleh
noisivorP
^
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
• Divergence in the asset classification and provisioning
I n terms of the RBI guidelines, banks are required to disclose the divergence in asset classification and provisioning
consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts to the financial statements, wherever
the additional provisioning assessed / additional gross NPAs identified by RBI exceeds the threshold specified by
RBI. The threshold for provisioning is 5 per cent of the reported profit before provisions and contingencies for the
reference period and that for additional gross NPAs is 5 per cent of the published incremental Gross NPAs for the
reference period.
T here was no reportable divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs for the year ended March 31,
2024 and March 31, 2023.
• Pursuant to the RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021, the
details of loans transferred during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are given below:
I) Transfer of Assets
a) Details of non-performing assets (NPAs) transferred during the financial year 2024-2025:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
To Asset
To permitted To other
Particulars Reconstruction
transferees transferees
Companies (ARCs)
Number of accounts 105 - -
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred 329.74 - -
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred 0.06 - -
(in years)
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer) 0.13 - -
Aggregate consideration 191.91 - -
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts 49.93 - -
transferred in earlier years
The Bank has reversed the excess provision of ` 191.78 crore to Profit and Loss account on sale of the NPAs.
The above excludes sale of written-off accounts.
b) Details of non-performing assets (NPAs) transferred during the financial year 2023-2024:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
To Asset
To permitted To other
Particulars Reconstruction
transferees transferees
Companies (ARCs)
Number of accounts - - -
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred - - -
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred - - -
(in years)
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer) - - -
Aggregate consideration - - -
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts 20.93 - -
transferred in earlier years
The Bank has reversed the excess provision of Nil to Profit and Loss account on sale of the aforesaid loans.
371
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
c) Details of loans not in default transferred through assignment are given below:
Value Value
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Aggregate amount of loans acquired (` in crore)* 35,499.38 -
Weighted average residual maturity (in years) 9.51 -
Weighted average holding period by originator (in years) 3.06 -
Retention of beneficial economic interest by the originator 10% -
Tangible security coverage 98% -
* 115 loans aggregating to ` 41.45 crore were repurchased.
The loans transferred amounting to ` 829.77 crore are rated A1+ and balance are not rated as these are to non-corporate borrowers.
d) During the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, the Bank has not transferred any Special
Mention Account.
e) Details of ratings of SRs outstanding as on March 31, 2025 are given below:
(` crore)
Gross Value of
Rating Rating Agency Recovery rating
Outstanding SRs
RR4 India Ratings 25%- 50% 127.60
RR1 India Ratings 100%-150% 48.95
RR3 CRISIL 50%-75% 20.56
RR1+ India Ratings More than 150% 0.15
RR1+ ICRA More than 150% 0.85
RR3 India Ratings 50% - 75% 36.22
Unrated 730.40
^ 118.66
Total 1,083.39
^ Investment made in Security Receipts (SRs) are guaranteed by Government of India.
Pursuant to regulatory norms, the ARC shall obtain initial rating of SRs from an approved credit rating
agency within a period of six months from the date of acquisition of assets by it.
f) Details of ratings of SRs outstanding as on March 31, 2024 are given below:
(` crore)
Gross Value of
Rating Rating Agency Recovery rating
Outstanding SRs
RR4 India Ratings 25%- 50% 133.55
RR1 India Ratings 100%-150% 86.25
RR1 CRISIL 100%-150% 35.25
RR1+ India Ratings More than 150% 0.15
RR1+ ICRA More than 150% 0.85
RR1 Informeric$ 100%-150% 704.70
RR3 India Ratings 50% - 75% 41.14
Unrated 25.69
Total 1,027.58
$ On account of amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with the Bank
372
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
II) Acquisition of Assets
a) During the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, no non-performing financial assets were
acquired by the Bank.
b) Details of loans not in default acquired through assignment are given below:
Value Value
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Aggregate amount of loans acquired (` in crore) - 11,660.14
Weighted average residual maturity (in years) - 19.07
Weighted average holding period by originator (in years) - 1.48
Retention of beneficial economic interest by the originator - 10%
Tangible security coverage - 100%
The loans acquired are not rated as these are to non-corporate borrowers.
c) During the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, the Bank has not acquired any Special
Mention Account.
• Provision pertaining to fraud accounts reported during the year:
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No. of frauds reported* 39,893 11,639
Amount involved in fraud (` crore)* 801.24 751.15
Amount involved in fraud net of recoveries / write-offs as at the end of the year 415.32 141.51
(` crore)
Provisions held as at the end of the year (` crore) 415.32 141.51
Amount of unamortised provision debited from “other reserves” as at the end of the - -
year (` crore)
Above table represents all frauds reported during the year.
* Includes 38,195 cases (Previous year: 9,034 cases) of Customer liability amounting to ` 207.40 crore (Previous year: ` 522.65 crore) till
July 15, 2024 basis RBI guidelines.
• Details of resolution plan implemented under the Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress
as per RBI circular dated August 06, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and May 05, 2021 (Resolution
Framework 2.0) as at March 31, 2025 are given below:
(` crore)
Type of Borrower Exposure to accounts Of (A), aggregate Of (A) amount Of (A) amount Exposure to accounts
classified as Standard debt that slipped written off paid by the classified as
consequent to into NPA during the during the borrowers Standard consequent
implementation of year ended March year# during the to implementation
resolution plan – Position 31, 2025 year* of resolution plan –
as at the end of the Position as at the end
previous year i.e. March of this year i.e March
31, 2024 (A) 31, 2025^
Personal Loans 4,411.91 283.40 73.74 1,242.28 2,886.23
Corporate persons 325.23 4.61 1.16 94.16 226.46
Of which, MSMEs 57.08 2.55 0.11 28.54 25.99
Others 447.32 21.24 4.67 183.10 242.98
Total 5,184.46 309.25 79.57 1,519.54 3,355.67
373
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
# Represents debt that slipped into NPA and was subsequently written off during the year ended March 31, 2025.
* Amount paid by the borrower during the year is net of additions in the borrower account including additions due to interest capitalization.
^Excludes other facilities to the borrowers aggregating to ` 273.34 crore which have not been restructured.
• Details of resolution plan implemented under the Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress
as per RBI circular dated August 06, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and May 05, 2021 (Resolution
Framework 2.0) as at March 31, 2024 are given below:
(` crore)
Type of Borrower Exposure to accounts Of (A), aggregate debt Of (A) amount Of (A) amount Exposure to accounts
classified as Standard that slipped into NPA written off paid by the classified as Standard
consequent to during the year ended during the borrowers consequent to
implementation of March 31, 2024 year# during the implementation of
resolution plan – year* resolution plan –
Position as at the end Position as at the end of
of the previous year this year i.e. March 31,
i.e. March 31, 2023 $(A) 2024^
Personal Loans 6,544.37 770.56 228.05 1,361.90 4,411.91
Corporate persons 622.76 6.85 1.80 290.68 325.23
Of which, MSMEs 104.84 0.87 0.40 46.89 57.08
Others 866.40 94.06 14.28 325.02 447.32
Total 8,033.53 871.47 244.13 1,977.60 5,184.46
$ Includes additions of ` 2,981.92 crore as on July 01, 2023 on account of amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with the Bank.
# Represents debt that slipped into NPA and was subsequently written-off during the year ended March 31, 2024.
* Amount paid by the borrower during the year is net of additions in the borrower account including additions due to interest capitalization.
^ Excludes other facilities to the borrowers aggregating to ` 498.87 crore which have not been restructured.
• Details of accounts restructured under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector under RBI
guidelines issued in January 2019:
(` in crore except number of accounts)
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No. of accounts restructured Amount outstanding No. of accounts restructured Amount outstanding
79,927 2,165.64 1,55,691 3,351.21
Number of accounts restructured reported in the disclosure above is reported at a borrower level.
374
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
11. Details of exposures to real estate and capital market sectors, risk category-wise country exposures,
unsecured advances, details of factoring exposures, intra-Group exposure, unhedged foreign currency
exposure, details of single counterparty limit / limit for group of connected counterparties exceeded by
the bank, inter-bank participation with risk sharing.
• Details of exposure to real estate sector
Exposure is higher of limits sanctioned or the amounts outstanding as at the year end.
(` crore)
Category March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
a) Direct exposure 878,071.41 876,824.68
(i) Residential mortgages
Lending fully secured by mortgages on residential property that is or will be occupied
688,498.17 702,597.72
by the borrower or that is rented. Exposure would also include non-fund based (NFB)
limits
(of which housing loans eligible for inclusion in priority sector advances) 138,189.54 146,562.96
(ii) Commercial real estate 189,499.27 174,132.07
Lending secured by mortgages on Commercial Real Estates (office building,
retail space, multipurpose commercial premises, multifamily residential buildings,
multi tenanted commercial premises, industrial or warehouse space, hotels, land
acquisition, development, and construction etc.) Exposures would also include non-
fund based (NFB) limits
(iii) Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other securitised exposures:
(a) Residential 73.97 94.89
(b) Commercial real estate - -
b) Indirect exposure 47,599.35 59,118.88
Fund based and non-fund based exposures on National Housing Bank (NHB) and 47,599.35 59,118.88
Housing Finance Companies (HFCs)
Total exposure to real estate sector 925,670.76 935,943.56
• Details of capital market exposure
Exposure is higher of limits sanctioned or the amounts outstanding as at the year end.
(` crore)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No.
(i) Direct investments made in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures
and units of equity oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is not exclusively 3,424.85 3,055.85
invested in corporate debt
(ii) Advances against shares, bonds, debentures or other securities or on clean basis
to individuals for investment in shares (including IPO’s / ESOP’s), convertible bonds, 5,029.80 3,030.91
convertible debentures and units of equity oriented mutual funds
(iii) Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or convertible
6,002.20 7,586.44
debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds are taken as primary security
(iv) Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by collateral security of shares
or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds
1,031.63 1,406.52
i.e. where the primary security other than shares / convertible bonds / convertible
debentures / units of equity oriented mutual funds does not fully cover the advances
(v) Secured and unsecured advances to stock brokers and guarantees issued on behalf
37,071.12 27,973.84
of stock brokers and market makers
375
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` crore)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No.
(vi) Loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares / bonds / debentures
or other securities or on clean basis for meeting promoter’s contribution to the equity 4,069.80 3,069.32
of new companies in anticipation of raising resources
(vii) Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows / issues - -
(viii) Underwriting commitments taken up in respect of primary issue of shares or convertible
- -
bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds
(ix) Financing to stock brokers for margin trading - -
(x) All exposures to venture capital funds (both registered and unregistered) 1,486.07 1,150.39
Total exposure to capital market 58,115.47 47,273.27
• Details of risk category wise country exposure
(` crore)
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Risk Category
Exposure (net) Provision held Exposure (net) Provision held
Insignificant 64,522.59 - 33,981.65 -
Low 19,655.22 - 21,794.76 -
Moderately low 1,065.88 - 2,304.76 -
Moderate 549.31 - 95.74 -
Moderately high 338.90 - 698.91 -
High 115.52 - 88.66 -
Very high 98.41 - 171.31 -
Total 86,345.83 - 59,135.79 -
• Unsecured advances
A dvances for which intangible collaterals such as rights, licenses, authority, trademarks, patents, etc. are charged in
favour of the Bank in respect of projects financed by the Bank, are reckoned as unsecured advances under Schedule
9 of the Balance Sheet in line with the extant RBI guidelines. There are no such advances outstanding as at March
31, 2025 (previous year: Nil).
• Details of factoring exposure
The factoring exposure of the Bank as at March 31, 2025 is ` 38,922.37 crore (previous year: ` 23,793.06 crore).
• Intra-Group exposure
Intra-Group exposures in accordance with the RBI guidelines are as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Total amount of intra-group exposures 20,823.76 34,176.68
Total amount of top 20 intra-group exposures 20,823.76 34,176.68
Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the Bank on borrowers / 0.49% 0.87%
customers
Details of breach of limits on intra-group exposures and regulatory action thereon, if Nil Nil
any
376
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
• Unhedged foreign currency exposure
T he Bank has in place a policy and process for managing currency induced credit risk. The credit appraisal
memorandum prepared at the time of origination and review of a credit facility is required to discuss the exchange
risk that the customer is exposed to from all sources, including trade related, foreign currency borrowings and external
commercial borrowings. It could cover the natural hedge available to the customer as well as other hedging methods
adopted by the customer to mitigate exchange risk. For foreign currency loans granted by the Bank beyond a defined
threshold the customer is encouraged to enter into appropriate risk hedging mechanisms with the Bank. Alternatively,
the Bank satisfies itself that the customer has the financial capacity to bear the exchange risk in the normal course of
its business and / or has other mitigants to reduce the risk. On a periodic basis, the Bank reviews information on the
unhedged portion of foreign currency exposures of customers, whose total foreign currency exposure with the Bank
exceeds a defined threshold. A Board approved credit risk rating linked limit on unhedged foreign currency position
of customers is applicable when extending credit facilities to a customer. The compliance with the limit is assessed
by estimating the extent of drop in a customer’s annual Earnings Before Interest and Depreciation (‘EBID’) due to
a potentially large adverse movement in exchange rate impacting the unhedged foreign currency exposure of the
customer. Where a breach is observed in such a simulation, the customer is suitably advised to review and manage
its unhedged exposure, where deemed necessary.
T he Bank holds standard asset provisions of ` 318.05 crore (previous year: ` 392.13 crore) and maintains capital
(including D-SIB) of ` 1,551.56 crore (previous year: ` 1,692.53 crore) as at March 31, 2025, in respect of the unhedged
foreign currency exposure of its customers.
• Details of Single Counterparty Limit / Limit for Group of Connected Counterparties exceeded by the
Bank
T he RBI has prescribed limits linked to a bank’s eligible capital base in respect of exposures to single counterparty
and group of connected counterparties. During the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 the Bank was
within the limits prescribed by the RBI.
• Inter-bank Participation with risk sharing
T he aggregate amount of participation issued by the Bank and reduced from advances as per regulatory guidelines
as at March 31, 2025 was ` 77,703.73 crore (previous year: ` 62,920.05 crore).
• Concentration of deposits, advances, exposures and NPAs
a) Concentration of deposits
(` crore, except percentages)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Total deposits of twenty largest depositors 117,366.81 79,156.47
Percentage of deposits of twenty largest depositors to total deposits of the Bank 4.32% 3.33%
b) Concentration of advances*
(` crore, except percentages)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Total advances to twenty largest borrowers 387,944.44 424,945.96
Percentage of advances of twenty largest borrowers to total advances of the 9.34% 10.96%
Bank
*Advances comprise credit exposure (funded and non-funded credit limits) including derivative transactions computed as per current
exposure method in accordance with RBI guidelines.
377
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
c) Concentration of exposure**
(` crore, except percentages)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Total exposure to twenty largest borrowers / customers 406,518.55 434,591.97
Percentage of exposure of twenty largest borrowers / customers to total 9.62% 11.04%
exposure of the Bank on borrowers / customers
**Exposures comprise credit exposure (funded and non-funded credit limits) including derivative transactions and investment exposure
in accordance with RBI guidelines.
d) Concentration of NPAs
(` crore, except percentages)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Total exposure to top twenty NPA accounts 7,378.47 8,628.04
Exposures of the twenty largest NPA as a percentage of total Gross NPAs. 20.95% 27.68%
12. Derivatives
• Forward Rate Agreements (FRA) / Interest Rate Swaps (IRS)*
(` crore)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No.
i) The total notional principal of swap agreements 1,032,110.42 800,195.47
ii) Total losses which would be incurred if counter parties failed to fulfill their obligations 5,874.28 5,414.44
under the agreements
iii) Collateral required by the Bank upon entering into swaps** - -
iv) Concentration of credit risk arising from swaps (%)# 64.64% 73.18%
v) Concentration of credit risk arising from swaps (Amount)# 3,797.31 3,962.40
vi) The fair value of the swap book 424.39 (1,325.55)
* Interest Rate Swaps are comprised of INR Interest Rate Swaps and FCY Interest Rate Swaps.
** Represents outstanding amount of net margin received from customers as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
# Concentration of credit risk arising from swaps is with Banks as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
The nature and terms of Rupee IRS outstanding as at March 31, 2025 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos. Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 1 250 INCMT Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 6,345 346,649.08 OIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 6,624 353,427.29 OIS Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging 296 131,970 OIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 2 95.78 MIOIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Hedging 7 2,700 MIOIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 555 36,772.96 MOD MIFOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 309 20,370.94 MOD MIFOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging 50 21,225 T-BILL Linked Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Total 913,461.05
378
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
The nature and terms of foreign currency IRS as at March 31, 2025 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos. Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 5 190.96 EURIBOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 4 268.30 EURIBOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading - - EUR ESTR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 9 897.93 EUR ESTR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 50 10,243.87 USD SOFR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 161 24,178.86 USD SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging 17 6,102.92 USD SOFR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Hedging 26 27,608.43 USD SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 1 128.21 USD SOFR Floating receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 1 1,282.13 USD TERM SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging 33 32,053.13 USD TERM SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 1 60.05 CHF SHARON Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 1 60.05 CHF SHARON Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Total 103,074.84
The nature and terms of Forward Rate Agreement as at March 31, 2025 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos. Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 588 15,574.54 Bond Yield Sell FRA
Total 15,574.54
The nature and terms of Rupee IRS outstanding as at March 31, 2024 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos. Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 2 600.00 INCMT Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 4,051 212,130.40 OIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 4,615 230,906.21 OIS Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging 419 174,570.00 OIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 2 95.78 MIOIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Hedging 7 2,700.00 MIOIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 523 33,400.36 MOD MIFOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 288 19,260.22 MOD MIFOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging 52 21,975.00 T-BILL Linked Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Total 695,637.96
379
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
The nature and terms of foreign currency IRS as at March 31, 2024 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos. Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 4 213.78 EURIBOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 7 483.41 EURIBOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 4 179.75 EUR ESTR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 9 921.24 EUR ESTR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 49 9,818.69 USD SOFR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 159 23,240.41 USD SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging 18 3,227.77 USD SOFR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Hedging 10 17,765.27 USD SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 2 1,292.78 USD TERM SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging 34 28,774.73 USD TERM SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Total 85,917.83
The nature and terms of Forward Rate Agreement as at March 31, 2024 are set out below:
(` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos. Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 678 18,639.68 Bond Yield Sell FRA
Total 18,639.68
• Exchange traded interest rate derivatives
(` crore)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No.
i) The total notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives Nil Nil
undertaken during the years reported
ii) The total notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives Nil Nil
outstanding
iii) The notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives N.A. N.A.
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’
iv) Mark to market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding and N.A. N.A.
not ‘highly effective’
• Qualitative disclosures on risk exposure in derivatives
Overview of business and processes
D erivatives are financial instruments whose characteristics are derived from underlying assets, or from interest rates,
exchange rates or indices. These include forwards, swaps, futures and options. The notional amounts of financial
instruments such as foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with the instruments
recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the
current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Bank’s exposure to credit or price risks. The
following sections outline the nature and terms of the derivative transactions generally undertaken by the Bank.
380
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Interest rate contracts
Forward rate agreements give the buyer the ability to determine the underlying rate of interest for a specified period
commencing on a specified future date (the settlement date). The underlying rate of interest could be an interest rate curve,
interest rate index or bond yield. There is no exchange of principal and settlement is effected on the settlement date. The
settlement amount is the difference between the contracted rate and the market rate prevailing on the settlement date
discounted for the interest period of the agreement.
Interest rate swaps involve the exchange of interest obligations with the counterparty for a specified period without
exchanging the underlying (or notional) principal.
I nterest rate caps and floors give the buyer the ability to fix the maximum or minimum rate of interest. The writer of the
contract pays the amount by which the market rate exceeds or is less than the cap rate or the floor rate respectively. A
combination of interest rate caps and floors can create structures such as interest rate collar, cap spreads and floor spreads.
I nterest rate futures are standardised interest rate derivative contracts traded on a recognised stock exchange to buy
or sell a notional security or any other interest bearing instrument or an index of such instruments or interest rates at a
specified future date, at a price determined at the time of the contract.
Exchange rate contracts
F orward foreign exchange contracts are agreements to buy or sell fixed amounts of currency at an agreed exchange rate
on a future date. These instruments are carried at fair value, determined based on either FEDAI rates or market quotations.
C ross currency swaps are agreements to exchange principal amounts denominated in different currencies. Cross
currency swaps may also involve the exchange of interest payments on one specified currency for interest payments in
another specified currency for a specified period.
C urrency options (including Exchange Traded Currency Option) give the buyer, on payment of a premium, the right
but not an obligation, to buy or sell specified amounts of currency at an agreed exchange rate on or before a specified
future date.
Currency futures contract is a standardised contract traded on an exchange, to buy or sell a certain underlying currency
on a certain date in the future, at a specified price. The contract specifies the rate of exchange between one unit of currency
with another.
The Bank’s derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sale activities include the structuring and marketing
of derivatives to customers to enable them to hedge their market risks (both interest rate and exchange risks), within the
regulatory framework as applicable from time to time. The Bank deals in derivatives on its own account (trading activity)
principally for the purpose of generating a profit from short term fluctuations in price yields or implied volatility. The Bank
also deals in derivatives to hedge the risk embedded in some of its Balance Sheet assets or liabilities.
Constituents involved in derivative business
The Treasury front-office enters into derivative transactions with customers and inter-bank counterparties. The Bank
has an independent back-office and mid-office as per regulatory guidelines. The Bank has credit risk and market risk
departments, as part of the Risk Management Group, that assesses counterparty credit risk and market risk limits, within
the risk architecture and processes of the Bank.
381
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Derivative policy
The Bank has in place a Derivative policy which covers various aspects that apply to the functioning of the derivative
business. The derivative business is administered through various market risk limits such as position limits, tenor limits,
sensitivity limits, scenario based profit and loss limit for option portfolio, stop loss trigger levels and value-at-risk limits
that are recommended by the Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee (‘RPMC’) to the Board of Directors for approval. All
methodologies that are used to assess market and credit risks for derivative transactions are specified by the market risk
and credit risk units. Limits are monitored on a daily basis by the mid-office.
The Bank has a Board approved policy on Customer Suitability & Appropriateness, which forms part of the Derivative
policy, to ensure that derivative transactions entered into are appropriate and suitable to the customer’s nature of
business / operations. Before entering into a derivative deal with a customer, the Bank scores the customer on various risk
parameters and based on the overall score level it determines the kind of product that best suits its risk appetite and the
customer’s requirements.
Classification of derivatives book
The derivative book is classified into trading and hedging book. Classification of the derivative book is made on the basis
of the definitions of the trading and hedging specified in the RBI guidelines. The trading book is managed within the trading
limits recommended by the RPMC and approved by the Board of Directors.
Hedging policy
For derivative contracts designated as hedging instruments, the Bank documents, at inception of the hedge, the relationship
between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, the risk management objective for undertaking the hedge and the
methods used to assess the hedge effectiveness. Hedge effectiveness is ascertained at the time of inception of the hedge
and periodically thereafter. Hedge effectiveness is measured by the degree to which changes in the fair value or cash flows
of the hedged item that are attributable to a hedged risk are offset by changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedging
instrument using various qualitative and quantitative methods.
The hedging book consists of transactions to hedge Balance Sheet assets or liabilities. The tenor of hedging instrument
may be less than or equal to the tenor of underlying hedged asset or liability. The Bank as part of its risk management
strategy, makes use of derivative instruments, including foreign exchange forward contracts, for hedging the risk embedded
in some of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the Balance Sheet. In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in
the fair value of the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of
cash flow hedges other than for foreign exchange forward contracts and principal only swaps, the changes in fair value
of effective portion are recognised in Reserves and Surplus under ‘Cash flow hedge reserve’ and ineffective portion of an
effective hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. The accumulated balance in the cash
flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging relationship, is recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at the same time that
the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. Foreign exchange forward contracts and
principal only swaps not intended for trading, that are entered into to establish the amount of reporting currency required
or available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are outstanding at the Balance Sheet date, are accounted in
accordance with AS-11. Accordingly, such contracts are not marked to market and only translated at spot rate. The premia
or discount arising at the inception of such forward exchange contract is amortised as expense or income over the life of
the contract. The interest income / expense on such POS transaction is accounted on accrual basis.
• Provisioning, collateral and credit risk mitigation
The Bank enters into derivative transactions with counterparties based on their business ranking and financial position.
The Bank sets up appropriate appetite / limits upon evaluating the ability of the counterparty to honour its obligations in
the event of crystallisation of the exposure. Appropriate credit covenants are stipulated where required, as trigger events to
382
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
call for collaterals or terminate a transaction and contain the risk. Further, to mitigate the current exposure in non-centrally
cleared forex and derivative transactions, Bank has entered into Credit Support Annex (‘CSA’) agreements with some of
the major international counterparty banks and few Indian financial institutions.
The Bank, at the minimum, conforms to the RBI guidelines with regard to provisioning requirements. Overdue receivables
representing crystallised positive mark to market value of a derivative contract are transferred to the account of the borrower
and treated as non-performing assets, if these remain unpaid for 90 days or more. Full provision is made for the entire
amount of overdue and future receivables relating to positive marked to market value of non-performing derivative contracts.
Quantitative disclosure on risk exposure in derivatives
(` crore)
Sr. Particulars Currency derivatives Forward contracts Interest rate derivatives
No.
March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31,
2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024
1 Derivatives (notional principal
amount)
a) Hedging 13,248.63 28,357.70 69,063.80 60,802.25 221,659.47 249,012.76
b) Trading 53,216.03 41,318.47 1,224,428.67 1,151,750.54 810,553.44 551,311.15
2 Marked to market positions #
a) Asset (+) 999.96 1,005.98 8,178.81 3,245.63 3,038.63 2,674.59
b) Liability (-) (568.25) (513.27) (7,822.67) (3,234.51) (3,728.34) (2,932.43)
c) Net 431.71 492.70 356.14 11.12 (689.71) (257.83)
3 Credit exposure 4,771.67 4,855.47 31,151.66 29,639.07 14,648.79 13,325.22
4 Likely impact of one
percentage change in interest
rate (100*PV01)**
a) On hedging derivatives 82.36 199.56 2.86 3.91 4,202.37 5,335.83
b) On trading derivatives 25.30 8.08 1.13 0.06 1,805.05 2,215.16
5 Maximum of 100*PV01
observed during the year**
a) On hedging* 189.22 275.06 6.13 5.64 5,127.07 6,214.97
b) On trading 25.30 45.77 7.86 3.07 2,182.42 2,322.16
6 Minimum of 100*PV01
observed during the year**
a) On hedging* 82.36 0.67 0.55 0.52 4,202.37 492.08
b) On trading 0.93 8.08 0.17 0.06 1,805.05 1,968.46
# For trading derivatives including accrued interest.
* Computed for the month end dates where hedge deals were outstanding.
**Amounts given are absolute values on a net basis, excluding currency options.
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:57) The notional principal amounts of derivatives reflect the volume of transactions outstanding as at the Balance
Sheet date and do not represent the amounts at risk.
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:57) For the purpose of this disclosure; currency derivatives include currency options purchased and sold and cross
currency swaps; forward contracts include foreign exchange spot, forward and swap contracts; interest rate
derivatives include interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and interest rate caps and floors.
383
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:57) The Bank has computed the maximum and minimum of PV01 for the year based on the balances as at the end
of every month.
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:57) In respect of derivative contracts, the Bank has computed the exposure under the Current Exposure Method
for counterparty credit risk capital computation based on the guidelines issued by RBI on “Bilateral Netting of
Qualified Financial Contracts – Amendments to Prudential Guidelines” dated March 30, 2021 and any related
amendments thereafter. However, for the purpose of calculating product-wise derivative exposure as mentioned
in point number 3 in table above, Bank has calculated using Current Exposure Method (‘CEM’) without the impact
of Bilateral Netting.
• Credit default swaps
The Bank has not transacted in credit default swaps during the year ended March 31, 2025 (previous year: Nil).
13. Securitisation:
• T he outstanding amount of securitised assets as per books of the SPEs and total amount of exposures retained by the
originator as on the date of balance sheet to comply with the MRR.
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No.
1. No of SPEs holding assets for securitisation transactions originated 3 1
by the originator
2. Total amount of securitised assets as per books of the SPEs 19,035.87 204.59
3. Total amount of exposures retained by the originator to comply with 71.54
2,061.42
MRR as on the date of balance sheet
a) Off-balance sheet exposures
First loss 608.94 65.20
Others - -
b) On-balance sheet exposures
First loss 247.44 6.34
Others 1,205.04 -
4. Amount of exposures to securitisation transactions other than MRR 1,045.49 -
a) Off-balance sheet exposures
i) Exposure to own securitisations
First loss - -
Others - -
ii) Exposure to third party securitisations
First loss - -
Others - -
b) On-balance sheet exposures
i) Exposure to own securitisations
First loss - -
Others 1,045.49 -
ii) Exposure to third party securitisations
First loss - -
Others - -
5. Sale consideration received for the securitised assets and gain / loss Sale Consideration - -
on sale on account of securitisation^ 21,434.28
Gain / Loss - NIL
384
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No.
6. Form and quantum (outstanding value) of services provided by way
No of Outstanding No of Outstanding
of, liquidity support, post-securitisation asset servicing, etc Transaction Value Transaction Value
Services Provided Type of service 3 19,035.87 1 204.59
Post Securitisation Assets Servicing Agent
Servicing
7. Performance of facility provided. (Please provide separately for each Credit Enhancement Credit Enhancement
facility viz. Credit enhancement, liquidity support, servicing agent etc. Amount paid 0.32 -
Mention percent in bracket as of total value of facility provided.) (utilised)
Amount paid
Repayment 0.32 -
Repayment received
received
Outstanding amount
(replenishment)
Outstanding 1,314.14 65.20 (31.87% of current
amount (Average pool outstanding)
6.90% of
current pool
outstanding)
8. Average default rate of portfolios observed in the past. (Please provide 5 years weighted average 5 years weighted average % of
breakup separately for each asset class i.e. RMBS, Vehicle Loans % of 90+ to total loans 90+ to total loans outstanding
etc.) outstanding for respective for respective asset class
asset class
Housing Loan: 0.51% Housing Loan: 0.60%
Auto Loans (new car): 0.26%
9. Amount and number of additional / top up loan given on same Number of additional / top Number of additional / top up
underlying asset. (Please provide breakup separately for each asset up loan: loan:
class i.e. RMBS, Vehicle Loans etc.) Housing Loan: 869 Housing Loan: 1,009
Auto Loan: 8,629
Amount O/s as on 31-Mar-25: Amount O/s as on 31-Mar-24:
Housing Loan: 57.61 Housing Loan: 62.67
Auto Loan: 492.00
10. Investor complaints
(a) Directly / Indirectly received and; - -
(b) Complaints outstanding
^ represent transactions done during the year.
14. Off-Balance Sheet SPVs
There are no Off-Balance Sheet SPVs sponsored by the Bank, which need to be consolidated as per accounting norms.
385
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
15. Transfers to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEA Fund)
The details of amount transferred during the respective year to DEA Fund are as under:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund 1,291.25 1,090.05
Add: Amounts transferred to DEA Fund during the year 211.97 233.36
Less: Amounts reimbursed by DEA Fund towards claims 25.28 32.16
Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund 1,477.94 1,291.25
The closing balance of amount transferred to DEA Fund is included under ‘Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities – Other
items for which the Bank is contingently liable’.
16. Disclosure for complaints and grievance redress
Summary information on complaints received by the Bank from the customers and from the Office of Ombudsman.
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No.
Complaints received by the Bank from its customers
1 Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year 14,232 13,361
1.1 Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 1,224
2 Number of complaints received during the year 4,57,466 4,85,339
3 Number of complaints disposed during the year 4,55,392 4,85,692
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the Bank* 1,50,965 1,27,112
4 Number of complaints pending at the end of the year 16,306 14,232
Maintainable complaints received by the bank from RBIOs
5 Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from RBIOs 13,578 14,563
5.1 Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the bank by RBIOs 6,515 6,834
5.2 Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation / mediation / advisories issued 7,063 7,729
by RBIOs
5.3 Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by RBIOs against the bank NIL 1
6 Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than those appealed) NIL NIL
* Total cases referred to Internal Ombudsman (IO) was 1,65,081 cases (previous year: 1,40,646 cases) of which 1,50,965 cases (previous year:
1,27,112 cases) were complaints.
Overall complaints summary for the financial years:
Description March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
A Total number of complaints 7,25,047 7,39,759
B Complaints redressed by the Bank within one working day / duplicate complaints 2,67,581 2,54,420
C Net Reportable Complaints (A - B) 4,57,466 4,85,339
386
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2025:
Grounds of complaints (i.e. Number of Number of % increase / Number of Of 5, number
complaints relating to) complaints complaints (decrease) in complaints of complaints
pending at the received during the number pending at the pending beyond
beginning of the the year of complaints end of the year* 30 days
year received over
the previous
year
1 2 3 4 5 6
ATM / Debit Cards 3,013 1,19,694 (17%) 3,467 218
Credit Cards 2,565 1,16,242 23% 3,839 3
Internet / Mobile / Electronic 2,910 1,00,306 (11%) 3,160 21
Banking
Loans and advances 3,981 64,833 (13%) 3,927 6
Account opening / difficulty in 327 20,986 (14%) 386 1
operation of accounts
Others 1,436 35,405 3% 1,527 29
Total 14,232 4,57,466 (6%) 16,306 278
* All these cases were pending within the stipulated turnaround time (TAT) of the Bank.
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2024:
Grounds of complaints (i.e. Number of Addition on Number of % increase Number of Of 6, number
complaints relating to) complaints amalgamation complaints / (decrease) complaints of complaints
pending at the (Refer received during in the number pending at the pending
beginning of Schedule 18 (1)) the year of complaints end of the year* beyond 30
the year received over days
the previous
year
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
ATM / Debit Cards 2,955 - 1,44,803 (12%) 3,013 72
Credit Cards 2,207 - 94,755 21% 2,565 0
Internet / Mobile / Electronic 3,621 - 1,12,279 16% 2,910 24
Banking
Loans and advances 3,168 1,208 74,491 66% 3,981 0
Account opening / difficulty in 247 16 24,472 46% 327 2
operation of accounts
Others 1,163 - 34,539 21% 1,436 9
Total 13,361 1,224 4,85,339 13% 14,232 107
* All these cases were pending within the stipulated turnaround time (TAT) of the Bank.
17. Penalties levied by the RBI
During the year ended March 31, 2025, RBI has levied following penalties on the Bank:
• RBI vide its letter dated September 10, 2024 levied a penalty of ` 10,000,000 on the Bank for giving gifts to the
depositors at the time of accepting deposits, for opening certain savings accounts in the names of ineligible entities
and for failure to ensure that customers are not contacted after 7 pm and before 7 am, in contravention to the Reserve
Bank directions on ‘lnterest Rate on Deposits’ and ‘Recovery Agents engaged by Banks’.
387
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
• RBI vide its letter dated March 26, 2025 levied a penalty of ` 7,500,000 on the Bank for not categorising certain
customers into low, medium and high-risk category based on its assessment and risk perception and for allotting
multiple customer identification code to certain customers instead of a Unique Customer ldentification Code (UCIC)
for each customer, which were in contravention to Reserve Bank directions on ‘Know Your Customer (KYC)’.
The penalties have been paid by the Bank and has initiated / taken corrective measures, as necessary, to align the
operations / procedures in line with the applicable regulations.
During the year ended March 31, 2024, RBI vide its letter dated November 30, 2023 levied a penalty of ` 10,000 on the
Bank under Section 11(3) of FEMA, 1999 towards not obtaining RBI’s approval for maintaining current and fixed deposit
accounts of a foreign bank post cancellation of their license by RBI, which was in contravention to the para 13 of AP (DlR
Series) Circular no. 67 dated May 05, 2016. The penalty was paid by the Bank.
18. Disclosures on remuneration
Qualitative Disclosures
A. Information relating to the bodies that oversee remuneration
Name and composition
T he Board of Directors of the Bank has constituted the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (hereinafter, the
‘NRC’) for overseeing and governing the compensation policies of the Bank. The NRC is comprised of four non-
executive directors as of March 31, 2025. Further, three members of the NRC are also members of the Risk Policy
and Monitoring Committee (hereinafter, the ‘RPMC’) of the Board.
A s of March 31, 2025, the NRC is comprised of Dr. Harsh Kumar Bhanwala, Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mr. M.D. Ranganath
and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty. Further, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Parekh and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty are also
the members of the RPMC. Dr. Harsh Kumar Bhanwala is the chairperson of the NRC.
Mandate of the NRC
T he primary mandate of the NRC is to oversee and review the implementation of compensation policies of the Bank.
The NRC periodically reviews the overall Remuneration Policy of the Bank with a view to attract, retain and motivate
employees. In this capacity, it is required to review and approve the design of the total compensation framework,
including compensation strategy programs and plans, on behalf of the Board of Directors. The compensation
structure and pay revision for the Group Heads, Material Risk Takers, Senior Management, Risk and Control Staff,
Key Management Personnel and Whole Time Directors (who are also Material Risk Takers) of the Bank is approved
by the NRC and subsequently approved by the Board of Directors. The compensation of the Whole Time Directors
requires the additional approval of the Reserve Bank of India. The NRC co-ordinates with the RPMC to ensure that
compensation is aligned with prudent risk taking. Further the NRC also reviews the appointments of individuals at the
levels of Group Heads, Key Management Personnel, Senior Management and Whole Time Directors of the Bank.
External Consultants:
The Bank engaged with the following consultants during the year ended March 31, 2025:
1. AON Consulting Private Limited – in respect of the Bank’s annual salary market benchmarking exercise.
2 . Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP – in respect of the Bank’s benchmarking exercise pertaining to executive
compensation and compensation philosophy.
3. Mercer Consulting (India) Private Limited – in the area of job evaluation.
4. ESOP Direct- in respect of Bank’s benchmarking exercise pertaining to ESOP Pool Calculation.
388
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Scope of the Bank’s Remuneration Policy:
T he Remuneration Policy of the Bank includes within its scope all business lines and functions, and all permanent
staff in the Bank’s domestic as well as international offices. The principles articulated in the compensation policy are
applicable uniformly across the Bank. However, any statutory / regulatory provisions applicable in overseas locations
take precedence over the Remuneration Policy of the Bank.
A ll permanent employees of the Bank except those covered under the long term wage agreement are covered by
the said Remuneration Policy. The number of employees covered under the compensation policy was 2,14,308 as on
March 31, 2025 (previous year: 2,13,309).
B. Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration processes and the key features and
objectives of remuneration policy
I. Key Features and Objectives of Remuneration Policy
T he Bank’s Remuneration Policy (the ‘Policy’) is aligned to business strategy, market dynamics, internal characteristics
and complexities within the Bank. The ultimate objective of the Policy is to provide a fair and transparent structure that
helps in acquiring and retaining the talent pool critical to build competitive advantage and brand equity. The Policy has
been designed basis the principles for sound compensation practices in accordance with regulatory requirements
and provides a framework to create, modify and maintain appropriate compensation programs and processes with
adequate supervision and control.
T he Bank’s performance management system provides a sound basis for assessing employee performance holistically.
The Bank’s compensation framework is aligned with the performance management system and differentiates pay
appropriately amongst its employees based on degree of contribution, performance, skill, experience, grade and
availability of talent owing to competitive market forces. Further, the Bank also considers compliance to processes,
regulatory compliance and risk management as an integral part of its performance appraisal process. These factors
are given due weightage for the purposes of the final performance rating of employees for a given performance year.
The NRC considers the aforementioned principles enunciated in the Bank’s compensation policy and ensures that:
(a) the compensation is adjusted for all types of prudent risk taking;
(b) compensation outcomes are symmetric with risk outcomes;
(c) compensation payouts are sensitive to the time horizon of risk; and
(d) the mix of cash, equity and other forms of compensation are aligned with risk.
Review of Remuneration Policy of the Bank
I n Line with Annual Review of the Compensation Policy for the Bank, the same was proposed by the Bank to the NRC
with the proposal of changes basis observations of Audit on specific inclusions.
T his was reviewed and approved by the NRC during the year ended March 31, 2025, vide NRC meeting dated 26th
March, 2025
II. Design and Structure of Remuneration
T he design and structure of remuneration in accordance with the RBI guidelines dated November 04, 2019, for the
financial year ended March 31, 2025, is as follows:
389
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
a) Fixed Pay
T he Remuneration Policy ensures that the fixed component of the compensation is reasonable, taking into account
all relevant factors including industry practice.
Elements of Fixed Pay:
T he fixed pay component of the Bank’s compensation structure typically consists of elements such as base salary,
allowances, perquisites and retirement benefits. Perquisites extended are in the nature of company car, company
leased accommodation, club membership and such other benefits or allowances in lieu of such perquisites / benefits.
Retirement benefits include contributions to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund (for employees above certain job
bands), National Pension Scheme and Gratuity. The Bank also provides pension to certain employees of the erstwhile
Lord Krishna Bank (eLKB) under the Indian Banks’ Association (‘IBA’) structure.
Determinants of Fixed Pay:
T he fixed pay is primarily determined by taking into account factors such as the job size, performance, experience,
location, market competitiveness of pay and is designed to meet the following key objectives of:
(a) fair compensation given the role complexity and size;
(b) fair compensation given the individual’s skill, competence, experience and market pay position;
(c) contribution to post retirement benefits; and
(d) compliance with all statutory obligations.
T he quantum of fixed pay for the Senior Management i.e. Employees in Executive Vice President and above grades,
Material Risk Takers other than Whole time Directors, Risk and Control Staff and Key Management Personnel are
approved by the NRC and the Board.
T he quantum of fixed pay for Whole Time Directors is approved by the NRC and the Board, and is subject to the
approval of the RBI.
b) Variable Pay – For Senior Management and Material Risk Takers
T he performance management system forms the basis for variable pay allocation of the Bank. The Remuneration Policy
of the Bank ensures that the performance management system is comprehensive and considers both, quantitative
and qualitative performance measures.
(i) Composition of Variable pay
T he variable pay will be in the form of share linked instruments or a mix of cash and share linked instruments.
The share linked instrument used in the financial year 2024-25 was the Employee Stock Options. All plans for
grant of options are framed in accordance with the SEBI guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to time and
are approved by the shareholders of the Bank. These plans provide for the grant of options post approval by the
NRC. For Whole time Directors the variable pay is approved by the NRC, Board and the Reserve Bank of India.
T he Bank will ensure that there is a proper balance between Fixed Pay and Variable Pay. In cases where
compensation by way of share-linked instruments is not permitted by law / regulations, the entire variable pay
will be in cash.
390
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(ii) Limits on Variable pay
A substantial portion of compensation i.e. at least 50% will be variable and paid on the basis of individual, business-
unit and organization performance. This will be in line with the principle that, at higher levels of responsibility,
the proportion of variable pay will be higher. The total variable pay shall be limited to a maximum of 300% of the
fixed pay (for the relative performance period).
I n case the variable pay is upto 200% of the fixed pay, a minimum of 50% of the variable pay; and in case the
variable pay is above 200%, a minimum of 67% of the variable pay shall be via non-cash instruments. The non-
cash component in 2024-25 comprised of Employee Stock Options.
I n the event that the employee is barred by statute or regulation from grant of share-linked instruments, his / her
variable pay will be capped at 150% of fixed pay but shall not be less than 50% of the fixed pay.
(iii) Deferral of Variable pay
F or senior management including Whole time Directors (WTDs) and Material Risk Takers (MRTs), deferral
arrangements exists for the variable pay. A minimum of 60% of total variable pay is under deferral arrangements.
If cash component is a part of the variable pay, at least 50% of the cash bonus is deferred. In cases where cash
component of the bonus is under Rs 25 lakh, deferral arrangements is not necessary.
T he deferral period is a minimum of three years and is applicable to both cash and non-cash components of
variable pay. The deferral period for share linked instruments / ESOPs is governed by the ESOP Scheme Rules
which is approved by the NRC and the Board. In 2024-25, the deferment of cash variable pay, where applicable,
was 3 years in the case of cash variable pay and 4 years (vesting period) in the case of Employee Stock Options.
(iv) Vesting of Variable pay
T he deferred portion of the remuneration vests at the end of deferral period and is spread out over the course
of the deferral period. The first vesting is not before one year from the commencement of the deferral period.
The vesting is no faster than on a pro rata basis and the frequency of the vesting is more than a year in order to
ensure appropriate assessment of risk.
(v) Malus / Clawback Arrangement
T he Bank believes in sustained business performance in tandem with prudent risk taking. The Bank, therefore,
has devised appropriate deterrents in order to institutionalize the aforementioned commitment.
M alus Arrangement: The provision of a Malus arrangement would entail cancellation of payout for the deferred
portion of reward (cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument). The RBI guidelines
define malus thus “A malus arrangement permits the bank to prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of a
deferred remuneration. Malus arrangement does not reverse vesting after it has already occurred.”
C lawback Arrangement: The provision of Clawback arrangement would entail return of payout of reward (cash
variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument) made in the previous years attributable
to a given reference year wherein the incident has occurred. The return would be in terms of net amount. The
RBI guidelines define clawback thus “A clawback is a contractual agreement between the employee and the
bank in which the employee agrees to return previously paid or vested remuneration to the bank under certain
circumstances.”
T he malus and clawback clause will be actioned when the employee demonstrates behaviour involving fraudulent
behaviour, moral turpitude, lack of integrity, flagrant breach of company policies and statutory norms resulting in
391
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
financial or non-financial losses. Manifestation of behaviour listed above is presumed to have a malafide intent.
Illustrative list of conditions are enumerated below. The occurrence of any / some / all of the following conditions /
events shall trigger a review by the NRC for the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement:
a) Substantial Financial Deterioration in profitability or risk parameters
b) Reckless, negligent or willful actions or exhibited inappropriate values and behavior
c) Fraud that requires a financial restatement
d) Reputational harm
e) Exposing the bank to substantial risk
f ) Such other conditions or events, of similar nature as above, as determined by NRC for triggering review by
NRC for the purpose of application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement
I n determining the causes for deterioration in financial performance under (a), the NRC may take into consideration
and have due regard to the fact whether the deterioration was for factors within control or whether it was
on account of conditions like global market headwinds, industry performance, changes in legal / regulatory
regime, force majeure events like occurrence of natural disasters, pandemic, other socio-economic conditions
etc.
W hile undertaking the review for the concerned person for the application of the Malus or the Clawback
arrangement based on any trigger events, when determining accountability of the concerned person, the NRC
shall be guided by the principles of proportionality, culpability or proximity or nexus to the event or misconduct.
I n accordance with the RBI guidelines, wherever the assessed divergence in bank’s provisioning for Non-
Performing Assets (NPAs) or asset classification exceeds the prescribed threshold for public disclosure, the
bank shall not pay the unvested portion of the variable compensation for the assessment year under ‘malus’
arrangement. Further, in such situations, no proposal for increase in variable pay (for the assessment year) shall be
entertained. In case the bank’s post assessment Gross NPAs are less than 2.0%, these restrictions will apply only
if criteria for public disclosure are triggered either on account of divergence in provisioning or both provisioning
and asset classification.
T he NRC may decide to apply malus on part, or all of the variable pay. The time horizon for the application of
malus / clawback clause shall be four years from the date of reward.
T he NRC shall review the act of misconduct / incident to ascertain the degree of accountability attributable to a
Whole time Director / Material Risk Taker / Senior Management (Job Bands C 1 and above) prior to applying the
Malus or Clawback arrangement.
The criteria for Malus / Clawback will be reviewed by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee annually.
T he NRC and Board of Directors has also approved an addendum (Addendum-B) to the compensation policy on
Clawback of Incentive Compensation in view of the final rules on listing standards for the recovery of erroneously
awarded compensation adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 26, 2022, applicable
to companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ.
T his Addendum-B shall be read with, and is in addition to, the Compensation Policy formulated and approved by
the Board of Directors of the Bank. The same has been formulated to comply with the requirements of Section
10D promulgated under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), and Section
392
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
303A.14 of the NYSE so as to recover certain compensation in the event of an accounting restatement due to
any material non-compliance relating to any financial reporting requirements under the applicable U.S. securities
laws, and shall be interpreted and applied consistent therewith.
(vi) Approval Process
T he Variable Pay for Senior Management, Material Risk Takers other than Whole time Directors, Risk and control
staff is approved by the NRC and the Board. For Whole time Directors the variable pay is approved by the NRC,
Board and the Reserve Bank of India.
Employees other than Senior Management, Material Risk Takers, Whole Time Directors
The Bank has formulated the following variable pay plans:
(i) Annual Bonus Plan
T he quantum of variable payout is a function of the performance of the Bank, performance of the business unit,
performance of the individual employee, job band of the employee and the functional category. Basis these key
determinants and due adjustment for risk alignment, a payout matrix for variable pay is developed. Market trends
for specific businesses / functions along with inputs from compensation surveys may also be used in finalising
the payout.
B onus pools are designed to meet specific business needs therefore resulting in differentiation in both the
quantum and the method of payout across functions.
(ii) Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
P LPs are formulated for employees in sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given
business / service targets but have limited impact on risk since credit decisions are exercised independent
of these functions. All PLP payouts are based on a balanced scorecard framework which factors not just
quantitative, but also qualitative measures, and are subject to achievement of individual targets enumerated in
the respective scorecards of the employees. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial
year to provide for any unforeseen performance risks. Employees who are on the PLPs are excluded from the
Annual Bonus Plan.
(iii) Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOPs)
E mployees in Job Bands D4 and above also receive ESOPs as a vehicle to create a balance between short
term rewards and long term sustainable value creation. ESOPs play a key role in the attraction and retention of
key talent.
T he NRC grants options after considering parameters such as the incumbent’s grade and performance rating,
and such other factors as may be deemed appropriate by the NRC.
A ll plans for grant of options are framed in accordance with the SEBI guidelines, 1999 as amended from time
to time and are approved by the shareholders of the Bank. These plans provide for the grant of options post
approval by the NRC.
T he Bank grants ESOPs to eligible employees. Such ESOPs vest over four tranches spread over a period of
48 months.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, Employee Stock Options is included as part of Variable Pay.
393
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(iv) Restricted Stock Units (Units)
T he Bank granted units to employees at E3 – D3 bands (upto 10 levels below the MD). The same was approved
by the NRC after considering parameters such as the employee’s grade, performance rating and any other factors
as may be deemed appropriate by the NRC.
A ll plans for grant of units are framed in accordance with the SEBI guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to
time and are approved by the shareholders of the Bank. These plans provide for the grant of units post approval
by the NRC.
Such units vest over four tranches spread over a period of 48 months.
Risk, Control and Compliance Staff
T he Bank has separated the Risk, Control and Compliance functions from the Business functions in order to
create a strong culture of checks and balances and to eliminate any possible conflict of interest between revenue
generation and risk management and control. Accordingly, the overall variable pay as well as the annual salary
increment of the employees in the Risk, Control and Compliance functions is based on their performance,
functional objectives and goals. The Bank ensures that the mix of fixed to variable compensation for these
functions is weighted in favour of fixed compensation.
Guaranteed Bonus
G uaranteed bonuses are not consistent with sound risk management or pay for performance principles of the
Bank and therefore do not form an integral part of the general compensation practice.
F or critical hiring for some select strategic roles, the Bank may consider granting of bonus, based on the
performance rating upon confirmation, as a prudent way to avoid loading the entire cost of attraction into the fixed
component of the compensation which could have a long term cost implication for the Bank. For such hiring, the
said bonus is generally decided by taking into account appropriate risk factors and market conditions.
F or hiring at levels of Whole Time Directors / Managing Director / Material Risk Takers and certain employees in
select strategic roles, a sign-on bonus, if any, is limited to the first year only and would be in the form of Employee
Stock Options or Units (All units grants are subject to individual / Business Unit / organizational performance
criteria).
Severance Pay
T he Bank does not grant severance pay other than accrued benefits (such as gratuity, pension) except in cases
where it is mandated by any statute.
Hedging
T he Bank does not provide any facility or fund or permit its Whole Time Directors and employees to insure or hedge
their compensation structure to offset the risk alignment effects embedded in their compensation arrangement.
S tatutory Bonus
S ome employees are also paid statutory bonus as per the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 as amended from time
to time.
394
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
III. Remuneration Processes
Fitment at the time of Hire
P ay scales at the Bank are set basis the job size, experience, location and the academic and professional
credentials of the incumbent.
The compensation of new hires is in line with the existing pay ranges and consistent with the compensation levels
of the existing employees of the Bank at similar profiles. The pay ranges are subject to change basis market trends
and the Bank’s talent management priorities. While the Bank believes in the internal equity and parity as a key
determinant of pay, it does acknowledge the external competitive pressures of the talent market. Accordingly,
there could be certain key profiles with critical competencies which may be hired at a premium and treated as an
exception to the overall pay philosophy. Any deviation from the defined pay ranges is treated as a hiring exception
requiring approval with appropriate justification.
Pay Increment / Pay Revision
T he Bank strives to ensure external competitiveness as well as internal equity without diluting the overall focus
on optimising cost. In order to enhance the Bank’s external competitiveness, it participates in an annual salary
survey of the banking sector to understand key market trends as well as get insights on relative market pay
position compared to peers. The Bank endeavors to ensure that most employees progress to the median of the
market in terms of fixed pay over time. This coupled with key internal data indicators like performance score, job
family, experience, job grade and salary budget form the basis of decision making on revisions in fixed pay.
I ncrements in fixed pay for majority of the employee population are generally undertaken once every financial
year. However, promotions, confirmations and change in job dimensions could also lead to a change in the fixed
pay during other times of the financial year.
T he Bank also makes salary corrections and adjustments during the financial year for competitive pay positioning
for the purpose of retention of critical skills and critical talent in the domain of Information Technology, Digital,
Information Security, Data Science as well as business segments that are strategic focus areas of the Bank.
However, such pay revisions are done on an exception basis.
T he Fixed Pay for the Material Risk Takers (other than Whole time Directors), Senior Management, Key Management
Personnel is approved by the NRC and the Board. The Fixed Pay for the Whole time Directors is approved by the
NRC, Board and the Reserve Bank of India.
C. Description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the remuneration
processes, including the nature and type of the key measures used to take account of these risks
T he Bank takes into account various types of risks in its remuneration processes. The Bank follows a comprehensive
framework that includes within its ambit the key dimensions of remuneration such as fixed pay, variable pay and long
term incentives (i.e. Employee Stock Options).
F ixed pay: The Bank conducts a comprehensive market benchmarking study to ensure that employees are
competitively positioned in terms of fixed pay. The Bank follows a robust salary review process wherein revisions in
fixed compensation are based on performance. The Bank also makes salary adjustments taking into consideration
pay positioning of employees vis-à-vis market reference points. Through this approach the Bank endeavors to ensure
that the talent risk due to attrition is mitigated. Fixed pay could be revised downwards as well, in the event of certain
proven cases of misconduct by an employee.
Variable pay: The Bank has distinct types of variable pay plans as given below:
395
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(a) Quarterly / monthly performance-linked pay (PLP) plans:
A ll quarterly / monthly PLP plans are based on the principle of balanced scorecard framework that includes within
its ambit both quantitative and qualitative factors including key strategic objectives that ensure future competitive
advantage for the Bank. PLP plans, by design, have deterrents that play a role of moderating payouts based on
the non-fulfillment of established quantitative / qualitative risk factors. Deterrents also include risks arising out of
non-compliance, mis-sell etc. Further, a portion of all payouts under the PLP plans is deferred till the end of the
financial year to provide for any unforeseen performance risks. Employees who are part of the PLP plans are
excluded from the Annual Bonus Plan.
(b) Variable Pay:
T he Bank takes into consideration the fact that a portion of the Bank’s profits are directly attributable to various
types of risks the Bank is exposed to such as credit risk and market risk.
T he framework developed by the Bank in order to arrive at the quantum of bonus pool is based on the
performance of the Bank and profitability. The annual variable pay is distributed based on business unit and
individual performance and job band and role of the individual for non-business functions. The business unit
performance is based on factors such as growth in revenue, growth in profit, cost to income ratio and achievement
vis-à-vis plans and key objectives. Bonus pay out for an individual employee in a particular grade is linked to the
performance rating of the employee and subject to meeting the Bank’s standards of ethical conduct.
T he Bank has devised appropriate malus and claw back clauses as a risk mitigant for Whole Time Directors,
Material Risk Takers, Senior Management (i.e. Employees in the job Bands of Executive Vice President and
above). Under the malus clause the incumbent could forego the vesting of the deferred variable pay in full or in
part. Under the claw back clause the incumbent is obligated to return all the tranches of variable pay payout
pertaining to the reference performance year. The deferred variable pay is paid out post review and approval by
the NRC and the Board.
D. Description of the ways in which the Bank seeks to link performance during a performance measurement
period with levels of remuneration
T he Bank has a robust performance management system for evaluating the performance of its Whole Time Directors.
The performance appraisal system is based on a Balanced Scorecard Framework and considers qualitative as well as
quantitative factors of performance which includes the parameters at overall organization level and at Target Business
Level. Following is the list of few parameters which are covered in the Balanced Scorecards of Whole Time Directors.
1. Business Performance – This includes business growth, profitability, asset quality and shareholder value.
2. Stakeholder Relationship – This includes net promoter score and corporate social responsibility.
3. Audit and Compliance – This includes internal audit reports and compliance with the regulations and
inspection reports.
4. Digital Transformation – This includes performance on initiatives required to run the Bank and grow the Bank.
5. People Excellence – This includes succession planning and employee attrition.
6. Strategic Initiatives – This includes various strategic initiatives of the Bank.
The above list is not exhaustive.
396
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
W hile the above parameters form the core evaluation parameters for the Bank and the remuneration of its Whole Time
Directors, each of the business units are measured on the following from a remuneration standpoint:
a) Growth in net revenue (%) over previous year;
b) Growth in profit before tax (%) over previous year;
c) Improvement in cost to income over the previous year;
d) Improvement in Gross NPA over the previous year and
e) Achievement of key strategic objectives.
T he process by which levels of remuneration in the Bank are aligned to the performance of the Bank, business unit
and individual employees is articulated below:
Fixed Pay
T he Bank reviews the fixed pay portion of the compensation structure basis merit-based increments and market
corrections. These are based on a combination of performance rating, job band and the functional category of the
individual employee. For a given job band, the merit increment is directly related to the performance rating. The Bank
strives to ensure that most employees progress to the median of the market in terms of fixed pay over time. All other
things remaining equal, the correction percentage is directly related to the performance rating of the individual.
Variable Pay
B asis the performance of the business unit, individual performance and role, the Bank has formulated the following
variable pay plans:
• Variable Pay Plans:
For Employees in Job Bands of Sr Vice President I and above (includes employees in Senior Management, Material
Risk Takers, Whole time Directors) the variable pay intends to reward short term as well as long term sustained
performance of the Bank and shareholder value creation.
S hort term Performance: Short term performance is realised in the form of cash variable pay. The cash variable
pay is based on performance rating and the job band of the individual and is further enhanced or moderated by
the business performance multiplier and role. The cash variable pay is computed on the gross salary.
L ong term Performance: Employee Stock Options are granted to employees based on their performance rating
and job band and the value of the same is realised vide long term performance of the Bank and creation of
shareholder value.
For Employees in job bands Vice President and below:
A t these levels the variable pay is primarily in the form of cash variable pay and is based on the annual performance.
In FY 2024-25, the Bank granted units at E3-D3 bands based on their performance rating, grade and any other
such parameter as approved by the NRC.
T he Bank’s annual bonus is computed as a percentage of the gross salary for every job band. The bonus multiple
is based on performance of the business unit (based on the parameters above), performance rating, job band
397
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
and the functional category of the individual employee. The business performance category determines the
multiplier for the bonus. All other things remaining equal, for a given job band, the bonus is directly related to the
performance rating. Employees who are part of the annual cash Variable Pay plan are not part of the Performance
Linked Plans mentioned below.
• Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
T he Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given
sales, collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to
the achievement of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated
by qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for
any unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on
the plan, could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
E. Description of the ways in which the Bank seeks to adjust remuneration to take account of the longer
term performance
F or employees in Senior Management, Material Risk Takers and Whole Time Directors the Bank seeks to adjust
remuneration to take account of the longer term performance in the following way.
(i) Limits on variable pay
A substantial portion of compensation i.e. at least 50% will be variable and paid on the basis of individual, business-
unit and organization performance. This will be in line with the principle that, at higher levels of responsibility,
the proportion of variable pay will be higher. The total variable pay shall be limited to a maximum of 300% of the
fixed pay.
I n case the variable pay is upto 200% of the fixed pay, a minimum of 50% of the variable pay; and in case the
variable pay is above 200%, a minimum of 67% of the variable pay shall be via non-cash instruments. The non-
cash component in 2024-25 comprised of Employee Stock Options.
I n the event that the employee is barred by statute or regulation from grant of share-linked instruments, his / her
variable pay will be capped at 150% of fixed pay but shall not be less than 50% of the fixed pay.
(ii) Deferral of variable pay
F or senior management including Whole Time Directors (WTDs) and Material Risk Takers (MRTs), deferral
arrangements will exist for the variable pay. A minimum of 60% of total variable pay will be under deferral
arrangements. If cash component is a part of the variable pay, at least 50% of the cash bonus shall be deferred.
In cases where cash component of the bonus is under Rs 25 lakh, deferral arrangements would not be necessary.
T he deferral period would be a minimum of three years and will be applicable to both cash and non-cash
components of variable pay. The deferral period for share linked instruments / ESOPs will be governed by the
ESOP Scheme Rules which will be approved by the NRC and the Board. In 2023-24, the deferment of cash
variable pay, where applicable, was 3 years in the case of cash variable pay and 4 years (vesting period) in the
case of Employee Stock Options.
(iii) Vesting of Variable Pay
T he deferred portion of the remuneration will vest at the end of deferral period and will be spread out over the
course of the deferral period. The first vesting would not be before one year from the commencement of the
398
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
deferral period. The vesting would be no faster than on a pro rata basis and the frequency of the vesting would
be more than a year in order to ensure appropriate assessment of risk.
(iv) Malus / Clawback Arrangement:
T he Bank believes in sustained business performance in tandem with prudent risk taking. The Bank, therefore,
has devised appropriate deterrents in order to institutionalize the aforementioned commitment.
M alus Arrangement: The provision of a Malus arrangement would entail cancellation of payout for the deferred
portion of reward (cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument). The RBI guidelines
define malus thus “A malus arrangement permits the bank to prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of a deferred
remuneration. Malus arrangement does not reverse vesting after it has already occurred.”
C lawback Arrangement: The provision of Clawback arrangement would entail return of payout of reward (cash
variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument) made in the previous years attributable to a
given reference year wherein the incident has occurred. The return would be in terms of net amount. The RBI guidelines
define clawback thus “A clawback is a contractual agreement between the employee and the bank in which the
employee agrees to return previously paid or vested remuneration to the bank under certain circumstances.”
T he malus and clawback clause will be actioned when the employee demonstrates behaviour involving fraudulent
behaviour, moral turpitude, lack of integrity, flagrant breach of company policies and statutory norms resulting in
financial or non-financial losses. Manifestation of behaviour listed above is presumed to have a malafide intent.
Illustrative list of conditions are enumerated below. The occurrence of any / some / all of the following conditions/
events shall trigger a review by the NRC for the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement:
a) Substantial financial deterioration in profitability or risk parameters
b) Reckless, negligent or willful actions or exhibited inappropriate values and behavior
c) Fraud that requires a financial restatement
d) Reputational harm
e) Exposing the bank to substantial risk
f) Such other conditions or events, of similar nature as above, as determined by NRC for triggering review by NRC
for the purpose of application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement
I n determining the causes for deterioration in financial performance under (a), the NRC may take into consideration
and have due regard to the fact whether the deterioration was for factors within control or whether it was on account
of conditions like global market headwinds, industry performance, changes in legal / regulatory regime, force majeure
events like occurrence of natural disasters, pandemic, other socio-economic conditions etc.
W hile undertaking the review for the concerned person for the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement
based on any trigger events, when determining accountability of the concerned person, the NRC shall be guided by
the principles of proportionality, culpability or proximity or nexus to the event or misconduct.
I n accordance with the RBI guidelines, wherever the assessed divergence in bank’s provisioning for Non-Performing
Assets (NPAs) or asset classification exceeds the prescribed threshold for public disclosure, the bank shall not pay the
unvested portion of the variable compensation for the assessment year under ‘malus’ arrangement. Further, in such
situations, no proposal for increase in variable pay (for the assessment year) shall be entertained. In case the bank’s
399
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
post assessment Gross NPAs are less than 2.0%, these restrictions will apply only if criteria for public disclosure are
triggered either on account of divergence in provisioning or both provisioning and asset classification.
T he NRC may decide to apply malus on part, or all of the unvested deferred Variable pay. The time horizon for the
application of malus / clawback clause shall be four years from the date of reward.
T he NRC shall review the act of misconduct / incident to ascertain the degree of accountability attributable to a
Whole Time Director / Material Risk Taker / Senior Management (C1 and above) prior to applying the Malus or
Clawback arrangement.
The criteria for Malus / Clawback will be reviewed by the NRC annually.
T he NRC and Board of Directors has also approved an addendum (Addendum-B) to the compensation policy on
Clawback of Incentive Compensation in view of the final rules on listing standards for the recovery of erroneously
awarded compensation adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 26, 2022, applicable to
companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ.
T his Addendum-B shall be read with, and is in addition to, the Compensation Policy formulated and approved by
the Board of Directors of the Bank. The same has been formulated to comply with the requirements of Section 10D
promulgated under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), and Section 303A.14
of the NYSE so as to recover certain compensation in the event of an accounting restatement due to any material
non-compliance relating to any financial reporting requirements under the applicable U.S. securities laws, and shall
be interpreted and applied consistent therewith.
Employees other than Whole Time Directors, Material Risk Takers and Senior Management
The Bank has formulated the following variable pay plans:
• Annual Cash Variable Pay plan:
T he quantum of variable payout is a function of the performance of the Bank, performance of the individual
employee, job band of the employee and the functional category. Basis these key determinants and due
adjustment for risk alignment, a payout matrix for variable pay is developed. Market trends for specific
businesses / functions along with inputs from compensation surveys may also be used in finalising the payout.
B onus pools are designed to meet specific business needs therefore resulting in differentiation in both the
quantum and the method of payout across functions. Typically, higher levels of responsibility receive a higher
proportion of variable pay vis-à-vis fixed pay.
For Employees in Job Bands of Sr Vice President 1 and above Variable Pay intends to reward short term as well
as long term sustained performance of the Bank and shareholder value creation.
S hort term Performance: Short term performance is realised in the form of cash variable pay. The cash variable
pay is based on performance rating and the job band of the individual and is further enhanced or moderated by
the business performance multiplier and role. The cash variable pay is computed on the gross salary.
L ong term Performance: Employee Stock Options are granted to employees based on their performance rating
and Job band and the value of the same is realised vide long term performance of the Bank and creation of
shareholder value. The vesting period for Employee Stock Option is 4 years.
T he Bank has also granted Restricted Stock Units (Units) to employees at E3-D3 bands. The units would vest
over 4 years.
400
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
• Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
T he Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given
sales, collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to
the achievement of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated
by qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for
any unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on
the plan, could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
F. Description of the different forms of variable remuneration (i.e. cash, shares, ESOPs and other forms)
that the Bank utilises and the rationale for using these different forms
T he Bank recognises the importance of variable pay in reinforcing a pay for performance culture. Variable pay stimulates
employees to stretch their abilities to exceed expectations.
• Annual Cash Variable Pay
T hese are paid to reward performance for a given financial year. This covers all employees (excluding employees
under PLPs). This is based on performance of the business unit, performance rating, job band and functional
category of the individual. For higher job bands the proportion of variable pay to total compensation tends to be
higher. For Material Risk Takers, Senior Management and Whole Time Directors 50% of the cash variable pay is
deferred over 3 years in the event the cash variable pay exceeds 25 lakhs.
• Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
T he Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given
sales, collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to
the achievement of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated
by qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for
any unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on
the plan, could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
• Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP)
T his is to reward for contribution of employees in creating a long term, sustainable earnings and enhancing
shareholder value. Only employees in a certain job band and with a specific performance rating are eligible for
stock options. Performance is the key criteria for granting stock options.
• Restricted Stock Units (Units)
T he Bank granted Restricted Stock Units (Units) to employees at E3-D3 bands in FY24-25. The units would vest
over 4 years.
Quantitative disclosures
T he quantitative disclosures for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 cover the Bank’s Whole Time Directors and
Material Risk Takers. The material risk takers are identified in accordance with the revised guidelines on remuneration
issued by the RBI on November 04, 2019. Hitherto, the quantitative disclosures would cover the Bank’s Whole Time
Directors and Key Risk Takers as per the erstwhile guidelines on remuneration dated January 13, 2012.
401
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Sr. No. Subject March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
(a) Number of meetings held by the Numbers of meetings: 17 Number of meetings: 18
Nomination and Remuneration
Committee (NRC) during the financial Sitting Fees paid: ` 0.67 crore Sitting Fees paid: ` 0.74 crore
year and sitting fees paid to its
members
(b) (i) Number of employees having received 88 92
a variable remuneration award during
the financial year
(b) (ii) Number and total amount of sign-on Number – 1 None
awards made during the financial year Total amount of sign-on
awards – 39,050 ESOP Units
(b) (iii) Number and total amount of None None
guaranteed bonuses awarded during
the financial year
(b) (iv) Details of severance pay, in addition to None None
accrued benefits, if any
(c) (i) Total amount of outstanding deferred 1. Deferred Cash variable pay – 1. Deferred Cash variable
remuneration, split into cash, shares ` 45.16 crore pay - ` 34.31 crore
and share-linked instruments and other 2. ^Employee Stock Options 2. ^Employee Stock Options
forms (ESOP) – 89,54,079 Options (ESOP) – 98,70,019 Options.
(c) (ii) Total amount of deferred remuneration ` 15.51 crore ` 10.99 crore
paid out in the financial year
(d) Breakdown of amount of remuneration ` 159.65 crore (Fixed*) ` 151.12 crore (Fixed*)
awards for the financial year to show ` 5.09 crore (cash variable pay ` 9.42 crore (cash variable pay pertaining
fixed and variable, deferred and non- pertaining to financial year ended to financial year ended March 31, 2023,
deferred March 31, 2024, in relation to in relation to employees where there
employees where there was no was no deferment). The same category
deferment). The same category of of employees were granted 14,07,710
employees were granted 4,77,620 ESOPs.
ESOPs
` 49.55 crore (cash variable pay ` 30.11 crore (cash variable pay
pertaining to financial year ended pertaining to financial year ended March
March 31, 2024, in relation to 31, 2023, in relation to employees
employees where there was a where there was a deferment) of which
deferment) of which ` 24.78 crore was ` 15.05 crore was non-deferred variable
non-deferred variable pay and ` 24.78 pay and ` 15.05 crore was deferred
crore was deferred variable pay. The variable pay. The same category of
same category of employees were employees were granted 23,45,900
granted 34,26,650 ESOPs ESOPs.
Number of stock options granted Number of stock options granted
during the financial year: 39,04,270. during the financial year: 37,53,610.
This includes 8,93,780 ESOPs This includes 3,36,057 ESOPs granted
granted to the MD and the two EDs to MD and DMD (erstwhile ED) for
for performance in F.Y. 2023 – 2024. performance in F.Y. 2022 – 2023.
The above amount does not include Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan was awarded
variable pay awarded to the DMD for cash variable pay ` 5.00 crore for the
performance year 2023 – 2024 and performance year 2022 – 2023, 50%
the same is scheduled to be paid in of which was paid out in the F.Y. 2024
F.Y. 2025 – 2026. basis RBI letter dated – December 21,
2023. The above amount is not included
in the variable pay awarded this year as it
pertains to the previous year.
402
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Sr. No. Subject March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
(e) (i) Total amount of outstanding 1. Deferred Cash variable 1. Deferred Cash variable
deferred remuneration and retained pay – ` 45.16 crore pay – ` 34.31 crore
remuneration exposed to ex-post 2. ^Employee Stock Options 2. ^Employee Stock Options
explicit and / or implicit adjustments (ESOP) – 89,54,079 Options (ESOP) – 98,70,019 Options
(e) (ii) Total amount of reductions during the Nil Nil
financial year due to ex-post explicit
adjustments
(e) (iii) Total amount of reductions during the Nil Nil
financial year due to ex-post implicit
adjustments
(f) Number of MRTs (Material Risk Takers) 98 92
identified.
(g) (i) Number of cases where Malus has None None
been exercised.
(g) (ii) Number of cases where Clawback has None None
been exercised.
(g) (iii) Number of cases where both Malus None None
and Clawback have been exercised.
General The mean pay for the Bank as a whole The mean pay for the Bank as a whole The mean pay for the Bank as a whole is
Quantitative (excluding sub-staff) and the deviation is ` 0.08 crore as of March 31, 2025. ` 0.08 crore as of March 31, 2024.
Disclosure of the pay of each of its WTDs from the
The ratio of the fixed pay of the The ratio of the fixed pay of the managing
mean pay.
managing director to the mean pay director to the mean pay of the Bank as
of the Bank as a whole is 96:1 as of a whole is 99:1 as of March 31, 2024.
March 31, 2025.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the deputy
The ratio of the fixed pay of the deputy managing director to the mean pay of
managing director to the mean pay the Bank as a whole is 94:1 as of March
of the Bank as a whole is 93:1 as of 31, 2024.
March 31, 2025.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the executive
The ratio of the fixed pay of the director (Mr. Srinivasa V Rangan) to the
executive director (Mr. Srinivasa V mean pay of the Bank as a whole is 91:1
Rangan) to the mean pay of the Bank as of March 31, 2024.
as a whole is 90:1 as of March 31,
The ratio of the fixed pay of the executive
2025.
director (Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri) to the mean
The ratio of the fixed pay of the pay of the Bank as a whole is 60:1 as of
executive director (Mr. Bhavesh March 31, 2024.
Zaveri) to the mean pay of the Bank as
a whole is 59:1 as of March 31, 2025.
* Excludes gratuity benefits, since the same is computed at Bank level.
^ In accordance with the RBI guidelines, Employee Stock Options are to be included as part of variable pay. The number of options reported as
part of deferred remuneration comprise of Employee Stock Options granted during the financial year 2024-25 (as part of non cash variable pay)
and are yet to be vested.
Disclosure on remuneration to Non-Executive Directors
R emuneration by way of sitting fees to the Non-Executive Directors for attending meetings of the Board and its committees
during the year ended March 31, 2025 amounted to ` 4.91 crore (previous year: ` 4.51 crore).
Further, in accordance with RBI guidelines, remuneration to all Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairperson for the
year ended March 31, 2025 amounted to ` 2.21 crore (previous year: ` 1.52 crore).
403
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
19. Other disclosures
19.1 Business ratios / information
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Interest income as a percentage to working funds1 8.52% 8.41%
Net interest income2 as a percentage to working funds 3.48% 3.53%
Net interest income as a percentage to average interest earning assets 3.67% 3.74%
Non-interest income as a percentage to working funds 1.29% 1.60%
Cost of Deposits3 5.21% 4.87%
Operating profit4 as a percentage to working funds 2.84% 3.07%
Return on assets (average) 1.91% 1.98%
Business5 per employee (` in crore) 23.62 21.49
Profit per employee6 (` in crore) 0.32 0.31
Debt-Equity Ratio7 0.74 1.21
Return on Equity Ratio8 14.56% 16.09%
Definitions of certain items in Business ratios / information:
1. Working funds is the daily average of total assets during the year.
2. Net Interest Income = Interest Income - Interest Expense.
3. Cost of Deposits is the ratio of interest expense on deposits to daily average of total deposits.
4. Operating profit is profit for the year before provisions and contingencies and profit / (loss) on sale of fixed assets (net) and other assets (net).
5. Business is the total of quarterly average of net advances and deposits (net of inter-bank deposits).
6. Productivity ratios are based on quarterly average of employee numbers.
7. Debt represents borrowings with residual maturity of more than one year.
8. Return on Equity represents net profit after tax to average equity share capital, employee stock options outstanding and reserves.
19.2 Bancassurance business
C ommission income for the year ended March 31, 2025 includes fees of ` 5,026.97 crore (previous year: ` 3,059.31
crore) in respect of life insurance business and ` 1,281.30 crore (previous year: ` 914.68 crore) in respect of general
insurance and health insurance business.
19.3 Marketing and distribution
C ommission income for the year ended March 31, 2025 includes income from marketing and distribution of ` 1,629.86
crore (previous year: ` 2,492.82 crore), which comprises of income for displaying publicity materials at the Bank’s
branches / ATMs, commission on mutual funds, pension and other investment / saving products and sourcing and
referral income.
19.4 Details of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs)
T he Bank enters into transactions for the sale or purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs). In the case
of a sale transaction, the Bank sells the fulfilment of priority sector obligation and in the case of a purchase transaction
the Bank buys the fulfilment of priority sector obligation through RBI trading platform. There is no transfer of risks or
loan assets in such transactions. The details of purchase / sale of PSLCs during the year are as under:
404
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(` crore)
For the year ended For the year ended
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Type of PSLCs
PSLCs bought during PSLCs sold during PSLCs bought during PSLCs sold during the
the year the year the year year
Agriculture - - - 29,445.50
Small and Marginal farmers 103,413.50 - 81,969.75 -
Micro Enterprises 8,000.00 79,441.75 - 19,054.50
General - 175,000.00 - 57,077.25
Total 111,413.50 254,441.75 81,969.75 105,577.25
19.5 Provisions and contingencies
The break-up of ‘Provisions and contingencies’ included in the Profit and Loss Account is given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Provision for income tax1
- Current 19,485.15 12,968.40
- Deferred 1,645.55 (2,885.38)
Provision for NPAs2 12,803.11 10,764.66
Provision for diminution in value of non-performing investments (87.81) 10.15
Provision for standard assets 198.39 1,146.05
Floating provisions - 10,900.00
Other provisions and contingencies3 (1,264.26) 671.29
Total 32,780.13 33,575.17
1 . Provision for income tax is net of write back of provision no longer required of Nil (previous year: ` 6,325.04 crore), pursuant to
favourable orders received.
2. Includes loss on sale of NPAs / stressed assets.
3 . Includes provisions / (write-back) for tax, legal and other contingencies ` (518.03) crore (previous year: ` (336.39) crore, (provisions /
(write-back) for securitised-out assets Nil (previous year: ` (26.81) crore) and provision / (write-back) towards investments in Alternate
Investment Funds ` (746.24) crore (previous year: ` 1,034.49 crore).
19.6 Implementation of IFRS converged Indian Accounting Standards
T he Ministry of Corporate Affairs, in its press release dated January 18, 2016, had issued a roadmap for implementation
of Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for scheduled commercial banks, insurers / insurance companies and non-
banking financial companies, which was subsequently confirmed by the RBI through its circular dated February 11,
2016. This roadmap required these institutions to prepare Ind AS based financial statements for the accounting periods
beginning April 01, 2018 with comparatives for the periods beginning April 01, 2017. The implementation of Ind AS by
banks requires certain legislative changes in the format of financial statements to comply with the disclosures required
under Ind AS. In April 2018, the RBI deferred the implementation of Ind AS by a year by when the necessary legislative
amendments were expected. The legislative amendments recommended by the RBI are under consideration by the
Government of India. Accordingly, the RBI, through its circular dated March 22, 2019, deferred the implementation of
Ind AS until further notice.
405
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
P resently, the Bank prepares and submits its Ind AS Proforma information to the RBI on a half yearly basis. The Bank
is well prepared for Ind AS implementation as and when it becomes applicable, with due consideration to updated
regulations, accounting standards / guidance and business strategy at the date of actual transition.
T he RBI, vide its circular dated September 12, 2023 revised the norms on classification, measurement and valuation
of investments, in view of the significant development in the global standards. These norms are closer to Ind AS. The
Bank has implemented the revised norms with effect from April 01, 2024.
19.7 Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium
(` crore)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No.
1. Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium (excluding GST) 2,803.37 2,412.30
2. Arrears in payment of DICGC Premium - -
19.8 Disclosure of Letters of Comfort (LoCs) issued by the Bank
T he Bank has not issued Letter of Comfort during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 and there is
no outstanding as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
19.9 Portfolio-level information on the use of funds raised from green deposits
T he Bank has not raised green deposits on or after June 01, 2023 based on the Framework for the acceptance of
Green deposits issued by RBI.
20. Other liabilities
• The Bank held provisions towards standard assets amounting to ` 10,862.90 crore as at March 31, 2025 (previous
year: ` 10,663.71 crore). These are included under other liabilities.
(cid:57) Provision for standard assets is made @ 0.25% for direct advances to agriculture, individual housing loans and
Small and Micro Enterprises (SMEs) sectors, @ 1% for advances to commercial real estate sector, @ 0.75% for
advances to commercial real estate - residential housing sector, @ 5% on restructured standard advances, @
2% until after one year from the date on which the rates are reset at higher rates for housing loans offered at a
comparatively lower rate of interest in the first few years and @ 2% on all exposures to the wholly owned step
down subsidiaries of the overseas subsidiaries of Indian companies, sanctioned / renewed after December
31, 2015.
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:57) Provision is maintained at rates higher than the regulatory minimum, on standard advances based on evaluation
of the risk and stress in various sectors as per the policy approved by the Board of the Bank.
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:57) In accordance with regulatory guidelines and based on the information made available by its customers to the
Bank, for exposures to customers who have not hedged their foreign currency exposures, provision for standard
assets is made at levels ranging from 0.10% to 0.80% depending on the likely loss the entities could incur on
account of exchange rate movements.
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:57) Provision for standard assets of overseas branches is made at higher of rates prescribed by the overseas regulator
or RBI.
406
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:57) For all other loans and advances including credit exposures computed as per the current marked to market values
of interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts, provision for standard assets is made @ 0.40%.
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:57) In accordance with RBI guidelines, an additional provision is made @ 3% on the incremental exposure to the
“Specified Borrowers” (except NBFCs / HFCs) beyond normally permitted lending limit (NPLL) as defined by RBI.
• Other liabilities include contingent provisions of ` 14,219.29 crore as at March 31, 2025 (previous year: ` 15,513.35
crore) in respect of advances and investments.
• The Bank has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets
and gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other
liabilities as at March 31, 2025 include unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 14,079.86
crore (previous year: ` 10,491.46 crore).
• There is no item under Other Liabilities and Provisions “Others (including provisions)” exceeding 1% of total assets
as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
21. Other fixed assets
• O ther fixed assets include amount capitalised relating to software having useful life upto five years. Details regarding
the same are tabulated below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Cost
As at March 31 of the previous year 6,638.72 5,305.33
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 138.04
Additions during the year 1,772.54 1,212.41
Deductions during the year (68.50) (17.05)
Total (a) 8,342.76 6,638.72
Depreciation
As at March 31 of the previous year 4,691.97 3,828.16
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18 (1)) - 57.88
Charge for the year 994.31 822.98
On deductions during the year (67.34) (17.05)
Total (b) 5,618.94 4,691.97
Net value (a-b) 2,723.82 1,946.75
22. Other assets
• Other assets include deferred tax asset (net) of ` 6,435.04 crore (previous year: ` 8,415.03 crore). The break-up of the
same is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Deferred tax asset arising out of:
Loan loss and contingencies 12,252.21 12,249.18
Employee benefits 1,321.67 1,033.77
Depreciation 54.39 57.58
407
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Others 293.51 676.87
Total (a) 13,921.78 14,017.40
Deferred tax liability arising out of:
Special reserve u/s 36(1)(viii) of the Income tax act, 1961 6,191.81 5,385.82
Investments and derivatives 961.97 216.55
Others 332.96 -
Total (b) 7,486.74 5,602.37
Deferred tax asset (net) (a-b) 6,435.04 8,415.03
• Key items under “Others” in Other assets are as under:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Deposits with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB # 107,160.11 118,007.02
Unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts* 17,131.14 10,797.41
Deferred tax assets 6,435.04 8,415.03
Accounts receivable 10,058.70 7,913.14
Deposits & amounts paid in advance 8,943.05 8,443.26
Advances for capital assets 4,801.21 5,074.45
Residual items 5.76 4.02
Total 154,535.01 158,654.33
# Deposits with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB exceeded 1% of total asset.
* The Bank has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and gross unrealised loss on
foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities.
23. Non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims (NBA)
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening balance 1,248.92 63.06
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 1,224.70
Additions during the year 3.90 17.93
Reductions during the year 153.22 56.77
Closing balance 1,099.60 1,248.92
Provision held at the beginning of the year 108.36 16.60
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 92.03
Provision made during the year - -
Provision reversed during the year - 0.27
Provision held at the end of the year 108.36 108.36
24. Interest earned
Interest income under the sub-head Income on investments includes dividend on units of mutual funds and equity and
preference shares received during the year ended March 31, 2025 amounting to ` 2,073.95 crore (previous year: ` 1,191.48
crore).
408
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
25. Other income
• Commission, exchange and brokerage income
Commission, exchange and brokerage income is presented net of related commission expenses.
• Miscellaneous income
M iscellaneous income includes recoveries from written-off accounts amounting to ` 3,785.01 crore (previous year:
` 3,441.30 crore) exceeding 1% of the total income of the Bank.
26. Other expenditure
Other expenditure includes commission to sales agents amounting to ` 5,128.86 crore (previous year: ` 5,284.53 crore),
exceeding 1% of the total income of the Bank.
409
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
27. Employee benefits
Gratuity
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined
benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1 1,473.81 994.09
Liabilities assumed on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18 (1)) - 337.79
Interest cost 102.30 69.70
Current service cost 275.11 186.28
Benefits paid (105.84) (104.33)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:
Experience adjustment (42.34) (31.29)
Assumption change 50.17 21.57
Present value of obligation as at March 31 1,753.21 1,473.81
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1 1,670.20 991.18
Assets assumed on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18 (1)) - 343.36
Expected return on plan assets 111.96 86.50
Contributions 77.71 65.00
Benefits paid (105.84) (104.33)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment 20.63 288.49
Assumption change - -
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 1,774.66 1,670.20
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 1,774.66 1,670.20
Present value of obligation as at March 31 (1,753.21) (1,473.81)
Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in Para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘Employee Benefits’) - -
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 21.45 196.39
Expenses recognised in Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost 102.30 69.70
Current service cost 275.11 186.28
Expected return on plan assets (111.96) (86.50)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year (12.80) (298.21)
Effect of the limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘Employee Benefits’ - -
Net cost 252.65 (128.73)
Actual return on plan assets 132.59 374.98
Estimated contribution for the next year 138.30 77.71
Assumptions
Discount rate 6.70% per annum 7.20% per annum
Expected return on plan assets 6.50% per annum 6.50% per annum
Salary escalation rate 7.00% per annum 7.00% per annum
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion
and other relevant factors.
410
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Bank at the beginning of the
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets
are given below:
% of fair value to total plan assets as at
Category of plan assets
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Government securities 43.34% 45.55%
Debenture and bonds 15.97% 15.57%
Equity shares 35.05% 34.37%
Others 5.64% 4.51%
Total 100.00% 100.00%
Experience adjustment
(` crore)
Years ended March 31,
Particulars
2025 2024 2023 2022 2021
Plan assets 1,774.66 1,670.20 991.18 895.44 743.24
Defined benefit obligation 1,753.21 1,473.81 994.09 910.43 857.58
Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in Para - - - - -
59(b) of AS 15 on ‘Employee Benefits’)
Surplus / (deficit) 21.45 196.39 (2.91) (14.99) (114.34)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan assets 20.63 288.49 (36.90) 21.96 105.74
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan (42.34) (31.29) (7.81) (65.14) 26.48
liabilities
Pension
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined
benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1 103.47 107.82
Interest cost 7.05 7.61
Current service cost 2.57 1.83
Past service cost - -
Benefits paid (11.17) (9.85)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:
Experience adjustment 17.40 16.83
Assumption change 6.99 (20.77)
Present value of obligation as at March 31 126.31 103.47
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1 16.16 0.31
Expected return on plan assets 1.05 0.53
Contributions 9.99 24.18
Benefits paid (11.17) (9.85)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment 0.13 0.99
Assumption change - -
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 16.16 16.16
411
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 16.16 16.16
Present value of obligation as at March 31 (126.31) (103.47)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 (110.15) (87.31)
Expenses recognised in Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost 7.05 7.61
Current service cost 2.57 1.83
Past service cost - -
Expected return on plan assets (1.05) (0.53)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year 24.26 (4.94)
Net cost 32.83 3.97
Actual return on plan assets 1.18 1.53
Estimated contribution for the next year 12.98 7.78
Assumptions
Discount rate 6.70% per annum 7.20% per annum
Expected return on plan assets 6.50% per annum 6.50% per annum
Salary escalation rate 7.00% per annum 7.00% per annum
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion
and other relevant factors.
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Bank at the beginning of the
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets
are given below:
% of fair value to total plan assets as at
Category of plan assets
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Government securities 8.81% 8.81%
Debenture and bonds 1.06% 1.02%
Others 90.13% 90.17%
Total 100.00% 100.00%
Experience adjustment
(` crore)
Years ended March 31,
Particulars
2025 2024 2023 2022 2021
Plan assets 16.16 16.16 0.31 0.88 0.33
Defined benefit obligation 126.31 103.47 107.82 88.02 89.99
Surplus / (deficit) (110.15) (87.31) (107.51) (87.14) (89.66)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan assets 0.13 0.99 0.22 0.39 (0.20)
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan 17.40 16.83 3.32 6.44 31.41
liabilities
412
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Provident fund
The guidance note on AS-15, Employee Benefits, states that employer established provident funds, where interest is
guaranteed are to be considered as defined benefit plans and the liability has to be valued. The Institute of Actuaries of
India (IAI) has issued a guidance note on valuation of interest rate guarantees on exempt provident funds. The actuary
has accordingly valued the same and the Bank held a provision of Nil as at March 31, 2025 (previous year: Nil), towards
the present value of the guaranteed interest benefit obligation. The actuary has followed the deterministic approach as
prescribed by the guidance note.
Assumptions
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Discount rate (GOI security yield) 6.70% per annum 7.20% per annum
Expected guaranteed interest rate 8.25% per annum 8.25% per annum
The Bank does not have any unfunded defined benefit plan. The Bank contributed ` 750.43 crore (previous year: ` 677.64
crore) to the provident fund, ` 21.00 crore (previous year: ` 10.65 crore) to the National Pension Scheme (for employees
who opted) and ` 95.95 crore (previous year: ` 92.05 crore) to the superannuation plan.
The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘the Code’) relating to employee benefits, during the employment and post-employment,
has received Presidential assent on September 28, 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Further,
the Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on November 13, 2020. The effective date
from which the changes are applicable is yet to be notified and rules for quantifying the financial impact are not yet issued.
The Bank will assess the impact of the Code and will give appropriate impact in the financial statements in the period in
which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
28. Segment reporting
Business segments
Business segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the target customer profile, the nature of products
and services, the differing risks and returns, the organisation structure, the internal business reporting system and the
guidelines prescribed by RBI. The Bank operates in the following segments:
a) Treasury
T he treasury segment primarily consists of net interest earnings from the Bank’s investment portfolio, money market
borrowing and lending, gains or losses on investment operations and on account of trading in foreign exchange and
derivative contracts.
b) Retail banking
i. Digital banking
T he digital banking segment represents business by Digital Banking Units (DBUs) of the Bank. The said DBUs
serves retail customers through the Bank’s digital network and other online channels. This segment raises
deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers.
R evenues of the DBUs are derived from interest earned on retail loans, fees from services rendered, etc. Expenses
of this segment primarily comprise of interest expense on deposits, infrastructure and premises expenses for
operating the DBUs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of specialist product groups.
413
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
ii. Non-Digital Banking
T he retail banking segment serves retail customers through the Bank’s branch network and other channels.
This segment raises deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers with the help
of specialist product groups. Exposures are classified under retail banking taking into account the status of the
borrower (orientation criterion), the nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum thereof.
R evenues of the retail banking segment are derived from interest earned on retail loans, interest earned from other
segments for surplus funds placed with those segments, subvention received from dealers and manufacturers,
fees from services rendered, foreign exchange earnings on retail products etc. Expenses of this segment primarily
comprise interest expense on deposits, commission paid to retail assets sales agents, infrastructure and premises
expenses for operating the branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads
and allocated expenses of specialist product groups, processing units and support groups.
c) Wholesale banking
T he wholesale banking segment provides loans, non-fund facilities and transaction services to large corporates,
emerging corporates, public sector units, government bodies, financial institutions and medium scale enterprises.
Revenues of the wholesale banking segment consist of interest earned on loans made to customers, interest / fees
earned on the cash float arising from transaction services, earnings from trade services and other non-fund facilities
and also earnings from foreign exchange and derivative transactions on behalf of customers. The principal expenses
of the segment consist of interest expense on funds borrowed from external sources and other internal segments,
premises expenses, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of delivery channels, specialist
product groups, processing units and support groups.
d) Other banking Operations
T his segment includes income from parabanking activities such as credit cards, debit cards, third party product
distribution, primary dealership business and the associated costs.
e) Unallocated
A ll items which are reckoned at an enterprise level are classified under this segment. This includes capital and reserves,
debt classified as Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital and other unallocable assets and liabilities such as deferred tax, etc.
S egment revenue includes earnings from external customers plus earnings from funds transferred to other segments.
Segment result includes revenue less interest expense less operating expense and provisions, if any, for that segment.
Segment-wise income and expenses include certain allocations. Interest income is charged by a segment that provides
funding to another segment, based on yields benchmarked to an internally approved yield curve or at a certain agreed
transfer price rate. Transaction charges are levied by the retail banking segment to the wholesale banking segment for
the use by its customers of the retail banking segment’s branch network or other delivery channels. Segment capital
employed represents the net assets in that segment.
Geographic segments
T he geographic segments of the Bank are categorised as domestic operations and foreign operations. Domestic
operations comprise branches in India and foreign operations comprise branches outside India.
414
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2025 is given below:
Business segments:
(` crore)
Sr. Particulars Treasury Retail banking Wholesale Other Total
No. banking banking
Digital Non-Digital
Operations
banking # Banking
1 Segment revenue 62,227.48 8.59 283,426.20 191,964.51 35,449.05 573,075.83
2 Unallocated revenue -
3 Less: Inter-segment revenue 226,926.51
4 Income from operations (1) + (2) - (3) 346,149.32
5 Segment results 4,605.36 0.04 27,309.07 44,543.96 14,363.75 90,822.18
6 Unallocated expenses 2,344.12
7 Income tax expense (including 21,130.70
deferred tax)
8 Net profit (5) - (6) - (7) 67,347.36
9 Segment assets 991,874.12 81.15 1,533,809.12 1,247,937.97 112,358.81 3,886,061.17
10 Unallocated assets 24,137.77
11 Total assets (9) + (10) 3,910,198.94
12 Segment liabilities 83,340.18 86.16 2,312,429.69 956,136.34 8,513.18 3,360,505.55
13 Unallocated liabilities 48,268.77
14 Total liabilities (12) + (13) 3,408,774.32
15 Capital employed (9) - (12) 525,555.62
(Segment assets - Segment liabilities)
16 Unallocated (10) - (13) (24,131.00)
17 Total (15) + (16) 501,424.62
18 Capital expenditure 71.43 - 4,399.07 400.46 833.05 5,704.01
19 Depreciation 30.20 - 2,774.26 250.78 324.23 3,379.47
20 Provisions for non - performing assets - - 9,138.23 (1,729.99) 4,241.18 11,649.42
/ others*
21 Unallocated other provisions* - - - - - -
# Information about Digital Banking Segment reported as a sub-segment of Retail Banking Segment is related to Digital Banking Units of the
Bank.
* Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
Geographic segments:
(` crore)
Particulars Domestic International Total
Revenue 341,179.71 4,969.61 346,149.32
Assets 3,817,669.08 92,529.86 3,910,198.94
Capital expenditure 5,694.47 9.54 5,704.01
415
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2024 is given below:
Business segments:
(` crore)
Sr. Particulars Treasury Retail banking Wholesale Other Total
No. banking banking
Digital Non-Digital
Operations
banking # Banking
1 Segment revenue 61,653.66 3.37 233,634.50 175,520.23 30,050.38 500,862.14
2 Unallocated revenue -
3 Less: Inter-segment revenue 193,280.57
4 Income from operations (1) + (2) - (3) 307,581.57
5 Segment results** 14,190.10 (1.23) 15,661.14 32,280.98 11,104.00 73,234.99
6 Unallocated expenses 2,339.68
7 Income tax expense (including 10,083.03
deferred tax)
8 Net profit (5) - (6) - (7) 60,812.28
9 Segment assets 822,926.80 51.34 1,395,037.69 1,274,899.43 97,097.23 3,590,012.49
10 Unallocated assets 27,610.60
11 Total assets (9) + (10) 3,617,623.09
12 Segment liabilities** 94,557.67 56.18 2,046,617.47 973,987.85 8,212.98 3,123,432.15
13 Unallocated liabilities 53,945.13
14 Total liabilities (12) + (13) 3,177,377.28
15 Capital employed (9) - (12) 466,580.34
(Segment assets - Seg-ment liabilities)
16 Unallocated (10) - (13) (26,334.53)
17 Total (15) + (16) 440,245.81
18 Capital expenditure 31.45 - 4,168.78 49.06 532.55 4,781.84
19 Depreciation 26.01 - 2,343.71 204.67 235.71 2,810.10
20 Provisions for non-performing assets - - 13,644.00 5,935.15 3,913.00 23,492.15
/ others*
21 Unallocated other pro-visions* - - - - -
# Information about Digital Banking Segment reported as a sub-segment of Retail Banking Segment is related to Digital Banking Units of the Bank.
* Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
** Segment Results and Liabilities are after considering the impact of Floating Provisions in the respective segments.
Geographic segments:
(` crore)
Particulars Domestic International Total
Revenue 302,942.78 4,638.77 307,581.55
Assets 3,542,043.24 75,579.82 3,617,623.06
Capital expenditure 4,780.51 1.33 4,781.84
416
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
29. Related party disclosures
As per AS-18, Related Party Disclosures read with RBI Master Direction on Financial Statements – Presentation and
Disclosures, the Bank’s related parties are disclosed below:
Subsidiaries
HDB Financial Services Limited
HDFC Securities Limited
HDFC Securities IFSC Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Securities Limited; with effect from October 01, 2024)
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited
HDFC Pension Fund Management Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited)
HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited)
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited
HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Asset Management Company Limited)
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited
HDFC Trustee Company Limited
HDFC Sales Private Limited
HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited (ceased to be a related party with effect from October 18,
2024)
Griha Investments
Griha Pte Limited
Welfare Trust of the Bank
HDB Employees Welfare Trust
Key management personnel
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
Ms. Nagsri Sashidhar, Mr. Dhruv Sashidhar, Mr. Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Ms. Mythra Mahesh, Mr. Mahesh Babu
Ramamurthy, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories, Ms. Havovi Bharucha, Mr. Huzaan Bharucha, Mr. Danesh Bharucha,
417
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Mr. Darius Bharucha, Ms. Dilnaaz D Bharucha, Ms. Mala B. Zaveri, Ms. Bhakti Zaveri, Mr. Akash Metawala, Ms. Niharika
Zaveri, Mr. Dev Metawala, Mr. Paresh Zaveri, Ms. Kavita Zaveri, Mr. Hitesh Zaveri, Mr. Tushar Pandey (with effect from
February 23, 2025), Aurionpro Solutions Limited, Trejhara Solutions Limited, Ms. S. Anuradha, Ms. V. Jayam, Ms. S.
Abinaya Rangan.
The significant transactions between the Bank and related parties for year ended March 31, 2025 are given below. A
specific related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in
that category:
• Interest paid: HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited ` 382.33 crore; HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
` 87.90 crore
• Interest received: HDB Financial Services Limited ` 690.51 crore
• Rendering of services: HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited ` 3,789.23 crore; HDFC ERGO General Insurance
Company Limited ` 699.66 crore
• Receiving of services: HDB Financial Services Limited ` 1,216.66 crore; HDFC Sales Private Limited ` 964.36 crore
• Dividend paid: Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ` 4.12 crore; Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 3.00 crore; Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan ` 2.86
crore
• Dividend received: HDFC Securities Limited ` 851.92 crore; HDFC Asset Management Company Limited ` 785.26
crore; HDB Financial Services Limited ` 225.18 crore
• Fixed Assets purchased from: Trejhara Solutions Limited ` 9.98 crore; Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 9.55 crore
The Bank’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2025 are summarised as follows:
(` crore)
Items / Related party Subsidiaries Key Relatives of Total
management KMP & their
personnel interested
(KMP) entities
Deposits taken 3,820.22 11.31 195.53 4,027.06
(3,820.22) (32.51) (195.53) (4,048.26)
Deposits placed 10.93 0.02 0.02 10.97
(10.93) (0.02) (0.02) (10.97)
Borrowings 5,900.90 - - 5,900.90
(6,495.90) - - (6,495.90)
Advances given 6,733.76 2.74 0.31 6,736.81
(9,450.35) (2.74) (0.61) (9,453.70)
Fixed assets purchased from 0.44 - 19.53 19.97
Fixed assets sold to - - - -
Interest paid to 522.65 0.64 8.31 531.60
Interest received from 692.65 0.13 0.03 692.81
Income from services rendered to 4,632.74 0.01 0.52 4,633.27
Expenses for receiving services from 2,610.22 0.12 12.57 2,622.91
Equity investments 13,749.39 - - 13,749.39
418
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(` crore)
Items / Related party Subsidiaries Key Relatives of Total
management KMP & their
personnel interested
(KMP) entities
(13,949.39) - - (13,949.39)
Other investments 149.93 149.93
(824.79) - - (824.79)
Dividend paid to - 10.34 1.18 11.52
Dividend received from 2,187.01 - - 2,187.01
Receivable from/ Advances paid 1,036.72 - - 1,036.72
(1,036.72) - - (1,036.72)
Payable to 208.95 - - 208.95
(234.69) - - (234.69)
Guarantees given 0.26 - 73.42 73.68
(0.26) - (84.76) (85.02)
Remuneration paid - 34.62 - 34.62
# Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
• Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each
quarter-end.
• Remuneration paid is ` 11.23 crore to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, ` 8.02 crore to Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, ` 6.52 crore to Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri
and ` 8.85 crore to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan.
(above excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year).
• Bonus and retiral benefits for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key
managerial personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2025, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect
of earlier years was ` 14.51 crore.
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank sold SLR securities of ` 125.15 crore to HDFC ERGO General Insurance
Company Limited.
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank bought back Non SLR securities of ` 174.63 crore from HDFC Life
Insurance Company Limited.
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank sold Non SLR securities of ` 2,052.09 crore to HDFC Life Insurance
Company Limited, ` 888.02 crore to HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited and ` 5.01 crore to HDFC Pension
Fund Management Limited.
The deposit outstanding from HDB Employees Welfare Trust as at March 31, 2025 was ` 0.94 crore and interest on deposit
aggregating to ` 0.10 crore.
The Bank’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2024 are summarised as
follows:
Promoter
Erstwhile Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (amalgamated with and into the Bank with effect from July
01, 2023)
Subsidiaries
HDFC Securities Limited
HDB Financial Services Limited
419
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Pursuant to the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into the Bank, following entities became
subsidiaries of the Bank with effect from July 01, 2023
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited
HDFC Pension Management Company Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited)
HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited)
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited
HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Asset Management Company Limited)
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited (ceased to be a related party with effect from March 19, 2024)
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited
HDFC Trustee Company Limited
HDFC Sales Private Limited
HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited
Griha Investments
Griha Pte Limited
Welfare Trust of the Bank
HDB Employees Welfare Trust
Key management personnel
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director (appointed with effect from April 19, 2023)
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director (appointed with effect from November 23, 2023)
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
Ms. Nagsri Sashidhar, Mr. Dhruv Sashidhar, Mr. Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Ms. Mythra Mahesh, Mr. Mahesh Babu
Ramamurthy, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories, Ms. Havovi Bharucha, Mr. Huzaan Bharucha, Mr. Danesh Bharucha,
Mr. Darius Bharucha, Ms. Dilnaaz D Bharucha
W ith effect from April 19, 2023 – Ms. Mala B. Zaveri, Ms. Bhakti Zaveri, Mr. Akash Metawala, Ms. Niharika Zaveri, Mr. Dev
Metawala, Mr. Paresh Zaveri, Ms. Kavita Zaveri, Mr. Hitesh Zaveri, Aurionpro Solutions Limited, Trejhara Solutions Limited
With effect from November 23, 2023 – Ms. S. Anuradha, Ms. V. Jayam, Ms. S. Abinaya Rangan
420
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
The significant transactions between the Bank and related parties are given below. A specific related party transaction is
a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in that category:
• Interest paid: HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited ` 298.78 crore; HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
` 53.55 crore
• Interest received: HDB Financial Services Limited ` 773.69 crore; HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited ` 197.69 crore
• Rendering of services: HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited ` 2,626.48 crore; HDFC ERGO General Insurance
Company Limited ` 346.20 crore
• Receiving of services: HDB Financial Services Limited ` 2,250.82 crore; HDFC Sales Private Limited ` 936.27 crore
• Dividend paid: Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ` 4.25 crore; Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 2.90 crore; Ms. Mala B. Zaveri ` 1.09 crore
• Dividend received: HDFC Securities Limited ` 774.69 crore; HDB Financial Services Limited ` 232.68 crore; HDFC
Life Insurance Company Limited ` 198.69 crore
• Fixed Assets purchased from: Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 12.53 crore
(` crore)
Items / Related party Promoter Subsidiaries Key management Relatives of Total
personnel (KMP) KMP & their
interested
entities
Deposits taken - 3,084.99 8.54 37.65 3,131.18
(6,503.24) (3,084.99) (20.56) (37.65) (9,646.44)
Deposits placed - 10.93 0.02 0.02 10.97
(0.49) (10.93) (0.02) (0.02) (11.46)
Borrowings - 6,285.90 - - 6,285.90
- (6,285.90) - - (6,285.90)
Advances given - 9,730.59 2.42 0.43 9,733.44
- (12,094.13) (2.67) (1.03) (12,097.83)
Fixed assets purchased from - - - 13.13 13.13
Fixed assets sold to - - - - -
Interest paid to 3.06 391.63 0.44 0.99 396.12
Interest received from - 971.38 0.29 0.03 971.70
Income from services rendered to 161.15 3,112.17 0.01 0.05 3,273.38
Expenses for receiving services from 236.64 3,769.80 0.12 13.86 4,020.42
Equity investments - 12,639.62 - - 12,639.62
- (15,074.59) - # (15,074.59)
Other investments - 824.77 - - 824.77
- (3,834.69) - - (3,834.69)
Dividend paid to - - 7.41 1.13 8.54
Dividend received from - 1,332.39 - 0.01 1,332.40
Receivable from / Advances paid - 717.42 - - 717.42
(0.58) (887.45) - - (888.03)
Payable to - 136.72 - - 136.72
(81.70) (136.72) - - (218.42)
421
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` crore)
Items / Related party Promoter Subsidiaries Key management Relatives of Total
personnel (KMP) KMP & their
interested
entities
Guarantees given - 0.26 - 68.43 68.69
(0.02) (0.51) - (68.43) (68.96)
Remuneration paid - - 27.18 - 27.18
Loans purchased from 11,632.00 - - - 11,632.00
# Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
• Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each
quarter-end.
• Remuneration paid is ` 9.91 crore to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, ` 9.92 crore to Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, ` 5.05 crore to Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri and
` 2.30 crore to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan.
(above excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year).
• Bonus and retiral benefits for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key
managerial personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2024, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect
of earlier years was ` 10.87 crore.
During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank purchased ` 198.93 crore debt securities from HDB Financial Services
Limited issued by it. The Bank also purchased Non SLR securities of ` 52.28 crore from HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited.
During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank sold SLR securities of ` 96.69 crore to HDFC Life Insurance Company
Limited. The Bank also sold Non SLR securities of ` 721.42 crore and ` 705.81 crore to HDFC Life Insurance Company
Limited and HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited respectively.
The deposit outstanding from HDB Employees Welfare Trust as at March 31, 2024 was ` 3.57 crore and interest on deposit
aggregating to ` 0.10 crore.
30. Leases
Operating leases primarily comprise office premises, staff residences and Automated Teller Machines (‘ATM’s), which are
renewable at the option of the Bank.
Lease Payments
The details of maturity profile of future operating lease payments are given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Not later than one year 2,227.80 1,925.37
Later than one year and not later than five years 8,352.80 7,242.50
Later than five years 11,300.28 9,813.79
Total 21,880.88 18,981.66
Total of minimum lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year 2,590.94 2,193.37
Total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non- 4.31 14.28
cancellable sub-leases
Sub-lease amounts recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year 1.84 6.01
Contingent (usage based) lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for 279.35 470.37
the year
The Bank has sub-leased certain of its properties taken on lease.
422
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
The terms of renewal and escalation clauses are those normally prevalent in similar agreements. There are no undue
restrictions or onerous clauses in the agreements.
Lease Income
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Gross carrying amount of the assets 46.13 137.83
Accumulated depreciation of the assets 11.54 31.18
Total depreciation recognised in the Profit and Loss account for the year 0.94 3.70
Future minimum lease rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases as at the end of the year.
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Not later than one year 20.85 28.13
Later than one year and not later than five years 37.74 20.83
Later than five years - -
Total 58.59 48.96
31. Earnings per equity share
Basic and diluted earnings per equity share of the Bank have been calculated based on the net profit after tax of ` 67,347.36
crore (previous year: ` 60,812.28 crore) and the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year
of 7,62,77,93,180 (previous year: 7,08,48,07,443). The dilutive impact is on account of stock options / units granted to
employees by the Bank. There is no impact of dilution on the profits in the current year and previous year.
Following is the reconciliation between the basic and diluted earnings per equity share:
For the years ended
Particulars
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Nominal value per share (`) 1.00 1.00
Basic earnings per share (`) 88.29 85.83
Effect of potential equity shares per share (`) (0.39) (0.39)
Diluted earnings per share (`) 87.90 85.44
Following is the reconciliation of the weighted average number of equity shares used in the computation of basic and diluted
earnings per share:
For the years ended
Particulars
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing basic earnings per equity 7,62,77,93,180 7,08,48,07,443
share
Effect of potential equity shares outstanding 3,41,77,391 3,24,45,707
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing diluted earnings per equity 7,66,19,70,571 7,11,72,53,150
share
Equity shares issued as consideration under the Scheme are included in the weighted average number of shares with effect
from appointed and effective date of the amalgamation.
423
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
32. Provisions and contingent liabilities
Given below is the movement in provisions and a brief description of the nature of contingent liabilities recognised by
the Bank.
a) Provision for credit card and debit card reward points
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening provision for reward points 863.54 696.31
Provision for reward points made during the year 933.51 792.11
Utilisation / write-back of provision for reward points (749.61) (624.88)
Closing provision for reward points 1,047.44 863.54
b) Provision for legal and other contingencies
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening provision 570.14 542.34
Movement during the year (net) 29.45 27.80
Closing provision 599.59 570.14
c) Description of contingent liabilities
Sr.
Contingent liability* Brief description
No.
1 Claims against the Bank not The Bank is a party to various taxation matters in respect of which appeals are
acknowledged as debts – taxation pending. The Bank expects the outcome of the appeals to be favorable based on
decisions on similar issues in the previous years by the appellate authorities, based
on the facts of the case and taxation laws.
2 Claims against the Bank not The Bank is a party to various legal proceedings in the normal course of business.
acknowledged as debts – others The Bank does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material
adverse effect on the Bank’s financial conditions, results of operations or cash
flows.
3 Partly paid investments This represents amount remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid
investments.
4 Liability on account of forward The Bank enters into foreign exchange contracts, currency options, forward rate
exchange and derivative contracts agreements, currency swaps and interest rate swaps with inter-bank participants
on its own account and for customers. Forward exchange contracts are
commitments to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at the contracted
rate. Currency swaps are commitments to exchange cash flows by way of
interest / principal in one currency against another, based on predetermined
rates. Interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange fixed and floating
interest rate cash flows. The notional amounts of financial instruments such as
foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with
instruments recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the
amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments
and, therefore, do not indicate the Bank’s exposure to credit or price risks. The
derivative instruments become favorable (assets) or unfavorable (liabilities) as a
result of fluctuations in market rates or prices relative to their terms.
424
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
5 Guarantees given on behalf of As a part of its commercial banking activities, the Bank issues documentary credit
constituents, acceptances, and guarantees on behalf of its customers. Documentary credits such as letters of
endorsements and credit enhance the credit standing of the Bank’s customers. Guarantees generally
other obligations represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of
the customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
6 Other items for which the Bank is These include: a) Credit enhancements in respect of securitised-out loans; b) Bills
contingently liable rediscounted by the Bank; c) Capital commitments; d) Underwriting commitments;
e) Investment purchases pending settlement; f) Amount transferred to the RBI
under the Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEA Fund).
*Also refer Schedule 12 - Contingent liabilities
33. Small and micro industries
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from October 02, 2006,
certain disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. There have been no reported
cases of delays in payments to micro and small enterprises or of interest payments due to delays in such payments during
the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024. The above is based on the information available with the Bank which
has been relied upon by the auditors.
34. Corporate social responsibility
The details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities carried out in line with the CSR Policy of the Bank are
given below:
(` crore)
Sr.
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No.
1 Amount required to be spent by the Bank during the year 1,060.03 950.28
2 Amount of expenditure incurred* 1,068.03 945.06
3 Amount available for set off from preceding financial years 0.86 6.24
4 Amount required to be setoff for the financial year - 5.22
5 Shortfall at the end of the year - -
6 Details of unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years - -
7 Reason for shortfall - -
8 Nature of CSR activities - Education - Education
- Livelihood - Livelihood and Skill
and Skill development
development - Rural Development
- Rural - Health and
Development Sanitation
- Health and - Financial literacy
Sanitation & Inclusion
- Environmental - Natural Resource
sustainability Management
9 Details of related party transactions, e.g. contribution to a trust controlled by the - -
Bank in relation to CSR expenditure as per relevant Accounting Standard
10 Where a provision is made with respect to a liability incurred by entering into a - -
contractual obligation, the movements in the provision
* Indicates the amount disbursed by the Bank during the financial year.
35. Investor education and protection fund
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection
Fund by the Bank during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
425
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
36. Disclosure under Rule 11 (e) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances to its constituents including foreign entities
with permission to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like in other entities identified by such constituents.
Similarly, the Bank accepts deposits from its constituents, who may instruct the Bank to lend/invest/provide guarantee or
security or the like against such deposit in other entities identified by such constituents.
These transactions are part of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted after exercising proper due diligence
including adherence to “Know Your Customer” guidelines as applicable in respective jurisdiction.
Other than the nature of transactions described above, the Bank has not advanced / lent / invested / provided guarantee
or security to or in any other person with an understanding to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to or
in any other person. Similarly, other than the nature of transactions described above, the Bank has not received any funds
from any other person with an understanding that the Bank shall lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to
or in any other person.
37. Audit trail
As per the requirements of rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules 2014 the Bank uses only such accounting software
for maintaining its books of account that have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log). This feature of recording audit trail
has operated throughout the year and was not tampered with, except that the audit trail feature was not enabled for part of
the year for certain masters in two accounting software and two databases, and throughout the year for other databases.
Further, the Bank has preserved the audit trail for the prior financial year in compliance with statutory record retention
requirements, except in relation to certain software and databases for which audit trail feature was not enabled. The Bank
has established and maintained an adequate internal control framework and based on its assessment, believes that this
was effective as of March 31, 2025.
38. Comparative figures
Figures for the previous year have been regrouped and reclassified wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s
presentation. The previous year comparative numbers were jointly audited by M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants
and Price Waterhouse LLP, Chartered Accountants.
As per our report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta
Partner Partner Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976 Independent Director Independent Director
Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
Executive Director Executive Director
Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025 Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
426
HDFC Bank Limited
BASEL III - PILL AR 3 DISCLOSURES
As at March 31, 2025
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) requires banks to make Pillar 3 disclosures including leverage ratio, liquidity coverage ratio
and net stable funding ratio under the Basel III Framework. These disclosures are available on HDFC Bank’s website under the
‘Regulatory Disclosures’ section. The link to this section is given below:
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/resources/regulatory-disclosures
The Regulatory Disclosures section contains the following disclosures:
• Qualitative and quantitative Pillar 3 disclosures:
(cid:131) Scope of application
(cid:131) Capital adequacy
(cid:131) Credit risk
(cid:131) Credit risk: Portfolios subject to the standardised approach
(cid:131) Credit risk mitigation: Disclosures for standardised approach
(cid:131) Securitisation exposures
(cid:131) Market risk in trading book
(cid:131) Operational risk
(cid:131) Asset Liability Management (‘ALM’) risk management
(cid:131) General disclosures for exposures related to counterparty credit risk
(cid:131) Equities: Disclosure for banking book positions
• Composition of capital and reconciliation requirements
• Main features and full terms and conditions of regulatory capital instruments
• Leverage ratio disclosures
• Liquidity coverage ratio disclosure
• Net stable funding ratio disclosure
427
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of HDFC Bank Limited
Report on Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
1. We have jointly audited the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of HDFC Bank Limited (hereinafter referred
to as the “Bank” or the “Parent”) and its subsidiaries (Parent and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”) and
Employee Welfare Trust, which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, and the Consolidated
Profit and Loss Account and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter
referred to as “the Consolidated Financial Statements”).
2. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Consolidated
Financial Statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013
(“the Act”) in the manner so required for banking companies and are in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in India and give a true and fair view of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group and Employee Welfare Trust
as at March 31, 2025, and the consolidated profit and the consolidated cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act
and other applicable authoritative pronouncements issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”).
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Consolidated Financial Statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Group and Employee Welfare Trust,
in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements in India
in terms of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI and the relevant provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe
that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports
referred to in sub-paragraphs 18 of the “Other Matters” section below is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
4. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the
Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025. These matters were addressed in the context of
our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide
a separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be
communicated in our report.
428
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Identification and Provisioning of Non-performing Advances (NPA):
Total NPA as at March 31, 2025: ` 35,194.95 crores
Provision for NPA as at March 31, 2025: ` 23,874.52 crores
(Refer Schedule 9 and Schedule 17 (D)(3))
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank is required to comply with the Master Circular dated Our audit procedures included the following:
April 02, 2024 issued by the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) on
“Prudential Norms on Income Recognition, Asset Classification (cid:190) Understood the process and controls, and tested the
and Provisioning pertaining to Advances” (the “IRAC norms”) design and operating effectiveness of key controls, including
and amendments thereto, which prescribe the guidelines for Information Technology based controls, and focused on the
identification and classification of Non-performing Advances and following:
the minimum provision required for such assets.
• Monitoring of credit quality which amongst other things
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to determine includes the monitoring of overdue loan accounts and
the identification and provision required against Non-performing drawing power, pending security creation;
Advances considering various quantitative as well as qualitative
factors. The identification of Non-performing Advances is also
• Identification and classification of Non-performing
affected by factors like stress and liquidity concerns in certain
Advances in accordance with IRAC norms and
sectors.
consideration of qualitative factors; and
The provision for identified Non-performing Advances is estimated
• Testing of application controls including testing of
based on ageing and classification of Non-performing Advances,
automated controls, reports and system reconciliations.
nature of product, value of security etc., and is also subject to
the minimum provisioning norms specified by RBI. Since the
identification of Non-performing Advances and provisioning for Non- (cid:190) Evaluated the governance process and controls over
performing Advances requires considerable level of management calculations of provision for Non-performing Advances and
estimation, application of various regulatory requirements and in tested that the basis of provisioning is in accordance with the
view of its significance to the overall audit, we have identified this as Board of Directors approved policy and IRAC norms.
a key audit matter.
(cid:190) On a sample basis, recomputed the Days Past Due and
verified the date of Non-performing Advances and verified the
classification of Non-performing Advances.
(cid:190) On a test check basis, verified the classification of accounts
reported by the Bank as Special Mention Accounts (‘SMA’)
in RBI’s Central Repository of Information on Large Credits
(‘CRILC’).
(cid:190) With respect to provisions recognised towards Non-
performing Advances, calculated provision on a sample
basis taking into consideration the value of security, where
applicable, the IRAC norms and the policy of the Bank, and
compared our outcome to that prepared by the management
and evaluated relevant assumptions and judgements and
other qualitative factors considered by the management.
429
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Information Technology (“IT”) Systems and Controls impacting Financial Reporting
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The IT environment of the Bank is complex and involves a large Our procedures with respect to this matter included the following:
number of independent and interdependent IT systems used in the
operations of the Bank for processing and recording a large volume (cid:190) In assessing the controls over the IT systems of the Bank, we
of transactions. involved our technology specialists to obtain an understanding
of the IT environment, IT infrastructure and IT systems. We
As a result, there is a high degree of reliance and dependency on evaluated and tested relevant IT general controls over the “in-
such IT systems for the financial reporting process of the Bank. scope” IT systems and IT dependencies identified as relevant
for our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and
Appropriate IT general controls and IT application controls are financial reporting process of the Bank. On such “in-scope”
required to ensure that such IT systems are able to process the IT systems, we tested key IT general controls with respect to
data as required, completely, accurately, and consistently for reliable the following domains:
financial reporting.
• Program change management, which includes that
We have identified certain key IT systems (“in-scope” IT systems) program changes are moved to the production
which have an impact on the financial reporting process and the environment as per defined procedures and relevant
related controls testing as a key audit matter because of the high segregation of environment is ensured.
level of automation, significant number of systems being used by
the Bank for processing financial transactions, the complexity of the • User access management, which includes user access
IT architecture and its impact on the financial records and financial provisioning, de-provisioning, access review, password
reporting process of the Bank. management, sensitive access rights and segregation
of duties to ensure that privilege access to applications,
operating systems and databases in the production
environment were granted only to authorized personnel.
• Program development, which includes controls over IT
application development or implementation and related
infrastructure, which are relied upon for financial reporting.
• IT operations, which includes job scheduling, monitoring
and backup and recovery.
(cid:190) We also evaluated the design and tested the operating
effectiveness of relevant key IT dependencies within the key
business process, which included testing automated controls,
automated calculations / accounting procedures, interfaces,
segregation of duties and system generated reports, as
applicable.
(cid:190) We communicated with those charged with governance and
management and tested a combination of compensating
controls or remediated controls and / or performed alternative
audit procedures, where necessary.
430
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
5. The following Key Audit Matters were reported to us by the joint auditors, G. M. Kapadia & Co. and B S R & Co. LLP, of
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Parent, vide their communication dated April 18, 2025 which
are reproduced by us as under:
Appropriateness of the Timing of Revenue Recognition in the proper period in accordance with applicable guidelines / accounting standards
Key Audit Matter How our audit has addressed the key audit matter
During the year, the Holding Company has recognised premium In view of the significance of the matter, we applied the following
revenue of ` 3,336,530 lakhs towards new business (first year audit procedures in this area, among others:
premium and single premium). Out of the total revenue recognised,
` 1,096,923 lakhs were recognised during the last quarter. Understood and evaluated the design and controls and
tested the operating effectiveness of key controls relating
This area was considered a key audit matter because of the to recognition of revenue including controls over timing of
significant concentration of revenue during the last quarter of recognition and policy issuance procedure.
financial year (including cut-off at the Balance sheet date). Due to
the nature of the industry, revenue is skewed towards the balance 2) Performed testing on a sample basis for policies issued around
sheet date. Hence, there is a need to have adequate control the year-end including effectiveness of controls relating to cut-
environment and accurate cut-off procedures to mitigate inherent off procedures to confirm if related procedural compliances with
risk of misstatement related to the timing of revenue recognition. regard to acceptability of the terms of policy were completed
before or after the year end to verify appropriate accounting of
revenue in accordance with applicable guidelines / accounting
standards.
3) Verified on a sample basis that policy sales of the next financial
year are not accounted for in the current period.
4) Tested on a sample basis, the unallocated premium to
corroborate that there were no policies where risk commenced
prior to balance sheet but revenue was not recognised.
5) Tested the manual accounting journal entries relating to
revenue on a sample basis so as to identify unusual or irregular
items. We agreed the journal entries tested to supporting
evidence.
6) Tested on a sample basis cheques receipt with the time stamp
in case of products like Unit Linked Insurance Plan to confirm
the recognition of the revenue in correct accounting period.
7) Tested the automated control that the issuance of the policy is
done after the payment is received.
431
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Valuation of Investments Portfolio (31 March 2025: ` 33,628,153, 31 March 2024: ` 29,222,008) (` in lakhs)
Key Audit Matter How our audit has addressed the key audit matter
The Holding Company’s investment portfolio consists of In view of the significance of the matter, we applied the following
Policyholders investments (unit linked and non-linked) and audit procedures in this area, among others:
Shareholders investments. Total investment portfolio represents
around 99 % of the Holding Company’s total assets as at 31 March 1) O btained an understanding of the Company’s process and
2025. controls over the valuation of investments. The understanding
was obtained by performance of walkthroughs, which
As prescribed by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority included inspection of documents produced by the Company
of India (the “IRDAI”) investments including derivative instruments, and inquiries with those involved in the pertinent process;
should be made in accordance with the Insurance Regulatory and
Development Authority of India (Investment) Regulations, 2016 2) E xamined the design, implementation and operating
(the “Investment Regulations”) and policies approved by Board of effectiveness of key controls over the valuation process.
Directors of the Holding Company. Assessed the Holding Company’s assessment and approval
of assumptions used for the valuation including key
Investments in unit linked portfolio of ` 10,162,815 lakhs are valued authorisation and data input controls thereof;
based on observable inputs as per their accounting policy and
gains / losses are recognised in revenue account. These unit linked
3) O btained independent balance confirmations for investments
portfolio investments do not have risk of significant misstatement.
as at balance sheet date from the custodians and depository
The valuation of unlisted or not frequently traded investments
participants appointed by the Holding Company to check the
involves management judgement. Due to their significance to
units of securities for the purpose of valuation re-computation;
consolidated financial statements, the same is considered as key
audit matter.
4) O n a test check basis, recomputed valuation of different
class of investments to assess valuation methodologies
Investments in non-linked and shareholders portfolio of ` 23,465,338
with reference to the Regulations along with the Holding
lakhs are valued as per the accounting policy, based on which:
Company’s Board approved valuation policy;
• the unrealized gains / losses arising due to changes in fair value
5) E xamined movement and accounting in Fair Value Change
of listed equity shares and mutual fund units are recorded in
account for specific investments. Further, in case of revaluation
the “Fair Value Change Account” in the Consolidated Balance
done for investment properties, examined the underlying
Sheet; and
valuation report recomputed the movement in “Revaluation
reserve”;
• debt securities and unlisted equity shares are valued at
historical cost.
6) O btained written representations from the Holding Company
on compliance of valuation of investments with the regulations
Further, investments in the non-linked and shareholders portfolio and adequacy of impairment recorded for the year.
are assessed for impairment as per the Company’s Board approved
impairment policy which involves the Holding Company’s judgement.
There is increased economic stress on account of external factors,
which may impact the valuation of these investments.
Accordingly, valuation of investments was considered to be one of
the areas which required significant auditor attention and was one of
the matters of significance in the consolidated financial statements.
432
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Information Technology (IT) systems and controls related to financial reporting process.
Key Audit Matter How our audit has addressed the key audit matter
The Holding Company is highly dependent on its Information In view of the significance of the matter, we involved Information
Technology (IT) infrastructure comprising hardware, software, technology specialist to assess IT systems and controls with respect
multiple applications, automated interfaces and controls in systems to consolidated financial statements and applied the following audit
for recording, storing and reporting of financial transactions. procedures in this area, among others:
The Holding Company’s key financial accounting and reporting 1) O btained an understanding of the Holding Company’s General
processes recording premium, commission, benefits paid, IT Control (GITC) over key financial accounting and reporting
investments amongst others are highly dependent on IT systems systems, and related applications (collectively referred to as
including automated controls, to process and record large volume “in-scope systems”);
of transactions on daily basis. Accordingly, there exists a risk that
deficiencies / gaps in the IT control environment (including General 2) T ested the design and operating effectiveness of key GITCs
IT Controls and automated application controls) could result in a for in-scope systems, including;
significant misstatement in the financial statements.
• Logical access controls (e.g. segregation of duties, role-
Given the pervasive nature and criticality of the IT environment
based access, user provisioning and de-provisioning),
to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, we
have identified the testing of IT systems and the related control
• Periodic user access reviews and recertifications,
environment as a key audit matter for the current year.
• Password and authentication policies, and
• Change management controls, including testing and
approvals of system changes in segregated environments.
3) E xamined automated control and system interfaces relating
to process such as premium income, commission expense,
benefits paid, and investment accounting. This included
testing of:
• Automated data interfaces and reconciliations,
• System logic, validations, and data flows,
• Processing controls for completeness and accuracy of
financial data,
4) A ssessed policies and strategies adopted by the Holding
Company in relation to security of key information
infrastructure, data and maintaining information and
monitoring.
5) R eviewed the Holding Company’s policies and governance
practices related to cybersecurity, infrastructure security,
and client data protection, including strategies adopted for
incident prevention, detection, and response.
6) E xamined compensating controls and alternate procedures,
where deficiencies existed.
7) O btained written representations from management
confirming the design and operating effectiveness of IT
General Controls and application-level controls over financial
reporting.
433
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
6. The following Key Audit Matters were included in the audit report issued by the joint auditors, G.D. Apte & Co. and
Kalyaniwalla & Mistry LLP, of HDB Financial Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Parent, dated April 15, 2025, containing
an unmodified audit opinion on the special purpose financial information of HDB Financial Services Limited, reproduced
by us as under:
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Provisioning for Non-performing Advances based on RBI Guidelines
Refer to the accounting policies in ‘Note 2.3 – Advances of Schedule 18 to the Special purpose financial information’
Our key audit procedures included:
Advances are classified as standard, sub-standard and • Review of the Board approved Policy and approach concerning
doubtful based on Company policy approved by the Board the assessment of credit and other risks and ascertainment /
of Directors, which is aligned with the extant RBI guidelines. ageing of default by the borrowers and procedures in relation
The Company assesses all advances for their recoverability to NPA identification and provision computation.
and accordingly recognizes provision for non-performing
assets as per Company approved policy. The Company Review the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of
is also required to apply its judgment to determine the controls.
identification and provision required against Non-performing
Advances considering various quantitative as well as
• Understood the process and controls, and tested the
qualitative factors in each product.
design and operating effectiveness of key controls, including
Information Technology based controls.
• Assessing the design, implementation and operating
The aforesaid is identified as Key Audit Matter considering
effectiveness of key internal financial controls including
the significance of the management’s judgement involved in
monitoring, identification and stamping of NPA accounts; and
determining the non-performing advances and adequacy of
measurement of provision.
the provision, and in the view of the significance of provision
on non-performing advances to the overall audit.
• Involvement of Information Technology experts in the audit
team to obtain comfort over data integrity and process of
report generation through interface of various systems.
With respect to classification of Non-performing Advances, verified
the date of Non-performing Advances and recomputed the Days
Past Due on a sample basis.
Verified the calculation of NPA provisions, as at the year-end by
assessing the completeness, accuracy and relevance of data used
for the NPA provision and checking the arithmetical accuracy by
re-computation on a sample basis, to ensure that the same is in
compliance with the Board approved policy and the extant RBI
regulations in this regard.
Note 2.3 of Schedule 18, as described in the above paragraph, are included in the Schedule 17 D(3) of the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
434
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Information Technology
IT systems and controls During the course of audit, we deployed our internal experts to carry
out the review of IT general controls. Our key audit processes were
The Company’s key financial accounting and reporting as under:
processes are highly dependent on information technology
considering the significant number of transactions that are • Review of the IT applications and IT infrastructure of the
processed daily across multiple and distinct Information Company in order to identify the IT applications and the
Technology (‘IT’) systems. The Financial accounting system infrastructure which has a significant impact on the financial
of the Company is interfaced with several other IT systems reporting process, as “Key IT systems / applications”.
including Loan Management & Originating systems as well
as several other systemic workflows. • Obtaining an understanding of Company’s Key IT applications,
databases and operating systems.
IT general and application controls are critical to ensure
that IT systems are able to process the data, completely,
• Review of reports of information security audits conducted by
accurately and consistently for reliable financial reporting,
the Company either internally or through external experts.
changes to applications and underlying data are made in
an appropriate manner. Adequate controls contribute to
• Testing design and operating effectiveness of IT controls such
mitigating the risk of potential fraud or errors as a result of
as IT governance and policy framework, access controls,
changes to the applications and data.
change management controls, program development &
system implementation, IT operations & backup controls,
These includes implementation of preventive and detective
data integrity and protection controls, business continuity and
controls across critical applications and infrastructure.
disaster recovery, incident management, batch processing &
monitoring etc.
Due to the pervasive nature of role of information technology
systems in financial reporting, we planned our audit by
• Testing the accuracy of the information produced by the
assessing the risk of a material misstatement arising from
Company’s key IT systems / applications.
the technology as significant for the audit, hence the Key
Audit Matter.
• Testing of compensating controls and performing alternate
procedures, whenever necessary.
• Testing of compliance with the requirements relating to ‘Audit
Trail’ under ‘the Companies Act, 2013’.
We employed various techniques such as inquiry, review of
documentation / record / reports, observation, and re-performance
for the purpose of ITGC review.
435
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
7. The following Key Audit Matters were reported to us by the joint auditors, G. M. Kapadia & Co. and B S R & Co. LLP, of
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Parent, vide their communication dated April 18,
2025 which are reproduced by us as under:
Information Technology systems and controls (IT Control Relating to Financial Reporting):
Key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Company is highly dependent on data from various information Our audit procedures included the following:
technology systems including automated controls to process and
record large volume of transactions, such that there exists a risk • We involved our IT specialists for assessment of the IT
that gaps in the IT control environment could result in the financial systems and controls over financial reporting;
accounting and reporting records being materially misstated.
• Understood General IT Controls (GITC) over key financial
Due to the pervasive nature, complexity and importance of the accounting and reporting systems (referred to as “in-scope
impact of the IT systems and related control environment on the systems”) which covered access controls, program / system
Company’s Special purpose financial information, we have identified changes, program development and computer operations;
testing of such IT systems and related control environment as a key
audit matter for the current year audit.
• Understood the IT infrastructure i.e. operating systems and
databases and related data security controls;
• Tested controls over IT infrastructure covering user access
including privilege users and system changes;
• Evaluated design and operating effectiveness for in-scope
systems and application controls which covered segregation
of duties, system interfaces, completeness and accuracy of
data feeds and system reconciliation controls; and
• Evaluated policies and strategies adopted by the Company in
relation to operational security of key information infrastructure,
data and client information management and monitoring.
436
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Valuation and impairment determination of Investments
Refer Schedule 8 of the Special Purpose Financial Information
Key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Company’s investment portfolio has been bifurcated into Our audit procedures included the following:
Policyholders investments and Shareholders investments in terms
of IRDAI guidelines. Total investments represent 85.11 percent of • Understood the Company’s process and tested the controls
the Company’s total assets as at 31 March 2025. on the valuation of investments;
Investments are valued in accordance with the provisions of the • Evaluated design, implementation and operating effectiveness
Insurance Act, the IRDA Financial Statements Regulations, orders / of key controls over the valuation process including
directions / circulars issued by IRDAI and / or policies as approved impairment, including management’s review and approval
by the Board of Directors of the Company (collectively the “Valuation of the estimates and assumptions used for the valuation
Policy”). including key authorization and data input controls;
Investments amounting to ` 26,685.26 crores are valued as per
• Evaluated appropriateness of valuation methodologies with
their accounting policy, based on which:
reference to the Valuation Policy;
• the unrealized gains / losses arising due to changes in fair
• Performed independent price-verification for samples using
value of listed equity shares, additional Tier I bonds and
external quoted prices and by agreeing the management’s
mutual fund units are recorded in the “Fair Value Change
observable inputs used in valuation techniques to external
Account” in the Balance Sheet; and
data for listed and unlisted investments on test check basis;
• debt securities and unlisted equity shares are valued at
• Examined movement and appropriateness of accounting in
historical cost.
Fair Value Change Account for specific investments;
Investments in listed equity shares, additional Tier I bonds
• For selected samples of investments measured at historical
and mutual funds does not represent higher risk of material
cost, we have tested the Company’s assessment of
misstatement, however, is considered to be a key audit matter due
impairment and evaluated whether the same was in
to its materiality to the special purpose financial information.
accordance with the Company’s impairment policy; and
Further, investments in debt securities and unlisted equity shares
• Evaluated appropriateness and reasonableness of
are assessed for impairment as per the Company’s investment
methodology, assumptions and judgements used by
policy which involves significant management judgement. There is
management with reference to the Company’s investment
increased economic stress on account of external factors, which
valuation and impairment assessment as per policy.
may impact the determination of impairment of these investments.
Accordingly, valuation of investments (including impairment
assessment) was considered to be one of the areas which required
significant auditor attention and was one of the matters of most
significance in the special purpose financial information.
Schedule 8, as described in the above paragraph, is included in the Schedule 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
437
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Other Information
8. The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Annual report but does not include the Consolidated Financial Statements and our and other auditor’s
report thereon. The Annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to
be materially misstated.
When we read the Annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to
communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the relevant
laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of the Management and those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated
Financial Statements
9. T he Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these Consolidated Financial Statements
in terms of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated
financial performance and consolidated cash flows of the Group including the Employee Welfare Trust in accordance with
the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards specified under Section 133
of the Act, and the provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 and circulars, guidelines and directions
issued by the RBI from time to time. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and the
Trustees of Employee Welfare Trust are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with
the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group including the Employee Welfare Trust and for preventing
and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal
financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,
relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation
of the Consolidated Financial Statements by the Board of Directors of the Bank, as aforesaid.
10. In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the
Group and the Trustees of Employee Welfare Trust are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group and the Employee
Welfare Trust to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Group and the Employee
Welfare Trust or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
11. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and the Trustees of Employee Welfare Trust are
responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process of the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
12. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users
taken on the basis of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
438
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
13. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism
throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud
or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations,
or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the
Bank and it’s subsidiaries incorporated in India, has adequate internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated
Financial Statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by the management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant
doubt on the ability of the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the
Consolidated Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may
cause the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the
disclosures, and whether the Consolidated Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a
manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the companies or business activities
within the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust to express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements. We
are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of
such companies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, of which we are the independent auditors. For the
other companies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such
other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
14. W e communicate with those charged with governance of the Bank and such other companies included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements, of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.
15. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
16. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the current year and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of
such communication.
439
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Other Matters
17. The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bank for the year ended March 31, 2024, were jointly audited by M M Nissim
& Co LLP and Price Waterhouse LLP, under the Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 who, vide their report dated April
20, 2024, expressed an unmodified opinion on those Consolidated Financial Statements. Accordingly, Batliboi & Purohit
do not express any opinion on the figures reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended March
31, 2024.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
18. T he standalone financial information of 7 subsidiaries and consolidated financial information of 3 subsidiaries included
in the Consolidated Financial Statements, reflect total assets of ` 514,517.90 crores and net assets of ` 49,721.01 crores
as at March 31, 2025, total revenue of ` 135,536.03 crores, net profit after tax of ` 8,133.46 crores and net cash inflows
amounting to ` 1,372.89 crores for the year ended March 31, 2025. These financial information have been audited by other
auditors, whose reports and other communications have been furnished to us by the Bank’s Management, and our opinion
on the Consolidated Financial Statements in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of
these subsidiaries and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid
subsidiaries, is based on the reports and other communications of the other auditors and the procedures performed by
us.
19. We did not audit the financial information of the Employee Welfare Trust, whose financial information reflect total assets
of ` 833.80 crores and net assets of ` 738.70 crores as at March 31, 2025, total revenue of ` 158.76 crores, profit after
tax of ` 170.00 crores and cash outflow amounting to ` 2.63 crores for the year ended March 31, 2025, as considered in
the Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial information are unaudited and have been furnished to us by the
Bank’s Management, and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements in so far as it relates to the amounts and
disclosures included in respect of the Employee Welfare Trust and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of
the Act including report on Other Information in so far as it relates to the aforesaid Employee Welfare Trust, is based solely
on such unaudited financial information. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by
the Management, these financial information are not material to the Group.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, and our report on the section ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory
Requirements’ below, is not modified in respect of the above matters stated in paragraphs 18 and 19 with respect to our
reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors and the financial information certified by the Management
of the Bank.
20. The following other matter paragraph has been included in the audit report on the special purpose consolidated financial
information of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (‘HDFC Life / the Parent Company’ referred to in its report), a
subsidiary of the Bank, issued by their joint statutory auditors, vide their report dated April 18, 2025:
“The actuarial valuation of liabilities for life policies in-force and for policies where premium has been discontinued but
liability exists as at 31 March 2025 has been duly certified by the Holding Company’s Appointed Actuary. The Holding
Company’s Appointed Actuary has also certified that, in her opinion, the assumptions for such valuation are in accordance
with the generally accepted actuarial principles and practices, requirements of the Insurance Act, regulations notified by
the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (“IRDAI”) and Actuarial Practice Standards issued by the
Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the
Authority.”
21. The following other matter paragraph has been included in the audit report on the special purpose financial information of
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (‘the Company’ as referred to in its report), a subsidiary of the Bank,
issued by their joint statutory auditors, vide their report dated April 15, 2025:
440
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
“The actuarial valuation of liabilities is the responsibility of the Company’s Appointed Actuary (the “Appointed Actuary”).
The actuarial valuation of the outstanding claims reserves that are estimated using statistical methods, Premium Deficiency
Reserve (the “PDR”), Incurred but Not Reported (“IBNR”) including Incurred but Not Enough Reported (“IBNER”) as at 31
March 2025 has been duly certified by the Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, the assumptions for such valuation are in
accordance with the guidelines and norms issued by IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the
Authority. We have relied upon the Appointed Actuary’s certificate in this regard for forming our opinion on the valuation
of liabilities for outstanding claims reserves that are estimated using statistical methods, PDR, IBNR (including IBNER)
reserves, as contained in the special purpose financial information of the Company.”
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the matters stated in paragraph 20 and 21 above.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
22. In our opinion, the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account have been drawn up in
accordance with the provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Section 133 of the Act.
23. As required by sub-section (3) of Section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that:
(a) We have obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were necessary
for the purpose of our audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
(b) The transactions of the Bank, which have come to our notice, have been within the powers of the Bank, other than
those relating to leasing of immovable properties acquired on amalgamation of the erstwhile HDFC Limited with the
Bank, as disclosed in Schedule 18 note (1) to the Consolidated Financial Statements; and
(c) During the course of our audit we have visited 73 branches to examine the books of accounts and other records
maintained at the branch and performed other relevant audit procedures. Since the key operations of the Bank are
automated with the key applications integrated to the core banking system, the audit is carried out centrally at Bank’s
Head office located in Mumbai, as all the necessary records and data required for the purposes of our audit are
available therein.
24. Further, as required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
(a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were
necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements.
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid Consolidated
Financial Statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports and
other communications of the statutory auditors of the subsidiary companies incorporated in India, except for the
matters stated in paragraph 24(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules,
2014 (as amended) (“the Rules”).
(c) T he Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and the Consolidated Cash Flow
Statement dealt with by this report are in agreement with the relevant books of account and records maintained for
the purpose of preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(d) I n our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified
under Section 133 of the Act, to the extent they are not inconsistent with the accounting policies prescribed by RBI.
(e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Bank as at March 31, 2025 taken on
record by the Board of Directors of the Bank and the reports and other communications of the statutory auditors of
441
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
its subsidiary companies incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Bank and the subsidiaries incorporated in
India is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
(f) W ith respect to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith, reference is made to our
comment in paragraph 24(b) above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 24(h)(vi) below on reporting
under Rule 11(g) of the Rules, by us with respect to Bank and based on the reports and other communications of the
statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies, incorporated in India.
(g) With respect to the adequacy of internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of the
Bank and it’s subsidiaries which are incorporated in India, and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to
our separate report in Annexure A.
(h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
(Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the
explanations given to us:
i. T he Consolidated Financial Statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated financial
position of the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust – Refer Schedule 12(I) and 12(II), Schedule 17 D(25),
Schedule 18 note 10 and note 20(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
ii. Provision has been made in the Consolidated Financial Statements, as required under the applicable law or
accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses on long-term contracts including derivative contracts as at
March 31, 2025 – Refer Schedule 17 D(10) and 17 D(25), Schedule 18 note 10 and note 20(b) to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in respect of such items as it relates to the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust.
iii. T here has been no delay in transferring amounts required to be transferred to the Investor Education and
Protection Fund by the Bank and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India during the year.
iv. (a) The respective Managements of the Bank and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India,
whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, have represented to us and the other auditors of
such subsidiaries, respectively, that to the best of their knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in Schedule
18 note 23, no funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned
or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank or
any of such subsidiaries to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with
the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly,
lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company or
any of such subsidiaries (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the
Ultimate Beneficiaries.
( b) The respective Managements of the Bank and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India,
whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and the other auditors of
such subsidiaries respectively that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in Schedule
18 note 23, no funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the Bank
or any of such subsidiaries from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with
the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company or any of such subsidiaries
shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or
on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
( c) Based on the audit procedures, that has been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances,
performed by us and those performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in
442
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
India, whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, nothing has come to our or other auditors’
notice that has caused us or the other auditors to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of
Rule 11(e) contain any material misstatement.
v. The dividend declared and paid during the year by the Bank and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India,
is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
vi. Based on our examination, which included test checks, and that performed by the respective auditors of the
subsidiaries, which are companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the
Act, except for the instances mentioned below, the Bank and such subsidiaries have used accounting software
for maintaining books of account which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and that has
operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software. Further, during the course of
performing the procedures, we, and the respective auditors of such subsidiaries, did not notice any instance of
the audit trail feature being tampered with. Additionally, other than as described below, the audit trail has been
preserved by the Bank and such subsidiaries, as per the statutory requirements for record retention.
Description of Instances Number of instances
Instances of inability of the auditor to comment on certain software, in the absence of comprehensive
information, on whether audit trail feature is enabled for direct changes to data while using certain access For one subsidiary
rights.
Instances where either the audit trail feature is not enabled for part of the year in case of certain masters of
two accounting software and two databases, also for other databases, audit trail feature is not enabled for For the Bank
full year.
Instances where the audit trail feature was not enabled throughout the year for application layer of an
For one subsidiary
accounting software.
For the Bank and four
Instances where audit trail is not preserved as per the statutory requirements for record retention.
subsidiaries
25. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the provisions of Section
197 of the Act are not applicable to the Bank by virtue of Section 35B(2A) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Accordingly,
the reporting under Section 197(16) of the Act regarding payment / provision for managerial remuneration in accordance
with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act, is not applicable.
Based on the consideration of reports and other communications of the joint statutory auditors of HDFC Life Insurance
Company Limited and HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited, the subsidiary companies, the remuneration paid
for managerial renumeration was in accordance with the provisions of section 197 of the Act, read with section 34A of the
Insurance Act, 1938. Further, based on the consideration of reports and other communications of the statutory auditors of
other subsidiaries incorporated in India, the remuneration paid / provided for managerial renumeration was in accordance
with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act.
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: Firm Registration Number:
301112E/E300264 101048W
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta
Partner Partner
Membership Number: 101119 Membership Number: 116976
UDIN: 25101119BMIFBB3673 UDIN: 25116976BMOKOW2322
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025 Date: April 19, 2025
443
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 24(g) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of HDFC Bank Limited on the
Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements under
clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1. In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bank as of and for the year ended March
31, 2025, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of HDFC
Bank Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Bank” or the “Parent”) and its subsidiary companies, which are companies
incorporated in India, as of that date (the Bank and its subsidiaries together referred to as the “Group”).
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
2. The respective Board of Directors of the Group, to whom reporting under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the
Act in respect of the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements is
applicable, which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial
controls based on internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Group considering the essential
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting
(“the Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding
of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,
and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial
Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI and the
Standards on Auditing deemed to be prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable
to an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an audit of internal financial controls and both issued by the ICAI.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial
Statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
4. Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls
system with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures
selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the
Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of
their reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls system with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements.
444
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
6. A Bank’s internal financial control with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A Bank’s internal financial control with
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
Bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of Consolidated
Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the Bank are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the Bank; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the Bank’s
assets that could have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial
Statements
7. B ecause of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to
Consolidated Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference
to Consolidated Financial Statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8. In our opinion, the Group, have, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system with reference to
Consolidated Financial Statements and such internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
were operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established
by the Group considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
Other Matters
9. Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements insofar as it relates to 8 subsidiary companies, which are
companies incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated
in India. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: Firm Registration Number:
301112E/E300264 101048W
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta
Partner Partner
Membership Number: 101119 Membership Number: 116976
UDIN: 25101119BMIFBB3673 UDIN: 25116976BMOKOW2322
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025 Date: April 19, 2025
445
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED BAL ANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
C C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital 1 765.22 759.69
Employees stock options outstanding 18 (5) 3,805.19 2,652.72
Reserves and surplus 2 517,218.98 452,982.84
Minority interest 2A 16,359.04 13,383.40
Deposits 3 2,710,898.23 2,376,887.28
Borrowings 4 634,605.57 730,615.46
Other liabilities and provisions 5 188,163.66 174,832.07
Policyholders' funds 320,601.53 278,080.80
Total 4,392,417.42 4,030,194.26
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India 6 144,390.25 178,718.67
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 7 105,557.65 50,115.84
Investments 8 1,186,472.89 1,005,681.63
Advances 9 2,724,938.16 2,571,916.65
Fixed assets 10 15,257.94 12,603.76
Other assets 11 215,800.53 211,157.71
Total 4,392,417.42 4,030,194.26
Contingent liabilities 12 2,709,921.85 2,344,487.73
Bills for collection 70,679.55 65,332.87
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 17 & 18
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Balance
Sheet.
As per our report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Partner Partner Independent Director Independent Director
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976
Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
Executive Director Executive Director
Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025 Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
446
HDFC Bank Limited
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
For the year ended March 31, 2025
C in crore
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. INCOME
Interest earned 13 336,367.43 283,649.02
Other income 14 134,548.50 124,345.75
Total 470,915.93 407,994.77
II. EXPENDITURE
Interest expended 15 183,894.20 154,138.55
Operating expenses 16 176,605.07 152,269.34
Provisions and contingencies 18 (10) 36,976.49 36,140.38
Total 397,475.76 342,548.27
III. PROFIT
Consolidated Net Profit for the year before Minority Interest 73,440.17 65,446.50
Less : Minority Interest 2,647.92 1,384.46
Consolidated Net Profit for the year attributable to the group 70,792.25 64,062.04
Brought forward consolidated profit attributable to the group 150,045.57 120,369.35
Addition on amalgamation (net) 18 (1) - 3,570.10
Total 220,837.82 188,001.49
IV. APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve 17,260.30 15,684.72
Transfer to General Reserve 6,734.74 6,081.23
Transfer to Special Reserve 3,200.00 3,000.00
Transfer to Capital Reserve 507.00 4,166.41
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve Account (net) - 529.42
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve - 378.00
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year 14,826.19 8,404.42
Transfer to / (from) Minority Interest (opening adjustment) (382.96) (288.28)
Balance carried over to consolidated balance sheet 178,692.55 150,045.57
Total 220,837.82 188,001.49
V. EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE (Face value ` 1/- per share) 18 (19) ` `
Basic 92.81 90.42
Diluted 92.39 90.01
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
17 & 18
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss
Account.
As per our report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta
Partner Partner Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976 Independent Director Independent Director
Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
Executive Director Executive Director
Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025 Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
447
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended March 31, 2025
CC in crore
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Cash flows from operating activities:
Consolidated profit before income tax and after minority interest 93,594.13 75,184.14
Adjustments for:
Depreciation on fixed assets 3,805.23 3,092.08
(Profit) / loss on revaluation of investments 3,909.10 (6,957.14)
Amortisation of premium on investments 87.07 966.09
Profit on sale of fixed assets (22.03) (75.36)
(Profit) / loss on sale of investment in subsidiary 8.00 (7,341.42)
Provision / charge for non performing assets 15,385.24 12,540.05
Floating provisions - 10,900.00
Provision / (write-back) for standard assets and contingencies (1,210.63) 1,578.23
Employee stock options / units expense 2,086.05 1,731.73
117,642.16 91,618.40
Adjustments for:
Increase in investments (180,362.67) (88,411.63)
Increase in advances (169,918.22) (312,488.37)
Increase in deposits 334,010.95 336,964.81
Increase in other assets (10,829.67) (27,919.59)
Increase in other liabilities and provisions 13,117.98 6,420.40
Increase in policyholders' funds 43,289.99 35,728.16
146,950.52 41,912.18
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds) (19,708.68) (22,842.84)
Net cash flows from operating activities 127,241.84 19,069.34
Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchase of fixed assets (4,075.89) (4,286.72)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 100.72 99.82
Proceeds from sale of investment in subsidiary (net) 192.00 9,500.67
Investment in subsidiaries (67.47) -
Net cash flow from / (used in) investing activities (3,850.64) 5,313.77
Cash flows from financing activities:
Increase in minority interest 2,382.88 1,201.66
Proceeds from exercise of convertible equity warrants - 3,192.81
448
HDFC Bank Limited
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended March 31, 2025
CC in crore
Year ended Year ended
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Proceeds from issue of share capital other than warrants 6,346.50 5,249.73
Proceeds from issue of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments 1,182.00 2,350.00
Redemption of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments (500.00) (230.00)
Decrease in other borrowings (97,062.73) (7,342.84)
Dividend paid during the year (14,826.19) (8,404.42)
Net cash flow used in financing activities (102,477.54) (3,983.06)
Effect of fluctuation in foreign currency translation reserve 199.73 104.94
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 21,113.39 20,504.99
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 228,834.51 197,147.81
Cash and cash equivalents acquired on amalgamation - 11,181.71
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 249,947.90 228,834.51
Cash and cash equivalents include Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India and Balances with banks and money at call and short notice
(Refer Schedule 6 and Schedule 7).
As per our report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta
Partner Partner Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976 Independent Director Independent Director
Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
Executive Director Executive Director
Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025 Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
449
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 1 - CAPITAL
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Authorised Capital
11,90,61,00,000 (31 March, 2024: 11,90,61,00,000) Equity Shares of C 1/- each 1,190.61 1,190.61
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital
7,65,22,21,674 (31 March, 2024 : 7,59,69,10,662) Equity Shares of C 1/- each 765.22 759.69
Total 765.22 759.69
SCHEDULE 2 - RESERVES AND SURPLUS
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Statutory Reserve
Opening balance 88,114.32 64,373.87
Addition on amalgamation 18 (1) - 8,055.73
Additions during the year 18 (6) 17,260.30 15,684.72
Closing balance 105,374.62 88,114.32
II. General Reserve
Opening balance 53,877.70 24,892.80
Addition on amalgamation 18 (1) - 22,902.33
Additions during the year 18 (6) 7,863.74 6,082.57
Closing balance 61,741.44 53,877.70
III. Balance in Profit and Loss Account 178,692.55 150,045.57
IV. Share Premium
Opening balance 127,053.27 66,539.42
Addition on amalgamation 18 (1) - 51,728.83
Additions during the year 7,064.09 8,785.02
Closing balance 134,117.36 127,053.27
V. Special Reserve
Opening balance 26,268.18 500.00
Addition on amalgamation 18 (1) - 22,768.18
Additions during the year 18 (6) 3,200.00 3,000.00
Closing balance 29,468.18 26,268.18
VI. Amalgamation Reserve - I
Opening balance 1,063.56 1,063.56
Additions / (deductions) during the year - -
Closing balance 18 (6) 1,063.56 1,063.56
450
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
VII. Amalgamation Reserve - II
Opening balance (13,947.06) -
Additions / (deductions) on amalgamation 18 (1) - (13,947.06)
Closing balance 18 (6) (13,947.06) (13,947.06)
VIII. Capital Reserve
Opening balance 9,794.18 5,627.54
Addition on amalgamation 18 (1) - 0.04
Additions during the year 18 (6) 507.00 4,166.60
Closing balance 10,301.18 9,794.18
IX. Investment Reserve Account
Opening balance 529.42 -
Additions during the year 18 (6) - 529.42
Deductions during the year 18 (6) (529.42) -
Closing balance - 529.42
X. Investment Fluctuation Reserve
Opening balance 5,032.00 3,701.00
Addition on amalgamation 18 (1) - 953.00
Additions during the year 18 (6) 529.42 378.00
Closing balance 5,561.42 5,032.00
XI. Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
Opening balance 883.79 778.85
Additions during the year 199.73 104.94
Closing balance 18 (6) 1,083.52 883.79
XII. Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
Opening balance 832.30 (84.06)
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 937.05
Additions / (deductions) during the year (924.46) (20.69)
Closing balance 18 (6) (92.16) 832.30
XIII. Other Reserves
Opening balance 145.58 -
Additions / (deductions) during the year (131.56) 145.58
Closing balance 18 (6) 14.02 145.58
XIV. AFS Reserve
Opening Balance - -
Additions / (deductions) during the year 18 (6) 616.85 -
Closing balance 616.85 -
XV. Capital Reserve on Consolidation (net of goodwill) 18 (6) 3,223.50 3,290.03
Total 517,218.98 452,982.84
451
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 2A - MINORITY INTEREST
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Minority interest at the date on which parent subsidiary relationship came into existence 11,260.45 27.60
Addition on amalgamation - 11,232.85
Subsequent increase 5,098.59 2,122.95
Minority interest on the date of balance sheet 16,359.04 13,383.40
SCHEDULE 3 - DEPOSITS
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
A. I. Demand deposits
(i) From banks 4,149.85 3,704.74
(ii) From others 307,274.93 304,071.93
Total 311,424.78 307,776.67
II. Savings bank deposits 630,465.95 598,743.72
III. Term deposits
(i) From banks 32,599.29 17,767.08
(ii) From others 1,736,408.21 1,452,599.81
Total 1,769,007.50 1,470,366.89
Total 2,710,898.23 2,376,887.28
B. I. Deposits of branches in India 2,686,792.91 2,354,694.75
II. Deposits of branches outside India 24,105.32 22,192.53
Total 2,710,898.23 2,376,887.28
Deposits include lien marked deposits of C 369,435.40 crore (previous year: C 292,100.75 crore).
SCHEDULE 4 - BORROWINGS
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Borrowings in India
(i) Reserve Bank of India 6,335.00 4,556.00
(ii) Other banks 77,221.99 138,414.60
(iii) Other institutions and agencies 114,912.83 148,410.04
(iv) Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments 30,936.89 30,583.32
(v) Other bonds and debentures 275,808.83 299,626.91
Total 505,215.54 621,590.87
II. Borrowings outside India 129,390.03 109,024.59
Total 634,605.57 730,615.46
Secured borrowings included in I & II above: C 77,656.02 crore (previous year: C 68,131.87 crore) except borrowings of C 13,039.60 crore (previous
year: C 5,654.13 crore) under repurchase transactions (including tri-party repo) and transactions under Liquidity Adjustment Facility.
452
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SCHEDULE 5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Bills payable 13,653.91 13,932.56
II. Interest accrued 25,618.40 23,853.43
III. Contingent provisions against standard assets 11,315.90 11,005.15
IV. Others (including provisions) 137,267.86 126,040.93
V. Deferred Tax Liabilities 307.59 -
Total 188,163.66 174,832.07
SCHEDULE 6 - CASH AND BALANCES WITH RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes) 12,162.88 13,060.08
II. Balances with Reserve Bank of India:
(a) In current accounts 132,027.37 131,892.59
(b) In other accounts 200.00 33,766.00
Total 132,227.37 165,658.59
Total 144,390.25 178,718.67
SCHEDULE 7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. In India
(i) Balances with banks:
(a) In current accounts 1,258.21 1,036.55
(b) In other deposit accounts 4,582.85 5,247.91
Total 5,841.06 6,284.46
(ii) Money at call and short notice:
(a) With banks - 200.00
(b) With other institutions 35,598.84 3,819.32
Total 35,598.84 4,019.32
Total 41,439.90 10,303.78
II. Outside India
(i) In current accounts 19,083.75 10,324.23
(ii) In other deposit accounts 12,469.64 11,933.99
(iii) Money at call and short notice 32,564.36 17,553.84
Total 64,117.75 39,812.06
Total 105,557.65 50,115.84
453
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 8 - INVESTMENTS
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
A. Investments in India in
(i) Government securities 775,264.24 654,866.87
(ii) Other approved securities - -
(iii) Shares 8,075.45 5,116.10
(iv) Debentures and bonds 38,285.78 20,395.38
(v) Investments - Policyholders 330,941.32 293,986.13
(vi) Subsidiaries / joint ventures - 200.00
(vii) Others (Units of Mutual funds / AIFs / REITs, CDs, CPs, PTCs and security receipts) 31,263.84 29,044.34
Total 1,183,830.63 1,003,608.82
B. Investments outside India in
(i) Government securities (including local authorities) 918.09 248.04
(ii) Other investments
(a) Shares 96.47 21.53
(b) Debentures and bonds 1,381.78 1,627.48
(iii) Investments - Policyholders 245.92 175.76
Total 2,642.26 2,072.81
Total 1,186,472.89 1,005,681.63
C. Investments
I. Investments in India
(i) Gross value of investments 1,128,476.66 999,371.75
(ii) Aggregate of provisions for (depreciation) / appreciation 55,353.97 4,237.07
(iii) Net investments 1,183,830.63 1,003,608.82
II. Investments outside India
(i) Gross value of investments 2,615.27 2,079.98
(ii) Aggregate of provisions for (depreciation) / appreciation 26.99 (7.17)
(iii) Net investments 2,642.26 2,072.81
Total 1,186,472.89 1,005,681.63
SCHEDULE 9 - ADVANCES
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
A. (i) Bills purchased and discounted 34,964.61 24,032.92
(ii) Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand 714,525.81 633,264.78
(iii) Term loans 1,975,447.74 1,914,618.95
Total 2,724,938.16 2,571,916.65
Net of Bills Rediscounted: Nil (previous year: C 3,500.00 crore) and Inter-Bank
Participatory Certificates of C 77,703.73 crore (previous year: C 62,920.05 crore)
B. (i) Secured by tangible assets* 2,083,626.00 1,979,133.27
(ii) Covered by bank / government guarantees 60,543.40 41,598.52
454
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
(iii) Unsecured 580,768.76 551,184.86
Total 2,724,938.16 2,571,916.65
* Including advances against book debts
C. I. Advances in India
(i) Priority sector 880,033.65 780,715.25
(ii) Public sector 121,469.63 140,554.70
(iii) Banks 2,122.41 2,567.12
(iv) Others 1,675,153.87 1,609,430.44
Total 2,678,779.56 2,533,267.51
C. II. Advances outside India
(i) Due from banks 2,769.89 2,756.16
(ii) Due from others
(a) Bills purchased and discounted 544.10 714.86
(b) Syndicated loans 581.73 1,180.49
(c) Others 42,262.88 33,997.63
Total 46,158.60 38,649.14
Total 2,724,938.16 2,571,916.65
SCHEDULE 10 - FIXED ASSETS
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
A. Premises (including land)
Gross block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year 5,054.62 2,462.70
Additions during the year 661.01 399.31
Additions on amalgamation - 2,218.19
Deductions during the year (63.18) (25.58)
Total 5,652.45 5,054.62
Depreciation
As at 31st March of the preceding year 1,530.64 820.30
Charge for the year 197.98 99.56
Additions on amalgamation - 631.54
On deductions during the year (48.52) (20.76)
Total 1,680.10 1,530.64
Net block 3,972.35 3,523.98
B. Other fixed assets (including furniture and fixtures)
Gross block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year 25,172.80 18,756.18
455
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Additions during the year 6,074.19 4,934.43
Additions on amalgamation - 2,152.97
Deductions during the year (1,770.62) (670.78)
Total 29,476.37 25,172.80
Depreciation
As at 31st March of the preceding year 16,095.77 12,116.02
Charge for the year 3,600.88 2,994.24
Additions on amalgamation - 1,531.52
On deductions during the year (1,499.02) (546.01)
Total 18,197.63 16,095.77
Net block 11,278.74 9,077.03
C. Assets on lease (plant and machinery)
Gross block
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year 38.91 454.69
Additions during the year 11.34 2.05
Additions on amalgamation - 43.97
Deductions during the year (4.12) (461.80)
Total 46.13 38.91
Depreciation
As at 31st March of the preceding year 36.16 410.45
Additions on amalgamation - 42.18
Charge for the year 7.24 0.87
On deductions during the year (4.12) (417.34)
Total 39.28 36.16
Lease adjustment account
As at 31st March of the preceding year - 44.24
On deductions during the year - (44.24)
Total - -
Unamortised cost of assets on lease 6.85 2.75
Total 15,257.94 12,603.76
SCHEDULE 11 - OTHER ASSETS
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Interest accrued 34,028.94 25,472.97
II. Advance tax / tax deducted at source (net of provisions) 16,646.31 17,438.99
III. Stationery and stamps 66.00 64.73
IV. Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims 991.24 1,140.56
456
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
V. Security deposit for commercial and residential property 1,233.92 982.49
VI. Deferred Tax Assets 7,137.50 9,301.96
VII. Others 155,696.62 156,756.01
Total 215,800.53 211,157.71
SCHEDULE 12 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
C in crore
As at As at
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts - taxation 6,737.94 6,313.40
II. Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts - others 265.67 242.49
III. Liability for partly paid investments 904.28 729.97
IV. Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts 1,293,492.47 1,212,552.79
V. Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts 1,156,136.09 914,436.99
VI. Guarantees given on behalf of constituents - in India 149,228.23 126,031.26
- outside India 250.65 287.53
VII. Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations 96,684.87 71,008.38
VIII. Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable 6,221.65 12,884.92
Total 2,709,921.85 2,344,487.73
457
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
For the year ended March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED
C in crore
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Interest / discount on advances / bills 251,953.60 217,979.34
II. Income on investments 73,912.07 57,524.80
III. Interest on balance with RBI and other inter-bank funds 3,172.52 2,634.63
IV. Others 7,329.24 5,510.25
Total 336,367.43 283,649.02
SCHEDULE 14 - OTHER INCOME
C in crore
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Commission, exchange and brokerage 35,029.85 30,621.36
II. Profit / (loss) on sale of investments (net) 14,325.38 20,095.80
III. Profit / (loss) on revaluation of investments (net) (3,909.10) 6,957.14
IV. Profit / (loss) on sale of building and other assets (net) 156.20 199.85
V. Profit / (loss) on exchange / derivative transactions (net) 5,026.29 3,870.27
VI. Premium and other operating income from insurance business 78,589.17 57,858.60
VII. Miscellaneous income 5,330.71 4,742.73
Total 134,548.50 124,345.75
SCHEDULE 15 - INTEREST EXPENDED
C in crore
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Interest on deposits 125,216.63 99,401.50
II. Interest on RBI / inter-bank borrowings 52,486.78 50,244.76
III. Other interest 6,190.79 4,492.29
Total 183,894.20 154,138.55
SCHEDULE 16 - OPERATING EXPENSES
C in crore
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Payments to and provisions for employees 34,135.75 31,023.00
II. Rent, taxes and lighting 3,601.92 3,023.34
III. Printing and stationery 922.54 1,021.67
IV. Advertisement and publicity 1,533.33 1,259.35
V. Depreciation on bank's property 3,805.23 3,092.08
VI. Directors' fees / remuneration, allowances and expenses 32.14 27.07
VII. Auditors' fees and expenses 22.69 26.11
VIII. Law charges 420.54 398.68
458
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
C in crore
Year ended Year ended
Schedule
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
IX. Postage, telegram, telephone etc. 1,124.43 1,050.67
X. Repairs and maintenance 3,943.56 3,255.75
XI. Insurance 3,125.61 2,486.77
XII. Claims and benefits paid pertaining to insurance business 47,576.09 38,159.35
XIII. Other expenses pertaining to insurance business^ 46,861.30 40,154.11
XIV. Other expenditure* 29,499.94 27,291.39
Total 176,605.07 152,269.34
^ Includes commission expenses and change in valuation of liability in respect of insurance policies.
* Includes professional fees, commission to sales agents, card and merchant acquiring expenses and system management fees.
459
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 17 – Significant accounting policies under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, on a line-
appended to and forming part of the consolidated by-line basis by adding together the like items of assets,
financial statements for the year ended March 31, liabilities, income and expenditure, after elimination of
2025 intra-group transactions and intra-group balances,
except for equity investment held in group entities
A. Background
through policyholder’s funds. Capital reserve / goodwill
on consolidation represent the difference between the
HDFC Bank Limited (‘HDFC Bank’ or the ‘Bank’ or ‘the Group’s share in the net worth of the subsidiary and the
Holding Company’), incorporated in Mumbai, India is a cost of acquisition at the time of making the investment
publicly held banking company. The Bank is governed in / acquisition of the subsidiary. Minority interest
by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the Companies representing the part of net results of operations and
Act, 2013. The Bank together with its subsidiaries is of the net assets of subsidiary, attributable to interests
engaged in providing a range of banking and financial not owned directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, is
services, including retail banking, wholesale banking, presented separately from liabilities and equity.
treasury operations, insurance, asset management,
stock broking and other financial services business. The The Group does not consolidate entities where the
Bank has overseas branch operations in Bahrain, Hong control / significant influence is intended to be temporary
Kong, Dubai, Singapore and an Offshore Banking Unit at or entities which operate under severe long-term
International Financial Service Centre (IFSC), GIFT City, restrictions that impair their ability to transfer funds to
India. These consolidated financial statements have been parent / investing entity or where the objective of control
prepared by giving effect to the Scheme referred to in is not to obtain economic benefit from their activities. For
Schedule 18(1) from July 01, 2023 onwards. certain investments, even though the shareholding may
be below 20%, the Group may be eligible for nominee
B. Principles Of Consolidation
directors in the investee company. Such investments are
considered to be at par with other companies where
The consolidated financial statements comprise the investment may be bought and sold depending upon
financial statements of the Bank and its subsidiaries market condition. Right to appoint nominee director in
constituting the ‘Group’. The Bank consolidates its the investee companies with protective rights, as such
subsidiaries in accordance with Accounting Standard does not result in control or significant influence on
AS-21, Consolidated Financial Statements, specified such companies.
The consolidated financial statements present the accounts of HDFC Bank Limited with its following subsidiaries:
Name Relation Country of Ownership interest %
incorporation
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
HDFC Life Insurance Company Subsidiary India 50.32% 50.37%
Limited (HLIC)
HDFC Pension Fund Management HLIC's subsidiary India 100.00% 100.00%
Limited
HDFC International Life and Re HLIC's subsidiary Dubai 100.00% 100.00%
Company Limited
HDFC Asset Management Company Subsidiary India 52.47% 52.55%
Limited (AMC)
HDFC AMC International (IFSC) AMC's Subsidiary India 100.00% 100.00%
Limited
HDFC Trustee Company Limited Subsidiary India 100.00% 100.00%
HDFC Sales Private Limited Subsidiary India 100.00% 100.00%
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited Subsidiary India 89.34% 89.00%
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Subsidiary India 50.33% 50.48%
Company Limited
460
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Name Relation Country of Ownership interest %
incorporation
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Griha Investments Subsidiary Mauritius 100.00% 100.00%
Griha Pte Limited Subsidiary Singapore 100.00% 100.00%
HDFC Securities Limited (HSL) Subsidiary India 94.55% 95.13%
HDFC Securities IFSC Limited (w.e.f. HSL’s Subsidiary India 100.00% -
01.10.2024)
HDB Financial Services Limited Subsidiary India 94.32% 94.64%
HDB Employee Welfare Trust * India * *
* HDB Employee Welfare Trust, a trust established for providing general welfare measures such as medical relief and educational assistance to
the employees of the Bank and their dependents has been consolidated.
The financial statements of certain subsidiaries are of India (‘SEBI’), Insurance Regulatory and Development
prepared in accordance with notified Indian Accounting Authority of India (‘IRDAI’) from time to time, Accounting
Standards (‘Ind AS’) or applicable local generally Standards (‘AS’) specified under Section 133 of the
accepted accounting principles. The financial statements Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies
of such subsidiaries used for consolidation are special (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting
purpose financial information prepared in accordance Standards) Rules, 2021, as applicable to relevant entities
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India and practices generally prevalent in the banking industry
(‘GAAP’) specified under Section 133 of the Companies in India. In case the accounting policies followed by a
Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) subsidiary is different from those followed by the Bank,
Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) the same have been disclosed separately.
Rules, 2021.
Use of estimates
The Bank had not consolidated its subsidiaries viz. HDFC
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
Credila Financial Services Limited (‘HDFC Credila’) and
conformity with Indian GAAP requires the management
HDFC Education and Development Services Private
to make estimates and necessary assumptions in the
Limited (‘HEADS’) under AS-21 as the control of these
reported amounts of assets and liabilities (including
subsidiaries was intended to be temporary (as directed
contingent liabilities) as at the date of the consolidated
by RBI) on the date of their acquisition. Subsequently, the
financial statements and the reported income and
Bank had diluted its holding in HDFC Credila to 9.99% as
expenses for the reporting year. Management believes that
on March 31, 2024 and entire stake in HEADS is divested
the estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated
during the year ended March 31, 2025.
financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual
results could differ from these estimates. The impact of
The audited special purpose financial information of
any revision in the accounting estimates is recognised
foreign subsidiaries used in consolidation are drawn up
prospectively from the period of change.
to the same reporting date as that of the Group.
C. ACCOUNTING METHODOLOGY D. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1. Investments
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared
and presented under the historical cost convention and
Bank
accrual basis of accounting, unless otherwise stated and
are in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting
The RBI, vide its master direction dated September
Principles in India (‘Indian GAAP’), statutory requirements
12, 2023, issued revised norms for the classification,
prescribed under the Third Schedule of the Banking
valuation and operation of investment portfolio of banks,
Regulation Act, 1949, directions, circular, notifications
which became applicable from April 01, 2024 (here in
and the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India
after referred as ‘revised norms on investments’).
(RBI) (‘RBI Guidelines’), Securities and Exchange Board
461
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
Classification: Hitherto, investments which the Bank intended to hold
till maturity were classified under HTM category and
In accordance with the revised norms on investments, investments that were held for resale within 90 days
investments are classified on the date of purchase into from the date of purchase were classified under HFT.
“Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’), “Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) and Investments which were not classified in either of the
“Fair value through Profit and Loss” (‘FVTPL’) categories above categories were classified under AFS category.
(hereinafter called “categories”). “Held for Trading” (‘HFT’)
is a separate investment sub-category within FVTPL. All Acquisition cost:
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
are categorised in a distinct category Group companies Costs, including brokerage and commission paid at
(“Group cos”). Under each of these categories, the time of acquisition of investments and broken
investments are further classified under six groups period interest on debt instruments, are recognised in
(hereinafter called “groups”) - Government Securities, the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and are not
Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and included in the cost of acquisition.
Bonds, Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and
Other Investments. Valuation:
Hitherto, investments were classified on the date of In accordance with the revised norms on investments,
purchase into “Held for Trading” (‘HFT’), “Available for
Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’) categories • Investments classified under FVTPL and AFS
(hereinafter called “categories”). Subsequent shifting categories are fair valued individually. Net gain or
amongst the categories was done in accordance with loss arising on such valuation of FVTPL category is
the RBI guidelines. Under each of these categories, directly taken to the Consolidated Profit and Loss
investments were further classified into six groups Account. The net appreciation or depreciation
(hereinafter called “groups”), Government securities, (adjusted for the effect of applicable taxes, if any)
Other approved securities, Shares, Debentures and in AFS Category is directly taken to AFS reserve
Bonds, Investments in subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and without routing through the Consolidated Profit
Other Investments. & Loss Account. Hitherto, investments classified
under AFS and HFT categories were marked to
Purchase and sale transactions in securities are market individually, and depreciation / appreciation
accounted on settlement date except in the case of was aggregated for each group. Net depreciation, if
equity shares which are accounted on trade date. any, compared to the acquisition cost, in any of the
six groups, was charged to the Consolidated Profit
Basis of classification: and Loss Account and net appreciation, if any, in
any of the six groups was not recognised except to
Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity the extent of depreciation provided earlier.
and contractual terms there of gives rise to cash flows
that are solely payment of principal and interest on • Quoted investments are valued based on the trades
principal outstanding (SPPI) are classified under HTM / quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or
category. All investments in subsidiaries / associates / prices published by Financial Benchmarks India
joint ventures are classified under the category of Group Private Limited (FBIL) or Fixed Income Money Market
Companies (Group cos). Investments which the Bank and Derivatives Association (FIMMDA). Investments
acquires with an objective that is achieved by both denominated in foreign currencies are valued based
collecting contractual cashflows and selling securities on the prices provided by market information
and where the contractual terms of the investment meet providers such as Bloomberg, Refinitiv, etc.
the SPPI criterion are classified under AFS category.
Investments not classified in any of the above categories • Unquoted Government of India securities, state
are classified under FVTPL category. HFT, which is a government securities and special bonds such as oil
sub-category of FVTPL consists of all instruments that bonds, fertilizer bonds etc. issued by the Government
meet the specifications for HFT instruments prescribed of India are valued as per the prices published by
by the RBI. FBIL. The valuation of other unquoted fixed income
462
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
securities (viz. other approved securities and bonds not marked to market. Any diminution, other than
and debentures), and preference shares, is done temporary, in the value of investments in HTM and
with appropriate mark-up, i.e., applicable FIMMDA Group Cos. category is provided for. Hitherto,
published credit spreads over the Yield to Maturity any premium on investments classified under
(YTM) rates for Government of India securities as HTM category, was amortised over the remaining
published by FBIL. maturity period of the security on a constant yield-
to-maturity basis.
• Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-
up value, ascertained from the company’s latest • For all debt securities meeting SPPI criteria (except
balance sheet. The date as on which the latest short sale securities), any discount or premium
balance sheet is drawn up does not precede the on acquisition is accreted or amortised over the
date of valuation by more than 18 months. In case remaining maturity period of the security on a
the latest audited balance sheet is not available or constant yield to maturity basis. Such accretion or
is more than 18 months old, the shares are valued amortisation of discount or premium is classified
at ` 1 per company. under interest income from investments.
• Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest Net • The investment portfolio is categorised into three fair
Asset Value (NAV) declared by the mutual fund. value hierarchies viz. Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3:
• Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of (cid:23) Level 1 Financial Instruments are valued with
deposits being discounted instruments, are valued inputs such as quoted prices in active markets
at carrying cost. for identical instruments.
• Investments in Security Receipts (SRs) and (cid:23) Level 2 Financial Instruments are valued with
unquoted units of Infrastructure Investment Trust inputs other than quoted prices, that are
(InvIT) are valued as per the net asset value provided observable for asset or liability either directly
by the issuing Asset Reconstruction Company and or indirectly.
InvIT respectively.
(cid:23) Level 3 Financial Instruments are valued using
• Investments in unquoted units of Alternative unobservable inputs.
Investment Fund (AIF) are valued at NAV provided
by the AIF based on its financial statements. Where • All investments are measured at fair value on
an AIF fails to carry out and disclose the valuation of initial recognition. Unless facts and circumstances
its investments by an independent valuer as per the suggest that the fair value is materially different
frequency mandated by SEBI, the value of its units from the acquisition cost, it is presumed that the
is treated as ` 1. In case AIF is not registered under acquisition cost is the fair value. In case of Level
SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulation, 1 and Level 2 instruments, when acquisition cost
2012, and the latest disclosed valuation of its is not equal to fair value, any Day 1 gain / loss is
investments by an independent valuer precedes the recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss
date of valuation by more than 18 months the value Account. In case of Level 3 instruments, any Day
of its units is treated as ` 1. 1 loss is recognised immediately in the Profit and
Loss Account whereas any Day1 gain is deferred. In
• Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) including Priority case of Level 3 debt instruments, the Day 1 gain is
Sector-PTCs are valued by using FIMMDA credit amortized on a straight-line basis up to the maturity
spreads as applicable for the NBFC category, date (or earliest call date for perpetual instruments),
based on the credit rating of the respective PTC over while for unquoted Level 3 equity instruments, the
the YTM rates for Government of India securities gain is set aside as a liability until the security is
published by FBIL. listed or derecognised.
• Investments classified under HTM and Group Cos.
category are carried at their acquisition cost and
463
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
• Non-performing investments (NPIs) are identified, Classification and valuation of investment (other
and provision is made thereon based on the RBI than linked business) is done on the following
guidelines. Provision for NPIs is not set-off against basis:
appreciation in respect of performing investments.
Investments are classified under six groups (hereinafter
Appreciation, if any, in the value of a NPI is not
called “groups”) – Government Securities, Other
recognised. Income on NPIs is not recognised
Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds,
until received.
Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and Other
Disposal of investments: Investments. Purchase and sale transactions in securities
are accounted on trade date. Securities lent under the
In accordance with the revised norms on investments, Securities Lending and Borrowing scheme (SLB) continue
Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid to be recognised as investments since all the associated
categories is recognised in the Consolidated Profit and risks and rewards of these securities are retained.
Loss Account except for equity instruments designated
under AFS at the time of initial recognition, in respect a) Debt securities
of which the gains and losses are transferred from AFS
Reserve to the Capital Reserve. Hitherto, entire Profit Debt securities, including Government Securities are
/ Loss on sale of investments, were recognised in the considered as “held to maturity” and accordingly valued
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account. at historical cost, subject to amortisation of premium or
accretion of discount, if any, over the period of maturity
Cost of investments is determined based on the weighted / holding on a straight-line basis.
average cost method. The profit from sale of investment
under HTM and Group Cos. categories, net off taxes Money market instruments like Commercial Papers,
and transfer to statutory reserve is appropriated from Certificate of Deposit, Treasury Bills (T-Bills) and Tri-Party
the Profit and Loss Account to “Capital Reserve”, in Repo (TREPS) are valued at historical cost, subject to
accordance with RBI guidelines. amortisation of premium or accretion of discount over
the period of maturity / holding on a straight-line basis.
Short sale: Fixed Deposits and Reverse Repo are valued at cost.
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central Investments in Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) and
Government dated securities in accordance with the RBI Security Receipts are valued at cost, subject to provision
guidelines. The short position is categorised under HFT for diminution, if any, in the value of such investments
and netted off from investments in government securities. determined separately for each individual investment.
The short position along with other government securities
under HFT portfolio is marked to market and the resultant b) Equity shares, Equity Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs),
MTM profit or loss, is taken to the Consolidated Profit and Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs), Real Estate
Loss Account. Profit / Loss on short sale is recognised Investment Trusts (REITs) and Additional Tier I Bonds
on settlement date. (AT1 Bonds).
Life Insurance
Listed equity shares, equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs are
valued at fair value, being the last quoted closing price
Investments are made in accordance with the Insurance on the primary exchange as at the Balance Sheet date. In
Act, 1938 (amended by the Insurance Laws (Amendment) case, the equity shares and equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs
Act, 2015), the IRDAI (Investment) Regulations, 2016, are not traded on the primary exchange on the Balance
and various other circulars / notifications issued by the Sheet date, the closing price on the secondary exchange
IRDAI in this context from time to time. Investments is considered. If the equity shares are not traded on any
are recognised at cost on the date of purchase, which exchange on the Balance Sheet date, then the price
include brokerage and taxes, if any, but exclude interest at which the equity shares are traded on the earliest
accrued (i.e. since the previous coupon date) as on the previous day is considered for valuation, provided such
date of purchase. previous day price is not more than 30 days prior to the
Balance Sheet date.
464
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
In case the equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs are not traded Sheet date, the closing price on the secondary exchange
either on the primary or the secondary exchange on the is considered.
Balance Sheet date, then the equity ETFs are valued at
the latest available Net Asset Value (NAV) and in case of If preference shares are not traded either on any exchange
InvITs and REITs where the market quote is not available on the Balance Sheet date, then the price at which the
for the last 30 days, the InvITs and REITs are valued at the preference shares are traded on the earliest previous
latest NAV (not more than 6 months old) as published by day is considered for valuation, provided such previous
the Infrastructure Investment Trust / Real Estate Trusts. day price is not more than 30 days prior to the Balance
Sheet date.
The AT1 Bonds are valued at market value, using
applicable market yields published by SEBI registered Unrealised gains or losses arising due to changes in
rating agency Credit Rating Information Services of India fair value are recognised under the head ‘Reserves and
Limited (‘CRISIL’), using Bond Valuer at deemed maturity Surplus’ under “Other reserves” in the Consolidated
date of 100 years from the date of issue. Balance Sheet.
Unrealised gains or losses arising due to changes in Unlisted preference shares (other than redeemable
fair value are recognised under the head ‘Reserves and preference shares) and listed preference (other than
Surplus’ under “Other reserves” in the Consolidated redeemable preference) shares that are not regularly
Balance Sheet. Such reserve will not be available traded in active markets and which are classified as “thinly
for distribution. traded” as per the aforesaid SEBI guidelines are valued at
historical cost, subject to provision for diminution in the
Unlisted equity shares, listed equity shares and unlisted value, if any, of such investments determined separately
equity warrants that are not regularly traded in active for each individual investment.
markets and which are classified as “thinly traded” as per
the SEBI guidelines governing mutual funds for valuation d) Mutual fund
of thinly traded securities are valued at historical cost,
subject to provision for diminution, if any, in the value Mutual fund units held at the Balance Sheet date are
of such investments determined separately for each valued at previous business day’s Net Asset Value (NAV)
individual investment. Listed equity ETFs that are not per unit. Unrealised gains or losses arising due to changes
regularly traded in the active markets, and which are in the fair value of mutual fund units are recognised under
classified as “thinly traded” as per the aforesaid SEBI the head ‘Reserves and Surplus’ under “Other reserves”
guidelines are valued at the latest available NAV. in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Bonus entitlements are recognised as investments on Classification and valuation of investment (linked
the ‘ex-bonus date’. Right entitlements are accrued and business) is done on the following basis.
recognised on the date the original share (on which
a) Debt Securities
the right entitlement accrues) are traded on the stock
exchange on an ‘ex-rights date’.
Debt securities, including Government Securities are
valued at market value, using CRISIL Bond Valuer /
c) Preference Shares
CRISIL Gilt Prices, as applicable.
Redeemable preference shares are considered as
Money market instruments like Commercial Papers,
“held to maturity” and accordingly valued at historical
Certificate of Deposits, Treasury Bills (T-Bills) and Tri-
cost, subject to amortisation of premium or accretion
Party Repo (TREPS) are valued at historical cost, subject
of discount.
to amortisation of premium or accretion of discount over
the period of maturity / holding on a straight-line basis.
Listed preference shares other than redeemable
preference shares are valued at fair value, being the
Fixed Deposits and investment in Reverse Repo are
last quoted closing price on the primary exchange at
valued at cost.
the Balance Sheet date. In case, the preference shares
are not traded on the primary exchange on the Balance
465
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
Unrealised gains or losses arising on valuation of debt In case of InvITs and REITs where the market quote is
securities are accounted for in the Consolidated Profit not available for the last 30 days, the InvITs shall be
and Loss Account. valued at the latest NAV (not more than 6 months old) as
published by the Infrastructure Investment Trust / Real
Securities with call options are valued at the lower of Estate Trusts.
the values as obtained by valuing the security to the
final maturity date or to the call option date by using the Unrealised gains or losses arising on such valuations
benchmark rate based on the matrix released by CRISIL are accounted for in the Consolidated Profit and
on daily basis. In case there are multiple call options, the Loss Account.
security is valued at the lowest value obtained by valuing
the security to the various call dates or to the final maturity Listed equity shares that are not regularly traded in active
date. Securities with put options are valued at the higher markets, and which are classified as “thinly traded” as
of the value as obtained by valuing the security to the per the guidelines governing mutual funds for valuation of
final maturity date or to the put option date by using the thinly traded securities laid down by SEBI, are valued at
benchmark rate based on the matrix released by CRISIL historical cost, subject to provision for diminution, if any,
on daily basis. In case there are multiple put options, the in the value of such investment determined separately for
security is valued at the highest value obtained by valuing each individual investment.
the security to the various put option dates or to the final
maturity date. Tier II Bonds are valued at their maturity Listed equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs that are not regularly
date through bond valuer. traded in the active markets and which are classified as
“thinly traded” as per the guidelines governing Mutual
Securities with both put and call options on the same day Funds for valuation of thinly traded securities laid down
are deemed to mature on the put and call option day and by SEBI, are valued at the latest available NAV.
would be valued on a yield to maturity basis, by using the
benchmark rate based on the matrix released by CRISIL Bonus entitlements are recognised as investments on
on daily basis. the ‘ex-bonus date’. Right entitlements are accrued and
recognised on the date the original shares (on which
b) Equity shares, Equity Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), the right entitlement accrues) are traded on the stock
Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs), Real Estate exchange on the ‘ex-rights date’.
Investment Trusts (REITs), Additional Tier I Bonds (AT1
Bonds) and Preference shares. All unlisted redeemable preference shares are considered
as held to maturity and stated at historical cost.
Listed equity shares, equity ETFs, preference shares,
Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) and Real Estate c) Mutual funds
Investment Trusts (REITs) are valued and stated at fair
value, being the last quoted closing price on the primary Mutual fund units held at the Balance Sheet date
exchange at the Balance Sheet date. In case, the equity are valued at previous business day’s NAV per unit.
shares, equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs are not traded on Unrealised gains or losses arising due to change in
the primary exchange on the Balance Sheet date, the the fair value of mutual fund units are recognised in the
closing price on the secondary exchange is considered. Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
If equity shares / preference shares are not traded either Impairment of Investments:
on NSE or BSE on the Balance Sheet date, then the price
The life insurance entity periodically assesses at each
at which the equity shares / preference shares are traded
Balance Sheet date whether there is any indication of
on the earliest previous day is considered for valuation,
impairment of investments or reversal of impairment
provided such previous day price is not more than 30
loss earlier recognised. An impairment loss is accounted
days prior to the Balance Sheet date.
for as an expense in the Consolidated Profit and Loss
Account to the extent of the difference between the re-
In case the equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs are not traded
measured fair value of the investments and its weighted
either on NSE or BSE on the Balance Sheet date, then
acquisition cost as reduced by any earlier impairment
the equity ETFs are valued at the latest available NAV.
466
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
loss accounted for as an expense in the Consolidated All mutual fund investments are valued at NAV as at
Profit and Loss Account. Any reversal of impairment reporting date.
loss earlier recognised in Consolidated Profit and Loss
Account, is accounted in the Consolidated Profit and Equity shares actively traded and convertible preference
Loss Account. shares as at the reporting date are stated at fair value,
being the last quoted closing price on the primary
Purchase and sale transactions between unit exchange i.e., NSE. However, in case of any stock not
linked funds: being listed on NSE, the same is valued based on the
last quoted closing price on BSE. Investment in unlisted
The purchase and sale of equity, preference shares, shares is stated at historical cost. AT I Bond Investments
ETFs, InvITs, REITs and Government Securities between are fair valued at market yield rates published by rating
unit linked funds is accounted for at the prevailing market agency registered with SEBI.
price on the date of purchase or sale of investments, if
prevailing market price of any security is not available on Any unrealized gains / losses arising due to change in
the date of transfer of investment, then the last available fair value of mutual fund investments, listed equity shares
price is considered. In case of debt securities other and AT I Bonds are accounted in “Other reserves” and
than Government Securities, transfer of investments is carried forward in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and
accounted at previous day valuation price in accordance is not available for distribution.
with IRDAI (Investment) Regulations, 2016.
Pursuant to the provisions of IRDAI Circular, the
General Insurance
Investment made by the general insurance entity, and fair
value change account are bifurcated into Policyholders
Classification:
and Shareholders funds on notional basis.
Investments are classified under six groups (hereinafter
The general insurance entity assesses whether any
called “groups”) – Government Securities, Other
impairment has occurred on its investments at each
Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds,
reporting date. If any such indication exists, then carrying
Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and Other
value of such investment is reduced to its recoverable
Investments. Purchase and sale transactions in securities
amount / market value on the reporting date and the
are accounted on trade date. Investments are recorded
impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Profit
at cost, which include brokerage, taxes, if any, stamp
and Loss Account. If at the reporting date, there is any
duty and excludes broken period interest.
indication that a previously assessed impairment loss no
Valuation: longer exists, then impairment loss earlier recognised
in Consolidated Profit and Loss Account is reversed in
Investments are made and accounted in accordance Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and the investment
with the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended by Insurance is restated to that extent.
Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, the Insurance Regulatory
and Development Authority (Investment) Regulations, Other Subsidiaries
2000, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
Classification:
of India (Actuarial, Finance and Investment Functions of
Insurers) Regulations, 2024 as amended and various
With effect from April 01, 2024, investments are classified
other circulars / notifications issued by the IRDAI in this
on the date of purchase into “Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’),
context from time to time.
“Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Fair value through Profit
and Loss” (‘FVTPL’) categories, (hereinafter called
All debt securities excluding AT I Bonds, and non-
“categories”). All investments in subsidiaries, associates
convertible preference shares are stated at historical
and joint ventures are categorized in a distinct category
cost subject to amortisation of premium or accretion
- Group companies (“Group cos”). Under each of these
of discount on constant yield to maturity basis in the
categories, the investments are further classified under
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account over the period of
six groups (hereinafter called “groups”) - Government
maturity / holding.
Securities, Other Approved Securities, Shares,
467
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
Debentures and Bonds, Investments in Subsidiaries Valuation:
/ Joint Ventures and Other Investments. Hitherto,
• Initial Recognition: All investments are measured
investments were classified into long term and current
at fair value on initial recognition unless facts
investments in accordance with Accounting Standard
and circumstances suggest that the fair value is
13 (AS-13) “Accounting for Investments”.
materially different from the acquisition cost.
Purchase and sale transactions in securities are
• Subsequent Measurement: Investments classified
accounted on settlement date except in the case of
under FVTPL and AFS categories are fair valued
equity shares which are accounted on trade date.
individually. Net gain or loss arising on such valuation
Basis of classification: of FVTPL category is directly credited or debited
to the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account. The
Investments which the company intends to hold till net appreciation or depreciation (adjusted for the
maturity and where their contractual terms give rise effect of applicable taxes, if any) in AFS Category is
to cash flows that are solely payment of principal and directly credited or debited to AFS reserve without
interest on principal (SPPI) outstanding are classified routing through the Consolidated Profit and Loss
under HTM category. Investments which are acquired Account. Hitherto, current investments were valued
with an objective that is achieved by both collecting at cost or market / fair value whichever was lower
contractual cash flows and selling securities and where and Provision for diminution was recognised for a
the contractual term of the investment gives rise to cash decline, if any, which was other than temporary in
flows that are solely payment of principal and interest the value of long-term investments.
on principal outstanding are classified under AFS
category. Investments not classified in either of the above • Investment portfolio is categorised into three fair
categories are classified under FVTPL category. Hitherto, value hierarchies viz. Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3:
investments that were intended to be held for more than
one year from the date on which the investments were (cid:23) Level 1 – the financial instruments are valued
made, were classified as long term investments and with inputs such as quoted prices in active
investments, which were intended to be held for less markets for identical instruments.
than one year from the date on which the investments
were made, were classified as current investments. (cid:23) Level 2 – the financial instruments are valued
with inputs other than quoted prices, that are
Acquisition cost: observable for asset or liability either directly
or indirectly.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the
acquisition of investment classified under HTM or AFS (cid:23) Level 3 – the financial instruments are valued
are added to the fair value of the investment on initial using unobservable inputs.
recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the
acquisition of investments classified under FVTPL are • Investments classified under HTM and Group Cos.
recognised immediately in statement of Consolidated categories are carried at their acquisition cost and
Profit and Loss Account. not marked to market. Any diminution, other than
temporary, in the value of investments in HTM and
Disposal of investments:
Group Cos. category is provided for.
Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid
• For all debt securities meeting SPPI criteria, any
categories is recognised in the Consolidated Profit and
discount or premium on acquisition is accreted or
Loss Account except for equity investment designated
amortised over the remaining maturity period of
as AFS at the time of initial recognition wherein the gains
the security.
and losses therefrom are transferred from AFS Reserve
to the Capital Reserve.
468
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
2. Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions: Loans reported as frauds are classified as loss assets
and fully provided for immediately without considering
Repurchase (Repo) and reverse repurchase (Reverse the value of security.
Repo) transactions are reported as borrowing and
lending (lending above 14 days tenor reported as The Bank maintains general provision for standard
advances) respectively. assets including credit exposures computed as per the
current marked to market values of interest rate and
Borrowing cost on repo transactions is accounted foreign exchange derivative contracts and gold. The
as interest expense and revenue on reverse repo Bank also maintains general provision for unhedged
transactions is accounted as interest income. foreign currency exposures of borrowers, provision on
loans to specific borrowers in specific stressed sectors,
3. Advances
provision on exposures to step-down subsidiaries of
Indian companies and provision on specified borrowers
Bank
as prescribed by RBI. In the case of overseas branches,
Classification: general provision on standard assets is maintained at the
higher of the levels stipulated by the respective overseas
Advances are classified as performing and non- regulator or RBI. The provision for standard assets is
performing based on the RBI guidelines and are stated included under other liabilities.
net of bills rediscounted, inter-bank participation with
risk, specific loan loss provision, interest suspense In addition to the above, the Bank on a prudent basis
for non-performing advances, claims received from makes provision on advances or exposures which
Credit Guarantors, provision for funded interest term are not NPAs but has reasons to believe on the basis
loan and provision for diminution in the fair value of of the extant environment or specific information or
restructured assets. basis regulatory guidance / instructions, of a possible
slippage of a specific advance or a group of advances or
The Bank classifies its loans and investments, including exposures or potential exposures. These are classified as
overseas branches and overdues from crystallised contingent provisions and included under other liabilities.
derivative contracts, into performing assets and non-
performing assets (NPAs) in accordance with RBI Provision made in addition to the Bank’s policy for specific
guidelines. Further, the NPAs are classified into sub- loan loss provision for non-performing assets, possible
standard, doubtful and loss assets based on the criteria slippage of specific exposures and regulatory general
stipulated by RBI. Non-performing assets are upgraded provision is categorised as floating provision. Creation of
into standard as per the extant RBI guidelines. floating provision is considered by the Bank up to a level
approved by the Board of Directors. Floating provisions
Provisioning: are used only for contingencies under extraordinary
circumstances and for making specific provisions
Specific loan loss provision in respect of non-performing for non-performing accounts. Floating provisions are
advances is made based on management’s assessment included under other liabilities.
of the degree of impairment of advances, subject to the
minimum provisioning prescribed by the RBI. Further, to the provisions required to be held according
to the asset classification status, provision is held for
The specific loan loss provision for retail non-performing individual country exposures (other than for home country
advances is also made based on the nature of product exposure). Countries are categorised into risk categories
and delinquency levels. as per Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India
Limited (‘ECGC’) guidelines and provisioning is made in
Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance respect of that country where the net funded exposure is
with the Bank’s policy. Recoveries from bad debts one percent or more of the Bank’s total assets. Provision
written-off are included under other income. for country risk is included under other liabilities.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines on the prudential
framework for resolution of stressed assets and the
469
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
resolution frameworks for COVID-19 related stress and Life Insurance
its Board approved policy, the Bank has implemented
Classification:
resolution plans for eligible borrowers. The asset
classification and necessary provision thereon is made
Advances are classified as performing and non-
in accordance with the said RBI guidelines. Restructured
performing and are valued at historical cost and are
assets involving compromise settlements where the
stated net of loan loss provision.
time for payment of the agreed settlement amount
exceeds three months are classified and provided for in
Provisioning:
accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI from
time to time. All assets where the interest and / or instalment of
principal repayment remain overdue for more than 90
The restructured loans are upgraded into standard days at the Balance Sheet date are classified as non-
category as per the extant RBI guidelines. Further, in performing assets (NPA) and provided for in the manner
respect of restructuring of loans pertaining to projects required by the IRDAI regulations on this behalf. In line
under implementation, the asset classification and with the guidelines on prudential norms for income
necessary provision thereon is made in accordance with recognition, asset classification, provisioning, and other
the said RBI guidelines. related matters in respect of debt portfolio, life insurance
entity has provided minimum percentage on the value of
Non Banking finance companies
the standard assets. The provision for standard assets
is included under other liabilities.
Classification:
Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance
Advances are classified as standard, sub-standard and
with the policy as approved by the Board of life insurance
doubtful assets as per the policy approved by the Board
entity. Recoveries from bad debts written-off are included
of the respective entity and as per RBI guidelines. The
under other income.
rates applied for making provisions on non-performing
assets (NPA) are higher than those prescribed by the
4. Securitisation and transfer of assets
relevant RBI guidelines. Interest on non-performing
assets is transferred to an interest suspense account
Assets transferred through securitisation and direct
and not recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss
assignment of cash flows are de-recognised in the
Account until received. Advances are recognised on
Consolidated Balance Sheet when they are sold (true sale
disbursement of loan and in case of new asset financing
criteria being fully met with) and consideration is received.
on the transfer of ownership. The non-banking finance
Sales / transfers that do not meet true sale criteria are
entity provides 0.40% on standard assets as stipulated
accounted for as borrowings. For a securitisation or direct
by RBI guidelines. The NBFCs assesses all advances for
assignment transaction, the Group recognises profit
their recoverability and accordingly recognises provision
upon receipt of the funds and loss is recognised at the
for non-performing and doubtful assets as per approved
time of sale. Unrealised gains, associated with expected
policies and guidelines. The non-banking finance entity
future margin income is recognised in Consolidated Profit
ensures provisions made are not lower than as stipulated
and Loss Account on receipt, after absorbing losses,
by RBI guidelines.
if any.
Loan origination costs:
On sale of stressed assets, if the sale is at a price
below the net book value (i.e., funded outstanding less
Brokerage, commission, incentive to employee, etc.
specific provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the
paid at the time of acquisition of loans are charged
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and if the sale is
to expenses.
for a value higher than the net book value, the excess
provision is credited to the Consolidated Profit and Loss
Account in the year when the sum of cash received by
way of initial consideration and / or redemption or transfer
of security receipts issued by Securitisation Company
(‘SC’) / Reconstruction Company (‘RC’) exceeds the
470
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
net book value of the loan at the time of transfer. Where Subsequent expenditure incurred on assets put to use
the sale consideration is comprised of only cash and is capitalised only when it increases the future benefit /
SRs guaranteed by the Government of India, the excess functioning capability from / of such assets.
provision is credited to the Consolidated Profit and Loss
Account in the year of transfer. Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of
the fixed asset on a straight-line basis except for freehold
In respect of stressed assets sold under an asset land. The management believes that the useful life of
securitisation, where the investment by the Group in SRs assets assessed by the Group, pursuant to Part C of
issued against the assets transferred by it is more than 10 Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013, taking into
percent of such SRs, provisions held against outstanding account changes in environment, changes in technology,
SRs are higher of the provisions required in terms of net the utility and efficacy of the asset in use, fairly reflects its
asset value declared by the SC / RC and provisions estimate of useful lives of the fixed assets. The estimated
as per the extant norms applicable to the underlying useful lives of key fixed assets are given below:
loans, notionally treating the book value of these SRs as
the corresponding stressed loans assuming the loans
Estimated useful life as
remained in the books of the Group. Asset assessed by the Group
Owned Premises 50 to 60 years
The Group invests in PTCs issued by Special Purpose Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) 10 years
Vehicles (SPVs). These are accounted at acquisition cost Electrical equipments and 6 to 10 years
and are classified as investments. The Group also buys installations
loans through the direct assignment route which are Office equipments 3 to 10 years
classified as advances. PTCs are carried at acquisition Computers 2 to 5 years
cost unless it is more than the face value, in which case Modems, routers, switches, 3 to 6 years
servers, network and related IT
the premium is amortised based on effective interest
equipments
rate method.
Motor cars 4 to 8 years
Safe deposit lockers 21 years
The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank
Furniture and fittings 3 to 16 years
participation with and without risk. In the case of
participation with risk, the aggregate amount of the Salvaged vehicles 5 years
participation issued by the Bank is reduced from Computer software licenses 3 to 5 years
advances. In case where the Bank is assuming risk by
Electronic trading platform 5 years
participation, the aggregate amount of the participation (Website)
is classified under advances. In the case of issue of Bombay Stock Exchange card 10 years
participation certificate without risk, the aggregate
amount of participation issued by the Bank is classified
• Leasehold land is depreciated over the period
under borrowings and where the Bank is acquiring
of lease.
participation certificate, the aggregate amount of
participation acquired is shown as due from banks
• Improvements to leasehold premises are amortised
under advances.
over the remaining period of lease for other than
Asset Management entity. In case of Asset
5. Fixed assets and depreciation
Management entity, amortisation is made over the
lease term or 5 years, whichever is less.
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation as adjusted for impairment, if any. Cost
• Software and system development expenditure is
includes cost of purchase and all expenditure like site
amortised over a period upto 5 years.
preparation, installation costs and professional fees
incurred on the asset before it is ready to use. Cost
• Point of Sales (PoS) terminals (including sound box)
of an intangible asset includes purchase price, non-
are depreciated over a period of 4 years.
refundable taxes and duties and any other directly
attributable expenditure on making the asset ready for its
• For assets purchased and sold during the year,
intended use and net of any trade discounts and rebates.
depreciation is provided on pro-rata basis.
471
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
• Whenever there is a revision of the estimated market instruments, liquid mutual funds and / or
useful life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable fixed deposits of scheduled banks which is valued
amount is charged over the revised remaining useful at historical cost, subject to amortisation of premium
life of the said asset. or accretion of discount over the period of maturity
/ holding on a straight-line basis. Such assets of
• Profit on sale of immovable property net of taxes unclaimed amount of policyholders is disclosed in
and transfer to statutory reserve, are transferred to “Other assets” in Consolidated Balance Sheet.
capital reserve by the Bank.
c) Income on unclaimed amount of policyholders
• Assets (other than PoS terminals) costing less than is accreted to respective unclaimed fund and is
` 5,000 individually are fully depreciated in the year accounted for on an accrual basis, net of fund
of purchase except general insurance entity. management charges.
• Goodwill generated through amalgamation / d) Amounts remaining unclaimed for a period of 10
acquisition of rights to operate, administer and years as on 30th September every year along with
manage the mutual fund schemes has been all respective accretions to the fund are deposited
amortized equally over a period of 10 years by Asset into the Senior Citizen Welfare Fund (SCWF) as per
Management entity. requirement of IRDAI regulations.
6. Non-Banking Assets General insurance
Non-Banking Assets (NBAs) acquired in satisfaction Unclaimed amounts may arise in respect of premium
of claims are carried at lower of net book value or net due for refund and indemnity claims. Income earned on
realizable value. unclaimed amounts is accreted and accounted on an
accrual basis. After 10 years, the unclaimed amounts
7. Impairment of assets and their accretions are deposited into the Senior Citizen
Welfare Fund as per IRDAI regulations.
The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date
whether there is any indication that an asset may be 9. Translation of foreign currency items
impaired. Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent
the carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated Foreign currency income and expenditure items of
recoverable amount. domestic operations are translated at the exchange
rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. Income
8. Unclaimed amount of policyholders and expenditure items of integral foreign operations
(representative offices) are translated at the weekly
Life Insurance
average closing rates and of non-integral foreign
operations (foreign branches and offshore banking units)
Assets held for unclaimed amount of policyholders
and foreign subsidiaries at the average closing rates.
are created and maintained in accordance with the
requirement of Master circular on Unclaimed Amount
Outstanding foreign currency monetary assets and
of Policyholders and Investment Regulations, 2016 as
liabilities of domestic and integral foreign operations
amended from time to time.
are translated at the closing exchange rates notified by
Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI)
a) U nclaimed amount of policyholder’s liability is
and RBI in case of Bank and subsidiaries, respectively, as
determined on the basis of NAV of the units
at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting net revaluation
outstanding as at the valuation date and is
profit or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Profit and
disclosed in “Other liabilities and provisions” in the
Loss Account.
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency
b) The life insurance entity maintains a single
assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations
segregated fund to manage all unclaimed amounts
/ subsidiaries are translated at closing exchange rates
and the sum of such fund is invested in money
472
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss liability) at the inception of the transaction itself. Hedge
arising from exchange differences are accumulated in the effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve until disposal of the of the hedge and at the reporting date thereafter.
non-integral foreign operations in accordance with AS-11,
The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates and Foreign exchange forward contracts and Principal only
the extant RBI guidelines. swaps (POS) not intended for trading, that are entered into
to establish the amount of reporting currency required or
Foreign currency denominated contingent liabilities available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are
on account of foreign exchange and derivative outstanding at the Balance Sheet date, are accounted in
contracts, guarantees, letters of credit, acceptances accordance with AS-11. Accordingly, such contracts are
and endorsements are translated at closing rates of not marked to market and only translated at spot rate.
exchange notified by FEDAI and RBI in case of Bank and The premium or discount arising at the inception of such
subsidiaries, respectively, as at the Balance Sheet date. forward exchange contract is amortised on a straight-line
basis as expense or income over the life of the contract.
10. Foreign exchange and derivative contracts The interest income / expense on such POS transaction
is accounted on accrual basis.
Foreign exchange spot and forward contracts,
outstanding as at the Balance Sheet date and held for In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair
trading, are revalued at the closing spot and forward value of the hedging instruments and hedged items are
rates respectively as notified by FEDAI and at interpolated recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
rates for contracts of interim maturities. The USD-INR and in case of cash flow hedges, the changes in fair
exchange rate for valuation of contracts having longer value of effective portion are recognised in Reserves and
maturities i.e., greater than one year, is derived using Surplus under ‘Cash flow hedge reserve’ and ineffective
the USD-INR spot rate as well as relevant INR yield portion of an effective hedging relationship, if any, is
curve and USD yield curve. For other currency pairs recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
and non-deliverable contracts, the forward points (for The accumulated balance in the cash flow hedge reserve,
rates / tenors not published by FEDAI) are obtained / in an effective hedging relationship, is recycled in the
derived basis data published by Refinitiv or Bloomberg Consolidated Profit and Loss Account at the same time
for valuation of the contracts. Valuation is considered on that impact from the hedged item is recognised in the
present value basis. For this purpose, the forward profit consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
or loss on the contracts are discounted to the valuation
date using the discounting yields. The resulting profit or In relation to derivative contracts with non-performing
loss on valuation is recognised in the Consolidated Profit borrowers, the Group makes provision for the entire
and Loss Account. Marked to market value of foreign amount of overdue and future receivables relating
exchange contracts are classified as assets when the to positive marked to market value of the said
fair value is positive or as liabilities when the fair value derivative contracts.
is negative.
Further, in addition to above, the Life Insurance entity
The Group recognises all derivative contracts at fair accounts the Interest rate derivative contracts for
value, on the date on which such derivative contracts hedging of highly probable forecasted transactions on
are entered into and are re-measured at fair value as at insurance contracts and investment cash flows in life,
the Balance Sheet date. Marked to market values of such pension and annuity business, in the manner specified
derivatives are classified as assets when the fair value is in accordance with ‘Guidance Note on Accounting for
positive or as liabilities when the fair value is negative. Derivative Contracts (Revised 2021)’ issued by the ICAI
and IRDAI Investment Master Circular.
The Group as part of its risk management strategy, makes
use of derivative instruments, including foreign exchange
forward contracts, interest rate derivative contract for
hedging the risk embedded in some of its financial assets
or liabilities recognised on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet. The Group identifies the hedged item (asset or
473
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
11. Revenue recognition for as income when such policies are reinstated.
Premium for products having regular premium
a. Banking:
paying plans with limited and / or predetermined
policy term is considered as regular premium.
• Interest income is recognised in the Consolidated
Premium on products other than as mentioned
Profit and Loss Account on an accrual basis, except
above is considered as single premium. Top up
in the case of non-performing assets which is
premium is considered as single premium.
recognised when realised.
• Gross reinsurance premium written comprise the
• Interest income on investments in PTCs and loans
total premiums receivable for the whole period of
bought out through the direct assignment route is
cover provided by contracts entered into during the
recognised at their effective interest rate.
year and are recognised on the date on which the
cover commences in the Consolidated Profit and
• Income on non-coupon bearing discounted
Loss Account. Premiums include any adjustments
instruments is recognised over the tenor of the
arising in the year for premiums receivable in respect
instrument on a constant yield basis.
of business written in prior years.
• Dividend on equity shares and preference shares is
• Income from linked policies, which includes fund
recognised as income when the right to receive the
management charges, policy administration
dividend is established.
charges, mortality charges and other charges,
wherever applicable, is recovered from the linked
• Income from units of mutual funds / AIF is recognised
funds in accordance with the terms and conditions
on cash basis.
of the policies and is accounted for as income
when due.
• Loan processing fee is recognised as income
when due. Syndication / Arranger fee is recognised
• Interest income on policy reinstatement is
as income when a significant act / milestone
accounted for on received basis. Interest income on
is completed.
investments and policy loans is accounted for on an
accrual basis. Amortisation of premium or accretion
• Gain / loss on sell down of loans is recognised in
of discount computed at the time of purchase of
line with the extant RBI guidelines.
debt securities is recognised over the remaining
period of maturity / holding on a straight-line basis.
• Guarantee commission, commission on letter of
credit, annual locker rent fees and annual fees
• Fees received on lending of equity shares under
for credit cards are recognised on a straight-
Securities Lending and Borrowing scheme (SLB) is
line basis over the period of contract. Other fees
recognised as income over the period of the lending
and commission income are recognised when
on a straight-line basis.
due, where the Bank is reasonably certain of
ultimate collection.
• Profit or loss on sale / redemption of equity
shares / Equity Exchange Traded funds (ETFs),
• Fees paid / received for priority sector lending
Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs), Real Estate
certificates (PSLC) is recognised on straight-line
Investments Trusts (REITs), preference shares and
basis over the period of the certificate.
units of mutual fund is calculated as the difference
between sale proceeds / redemption proceeds
b. Life Insurance:
net of sale expenses and the weighted average
book value as on date of sale. In case of other than
• Premium income from non-linked business including
linked business, profit or loss on sale / redemption
rider premium (net of Goods & Services Tax) is
of equity shares / equity ETFs, InvITs, REITs,
accounted for when due from the policyholders.
preference shares, AT I Bonds and units of mutual
In case of linked business, premium income is
fund includes the accumulated changes in the fair
accounted for when the associated units are
created. Premium on lapsed policies is accounted
474
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
value previously recognised under “other reserves” fund units, the profit or loss on sale of investment
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. includes the accumulated changes in the fair value
previously recognised under “Other reserves”. The
• In case of linked business, profit or loss on sale / difference between the acquisition price and the
redemption of debt securities is calculated as the maturity value of treasury bills is recognised as
difference between net sale proceeds / redemption income in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account,
proceeds and the weighted average book cost. In as the case, may be, over the remaining term of
case of other than linked business, profit or loss on these instruments on a yield to maturity basis. Sale
sale / redemption of debt securities is calculated as consideration for the purpose of realised gain / loss
the difference between sales proceeds / redemption is net of brokerage and taxes, if any, and excludes
proceeds net of sale expenses and the weighted interest received on sale.
average amortised cost.
• Dividend on equity and preference shares is
• Dividend income is accounted for on “ex-dividend” recognised as income when the right to receive the
date in case of listed equity and preference shares dividend is established.
and in case of unlisted equity and preference shares,
when the right to receive dividend is established. d. Asset Management:
c. General insurance: • Investment management fees, portfolio
management fees and other advisory fees are
• Premium including reinsurance accepted (net of recognised on an accrual basis.
Goods & Services Tax) is recognised as income over
the contract period or period of risk, as appropriate, • Interest income is recognised using constant yield
after adjusting for unearned premium (unexpired to maturity basis.
risk). Any subsequent revisions to or cancellations
of premiums are accounted for in the period in • Gains / losses on sale of investments are recognised
which they occur. Instalment cases are recorded on in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account. Profit
instalment due dates. In case of long-term policies, / loss on sale of investments is determined on a
premium collected at the time of sale for the entire weighted average cost basis.
policy duration, is recognised on a yearly basis i.e.
on ‘1/n’ basis where ‘n’ is the policy duration, in • Income from Investment in VCF / AIF is recognised
terms of IRDAI Master Circular on Actuarial, Finance on the basis of income distribution by the respective
and Investment Functions of Insurers dated May VCF / AIF.
17, 2024. Commission on reinsurance ceded is
recognised as income on ceding of reinsurance • Dividend is recognised as income when the right to
premium as per treaty terms. Profit commission receive the dividend is established.
under reinsurance treaties, wherever applicable, is
recognised in the year of final determination of the e. Stock Broking:
profits and as intimated by the Reinsurer.
• Income from services rendered as a broker is
recognised upon rendering of the services.
• Interest income from investments is recognised
on an accrual basis. Accretion of discount and
• Fees for subscription based services are received
amortisation of premium relating to debt securities
periodically but are recognised as earned on a pro-
is recognised over the holding / maturity period on
rata basis over the term of the contract.
a constant yield to maturity basis.
• Commissions from distribution of financial products
• The net realised gains or losses on the debt
are recognised upon allotment of the securities to
securities are the difference between the net sale
the applicant or as the case may be, issue of the
consideration and the amortised cost, which is
insurance policy to the applicant.
computed on a weighted average basis, as on the
date of sale. In case of listed equity shares / mutual
475
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
• Interest income is recognised on a time proportion subsidiary companies provides for the grant of options
basis taking into account the amount outstanding / Restricted Stock Units (units) to eligible employees
from customers or on the financial instrument and and whole time directors to acquire equity shares of the
the rate applicable. entities they belong to. The options / units granted shall
vest as per their vesting schedule and these may be
• Dividend income is recognised when the right to exercised within a specified period.
receive the dividend is established.
The Group followed the intrinsic value method to account
f. Others: for its stock-based employee compensation plans
in respect of options granted up to March 31, 2021.
• Commission, brokerage, trusteeship, management Compensation cost was measured by the excess, if
/ performance fees, consultancy fees and other any, of the market price of the underlying stock over the
service charges are recognised on an accrual exercise price as determined under the option plan. The
basis upon rendering of services to the extent that market price is the closing price on the stock exchange
it is probable that the economic benefits will flow where there is highest trading volume on the working
to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably day immediately preceding the date of grant. In case
measured regardless of when the payment is of unlisted subsidiaries, the fair value is considered in
being made. absence of market price.
• Dividend income is accounted for when the right Effective April 01, 2021, the fair value of share-linked
to receive the income is established. Dividends instruments on the date of grant for all instruments granted
from units of mutual funds, where received, are after March 31, 2021, is recognised as an expense in
accounted on receipt of such amounts. accordance with the RBI guidelines on Compensation of
Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material
• Interest income (net of amortized premium / Risk Takers and Control Function staff. The fair value of
accreted discount, if any) is recognised on a time the stock-based employee compensation is estimated
proportion basis. on the date of grant using Black-Scholes model.
• Gains or losses arising from disposal of fixed assets The compensation cost is amortised on a straight-line
are measured as the difference between the net basis over the vesting period after adjusting estimated
disposal proceeds and carrying amount of the asset forfeiture as applicable. Ultimately, the cost for all
and is recognised in the Consolidated Profit and instruments that vest is recognised. The compensation
Loss Account when the asset is disposed. expense is recognised in the Consolidated Profit and
Loss Account with a corresponding credit to Employee
• In case of pension business, point of presence Stock Options Outstanding. On exercise of the stock
income includes account opening fees, contribution options, corresponding balance in Employee Stock
processing fees, persistency income and exit Options Outstanding is transferred to Share Premium.
charges Account opening fees are due and In respect of the options which expire unexercised,
recognised on generation of Permanent Retirement the balance standing to the credit of Employee Stock
Account Number (PRAN). Contribution processing Options Outstanding is transferred to General Reserve.
fees are recognised on receipt of contribution from
the customer. Persistency income is recognised Gratuity:
on subscriber accounts active for more than six
months. Exit charges are recognised on processing The Group has an obligation towards gratuity, a defined
of exit of the member from NPS. benefit retirement plan covering all eligible employees.
The plan benefit vests upon completion of minimum
12. Employee benefits prescribed period of continuous service in accordance
with the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 and is in the form
Stock based Employee Compensation:
of lump sum amount, without an upper limit, equivalent
to 15 days’* basic salary payable for each completed
The Employee Stock Option Scheme / Employee Stock
year of service to all eligible employees on resignation,
Incentive Master Scheme formulated by Holding or
476
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
retirement or death while in employment or on termination periods during which the related services are rendered
of employment. The Group makes contributions to a by employees.
recognised Gratuity Trust administered by trustees and
whose funds are managed by insurance companies. Provident fund:
In respect of erstwhile Lord Krishna Bank (eLKB)
employees, the Bank makes contribution to a fund set Bank
up by eLKB and administered by the Board of Trustees.
The Bank is covered under the Employees Provident
* One month basic salary to eHDFC Limited employees Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and
for each completed year of service till the effective date of accordingly all employees of the Bank are entitled
amalgamation, one month basic salary to employees of to receive benefits under the provident fund. The
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited for each completed year Bank contributes an amount, on a monthly basis, at
of service or part of the year in excess of 6 months and a determined rate (currently 12% of employee’s basic
15 days basic salary to employees of General Insurance salary). Of this, the Bank contributes an amount equal
entity payable for each completed year of service if the to 8.33% of employee’s basic salary up to a maximum
service is less than or equal to 9 years and one-month salary level of ` 15,000/- per month, to the Pension
basic salary payable for each completed year of service Scheme administered by the Regional Provident Fund
if the service is greater than or equal to 10 years. Office. The balance amount out of the 12% Bank’s share
is contributed to an exempted Trust set up by the Bank
and administered by the Board of Trustees. The Bank
The defined gratuity benefit plans are valued by an
recognises such contributions as an expense in the year
independent actuary as at the Balance Sheet date using
in which it is incurred.
the projected unit credit method as per the requirement of
AS-15, Employee Benefits, to determine the present value
of the defined benefit obligation and the related service Interest payable to the members of the exempted trust
costs. The actuarial calculations entail assumptions shall not be lower than the statutory rate of interest
about demographics, early retirement, salary increases declared by the Central Government under the Employees
and interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is recognised in Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952
the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account. and shortfall, if any, shall be made good by the Bank.
Superannuation: The guidance note on implementing AS-15, Employee
Benefits, states that benefits involving employer
Bank established provident funds, which require interest
shortfalls to be provided, are to be considered as defined
The Bank has a superannuation plan under which benefit plan. Actuarial valuation of this Provident Fund
employees of the Bank, above a prescribed grade, are interest shortfall is done as per the guidance note issued
entitled to receive retirement benefits either through salary in this respect by The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI)
or under a defined contribution plan. For those opting for and provision towards this liability is made.
a defined contribution plan, the Bank contributes a sum
equivalent to 13% of the employee’s eligible annual basic The overseas branches of the Bank make contribution
salary (15% for the whole time directors and for certain to the respective applicable government social security
eligible employees of the erstwhile Centurion Bank of scheme calculated as a percentage of the employees’
Punjab (eCBoP staff) to a Trust administered by trustees salaries. The Bank’s obligations are limited to these
and whose funds are managed by insurance companies. contributions, which are expensed when due, as such
The Bank has no liability towards future superannuation contribution is in the nature of defined contribution.
fund benefits other than its contribution and recognises
such contribution as an expense in the year incurred. Other Subsidiaries
Other subsidiaries The employees of subsidiaries which are covered under
the Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous
Obligations for contributions to superannuation fund Provisions Act, 1952 are entitled to receive benefits under
are recognised as an employee benefit expense the provident fund.
in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account in the
477
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
The subsidiaries recognise contribution payable to the Short-term employee benefits:
provident fund scheme (which is a defined contribution
plan) as an expenditure in the Consolidated Profit and Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured
Loss Account in the periods during which the related on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the
services are rendered by employees. The subsidiaries related service is provided. A liability is recognised for the
have no obligation, other than the contribution payable amount expected to be paid, if the Group have a present
to the provident fund. legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a
result of past service provided by the employee, and the
Pension: amount of obligation can be estimated reliably.
In respect of pension payable to certain eLKB employees Other long term employee benefits:
under the Lord Krishna Bank (Employees) Pension
Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme, the Bank Other long term employee benefits include accumulated
contributes 10% of basic salary to a pension trust set up long term compensated absences and long term
by the Bank and administered by the Board of Trustees incentive plans which can be carried to future periods
and an additional amount towards the liability shortfall and are expected to be availed / encashed in more
based on an independent actuarial valuation as at the than twelve months immediately following the year in
Balance Sheet date, which includes assumptions about which the employee has rendered service / Balance
demographics, early retirement, salary increases and Sheet date, as the case may be. The Group’s liability
interest rates. is accrued and provided for on the basis of an actuarial
valuation using the Projected Unit Credit Method at the
end of the reporting period. Actuarial gains or losses, if
In respect of certain eLKB employees who had moved to
any, due to experience adjustments and the effects of
a Cost to Company (CTC) based compensation structure
changes in actuarial assumptions are accounted for in
and had completed less than 15 years of service, the
the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, as the case
contribution which was made until then, is maintained as
may be, in the period in which they arise.
a fund and will be converted into annuity on separation
after a lock-in-period of two years. For this category
13. Debit and credit cards reward points
of employees, liability stands frozen and no additional
provision is required except for interest as applicable to
The Bank estimates the probable redemption of debit
Provident Fund, which is provided for.
and credit card reward points and cost per point using
an actuarial method by employing an independent
In respect of certain eLKB employees who moved to
actuary, which includes assumptions such as discount
a CTC structure and had completed service of more
rate, block, withdrawal, cost per reward point, mortality,
than 15 years, pension would be paid on separation
redemption and spends. Provisions for liabilities on
based on salary applicable as on the date of movement
the outstanding reward points are made based on an
to CTC structure. Provision thereto is made based on
independent actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet
an independent actuarial valuation as at the Balance
date and included in other liabilities and provisions.
Sheet date.
14. Bullion
National Pension System (NPS):
The Bank imports bullion including precious metal bars
In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the
on a consignment basis or through exchange (India
NPS, the Group contributes certain percentage of the
International Bullion Exchange – Gift City). The imports
basic salary of employees to the aforesaid scheme,
are typically on a back-to-back basis and are priced to the
a defined contribution plan, which is managed and
customer based on the price quoted by the supplier. The
administered by pension fund management companies.
difference between the price recovered from customers
The Group has no liability other than its contribution
and cost of bullion is accounted at the time of sale to the
and recognises such contributions as an expense in the
customers and reported as “Other Income”.
year incurred.
The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending
basis and the interest thereon is accounted as interest
expense / income respectively.
478
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
15. Lease accounting time to time including amendment brought by the
Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, regulations
Lease payments including cost escalation for assets notified by the IRDAI and Actuarial Practice Standard
taken on operating lease are recognised as an expense in (APS) issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India with the
the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account over the lease concurrence of the IRDAI. These liabilities are presented
term on a straight-line basis in accordance with the AS- as a part of Policyholders Funds on liability side of the
19, Leases. Rental income from assets given on operating Consolidated Balance Sheet.
lease is recognised as income in the Consolidated Profit
and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease The specific principles adopted for the valuation of policy
term in accordance with the AS-19, Leases. liabilities are set out as per the IRDAI (Assets, Liabilities
and Solvency Margin of Life Insurance Business)
Finance lease is a lease which confers substantially all Regulations, 2016 and the APS2 & APS7 issued by the
the risks and rewards of the leased assets on the lessee. Institute of Actuaries of India.
Assets given under a finance lease are recorded as a
receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in A brief of the methodology used is as given below:
the lease. Finance lease income is based on a pattern
reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on the net 1. The policy liabilities are valued on policy by policy
investment of the lessor outstanding in respect of the basis, i.e., each policy is valued separately.
finance lease.
2. The reserves for linked business (individual and
Asset taken under finance lease are capitalised at the group) comprise unit reserves and non-unit
lower of the fair value of the asset and present value reserves. The unit reserves are determined on
of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the the basis of NAV of the units outstanding as at the
lease term and are disclosed as leased assets. Lease valuation date and non-unit reserves are calculated
payments are apportioned between the finance charges using gross premium valuation method.
and the corresponding liability to achieve a constant
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
3. The liabilities for individual non-linked non-
Finance charges are charged to the Consolidated Profit
participating and participating business are
and Loss Accounts. Leased assets capitalised under
calculated using gross premium valuation method
finance lease are depreciated on a straight-line basis over
and are subject to the minimum floor of surrender
the lease term.
value. Additionally, individual non-linked participating
policies also have a reference to the asset share of
16. Reserve for unexpired risk
policies at valuation date.
General insurance
4. The liabilities for one year renewable group protection
Reserve for unexpired risk represents that part of the net business are calculated on the unexpired risk
premium written which is attributable to and allocated to premium basis. For other than one year renewable
the succeeding accounting period. Reserve for unexpired group protection business, the liabilities are
risk is calculated on the basis of 1/365th method in all calculated using gross premium valuation method.
segments subject to a minimum of 100% in case of
5. The liabilities for the group non-linked savings
marine hull business.
products are determined as the higher of policy
17. Policyholders’ funds account balances (including accrued interest /
bonuses) and reserves calculated by gross premium
Life Insurance valuation method.
The actuarial liabilities, for all in force policies and policies 6. The liabilities in respect of rider benefits are
where premiums are discontinued but a liability exists as determined as the higher of unexpired premium
at the valuation date, are calculated in accordance with reserves and reserves calculated by gross premium
the generally accepted actuarial principles and practices, valuation method.
requirements of Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from
479
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
7. Additional reserves are determined to: of loss reinsurance cover is accounted as per the terms
of the reinsurance arrangements.
a. allow for the claims that may have occurred already
but not yet reported (Incurred but Not Reported). 19. C laims paid and other expenses pertaining to
insurance business
b. allow for the servicing of existing policies if Life
Insurance were to close the new business one year I. Benefits paid
from the valuation date (Closure to New Business).
Life Insurance
c. meet the expected liabilities that would arise on B enefits paid consist of policy benefit amounts and
the revival of lapsed policies, on the basis of the claim settlement costs, where applicable.
proportion of the policies expected to be revived
based on the revival experience of Life Insurance Non-linked business:
(Revival Reserve).
D eath and rider claims are accounted for on receipt
d. allow for the additional amount required to be paid of intimation. Annuity benefits, periodical benefit
on account of cancellation of policies due to look- and maturity claims are accounted for when due.
in, on the basis of the proportion of the policies Surrenders are accounted for on the receipt of
expected to exercise the look-in option based on consent from the insured to the quote provided by
the experience Life Insurance (Look-in Reserve). the life insurance entity.
e. allow for the cost of guarantees, wherever applicable. Linked business:
The Funds for Future Appropriations (FFA), in the D eath and rider claims are accounted for on receipt
participating segment, represents the surplus, which of intimation. Maturity claims are accounted for on
is not allocated to policyholders or shareholders as at due basis when the associated units are cancelled.
the Balance Sheet date. Transfers to and from the fund Surrenders and withdrawals are accounted for
reflect the excess or deficit of income over expenses on receipt of intimation when associated units
respectively and appropriations in each accounting are cancelled. Amount payable on lapsed /
period arising in the Policyholders’ Fund. Any allocation discontinued policies are accounted for on expiry
to the par policyholders would also give rise to a of lock in period of these policies. Surrenders,
transfer to Consolidated Profit and Loss Account in the withdrawals and lapsation are disclosed at net of
required proportion. charges recoverable.
18. Reinsurance premium ceded C laims receivable from reinsurance companies are
accounted for in the period in which the concerned
Life Insurance
claims are intimated and netted off against the
benefits paid.
Reinsurance premium ceded is accounted for on due
basis in accordance with the terms and conditions of the R epudiated claims and other claims disputed before
reinsurance treaties. Profit commission on reinsurance judicial authorities are provided for on prudent basis
ceded (if applicable) is netted off against premium ceded as considered appropriate by management.
on reinsurance.
II. Claims incurred
General Insurance
General insurance
Reinsurance premium ceded is accounted in the year in
C laims incurred comprises of claims paid (net of
which the risk commences and over the period of risk
salvage and other recoveries), change in estimated
in accordance with the treaty arrangements with the
liability for outstanding claims made following a loss
reinsurers. Reinsurance premium ceded on unearned
occurrence reported, change in estimated liability
premium is carried forward to the period of risk and is set
for claims incurred but not reported (IBNR) and
off against related unearned premium. Any subsequent
claims incurred but not enough reported (IBNER)
revisions to or cancellations of premiums are accounted
and specific settlement costs comprising survey,
for in the year in which they occur. Premium on excess
480
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
legal and other directly attributable expenses. IBNR Belarus (“MCPET”). This pool is managed by the
and IBNER is classified as part of policyholders’ General Insurance Corporation of India (“GIC”). Amounts
funds in the financial statements. Provision is made collected as terrorism premium in accordance with the
for estimated value of outstanding claims at the requirements of the Tariff Advisory Committee (“TAC”)
reporting date net of reinsurance, salvage and other are ceded at 100% of the terrorism premium collected
recoveries. Such provision is made on the basis of to the Terrorism Pool and Amounts collected as MCPET
the ultimate amounts that are likely to be paid on premium in accordance with the requirements of the
each claim, established by the management in light MCPET Agreement, are ceded at 96% to the MCPET
of past experience and progressively modified for Pool, after utilising the obligatory cession. The reinsurance
changes as appropriate, on availability of further accepted on account of these pool have been recorded
information and include claim settlement costs in accordance with the last statement received from GIC.
likely to be incurred to settle outstanding claims. The general insurance entity has ensured that it has
Claims (net of amounts receivable from reinsurers / created liability, to the extent of premium retroceded to
co-insurers) are recognised on the date of intimation the entity, through reserve for unexpired risks, classified
based on estimates from surveyors / insured. The as part of other liabilities.
estimated liability for IBNR and IBNER has been
The entity also provides for contribution to Solatium Fund
estimated by the Appointed Actuary in compliance
established by the Central Government as a percentage
with guidelines issued by IRDAI and applicable
of gross written premium for all motor policies written
provisions of the Institute of Actuaries of India. The
during that year, till the year ended March 31, 2010.
Appointed Actuary has used generally accepted
Further, General Insurance Council in its meeting held on
actuarial methods for each product category
April 1, 2010, recommended that the contribution should
as considered appropriate depending upon the
be a percentage of gross written third party premiums.
availability of past data as well as appropriateness
of the different methods to the different lines of
21. New Fund Offer (NFO) Expenses & Commission
businesses. The above elements of estimates of
liability for claims are periodically reviewed by the New Fund Offer (NFO) expenses on the launch of mutual
Appointed Actuary and adjusted based on recent fund schemes are borne by the Asset Management entity
experience and emerging trends. and recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss
Account as and when incurred. Any other brokerage or
Premium Deficiency
commission paid by the Asset Management entity in line
with the applicable regulations is being amortised over
P remium deficiency is recognised as a whole on
the contractual period. Pursuant to circulars issued by
an annual basis. Premium deficiency is recognised
SEBI in this regard, with effect from October 22, 2018, all
if the sum of the expected claim costs, related
the scheme expenses including commission on mutual
expenses and maintenance cost (related to claims
fund schemes, subject to certain permitted exceptions,
handling) exceeds related reserve for unexpired risk.
are being borne by the respective schemes.
The expected claim costs are calculated and duly
certified by an appointed actuary.
22. Income tax
III. Acquisition costs
Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current
tax and deferred tax expense incurred by the Group. The
A cquisition costs are the costs that vary with and
current tax expenses is determined in accordance with
are primarily related to the acquisition of new and
the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and
renewal insurance contracts. These costs are
rules framed there under and considering the material
expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
principles set out in Income Computation and Disclosure
20. Contribution to Pool Funds Standards to the extent applicable. The tax expenses
relating to overseas subsidiaries are in accordance
General Insurance
with the tax laws applicable in countries where such
In accordance with the requirements of IRDAI, the subsidiaries are domiciled. Deferred tax expense is
general insurance entity, together with other insurance determined as per AS-22, Accounting for Taxes on
companies, participates in the Terrorism Pool, Marine Income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised
Cargo Pool for Excluded Territories – Russia, Ukraine, for the future tax consequences of timing differences
481
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources
their respective tax bases, and operating loss carried embodying economic benefits will be required to settle
forward, if any. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are the obligation and when a reliable estimate of the amount
measured using the enacted or substantively enacted of the obligation can be made.
tax rates as at the Balance Sheet date. Current tax assets
Provisions are determined based on management
and liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities are
estimate required to settle the obligation at the
off-set when they relate to income taxes levied by the
Balance Sheet date, supplemented by experience
same taxation authority, when the entity has a legal
of similar transactions. These are reviewed at each
right to off-set and when the entity intends to settle on a
Balance Sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current
net basis.
management estimates.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent
A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
there is reasonable certainty that the assets can be
realised in future. In case of unabsorbed depreciation
• a possible obligation arising from a past event,
or carried forward loss under taxation laws, deferred
the existence of which will be confirmed by the
tax assets are recognised only if there is virtual certainty
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more
of realisation of such assets. Deferred tax assets are
uncertain future events not within the control of the
reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and appropriately
Group; or
adjusted to reflect the amount that is reasonably / virtually
certain to be realised. • a present obligation arising from a past event
which is not recognised as it is not probable that
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are computed
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the
at an individual entity level and aggregated for
obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount of the
consolidated reporting.
obligation cannot be made.
23. Segment information
When there is a possible obligation or a present
obligation in respect of which the likelihood of outflow
The disclosure relating to segment information is in
of resources is remote, no provision or disclosure is
accordance with AS-17, Segment Reporting and as per
made. Contingent assets, if any, are not recognised
guidelines issued by RBI.
in the financial statements since this may result in the
24. Earnings per share recognition of income that may never be realised.
The Group reports basic and diluted earnings per equity 26. Cash and cash equivalents
share in accordance with AS-20, Earnings per Share.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash, gold in hand,
Basic earnings per equity share has been computed
rupee digital currency with RBI, balances with RBI,
by dividing net profit for the year attributable to equity
balances with other banks and money at call and short
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity
notice.
shares outstanding for the year. Diluted earnings per
share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if
27. Share issue expenses
securities or other contracts to issue equity shares
were exercised or converted to equity during the year. Share issue expenses are adjusted against Share
Diluted earnings per equity share are computed using Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the
the weighted average number of equity shares and the Companies Act, 2013.
dilutive potential equity shares outstanding during the
year except where the results are anti-dilutive. 28. Corporate social responsibility
25. A ccounting for provisions, contingent liabilities Expenditure towards corporate social responsibility, in
and contingent assets accordance with Companies Act, 2013, is recognised in
the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
In accordance with AS-29, Provisions, Contingent
Liabilities and Contingent Assets, the Group recognises
provisions when it has a present obligation as a result of
482
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SCHEDULE 18 - Schedules forming part of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended
March 31, 2025
Amounts in notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 are denominated in
rupee crore to conform to extant RBI guidelines, except where stated otherwise.
1. Amalgamation of HDFC Limited
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 04, 2022, approved a composite Scheme of amalgamation (“Scheme”),
for the amalgamation of: (i) erstwhile HDFC Investments Limited (“eHDFC Investments”) and erstwhile HDFC Holdings
Limited (“eHDFC Holdings”), with and into erstwhile Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (“eHDFC Limited”);
and thereafter (ii) eHDFC Limited into HDFC Bank Limited (“Bank”), and their respective shareholders and creditors, under
Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws including the rules and regulations. The Scheme
was approved by the shareholders at the National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”) convened meeting of the shareholders
of the Bank held on November 25, 2022. The NCLT, in accordance with Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013
and rules thereunder, vide its order dated March 17, 2023 sanctioned the Scheme. Upon receipt of all requisite approvals,
the Bank filed form INC 28 with Registrar of Companies on July 01, 2023 and accordingly, the Scheme became effective
on July 01, 2023. As per the Scheme, the appointed date for the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into the Bank is
the same as effective date of the Scheme i.e. July 01, 2023. The Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year ended
March 31, 2025 include the operations of eHDFC Limited and its subsidiaries (which became subsidiaries of the Bank on
amalgamation) effective from July 01, 2023 and hence are not comparable with the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
for the year ended March 31, 2024.
The amalgamation was accounted under the ‘pooling of interest’ method as prescribed in Accounting Standard-14
“Accounting for amalgamation” (“AS-14”). Outstanding balances between eHDFC Limited and the Bank were eliminated as
on July 01, 2023. All assets and liabilities of eHDFC Limited were recognised by the Bank at their carrying amounts as on
that date except for adjustments to bring about uniformity of accounting policies as required under AS-14. The share capital
of ` 311.04 crore issued by the Bank as consideration pursuant to the Scheme was adjusted against the corresponding
share capital of eHDFC Limited of ` 370.29 crore and the difference was adjusted to Amalgamation Reserve. Further,
excess of cost over face value of Investment in shares of the Bank by eHDFC Limited of ` 14,006.31 crore was adjusted
to Amalgamation Reserve. Consequently, the Bank recognised a debit balance of ` 13,947.06 crore in the Amalgamation
Reserve as a result of these adjustments.
Summarized values of assets and liabilities taken over as at July 01, 2023 in accordance with the terms of the Scheme is
as detailed below:
Particulars (` crore)
Assets taken over
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 5,408.87
Investments 146,773.54
Advances 605,664.86
Fixed assets 1,442.60
Other assets 14,338.34
Total Assets (A) 773,628.21
Liabilities, reserves and surplus taken over
Equity share warrants 265.64
Employees stock options outstanding 123.81
Reserves and surplus 111,005.85
483
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Particulars (` crore)
Deposits 157,259.22
Borrowings 477,539.07
Other liabilities and provisions 27,064.33
Total Liabilities, reserves and surplus (B) 773,257.92
Net Assets C = (A-B) 370.29
Consequent upon amalgamation becoming effective, the authorised share capital of the Bank stood increased to ` 1,190.61
crore (11,90,61,00,000 shares of ` 1/- each) on account of transfer to and amalgamation / combination of authorised capital
of eHDFC Limited with the authorised share capital of the Bank. In terms of the Scheme, the Bank issued and allotted
3,11,03,96,492 equity shares to the shareholders of eHDFC Limited as on July 13, 2023, being the record date fixed by the
Board of Directors as per the Scheme, in accordance with the share exchange ratio i.e. 42 equity shares of face value of
` 1/- each of the Bank for every 25 equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each of eHDFC Limited. Accordingly, the paid-up
share capital of the Bank increased from ` 559.18 crore consisting of 5,59,17,98,806 equity shares of ` 1/- each to ` 753.76
crore consisting of 7,53,75,69,464 equity shares of ` 1/- each, post cancellation of 1,16,46,25,834 equity shares held by
eHDFC Limited in the Bank on that date in accordance with the provisions of the Scheme.
As part of the Scheme, certain leased out immovable properties of eHDFC Limited were transferred to the Bank on
amalgamation. The Bank has initiated necessary steps to foreclose these leases.
Upon Scheme becoming effective from July 01, 2023, the following entities (subsidiaries of eHDFC Limited) became the
subsidiaries of the Bank. Consequently, the opening balances as on July 01, 2023 are shown as “Addition on amalgamation”
in the consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2024.
Name of the Entity Relationship
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited Direct Subsidiary
HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited Indirect Subsidiary
HDFC Pension Fund Management Limited Indirect Subsidiary
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited Direct Subsidiary
HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited Indirect Subsidiary
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Sales Private Limited Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Trustee Company Limited Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited (‘HDFC Credila’) (up to March 19, 2024) Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited (‘HEADS’) (up to October 18, 2024) Direct Subsidiary
Griha Pte Limited Direct Subsidiary
Griha Investments Direct Subsidiary
The Bank had not consolidated its subsidiaries viz., HDFC Credila and HEADS under AS-21 as the control of these
subsidiaries was intended to be temporary (as directed by RBI) on the date of their acquisition. Subsequently, the Bank had
diluted its holding in HDFC Credila to 9.99% during the year ended March 31, 2024 and entire stake in HEADS is divested
during the year ended March 31, 2025.
484
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
2. Proposed dividend
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 19, 2025 proposed a dividend of ` 22.00 per equity share (previous year:
` 19.50 per equity share) aggregating to ` 16,834.89 crore subject to the approval of shareholders at the ensuing Annual
General Meeting. During the year ended March 31, 2025, the dividend paid by the Bank in respect of the previous year
ended March 31, 2024 was ` 14,813.98 crore. In terms of the AS-4 “Contingencies and events occurring after the balance
sheet date”, the Bank has not appropriated the proposed dividend from the Profit and Loss Account and the same will
be recognised in the year of actual payout post approval. However, effect of the proposed dividend has been reckoned in
determining capital funds in computation of the capital adequacy ratio.
3. Change in accounting policy
The RBI, vide its master direction dated September 12, 2023, issued revised norms (herein after referred as ‘revised norms
on investments’) for the classification, valuation and operation of investment portfolio of banks, which became applicable
from April 01, 2024. While hitherto, the investment portfolio was classified under the held to maturity (HTM), available for
sale (AFS) and held for trading (HFT) categories, the revised norms bring in a principle-based classification of investment
portfolio and a symmetric treatment of fair value gains and losses. In accordance with the revised norms and the Bank’s
board approved policy, the Bank has classified its investment portfolio as on April 01, 2024 under the categories of held
to maturity (HTM), available for sale (AFS), subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and fair value through profit and loss
(FVTPL) with held for trading (HFT) as a sub-category of FVTPL, and from that date, measures and values the investment
portfolio under the revised framework. For the purpose of consolidation, all the subsidiaries of the Bank and EWT have
followed the revised framework of the Bank except for HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (“HDFC Life”) and HDFC
ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (“HDFC ERGO”), (the subsidiaries regulated by IRDAI), which continue to follow
IRDAI guidelines. On transition to the revised norms on investment on April 01, 2024, the group recognised a net gain of
` 1,113.78 crore (net of tax of ` 405.86 crore and minority interest of ` 914.25 crore) which has been credited to general
reserve, in accordance with the said norms. The impact of the revised framework for the period subsequent to the transition
is not ascertainable and as such the income / profit or loss from investments for the year ended March 31, 2025 is not
comparable with that of the previous year.
4. Capital infusion
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank allotted 5,53,11,012 equity shares (previous year: 4,66,21,586 equity shares)
aggregating to face value of ` 5.53 crore (previous year: ` 4.66 crore) on exercise of stock options / units. Accordingly, the
share capital increased by ` 5.53 crore (previous year: ` 4.66 crore) and the share premium increased by ` 6,340.97 crore
(previous year: ` 5,245.07 crore).
During the previous year, the Bank issued and allotted 3,11,03,96,492 equity shares to the shareholders of eHDFC Limited
in terms of the Scheme. Accordingly, the paid-up share capital of the Bank increased from ` 559.18 crore consisting of
5,59,17,98,806 equity shares of ` 1/- each to ` 753.76 crore consisting of 7,53,75,69,464 equity shares of ` 1/- each,
post cancellation of 1,16,46,25,834 equity shares held by eHDFC Limited in the Bank on that date in accordance with the
provisions of the Scheme. Further, share premium increased by ` 51,728.83 crore on amalgamation of eHDFC Limited.
During the previous year, the Bank allotted 2,47,75,632 equity shares pursuant to exercise of convertible share warrants
issued by eHDFC Limited. Accordingly, the share capital and share premium of the Bank increased by ` 2.48 crore and
` 3,455.79 crore respectively, including money received by eHDFC Limited at the time of allotment of share warrants.
485
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
The details of the movement in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank are given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening balance 759.69 557.97
Addition pursuant to stock options / units / warrants exercised 5.53 7.14
Addition pursuant to amalgamation (net of cancellation) (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 194.58
Closing balance 765.22 759.69
5. Employees stock options outstanding
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Group recognised employee stock options / units expense of ` 2,086.05 crore
(previous year: ` 1,731.73 crore) being fair valuation of share-linked instruments, with a corresponding credit in Employees
stock options outstanding. In addition, the Bank pursuant to the Scheme has taken over ` 123.81 crore as Employees stock
options outstanding on the appointed and effective date i.e. July 01, 2023. During the year ended March 31, 2025, an amount
of ` 723.11 crore (previous year: ` 84.18 crore) is transferred to Share Premium, ` 195.25 crore (previous year: ` 234.51
crore) is transferred to minority interest and ` 15.22 crore (previous year: ` 1.34 crore) is transferred to General Reserve.
Accounting for employee share based payments
HDFC Bank
The shareholders of the Bank approved the grant of equity stock options under Plan “C” in June 2005, Plan “D” in June
2007, Plan “E” in June 2010, Plan “F” in June 2013, Plan “G” in July 2016 and Plan “H” in August 2024. The Bank also
approved the Employee Stock Incentive Master Scheme in May 2022. Under the terms of each of these plans, the Bank
may issue to its employees and Whole Time Directors, Equity Stock Options (‘ESOPs’) or Restricted Stock Units (‘Units’)
each of which is convertible into one equity share. Further, pursuant to the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into
Bank effective from July 01, 2023, the existing ESOP Schemes of the eHDFC Limited comprising of eHDFC 2007, eHDFC
2008, eHDFC 2014, eHDFC 2017 and eHDFC 2020 were taken over by the Bank.
All the plans were framed in accordance with the SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme & Employee Stock Purchase
Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to time and as applicable at the time of the grant. The accounting for the
stock options has been in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits
and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and RBI guidelines to the extent applicable.
The plans provide for the issuance of options at the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of
the Board (‘NRC’) at the closing price on the working day immediately preceding the date when options are granted. This
closing price is the closing price of the Bank’s equity share on an Indian stock exchange with the highest trading volume
as of the working day preceding the date of grant. Further, the units are issued at the face value of the equity share of ` 1/-
each. The vesting conditions applicable to the options / units are at the discretion of the NRC. These options / units are
exercisable on vesting, for a period as set forth by the NRC at the time of the grant. The period in which the options and
units may be exercised cannot exceed five years and one year respectively from the date of vesting period.
486
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Movement in the options / units outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans / Restricted Stock Units
• Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025 and March
31, 2024:
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2024
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year 17,56,59,424 1,307.93 15,16,82,461 1,264.86
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18 - - 4,85,59,681 1,124.77
(1))
Granted during the year 2,31,46,660 1,729.84 2,43,84,690 1,611.84
Exercised during the year 5,29,55,047 1,198.42 4,63,04,966 1,133.72
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 44,76,527 1,458.89 26,62,442 1,096.34
Options outstanding at the end of the year 14,13,74,510 1,413.25 17,56,59,424 1,307.93
Options exercisable 8,13,35,537 1,279.91 9,88,29,856 1,201.65
• Movement in the Units outstanding under the Employees’ Stock Incentive Master Scheme as at March 31, 2025 and
March 31, 2024:
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of Units Number of Units
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2024
Units outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,17,21,804 1.00 28,91,000 1.00
Granted during the year 62,54,575 1.00 93,54,224 1.00
Exercised during the year 23,55,965 1.00 3,16,620 1.00
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 7,34,986 1.00 2,06,800 1.00
Units outstanding at the end of the year 1,48,85,428 1.00 1,17,21,804 1.00
Units exercisable 12,07,198 1.00 3,76,070 1.00
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Weighted
Number of Weighted
Range of exercise average life
Plan shares arising average exercise
price (`) of options (in
out of options price (`)
years)
Plan E 47,93,680 1,636.90 4.96 1,636.90
Plan F 1,14,90,680 1,636.90 4.94 1,636.90
Plan G 7,49,81,293 882.85 to 1,673.10 2.48 1,368.83
Plan H 2,25,72,860 1,677.30 to 1,734.20 6.06 1,733.15
e-HDFC 2007 44,411 255.83 - 255.83
e-HDFC 2008 40,942 160.79 - 160.79
e-HDFC 2014 12,483 603.95 - 603.95
e-HDFC 2017 2,34,032 934.44 to 1,242.15 1.48 1,151.06
e-HDFC 2020 2,72,04,129 1,076.64 to 1,535.27 2.58 1,142.74
487
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
• The following table summarises the information about Units outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Weighted
Number of Weighted
Range of exercise average
Plan shares arising average exercise
price (`) life of Units (in
out of Units price (`)
years)
ESIS - 2022 1,48,85,428 1.00 2.39 1.00
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Number of shares Weighted average
Range of exercise Weighted average
Plan arising out of life of options (in
price (`) exercise price (`)
options years)
Plan E 50,75,360 1,636.90 5.92 1,636.90
Plan F 1,55,51,708 716.60 to 1,636.90 4.84 1,458.30
Plan G 11,54,13,810 882.85 to 1,673.10 2.66 1,333.78
e-HDFC 2007 44,411 255.83 - 255.83
e-HDFC 2008 40,942 160.79 - 160.79
e-HDFC 2014 12,483 603.95 - 603.95
e-HDFC 2017 6,13,926 934.44 to 1,242.15 1.84 1,070.72
e-HDFC 2020 3,89,06,784 1,076.64 to 1,535.27 3.51 1,134.61
• The following table summarises the information about Units outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Weighted average
Number of shares Range of exercise Weighted average
Plan life of Units (in
arising out of Units price (`) exercise price (`)
years)
ESIS - 2022 1,17,21,804 1.00 2.65 1.00
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend yield 0.77% - 1.36% 0.65% - 0.91%
Expected volatility 21.64% - 27.7% 22.01% - 29.45%
Risk-free interest rate 6.73% - 7.19% 7.17% - 7.54%
Expected life of the options 1 to 8 Years 1 to 8 Years
T he assumptions considered in the model for valuing the Units granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend yield 0.83% - 1.58% 0.59% - 1.85%
Expected volatility 20.05% - 24.95% 17.68% - 27.50%
Risk-free interest rate 6.82% - 6.88% 7.18% - 7.50%
Expected life of the units 1 to 5 Years 1 to 5 Years
488
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
HDFC Securities Limited (HSL)
On 21 June 2019, 14 December 2020, 16 September 2021, 13 January 2022, 13 October 2022, 30 August 2023, 12
January 2024, 12 April 2024, 19 September 2024 and 28 November 2024, HSL has granted share options that entitles the
employees and the key management personnel (KMP) to purchase the shares in HSL. Holders of the vested stock options
are entitled to purchase shares at the exercise price of the shares.
Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans of HSL
• Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025 and as at
March 31, 2024:
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2024
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year 5,61,930 6,116.95 2,95,625 6,456.00
Granted during the year 3,34,287 7,193.93 3,75,700 5,909.00
Exercised during the year 1,18,768 6,029.42 73,820 6,137.33
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 31,315 6,573.90 35,575 6,692.68
Options outstanding at the end of the year 7,46,134 6,594.22 5,61,930 6,116.95
Options exercisable 1,43,393 6,188.00 46,875 6,412.37
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Weighted
Number of Weighted
Range of exercise average life
Plan shares arising average exercise
price (`) of options (in
out of options price (`)
years)
Company Options 7,46,134 5,458 - 8,051 6.20 6,594.22
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Number of shares Weighted average
Range of exercise Weighted average
Plan arising out of life of options (in
price (`) exercise price (`)
options years)
Company Options 5,61,930 4,844 – 8,051 6.20 6,116.95
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend yield 6.83% 7.45%
Expected volatility 50.40% - 52.26% 40.12% - 46.54%
Risk-free interest rate 6.77% - 6.78% 7.02% - 7.04%
Expected life of the options 3 to 5 Years 3 to 5 Years
489
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFS)
In accordance with resolution approved by the shareholders, HDBFS has reserved shares, for issue to employees through
Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOP). On the approval of Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC), each ESOP
is issued. The NRC has approved ESOP-10 on October 13, 2017, ESOP-11 on January 15, 2019, ESOP-12 on October 05,
2020, ESOP-13 on January 14, 2021, ESOP-13A on August 31, 2021, ESOP-14 on October 27, 2021, ESOP-15A on May
18, 2022, ESOP-15B on October 31, 2022, ESOP-16A on June 12, 2023, ESOP-16B on October 23, 2023, ESOP-16C on
October 23, 2023, ESOP-17A on June 17, 2024 and ESOP-17B on September 16, 2024. Under the term of the ESOP, HDBFS
may issue stock options to employees and directors of HDBFS, each of which is convertible into one equity share.
Such options vest at a definitive date, save for specific incidents, prescribed in the scheme as framed / approved by the
NRC. Such options are exercisable for a period following vesting at the discretion of the NRC, subject to a maximum of
four years from the date of vesting.
Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans of HDBFS
• Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025 and March
31, 2024:
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2024
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year 87,28,798 472.43 75,79,538 456.57
Granted during the year 25,55,350 534.00 32,45,570 486.66
Exercised during the year 27,01,779 461.24 16,75,483 426.48
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 2,26,258 502.91 4,20,827 479.42
Options outstanding at the end of the year 83,56,111 494.05 87,28,798 472.43
Options exercisable 19,53,960 450.94 16,76,263 423.28
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Weighted
Number of Weighted
Range of exercise average life
Plan shares arising average exercise
price (`) of options (in
out of options price (`)
years)
ESOP – 11 4,960 274.00 0.84 274.00
ESOP – 12 1,01,990 300.00 1.59 300.00
ESOP – 13 1,67,725 348.00 2.84 348.00
ESOP – 13A 20,000 409.00 3.42 409.00
ESOP – 14 3,98,337 433.00 3.59 433.00
ESOP – 15A 8,38,120 457.00 4.17 457.00
ESOP – 15B 16,73,081 509.00 4.59 509.00
ESOP – 16A 11,53,546 424.00 8.25 424.00
ESOP – 16B 3,07,774 533.00 8.59 533.00
ESOP – 16C 11,45,528 533.00 8.59 533.00
ESOP – 17A 20,26,050 534.00 9.25 534.00
ESOP – 17B 5,19,000 534.00 9.51 534.00
490
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Number of shares Weighted average
Range of exercise Weighted average
Plan arising out of life of options (in
price (`) exercise price (`)
options years)
ESOP – 10 42,000 213.00 0.59 213.00
ESOP – 11 16,150 274.00 1.84 274.00
ESOP – 12 1,57,517 300.00 2.59 300.00
ESOP – 13 3,22,595 348.00 3.84 348.00
ESOP – 13A 23,000 409.00 4.42 409.00
ESOP – 14 12,10,134 433.00 4.59 433.00
ESOP – 15A 10,35,390 457.00 5.17 457.00
ESOP – 15B 27,30,822 509.00 5.59 509.00
ESOP – 16A 13,44,770 424.00 9.25 424.00
ESOP – 16B 4,27,020 533.00 9.59 533.00
ESOP – 16C 14,19,400 533.00 9.59 533.00
T he fair value of options has been estimated on the dates of each grant using the Black-Scholes model. The shares
of HDBFS are not listed on any stock exchange. Accordingly, HDBFS had considered the volatility of the Company’s
stock price based on historical volatility of similar listed enterprises.
T he assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend yield 0.58% 0.21% - 0.38%
Expected volatility 39.56% - 40.50% 38.75% - 45.70%
Risk-free interest rate 6.64% - 6.88% 6.83% - 7.26%
Expected life of the options 4.39 Years 3.46 to 3.49 Years
491
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (HDFC ERGO)
HDFC ERGO had introduced an Employee Stock Option Plan 2009 (as amended) (“ESOP 2009”) in financial year 2009-
10. ESOP 2009 provides that eligible employees are granted options to acquire equity shares of HDFC ERGO that vest in
graded manner. The options will vest over a period of two to four or five years as per the terms of the respective tranches
from the date of grant and are exercisable over a period of five years from the respective dates of vesting. During the year,
options vested aggregated to 18,37,637. In accordance with the RBI clarification dated August 30, 2021, HDFC ERGO
has estimated the fair value of the options granted after March 31, 2021 using Black-Scholes model. This is recognised as
compensation expense over the vesting period of the options with effect from April 01, 2021.
Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans of HDFC ERGO
• Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025:
Weighted
Number of
Particulars average exercise
options
price (`)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the year 81,08,484 495.00
Granted during the year 12,20,200 654.00
Exercised during the year 21,41,673 397.55
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 4,62,433 553.04
Options outstanding at the end of the year 67,24,578 550.90
Options exercisable 11,56,327 499.20
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Weighted
Number of Weighted
Range of exercise average life
Plan shares arising average exercise
price (`) of options (in
out of options price (`)
years)
ESOP 2009 67,24,578 151 - 654 5.74 Years 550.90
• Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2024:
Weighted average
Particulars Number of options
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 86,81,867 490.07
Granted during the period - -
Exercised during the period 3,55,101 363.28
Forfeited / lapsed during the period 2,18,282 513.36
Options outstanding at the end of the year 81,08,484 495.00
Options exercisable 81,08,484 495.00
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Number of shares Weighted average
Range of exercise Weighted average
Plan arising out of life of options (in
price (`) exercise price (`)
options years)
ESOP 2009 81,08,484 151 - 539 4 to 7 Years 495.00
492
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March
31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend yield 0.00% -
Expected volatility 25.33% - 30.47% -
Risk-free interest rate 7.01% - 7.02% -
Expected life of the options 6 Years -
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited (HDFC Capital)
The Shareholders of HDFC Capital at the extra-ordinary general meeting held on December 22, 2021 approved issuance
of 3,52,528 equity shares of ` 10 each of HDFC Capital under ESOP-2021 to eligible employees as defined thereunder. Out
of the total options approved under ESOP-2021, the Board of Directors of HDFC Capital at its meeting held on December
23, 2021 granted 2,82,020 stock options to eligible employees and reserved the remaining for future employees of HDFC
Capital. There is no other stock option plan formulated by HDFC Capital. The scheme was amended and shareholders of
the company at the extra-ordinary general meeting held on December 19, 2022 approved the aforesaid amendments to
the ESOP–2021.
Subject to fulfilling the conditions specified in ESOP-2021 and in terms of the revised vesting schedule 50% of the options
granted shall vest on the completion of 1 year from the grant date, 25% of the options granted shall vest on the completion
of 2 years from the grant date and remaining 25% of the options granted shall vest on the completion of 3 years.
Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions requires use of an appropriate valuation model. HDFC Capital
measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with Option holders using Black-Scholes-Merton formula to determine
the fair value of the options on the grant date.
Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans of HDFC Capital
• Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025:
Weighted
Number of
Particulars average
options
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the year 1,41,008 928.86
Granted during the year - -
Exercised during the year 69,330 928.86
Forfeited / lapsed during the year - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 71,678 928.86
Options exercisable 71,678 928.86
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Weighted
Number of Weighted
Range of exercise average life
Plan shares arising average exercise
price (`) of options (in
out of options price (`)
years)
ESOS 21 71,678 928.86 - 928.86
493
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
• Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2024:
Weighted average
Particulars Number of options
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 1,41,008 928.86
Granted during the period - -
Exercised during the period - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the period - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 1,41,008 928.86
Options exercisable 1,41,008 928.86
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Number of shares Weighted average
Range of exercise Weighted average
Plan arising out of life of options (in
price (`) exercise price (`)
options years)
ESOS 21 1,41,008 928.86 7.02 years 928.86
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (HDFC Life)
HDFC Life has granted options to its employees under the ESOS 2014, ESOS 2015, ESOS 2016, ESOS 2017, ESOS 2018,
ESOS 2019, ESOS 2022 and ESOS 2024 schemes. The said schemes are directly administered by HDFC Life. For all the
grants, the mode of settlement is through equity shares. All the grants have graded vesting. The exercise price of ESOS
2014, ESOS 2015 and of ESOS 2016 schemes is based on the fair market value as determined by the Category I Merchant
Banker registered with SEBI. The exercise price, of the options granted under ESOS 2017, ESOS 2018, ESOS 2019, ESOS
2022 and ESOS 2024 is based on the market price of the shares of HDFC Life, as defined in the respective ESOS scheme.
The fair value of options has been calculated using the Black-Scholes model.
Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans
• Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025:
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2016 (01-10-2016) ESOS 2017 (14-03-2018)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 20,200 190.00 1,24,744 441.95
year
Granted during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year 12,000 190.00 1,92,702 441.95
Forfeited / lapsed during the year* 8,200 190.00 (71,900) 441.95
Options outstanding at the end of the year - - 3,942 441.95
Options exercisable - - 3,942 441.95
*Options forfeited / lapsed are net of options reinstated during the year
494
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2017 (Trust) (14-03-2018) ESOS 2018 (01-10-2018)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 1,69,956 441.95 1,87,103 391.60
year
Granted during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year - - 79,630 391.60
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 72,838 441.95 1,420 391.60
Options outstanding at the end of the year 97,118 441.95 1,06,053 391.60
Options exercisable 97,118 441.95 1,06,053 391.60
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (19-09-2019) ESOS 2019 (19-10-2020)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 28,21,779 539.10 1,65,750 561.15
year
Granted during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year 4,93,124 539.10 31,250 561.15
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 14,000 539.10 3,500 561.15
Options outstanding at the end of the year 23,14,655 539.10 1,31,000 561.15
Options exercisable 23,14,655 539.10 1,31,000 561.15
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (17-03-2021) ESOS 2019 (22-10-2021)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 2,38,966 703.05 3,96,871 694.55
year
Granted during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year - - 2,000 694.55
Forfeited / lapsed during the year - - 21,141 694.55
Options outstanding at the end of the year 2,38,966 703.05 3,73,730 694.55
Options exercisable 2,38,966 703.05 3,36,438 694.55
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (15-03-2022) ESOS 2022 (20-10-2022)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 2,94,313 512.45 97,17,410 531.55
year
Granted during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year 46,313 512.45 11,93,641 531.55
Forfeited / lapsed during the year - - 7,45,082 531.55
Options outstanding at the end of the year 2,48,000 512.45 77,78,687 531.55
Options exercisable 2,48,000 512.45 40,80,578 531.55
495
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2022 (20-01-2023) ESOS 2022 (04-10-2023)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 5,26,000 605.25 11,20,881 633.55
year
Granted during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year 4,800 605.25 - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 8,000 605.25 62,000 633.55
Options outstanding at the end of the year 5,13,200 605.25 10,58,881 633.55
Options exercisable 72,000 605.25 3,17,665 633.55
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (04-10-2023) ESOS 2022 (14-03-2024)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 1,20,000 633.55 42,000 610.05
year
Granted during the year - - -
Exercised during the year - - - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the year - - - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 1,20,000 633.55 42,000 610.05
Options exercisable - - 12,600 610.05
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (14-03-2024) ESOS 2022 (02-09-2024)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 1,70,000 610.55 - -
year
Granted during the year - - 2,90,794 738.70
Exercised during the year - - - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the year - - - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 1,70,000 610.55 2,90,794 738.70
Options exercisable - - - -
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2024 (02-09-2024) ESOS 2022 (13-03-2025)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the - - - -
year
Granted during the year 3,96,252 738.70 1,67,000 632.00
Exercised during the year - - - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the year - - - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 3,96,252 738.70 1,67,000 632.00
Options exercisable - - - -
496
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Weighted
Number of Weighted
Range of exercise average life
Plan shares arising average exercise
price (`) of options (in
out of options price (`)
years)
ESOS 2017 3,942 441.95 0.95 441.95
ESOS (Trust) 2017 97,118 441.95 0.95 441.95
ESOS 2018 1,06,053 391.60 1.42 391.60
ESOS 2019 19,33,403 539.10 1.62 539.10
ESOS 2019 1,31,000 561.15 1.62 561.15
ESOS 2019 2,38,966 703.05 1.62 703.05
ESOS 2019 2,99,145 694.55 1.62 694.55
ESOS 2019 2,48,000 512.45 1.62 512.45
ESOS 2019 3,81,252 539.10 4.75 539.10
ESOS 2019 37,293 694.55 4.75 694.55
ESOS 2022 40,79,978 531.55 4.99 531.55
ESOS 2022 72,000 605.25 4.99 605.25
ESOS 2022 3,17,665 633.55 4.99 633.55
ESOS 2022 12,600 610.05 4.99 610.05
• Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2024:
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2016 (01-10-2016) ESOS 2017 (14-03-2018)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 28,270 190.00 2,19,685 441.95
Granted during the period - - - -
Exercised during the period 8,070 190.00 94,800 441.95
Forfeited / lapsed during the period - - 141 441.95
Options outstanding at the end of the year 20,200 190.00 1,24,744 441.95
Options exercisable 20,200 190.00 1,24,744 441.95
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2017 (Trust) (14-03-2018) ESOS 2018 (01-10-2018)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 2,07,634 441.95 2,34,668 391.60
Granted during the period - - - -
Exercised during the period - - 47,565 391.60
Forfeited / lapsed during the period 37,678 441.95 - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 1,69,956 441.95 1,87,103 391.60
Options exercisable 1,69,956 441.95 1,87,103 391.60
497
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (19-09-2019) ESOS 2019 (19-10-2020)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 34,82,239 539.10 1,84,000 561.15
Granted during the period - - - -
Exercised during the period 6,10,460 539.10 11,250 561.15
Forfeited / lapsed during the period 50,000 539.10 7,000 561.15
Options outstanding at the end of the year 28,21,779 539.10 1,65,750 561.15
Options exercisable 28,21,779 539.10 1,65,750 561.15
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (17-03-2021) ESOS 2019 (22-10-2021)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 2,38,966 703.05 4,17,233 694.55
Granted during the period - - - -
Exercised during the period - - - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the period - - 20,362 694.55
Options outstanding at the end of the year 2,38,966 703.05 3,96,871 694.55
Options exercisable 2,38,966 703.05 3,17,086 694.55
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (15-03-2022) ESOS 2022 (20-10-2022)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 2,94,313 512.45 1,03,74,109 531.55
Granted during the period - - - -
Exercised during the period - - 4,71,699 531.55
Forfeited / lapsed during the period - - 1,85,000 531.55
Options outstanding at the end of the year 2,94,313 512.45 97,17,410 531.55
Options exercisable 2,94,313 512.45 25,55,034 531.55
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2022 (20-01-2023) ESOS 2019 (04-10-2023)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 5,38,000 605.25 - -
Granted during the period - - 1,20,000 633.55
Exercised during the period - - - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the period 12,000 605.25 - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 5,26,000 605.25 1,20,000 633.55
Options exercisable 40,800 605.25 - -
498
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Weighted average Weighted average
Number of options Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`) exercise price (`)
ESOS 2022 (04-10-2023) ESOS 2019 (14-03-2024)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 - - - -
Granted during the period 11,20,881 633.55 1,70,000 610.05
Exercised during the period - - - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the period - - - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 11,20,881 633.55 1,70,000 610.05
Options exercisable - - - -
Weighted average
Number of options
Particulars exercise price (`)
ESOS 2022 (14-03-2024)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 - -
Granted during the period 42,000 610.05
Exercised during the period - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the period - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 42,000 610.05
Options exercisable - -
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Number of shares Weighted average
Range of exercise Weighted average
Plan arising out of life of options (in
price (`) exercise price (`)
options years)
ESOS 2016 20,200 190.00 0.50 190.00
ESOS 2017 1,24,744 441.95 1.95 441.95
ESOS (Trust) 2017 1,69,956 441.95 1.95 441.95
ESOS 2018 1,87,103 391.60 2.09 391.60
ESOS 2019 23,14,305 539.10 2.58 539.10
ESOS 2019 5,07,474 539.10 5.50 539.10
ESOS 2019 1,65,750 561.15 2.58 561.15
ESOS 2019 2,38,966 703.05 2.58 703.05
ESOS 2019 3,17,086 694.55 2.58 694.55
ESOS 2019 79,785 694.55 5.50 694.55
ESOS 2019 2,94,313 512.45 2.58 512.45
ESOS 2022 96,17,410 531.55 5.81 531.55
ESOS 2022 1,00,000 531.55 7.86 531.55
ESOS 2022 1,36,000 605.25 5.81 605.25
ESOS 2022 3,90,000 605.25 7.86 605.25
ESOS 2022 11,20,881 633.55 5.81 633.55
ESOS 2019 1,20,000 633.55 5.50 633.55
ESOS 2022 42,000 610.05 5.81 610.05
ESOS 2019 1,70,000 610.05 5.50 610.05
499
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
T he assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 are
given below:
Particulars ESOS 2016 ESOS 2017 ESOS (Trust) 2017
Dividend yield 0.88% 0.74% 0.74%
Expected volatility* 10.00% 28.96% 28.96%
Risk-free interest rate 6.57% - 6.80% 6.76% - 7.27% 6.76% - 7.27%
Expected life of the options 1.75 to 3.75 Years 1.75 to 3.75 Years 1.75 to 3.75 Years
Particulars ESOS 2018 ESOS 2019 ESOS 2022
Dividend yield 0.40% 0.23% to 0.41% 0.28% to 0.32%
Expected volatility* 29.09% 29.12% - 39.73% 25.17% - 33.47%
Risk-free interest rate 8.02% - 8.15% 4.43% - 6.34% 6.70% - 7.53%
Expected life of the options 1.75 to 3.74 Years 1.68 to 5.27 Years 2.07 to 6.50 Years
Particulars ESOS 2024
Dividend yield 0.30%
Expected volatility* 30.34% - 30.90%
Risk-free interest rate 7.00% - 7.03%
Expected life of the options 5.50 to 6.50 Years
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2024 are
given below:
Particulars ESOS 2012 ESOS 2014 ESOS 2015
Dividend yield 0.00% 1.06% 1.04%
Expected volatility* 30.44% - 36.53% 33.23% - 37.15% 34.21% - 38.38%
Risk-free interest rate 8.19% - 8.74% 7.73% - 8.28% 7.41% - 7.58%
Expected life of the options 1.37 to 3.45 Years 1.75 to 3.75 Years 1.75 to 3.75 Years
Particulars ESOS 2016 ESOS 2017 ESOS (Trust) 2017
Dividend yield 0.88% 0.74% 0.74%
Expected volatility* 10.00% 28.96% 28.96%
Risk-free interest rate 6.57% - 6.80% 6.76% - 7.27% 6.76% - 7.27%
Expected life of the options 1.75 to 3.75 Years 1.75 to 3.75 Years 1.75 to 3.75 Years
Particulars ESOS 2018 ESOS 2019 ESOS 2022
Dividend yield 0.40% 0.23% to 0.41% 0.28% to 0.32%
Expected volatility* 29.09% 29.12% - 39.73% 27.75% - 33.47%
Risk-free interest rate 8.02% - 8.15% 4.43% - 6.34% 7.13% - 7.53%
Expected life of the options 1.74 to 3.74 Years 1.68 to 5.27 Years 2.07 to 5.07 Years
500
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (HDFC AMC)
Under Employees Stock Option Scheme 2020 (ESOS 2020) of HDFC AMC, the options shall vest in three tranches. Each
of these tranches consisting of 1/3 of the options granted shall vest on the completion of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd year from the
date of the grant respectively. Any fractional residue shall be settled in the 3rd tranche. The options can be exercised over
a period of five years from the date of respective vesting.
Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans
• Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025:
Weighted
Number of
Particulars average
options
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the year 23,16,200 2,387.88
Granted during the year 97,500 3,755.75
Exercised during the year 3,09,086 2,242.63
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 86,585 2,004.59
Options outstanding at the end of the year 20,18,029 2,492.66
Options exercisable 12,95,700 2,713.34
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Weighted
Number of Weighted
Range of exercise average life of
Plan shares arising average exercise
price (`) options
out of options price (`)
(in years)
ESOS 2020 20,18,029 1,780.90 - 3,834.55 2.90 to 6.80 2,492.66
• Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2024:
Weighted average
Particulars Number of options
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 23,60,420 2,342.71
Granted during the period 38,800 3,415.25
Exercised during the period 14,520 669.13
Forfeited / lapsed during the period 68,500 1,777.65
Options outstanding at the end of the year 23,16,200 2,387.88
Options exercisable 12,03,001 2,863.25
• The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Number of shares Weighted average
Range of exercise Weighted average
Plan arising out of life of options
price (`) exercise price (`)
options (in years)
ESOS 2020 23,16,200 1,780.90 - 3,415.25 3.90 to 6.78 2,387.88
501
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
T he assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend yield 0.84% - 2.48% 0.84% - 2.48%
Expected volatility 27.75% - 37.08% 27.75% - 37.08%
Risk-free interest rate 5.04% - 6.96% 5.04% - 6.96%
Expected life of the options 3.5 to 5.5 Years 3.5 to 5.5 Years
6. Reserves and Surplus
Statutory Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank and HDBFS have made an appropriation of ` 17,260.30 crore (previous
year: ` 15,684.72 crore) out of profits for the year to the Statutory Reserve pursuant to the requirements of Section 17 of
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 read with RBI guidelines and 45 IC of the RBI Act, 1934 respectively.
General Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Group has made an appropriation of ` 6,734.74 crore (previous year: ` 6,081.23
crore) out of profits for the year to the General Reserve. Further, the Group has transferred ` 15.22 crore (previous year:
` 1.34 crore) from Employees Stock Options Outstanding to General Reserve on lapses of share-linked instruments.
On transition to the revised norms on investments, the group has recognised a net gain of ` 1,113.78 crore (net of tax
` 405.86 crore and minority interest of ` 914.25 crore) which has been credited to General Reserve.
Special Reserve
During the year ended March 31,2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 3,200.00 crore (previous year: ` 3,000.00
crore) to the Special Reserve as per Section 36(1) (viii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
Amalgamation Reserve I
The balance of ` 1,063.56 crore represents excess of net assets taken over the paid-up value of equity shares issued as
consideration with respect to amalgamation of Times Bank Limited during FY 2000 and Centurion Bank of Punjab Limited
during FY 2009 with the Bank.
Amalgamation Reserve II
During the previous year, the share capital of ` 311.04 crore issued by the Bank as consideration pursuant to the Scheme
was adjusted against the corresponding share capital of eHDFC Limited of ` 370.29 crore and the difference was adjusted
to Amalgamation Reserve. Further, excess of cost over face value of investment in shares of the Bank by eHDFC Limited
of ` 14,006.31 crore was adjusted to Amalgamation Reserve. Consequently, the Bank recognised a debit balance of
` 13,947.06 crore in the Amalgamation Reserve as a result of these adjustments.
Capital Reserve
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 507.00 crore (previous year: ` 4,166.42
crore), being the profit on sale of investments under HTM category and profit on sale of immovable properties, net of taxes
and transfer to Statutory Reserve, from the Profit and Loss Account to the Capital Reserve.
502
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Investment Reserve Account
O n transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has transferred ` 529.42 crore from the Investment Reserve
Account (IRA) to Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR).
In the previous year, the Bank had transferred ` 529.42 crore (net) from the Profit and Loss Account to the IRA as per the
RBI guidelines.
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
On transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has transferred ` 529.42 crore from the IRA to IFR.
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` Nil (previous year: ` 378.00 crore) to
IFR. As per RBI guidelines, banks are required to maintain an IFR equivalent to 2.00% of their AFS and FVTPL investment
portfolios. The balance in the IFR as at March 31, 2025 is 2.55% (previous year: 3.48%^) of the Bank’s AFS and FVTPL
investment portfolios.
^ For the year ended March 31, 2024 the ratio represents closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of
investments in AFS and HFT categories.
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
As at March 31, 2025, the Group has recognised ` 1,083.52 crore (previous year: ` 883.79 crore) as Foreign Currency
Translation Reserve on account of translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations.
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
As at March 31, 2025, the Group has recognised debit of ` 92.16 crore (previous year: credit of ` 832.30 crore) as Cash
Flow Hedge Reserve on derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedge.
Other Reserve
As at March 31, 2025, Other Reserve represents fair value change account of ` 14.02 crore (previous year: ` 145.58 crore)
recognised by insurance entities.
AFS Reserve
Pursuant to the revised norms on investments, the net appreciation or depreciation on all performing investments held under
AFS category is directly credited or debited to AFS Reserve. Accordingly, as at March 31, 2025 the Group has recognised
` 616.85 crore, net of taxes as AFS Reserve.
Capital reserve on consolidation (net of goodwill)
On consolidation the Group has recognised net Capital Reserve of ` 3,223.50 crore ( previous year: ` 3,290.03 crore) net
of goodwill of ` 501.56 crore (previous year: ` 488.97 crore).
503
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
7. Deposit under lien and Securities kept as margin:
Balances with banks in other deposit accounts under Schedule 7 include ` 4,638.47 crore (previous year: ` 4,402.62 crore)
which are under lien.
The details of securities under Schedule 8 that are kept as margin:
(` crore)
Face value as at March 31
Sr. No. Particulars
2025 2024
I. Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards:
a) Collateral and funds management – Securities segment 9,720.00 9,547.00
b) Collateral and funds management –Tri-party Repo 116,355.00 39,053.00
c) Default fund – Forex Forward segment 362.10 247.10
d) Default fund – Forex Settlement segment 86.05 51.05
e) Default fund – Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) segment 199.15 199.15
f) Default fund – Securities segment 271.00 263.00
g) Default fund –Tri-party repo segment 61.00 59.00
II. Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards:
a) Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) 91,562.48 64,687.48
b) Repo transactions 174,419.38 65,172.27
III. Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India - -
(NSCCIL) towards NSE Currency Derivatives segment.
IV. Securities kept as margin with Indian Clearing Corporation Limited towards BSE 458.72 358.72
Currency Derivatives segment.
V. Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 2,625.36 2,116.11
(NSCCIL) towards Capital market.
VI. Mutual funds marked as lien with stock exchange for margin requirement. 239.39 -
8. Details of derivatives contracts for Group
The Group enters into various types of currency / interest rate derivative contracts which include forwards, swaps, futures,
and options. The notional amounts of financial instruments such as foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a
basis for comparison with the instruments recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of
future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Group’s exposure
to credit or price risks. The notional principal amounts outstanding for such derivatives contracts are as under:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024 Purpose
Interest rate derivative 810,553.44 551,311.15 Trading
Interest rate derivative 270,143.12 291,364.53 Hedging
Forward contracts 1,224,428.67 1,151,750.54 Trading
Forward contracts 69,063.80 60,802.25 Hedging
Currency derivative 53,216.03 41,318.47 Trading
Currency derivative 22,223.51 30,442.83 Hedging
For the purpose of this disclosure; currency derivatives include currency options purchased and sold and cross currency
swaps; forward contracts include foreign exchange spot, forward and swap contracts; interest rate derivatives include
interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and interest rate caps and floors.
504
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
9. Penalties levied by the RBI
During the year ended March 31, 2025, RBI has levied following penalties on the Bank:
• RBI vide its letter dated September 10, 2024 levied a penalty of ` 10,000,000 on the Bank for giving gifts to the
depositors at the time of accepting deposits, for opening certain savings accounts in the names of ineligible entities
and for failure to ensure that customers are not contacted after 7 pm and before 7am, in contravention to the Reserve
Bank directions on 'lnterest Rate on Deposits' and 'Recovery Agents engaged by Banks'.
• RBI vide its letter dated March 26, 2025 levied a penalty of ` 7,500,000 on the Bank for not categorising certain
customers into low, medium and high-risk category based on its assessment and risk perception and for allotting
multiple customer identification code to certain customers instead of a Unique Customer ldentification Code (UCIC)
for each customer, which were in contravention to Reserve Bank directions on ‘Know Your Customer (KYC)'.
The penalties have been paid by the Bank and has initiated / taken corrective measures, as necessary, to align the operations
/ procedures in line with the applicable regulations.
During the year ended March 31, 2024, RBI vide its letter dated November 30, 2023 levied a penalty of ` 10,000 on the
Bank under Section 11(3) of FEMA, 1999 towards not obtaining RBI’s approval for maintaining current and fixed deposit
accounts of a foreign bank post cancellation of their license by RBI, which was in contravention to the para 13 of AP (DlR
Series) Circular no. 67 dated May 05, 2016. The penalty was paid by the Bank.
10. Provisions and contingencies
The break-up of ‘Provisions and contingencies’ included in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account is given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Provision for income tax1
- Current 20,942.26 13,948.91
- Deferred 1,859.62 (2,826.81)
Provision for NPAs2 15,543.54 12,532.49
Provision for diminution in value of non-performing investments (158.30) 7.56
Provision for standard assets 309.96 1,215.10
Floating provisions - 10,900.00
Other provisions and contingencies3 (1,520.59) 363.13
Total 36,976.49 36,140.38
1. Provision for income tax is net of write-back of provision no longer required of Nil (previous year: ` 6,325.04 crore), pursuant to favourable
orders received by the Bank.
2. Includes loss on sale of NPAs / stressed assets.
3. Includes provisions / (write-back) for tax, legal and other contingencies ` (866.83) crore (previous year: ` (644.55) crore), provisions / (write-back)
for securitised-out assets Nil (previous year: ` (26.81) crore) and provision / (write-back) towards investments in Alternate Investment Funds
` (746.24) crore (previous year: ` 1,034.49 crore).
505
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
11. Other liabilities
The Group has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and
gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other liabilities as at
March 31, 2025 include unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 14,092.54 crore (previous year:
` 10,513.94 crore).
As at March 31, 2025, the Group has recorded deferred tax liabilities of ` 307.59 crore (previous year: Nil). The break-up of
the same is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Deferred tax liability arising out of:
Investments and derivatives 94.42 -
Depreciation 234.59 -
Others 3.56 -
Total (a) 332.57 -
Deferred tax asset arising out of:
Employee benefits 10.99 -
Depreciation 11.49 -
Others 2.50 -
Total (b) 24.98 -
Deferred tax liability (a-b) 307.59 -
12. Other fixed assets
Other fixed assets include amount capitalised relating to software, licenses, BSE card and electronic trading platform etc.
Details regarding the same are tabulated below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Cost
As at March 31 of the previous year 7,801.61 5,474.26
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 1,003.14
Additions during the year 2,014.82 1,346.83
Deductions during the year (103.56) (22.62)
Total (a) 9,712.87 7,801.61
Depreciation
As at March 31 of the previous year 5,544.19 3,947.61
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 696.35
Charge for the year 1,148.80 922.86
On deductions during the year (102.39) (22.63)
Total (b) 6,590.60 5,544.19
Net value (a-b) 3,122.27 2,257.42
506
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
13. Other assets
Other assets include deposits placed with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB on account of shortfall in lending to priority sector of
` 107,160.11 crore (previous year: ` 118,007.02 crore).
The Group has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and
gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other assets as at
March 31, 2025 include unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 18,786.22 crore (previous year:
` 11,789.89 crore).
As at March 31, 2025, the Group has recorded deferred tax asset of ` 7,137.50 crore (previous year: ` 9,301.96 crore). The
break-up of the same is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Deferred tax asset arising out of:
Loan loss and contingencies 12,834.70 12,951.90
Employee benefits 1,384.99 1,096.90
Depreciation 89.23 101.42
Others 371.39 784.00
Total (a) 14,680.31 14,934.22
Deferred tax liability arising out of: -
Special reserve u/s 36(1)(viii) of the Income tax Act, 1961 6,191.81 5,385.82
Investments and derivatives 985.26 216.55
Depreciation 31.46 25.14
Others 334.28 4.75
Total (b) 7,542.81 5,632.26
Deferred tax asset (a-b) 7,137.50 9,301.96
14. Other income
Commission, exchange and brokerage income
Commission, exchange and brokerage income is presented net of related commission expenses for the Bank.
15. Employee benefits
Gratuity
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined
benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1 1,920.70 1,175.17
Liabilities assumed on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 618.83
Interest cost 134.43 98.40
Current service cost 338.48 236.88
Benefits paid (147.58) (201.56)
507
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:
Experience adjustment (21.60) (27.36)
Assumption change 67.63 20.34
Present value of obligation as at March 31 2,292.06 1,920.70
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1 1,967.55 1,091.61
Assets assumed on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 573.67
Expected return on plan assets 133.32 106.43
Contributions 121.21 82.96
Benefits paid (137.52) (178.05)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment 24.84 290.93
Assumption change - -
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 2,109.40 1,967.55
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 2,109.40 1,967.55
Present value of obligation as at March 31 (2,292.06) (1,920.70)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 (182.66) 46.85
Expenses recognised in Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost 134.20 96.35
Current service cost 338.48 236.88
Expected return on plan assets (133.09) (104.38)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year 21.20 (297.96)
Net cost 360.79 (69.11)
Actual return on plan assets 158.16 397.36
Estimated contribution for the next year 295.06 165.92
Assumptions
Discount rate 6.50% - 6.75% p.a. 7.15% - 7.21% p.a.
Expected return on plan assets 6.50% - 6.75% p.a. 6.50% - 7.21% p.a.
Salary escalation rate 4.00% - 14.00% p.a. 3.00% - 15.00% p.a.
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion
and other relevant factors.
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Group at the beginning of the
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets
are given below:
% of fair value to total plan assets as at
Category of plan assets
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Government securities 45.54% 47.62%
Debenture and bonds 17.88% 17.59%
Equity shares 30.63% 30.34%
Others 5.95% 4.45%
Total 100.00% 100.00%
508
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Experience adjustment
(` crore)
Years ended March 31,
Particulars
2025 2024 2023 2022 2021
Plan assets 2,109.40 1,967.55 1,091.61 1,001.91 834.44
Defined benefit obligation 2,292.06 1,920.70 1,175.17 1,090.59 1,017.22
Surplus / (deficit) (182.66) 46.85 (83.56) (88.68) (182.78)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan assets 24.84 290.93 (38.70) 22.14 107.65
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan liabilities (21.60) (27.36) 8.44 (51.23) 41.30
Pension
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined
benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1 103.47 107.82
Interest cost 7.05 7.61
Current service cost 2.57 1.83
Past service cost - -
Benefits paid (11.17) (9.85)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:
Experience adjustment 17.40 16.83
Assumption change 6.99 (20.77)
Present value of obligation as at March 31 126.31 103.47
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1 16.16 0.31
Expected return on plan assets 1.05 0.53
Contributions 9.99 24.18
Benefits paid (11.17) (9.85)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment 0.13 0.99
Assumption change - -
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 16.16 16.16
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 16.16 16.16
Present value of obligation as at March 31 (126.31) (103.47)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 (110.15) (87.31)
Expenses recognised in Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost 7.05 7.61
Current service cost 2.57 1.83
Past service cost - -
Expected return on plan assets (1.05) (0.53)
509
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year 24.26 (4.94)
Net cost 32.83 3.97
Actual return on plan assets 1.18 1.53
Estimated contribution for the next year 12.98 7.78
Assumptions
Discount rate 6.70% p.a. 7.20% p.a.
Expected return on plan assets 6.50% p.a. 6.50% p.a.
Salary escalation rate 7.00% p.a. 7.00% p.a.
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion
and other relevant factors.
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Group at the beginning of the
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets
are given below.
% of fair value to total plan assets as at
Category of plan assets
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Government securities 8.81% 8.81%
Debenture and bonds 1.06% 1.02%
Others 90.13% 90.17%
Total 100.00% 100.00%
Experience adjustment
(` crore)
Years ended March 31,
Particulars
2025 2024 2023 2022 2021
Plan assets 16.16 16.16 0.31 0.88 0.33
Defined benefit obligation 126.31 103.47 107.82 88.02 89.99
Surplus / (deficit) (110.15) (87.31) (107.51) (87.14) (89.66)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan assets 0.13 0.99 0.22 0.39 (0.20)
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan liabilities 17.40 16.83 3.32 6.44 31.41
Provident fund
The guidance note on AS-15 “Employee Benefits”, states that employer established provident funds, where interest is
guaranteed are to be considered as defined benefit plans and the liability has to be valued. The Institute of Actuaries of
India (IAI) has issued a guidance note on valuation of interest rate guarantees on exempt provident funds. The actuary has
accordingly valued the same and as at March 31, 2025, no provision is required (previous year: Nil), towards the present
value of the guaranteed interest benefit obligation. The actuary has followed the deterministic approach as prescribed by
the guidance note.
510
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Assumptions
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Discount rate (GOI security yield) 6.70% p.a. 7.20% p.a.
Expected guaranteed interest rate 8.25% p.a. 8.25% p.a.
The Group contributed ` 1,110.49 crore (previous year: ` 990.58 crore) to the provident fund, ` 34.49 crore (previous year:
` 18.80 crore) to the National Pension Scheme (for employees who opted) and ` 96.66 crore (previous year: ` 92.70 crore)
to the superannuation plan.
Compensated absences
The actuarial liability of compensated absences of accumulated privileged and sick leaves of the employees of the Group
is given below
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Privileged leave 158.95 129.38
Sick leave 13.48 10.69
Total actuarial liability 172.43 140.07
Assumptions
Discount rate 5.75% - 6.75% p.a. 5.20% - 7.21% p.a.
Salary escalation rate 5.00% - 14.00% p.a. 4.00% - 10.48% p.a.
The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘the Code’) relating to employee benefits, during the employment and post-employment,
has received Presidential assent on September 28, 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Further,
the Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on November 13, 2020. The effective date
from which the changes are applicable is yet to be notified and rules for quantifying the financial impact are not yet issued.
The Group will assess the impact of the Code and will give appropriate impact in the consolidated financial statements
in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
16. Segment reporting
Business segments
Business segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the target customer profile, the nature of products
and services, the differing risks and returns, the organisation structure, the internal business reporting system and the
guidelines prescribed by RBI. The Group operates in the following segments:
a) Treasury
T he treasury segment primarily consists of net interest earnings from the Bank’s investment portfolio, money market
borrowing and lending, gains or losses on investment operations and on account of trading in foreign exchange and
derivative contracts.
b) Retail banking
i. Digital banking
T he digital banking segment represents business by Digital Banking Units (DBUs) of the Bank. The said DBUs
serves retail customers through the Bank’s digital network and other online channels. This segment raises
deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers.
511
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
R evenues of the DBUs are derived from interest earned on retail loans, fees from services rendered, etc. Expenses
of this segment primarily comprise of interest expense on deposits, infrastructure and premises expenses for
operating the DBUs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of specialist product groups.
ii. Non digital banking
T he retail banking segment serves retail customers through the Bank’s branch network and other channels.
This segment raises deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers with the help
of specialist product groups. Exposures are classified under retail banking taking into account the status of the
borrower (orientation criterion), the nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum thereof.
R evenues of the retail banking segment are derived from interest earned on retail loans, interest earned from other
segments for surplus funds placed with those segments, subvention received from dealers and manufacturers,
fees from services rendered, foreign exchange earnings on retail products etc. Expenses of this segment primarily
comprise interest expense on deposits, commission paid to retail assets sales agents, infrastructure and premises
expenses for operating the branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads
and allocated expenses of specialist product groups, processing units and support groups.
c) Wholesale banking
T he wholesale banking segment provides loans, non-fund facilities and transaction services to large corporates,
emerging corporates, public sector units, government bodies, financial institutions and medium scale enterprises.
Revenues of the wholesale banking segment consist of interest earned on loans made to customers, interest / fees
earned on the cash float arising from transaction services, earnings from trade services and other non-fund facilities
and also earnings from foreign exchange and derivative transactions on behalf of customers. The principal expenses
of the segment consist of interest expense on funds borrowed from external sources and other internal segments,
premises expenses, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of delivery channels, specialist
product groups, processing units and support groups.
d) Other banking Operations
T his segment includes income from parabanking activities such as credit cards, debit cards, third party product
distribution, primary dealership business and the associated costs.
e) Insurance business
T his segment includes the operations of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (consolidated) and HDFC ERGO
General Insurance Company Limited.
f) Others
Includes the operations of consolidated entities of the Bank, not covered in any of the above segments.
g) Unallocated
A ll items which are reckoned at an enterprise level are classified under this segment. This includes capital and reserves,
minority interest, debt classified as Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital and other unallocable assets and liabilities such as deferred
tax, etc.
S egment revenue includes earnings from external customers plus earnings from funds transferred to other segments.
Segment result includes revenue less interest expense less operating expense and provisions, if any, for that segment.
Segment-wise income and expenses include certain allocations. Interest income is charged by a segment that provides
funding to another segment, based on yields benchmarked to an internally approved yield curve or at a certain agreed
transfer price rate. Transaction charges are levied by the retail banking segment to the wholesale banking segment for
the use by its customers of the retail banking segment’s branch network or other delivery channels. Segment capital
employed represents the net assets in that segment.
512
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Geographic segments
The geographic segments of the Bank are categorised as domestic operations and foreign operations. Domestic operations
comprise branches in India and foreign operations comprise branches outside India.
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2025 is given below:
Business segments:
(` crore)
Sr. Particulars Treasury Retail banking Wholesale Other Insurance Other Total
No. banking banking business
Digital Non digital
business
banking # banking
1 Segment revenue 62,227.48 8.59 283,426.20 191,964.51 35,449.05 107,630.27 17,136.34 697,842.44
2 Unallocated revenue -
3 Less: Inter-segment 226,926.51
revenue
4 Income from operations 470,915.93
(1) + (2) - (3)
5 Segment results 4,605.36 0.04 27,309.07 44,543.96 14,363.75 5,953.61 1,810.38 98,586.17
6 Unallocated expenses 2,344.12
7 Income tax expense 22,801.88
(including deferred tax)
8 Net profit (5)-(6)-(7) 73,440.17
9 Segment assets 991,874.12 81.15 1,533,809.12 1,247,937.97 112,358.81 372,256.74 109,961.74 4,368,279.65
10 Unallocated assets 24,137.77
11 Total assets (9)+(10) 4,392,417.42
12 Segment liabilities 83,340.18 86.16 2,312,429.69 956,136.34 8,513.18 358,568.57 86,926.10 3,806,000.22
13 Unallocated liabilities 48,268.77
14 Total liabilities (12) + (13) 3,854,268.99
15 Capital employed (9) 562,279.43
- (12) (Segment assets -
Segment liabilities)
16 Unallocated (10) - (13) (24,131.00)
17 Total (15) + (16) 538,148.43
18 Capital expenditure 71.43 - 4,399.07 400.46 833.05 701.81 340.72 6,746.54
19 Depreciation 30.20 - 2,774.26 250.78 324.23 219.26 206.50 3,805.23
20 Provisions for non - - - 9,138.23 (1,729.99) 4,241.18 61.19 2,464.00 14,174.61
performing assets /
others*
21 Unallocated other - -
provisions*
* Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
# Information about Digital Banking Segment reported as a sub-segment of Retail Banking Segment is related to Digital Banking Units of the Bank.
513
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Geographic segments:
(` crore)
Particulars Domestic International Total
Revenue 465,946.32 4,969.61 470,915.93
Assets 4,299,887.56 92,529.86 4,392,417.42
Capital expenditure 6,737.00 9.54 6,746.54
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2024 is given below:
Business segments:
(` crore)
Sr. Particulars Treasury Retail banking Wholesale Other Insurance Other Total
No. banking banking business
Digital Non digital
operations
banking banking
#
1 Segment revenue 61,653.66 3.37 233,634.50 175,520.23 30,050.38 86,877.22 13,536.00 601,275.36
2 Unallocated revenue -
3 Less: Inter-segment 193,280.59
revenue
4 Income from operations 407,994.77
(1) + (2) - (3)
5 Segment results** 14,190.10 (1.23) 15,661.14 32,280.98 11,104.00 3,321.30 2,352.00 78,908.29
6 Unallocated expenses 2,339.69
7 Income tax expense 11,122.10
(including deferred tax)
8 Net profit (5) - (6) - (7) 65,446.50
9 Segment assets 822,926.80 51.34 1,395,037.69 1,274,899.43 97,097.23 322,984.00 89,587.20 4,002,583.69
10 Unallocated assets 27,610.57
11 Total assets (9) + (10) 4,030,194.26
12 Segment liabilities** 94,557.67 56.18 2,046,617.47 973,987.85 8,212.98 311,998.00 71,040.35 3,506,470.50
13 Unallocated liabilities 53,945.11
14 Total liabilities 3,560,415.61
(12) + (13)
15 Capital employed (9) - 496,113.19
(12) (Segment assets
- Segment liabilities)
16 Unallocated (10) - (13) (26,334.54)
17 Total (15) + (16) 469,778.65
18 Capital expenditure 31.45 - 4,168.78 49.06 532.55 313.99 239.96 5,335.79
19 Depreciation 26.01 - 2,343.71 204.67 235.71 125.77 156.21 3,092.08
20 Provisions for non - - - 12,798.00 6,781.15 3,913.00 (56.01) 1,582.14 25,018.28
performing assets /
others*
21 Unallocated other - -
provisions*
* Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
** Segment Results and Liabilities are after considering the impact of Floating Provisions in the respective segments.
# Information about Digital Banking Segment reported as a sub-segment of Retail Banking Segment is related to Digital Banking Units of the
Bank.
514
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Geographic segments:
(` crore)
Particulars Domestic International Total
Revenue 403,356.00 4,638.77 407,994.77
Assets 3,954,614.44 75,579.82 4,030,194.26
Capital expenditure 5,334.46 1.33 5,335.79
17. Related party disclosures
As per AS-18, Related Party Disclosures read with RBI Master Direction on Financial Statements – Presentation and
Disclosures, the HDFC Bank Group’s related parties are disclosed below:
Subsidiaries
HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited (ceased to be a related party with effect from October 18,
2024)
Key management personnel
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
Ms. Nagsri Sashidhar, Mr. Dhruv Sashidhar, Mr. Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Ms. Mythra Mahesh, Mr. Mahesh Babu
Ramamurthy, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories, Ms. Havovi Bharucha, Mr. Huzaan Bharucha, Mr. Danesh Bharucha,
Mr. Darius Bharucha, Ms. Dilnaaz D Bharucha, Ms. Mala B. Zaveri, Ms. Bhakti Zaveri, Mr. Akash Metawala, Ms. Niharika
Zaveri, Mr. Dev Metawala, Mr. Paresh Zaveri, Ms. Kavita Zaveri, Mr. Hitesh Zaveri, Mr. Tushar Pandey (with effect from
February 23, 2025), Aurionpro Solutions Limited, Trejhara Solutions Limited, Ms. S. Anuradha, Ms. V. Jayam, Ms. S.
Abinaya Rangan.
A specific related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in
that category.
• Interest paid: Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 7.98 crore
• Interest received: Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 0.09 crore; Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri ` 0.04 crore; Ms. S. Abinaya Rangan
` 0.03 crore
• Rendering of services: Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ` 2.54 crore; Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 1.24 crore; Aurionpro Solutions
Limited ` 0.55 crore
• Receiving of services: Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 12.03 crore
• Dividend paid: Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ` 4.14 crore; Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 3.40 crore; Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan
` 2.91 crore
• Fixed Assets purchased from: Trejhara Solutions Limited ` 9.98 crore; Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 9.55 crore
515
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
The Group’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2025 are summarised as follows:
(` crore)
Items / Related party Subsidiaries* Key Relatives of Total
management KMP & their
personnel interested
(KMP) entities
Deposits taken - 11.31 195.53 206.84
(20.27) (32.51) (195.53) (248.31)
Deposits placed - 0.02 0.02 0.04
- (0.02) (0.02) (0.04)
Advances given - 2.74 0.31 3.05
- (2.74) (0.61) (3.35)
Fixed assets purchased from - - 19.53 19.53
Fixed assets sold to - - - -
Interest paid to 0.64 0.64 8.31 9.59
Interest received from - 0.13 0.03 0.16
Income from services rendered to 0.07 3.97 0.97 5.01
Expenses for receiving services from - 0.12 13.25 13.37
Equity investments - - - -
(200.00) - - (200.00)
Other investments - - - -
- - - -
Dividend paid to - 10.82 1.74 12.56
Dividend received from - - - -
Receivable from / Advance paid - - - -
(0.05) - - (0.05)
Payable to - - - -
- - - -
Guarantees given - - 73.42 73.42
- - (84.76) (84.76)
Remuneration paid - 34.62 - 34.62
* Subsidiaries which are not consolidated.
# Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
• Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each
quarter-end.
• Remuneration paid is ` 11.23 crore to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, ` 8.02 crore to Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, ` 6.52 crore to Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri
and ` 8.85 crore to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan. (excluding value of employee stock options exercised during the year).
• Bonus and retiral benefits for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key
managerial personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2025, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect
of earlier years was ` 14.51 crore.
516
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
The Group’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2024 are summarised as follows:
Promoter
Erstwhile Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (amalgamated with and into the Bank with effect from July
01, 2023)
Subsidiaries
Pursuant to the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into the Bank, following entities became subsidiaries
of the Bank with effect from July 01, 2023
HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited (ceased to be a related party with effect from March 19, 2024)
HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited
Key management personnel
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director (appointed with effect from April 19, 2023)
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director (appointed with effect from November 23, 2023)
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
Ms. Nagsri Sashidhar, Mr. Dhruv Sashidhar, Mr. Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Ms. Mythra Mahesh, Mr. Mahesh Babu
Ramamurthy, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories, Ms. Havovi Bharucha, Mr. Huzaan Bharucha, Mr. Danesh Bharucha,
Mr. Darius Bharucha, Ms. Dilnaaz D Bharucha
With effect from April 19, 2023 – Ms. Mala B. Zaveri, Ms. Bhakti Zaveri, Mr. Akash Metawala, Ms. Niharika Zaveri, Mr. Dev
Metawala, Mr. Paresh Zaveri, Ms. Kavita Zaveri, Mr. Hitesh Zaveri, Aurionpro Solutions Limited, Trejhara Solutions Limited
With effect from November 23, 2023 – Ms. S. Anuradha, Ms. V. Jayam, Ms. S. Abinaya Rangan
A specific related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in
that category.
• Interest paid: HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited ` 7.70 crore, Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
` 3.06 crore
• Interest received: HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited ` 200.31 crore
• Rendering of services: Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited ` 161.72 crore, HDFC Credila Financial
Services Limited ` 37.28 crore
• Receiving of services: Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited ` 236.64 crore, HDFC Credila Financial
Services Limited ` 42.14 crore
• Dividend paid: Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ` 4.25 crore; Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 2.90 crore; Ms. Mala B. Zaveri ` 1.09 crore
• Dividend received: Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 0.01 crore
• Fixed Assets purchased from: Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 12.53 crore
517
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` crore)
Items / Related party Promoter Subsidiaries* Key Relatives of Total
management KMP & their
personnel interested
entities
(KMP)
Deposits taken - 22.89 8.54 37.65 69.08
(6,503.24) (377.56) (20.56) (37.65) (6,939.01)
Deposits placed - - 0.02 0.02 0.04
(0.49) - (0.02) (0.02) (0.53)
Advances given - - 2.42 0.43 2.85
- (3,399.05) (2.77) (1.03) (3,402.85)
Fixed assets purchased from - - - 13.13 13.13
Fixed assets sold to - - - - -
Interest paid to 3.06 8.52 0.44 0.99 13.01
Interest received from - 200.31 0.29 0.03 200.63
Income from services rendered to 161.72 37.43 0.25 0.49 199.89
Expenses for receiving services from 236.64 42.14 0.12 13.86 292.76
Equity investments - 200.00 - - 200.00
- (2,634.97) - # (2,634.97)
Other investments - - - - -
- (49.26) - - (49.26)
Dividend paid to - - 7.78 1.41 9.19
Dividend received from - - - 0.01 0.01
Receivable from / Advance paid - 0.03 - - 0.03
(0.58) (18.89) - - (19.47)
Payable to - - - - -
(81.70) (16.41) - - (98.11)
Guarantees given - - - 68.43 68.43
(0.02) - - (68.43) (68.45)
Remuneration paid - - 27.18 - 27.18
Loans purchased from 11,632.00 - - - 11,632.00
* Subsidiaries which are not consolidated.
# Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
• Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each
quarter-end.
• Remuneration paid is ` 9.91 crore to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, ` 9.92 crore to Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, ` 5.05 crore to Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri and
` 2.30 crore to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan. (excluding value of employee stock options exercised during the year).
• Bonus and retiral benefits for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key
managerial personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2024, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect
of earlier years was ` 10.87 crore.
518
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
18. Leases
Operating Lease
Operating leases primarily comprise office premises, staff residences and Automated Teller Machines (‘ATM’s), which are
renewable at the option of the Group.
Lease Payments
The details of maturity profile of future operating lease payments are given below:
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Not later than one year 2,466.94 2,121.60
Later than one year and not later than five years 9,009.13 7,773.98
Later than five years 11,564.04 9,974.32
Total 23,040.11 19,869.90
Total of minimum lease payments recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 2,935.60 2,446.08
for the year
Total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non- 4.31 14.28
cancellable sub-leases
Sub-lease amounts recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year 1.84 6.01
Contingent (usage based) lease payments recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss 279.35 470.37
Account for the year
The Bank has sub-leased certain of its properties taken on lease.
Lease Income
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Gross carrying amount of the assets 16.59 43.29
Accumulated depreciation of the assets 3.45 1.32
Accumulated impairment loss of the assets - -
Total depreciation recognized in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year 0.27 0.23
Total impairment losses recognized in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the - -
year
Total impairment losses reversed in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year - -
Contingent lease income recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the - -
year
Future minimum lease rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases as at the end of the year
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Not later than one year 2.15 4.11
Later than one year and not later than five years 2.15 6.54
Later than five years - -
Total 4.30 10.65
519
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
19. Earnings per equity share
Basic and diluted earnings per equity share have been calculated based on the consolidated net profit after tax attributable
to the Group of ` 70,792.25 crore (previous year: ` 64,062.04 crore) and the weighted average number of equity shares
outstanding during the year of 7,62,77,93,180 (previous year: 7,08,48,07,443). The dilutive impact is on account of stock
options / units granted to employees by the Bank. There is no impact of dilution on the profits in the current year and
previous year.
Following is the reconciliation between the basic and diluted earnings per equity share:
For the years ended
Particulars
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Nominal value per share (`) 1.00 1.00
Basic earnings per share (`) 92.81 90.42
Effect of potential equity shares (per share) (`) (0.42) (0.41)
Diluted earnings per share (`) 92.39 90.01
Following is the reconciliation of the weighted average number of equity shares used in the computation of basic and
diluted earnings per share:
For the years ended
Particulars
March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing basic earnings per equity 7,62,77,93,180 7,08,48,07,443
share
Effect of potential equity shares outstanding 3,41,77,391 3,24,45,707
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing diluted earnings per equity 7,66,19,70,571 7,11,72,53,150
share
Equity shares issued as consideration under the Scheme are included in the weighted average number of shares with effect
from appointed and effective date of the amalgamation.
20. Provisions and contingent liabilities
Given below is the movement in provisions and a brief description of the nature of contingent liabilities recognised by
the Group
a) Provision for credit card and debit card reward points
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening provision for reward points 863.54 696.31
Provision for reward points made during the year 933.51 792.11
Utilisation / write-back of provision for reward points (749.61) (624.88)
Closing provision for reward points 1,047.44 863.54
520
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
b) Provision for legal and other contingencies
(` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening provision 1,059.38 553.22
Additions on amalgamation - 429.46
Movement during the year (net) 198.82 76.70
Closing provision 1,258.20 1,059.38
c) Description of contingent liabilities
Sr.
Contingent liability* Brief description
No.
1 Claims against the Bank not The Group is a party to various taxation matters in respect of which appeals are
acknowledged as debts – taxation pending. The Group expects the outcome of the appeals to be favorable based on
decisions on similar issues in the previous years by the appellate authorities, based
on the facts of the case and taxation laws.
2 Claims against the Bank not The Group is a party to various legal proceedings in the normal course of business.
acknowledged as debts – others The Group does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material
adverse effect on the Group’s financial conditions, results of operations or cash
flows.
3 Partly paid investments This represents amount remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid
investments.
4 Liability on account of forward The Group enters into foreign exchange contracts, currency options, forward
exchange and derivative contracts rate agreements, currency swaps and interest rate swaps with inter-bank
participants on its own account and for customers. Forward exchange contracts
are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at the contracted
rate. Currency swaps are commitments to exchange cash flows by way of interest
/ principal in one currency against another, based on predetermined rates. Interest
rate swaps are commitments to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash flows.
The notional amounts of financial instruments such as foreign exchange contracts
and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the
Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows
involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate
the Group’s exposure to credit or price risks. The derivative instruments become
favorable (assets) or unfavorable (liabilities) as a result of fluctuations in market
rates or prices relative to their terms.
5 Guarantees given on behalf As a part of its commercial banking activities, the Bank issues documentary credit
of constituents, acceptances, and guarantees on behalf of its customers. Documentary credits such as letters of
endorsements and other obligations credit enhance the credit standing of the Bank’s customers. Guarantees generally
represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of
the customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
6 Other items for which the Bank is These include: a) Credit enhancements in respect of securitised-out loans; b) Bills
contingently liable rediscounted by the Bank; c) Capital commitments; d) Underwriting commitments;
e) Investment purchases pending settlement; f) Amount transferred to the RBI
under the Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEA Fund); g) Bank
guarantees taken.
* Also refer Schedule 12 - Contingent liabilities
521
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
21. Additional information pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013
(` crore)
Name of entity Net assets as of March 31, 2025 Profit or (loss) for the year ended
March 31, 2025
As % of Amount As % of Amount
consolidated net consolidated
assets** profit or loss
Parent:
HDFC Bank Limited 93.18% 501,424.64 91.70% 67,347.36
Subsidiaries:
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited 3.00% 16,153.93 2.39% 1,757.94
(Consolidated)*1
HDB Financial Services Limited* 3.00% 16,142.41 2.88% 2,117.32
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited 1.51% 8,130.96 3.35% 2,456.68
(Consolidated)*2
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited* 0.97% 5,201.60 0.66% 485.82
HDFC Securities Limited (Consolidated)*3 0.62% 3,340.85 1.51% 1,111.42
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited* 0.08% 428.16 0.19% 141.33
HDFC Sales Private Limited* 0.05% 273.26 0.10% 71.07
Griha Pte Limited 0.01% 39.17 (0.01%) (4.62)
Griha Investments 0.00% 6.86 (0.01%) (3.98)
HDFC Trustee Company Limited* 0.00% 3.88 0.00% 0.57
Entity over which control is exercised:
HDB Employee Welfare Trust* 0.14% 738.73 0.23% 169.79
Minority Interest 3.04% 16,359.04 3.61% 2,647.92
Inter-company adjustments (5.60%) (30,095.06) (6.60%) (4,858.45)
Total 100.00% 538,148.43 100.00% 73,440.17
* The subsidiaries are Indian entities.
** Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities.
1. HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary - HDFC Pension Fund Management
Limited and wholly owned foreign subsidiary - HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited.
2. HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary - HDFC AMC International
(IFSC) Limited.
3. HDFC Securities Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary – HDFC Securities IFSC Limited.
522
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(` crore)
Name of entity Net assets as of March 31, 2024 Profit or (loss) for the year ended March
31, 2024
As % of Amount As % of Amount
consolidated net consolidated profit
assets** or loss
Parent:
HDFC Bank Limited 93.71% 440,245.80 92.92% 60,812.27
Subsidiaries:
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited 3.12% 14,666.39 1.68% 1,099.42
(Consolidated)*1
HDB Financial Services Limited* 3.01% 14,128.12 3.68% 2,408.26
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited 1.28% 5,996.80 1.76% 1,153.05
(Consolidated)*2
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited* 0.94% 4,448.02 0.33% 217.31
HDFC Securities Limited* 0.42% 1,970.86 1.48% 967.44
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited* 0.06% 261.77 0.12% 76.13
HDFC Sales Private Limited* 0.04% 202.19 0.06% 39.45
Griha Pte Limited 0.02% 76.41 (0.01%) (7.00)
Griha Investments 0.00% 10.65 (0.03%) (19.53)
HDFC Trustee Company Limited* 0.00% 3.07 0.00% 0.24
Entity over which control is exercised:
HDB Employee Welfare Trust* 0.04% 171.56 0.00% (0.49)
Minority Interest 2.85% 13,383.40 2.11% 1,384.46
Inter-company adjustments (5.49%) (25,786.39) (4.10%) (2,684.51)
Total 100.00% 469,778.65 100.00% 65,446.50
* The subsidiaries are Indian entities.
** Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities.
1. HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary - HDFC Pension Fund Management
Limited and wholly owned foreign subsidiary - HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited.
2. HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary - HDFC AMC International
(IFSC) Limited.
22. Additional disclosure
Additional statutory information disclosed in the separate financial statements of the Bank and its Subsidiaries have no
material bearing on the true and fair view of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the information pertaining to such
items which are not material have not been disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
23. Disclosure under Rule 11 (e) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances to its constituents including foreign entities
with permission to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like in other entities identified by such constituents.
Similarly, the Bank accepts deposits from its constituents, who may instruct the Bank to lend / invest / provide guarantee
or security or the like against such deposit in other entities identified by such constituents.
523
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
These transactions are part of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted after exercising proper due diligence
including adherence to “Know Your Customer” guidelines as applicable in respective jurisdiction.
Other than the nature of transactions described above, the Banks and subsidiaries incorporated in India have not advanced
/ lent / invested / provided guarantee or security to or in any other person with an understanding to lend / invest / provide
guarantee or security or the like to or in any other person. Similarly, other than the nature of transactions described above,
the Bank and subsidiaries incorporated in India has not received any funds from any other person with an understanding
that the Bank shall lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to or in any other person.
24. Implementation of Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’)
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs, in its press release dated January 18, 2016, had issued a roadmap for implementation of
Ind AS for scheduled commercial banks, insurers / insurance companies and non-banking financial companies. However,
the RBI and IRDAI have deferred implementation of Ind AS for banks and insurance companies until further notice.
Presently, the Bank prepares and submits Ind AS Proforma information to the RBI on a half-yearly basis. The Bank is well
prepared for the Ind AS implementation as and when it becomes applicable, with due consideration to updated regulations,
accounting standards / guidance and business strategy at the date of actual transition. The RBI, vide its circular dated
September 12, 2023, revised the norms of classification, measurement, and valuation of investments, in view of the
significant development in the global standards. These norms are closer to Ind AS. The Bank has implemented the revised
norms with effect from April 01, 2024.
With respect to the insurance subsidiaries, the life insurance subsidiary was identified by IRDAI under Phase 1 for Ind-AS
implementation effective April 01, 2027 as per the regulator’s communication date October 10, 2024. The subsidiary is in
the final stages of onboarding technology and knowledge partners to support the implementation. It is in the process of
preparing Proforma Ind AS financial statements for FY 2024, which will be subject to limited review by independent audit
/ actuarial firms.
The general insurance subsidiary conducted gap assessment during the year covering aspects such as data, systems,
resources, and other implementation-related requirements. A report in the prescribed format has been filed with IRDAI. The
subsidiary has onboarded implementation partners and finalised the necessary software tools. Proforma Ind AS financial
statements, as required by IRDAI, are being prepared for submission to the regulator.
The Group remains committed to ensuring a smooth and timely transition to Ind AS in accordance with regulatory
requirements and industry best practices.
524
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
25. Comparative figures
Figures for the previous year have been regrouped and reclassified wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s
presentation. The previous year comparative numbers were jointly audited by M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants
and Price Waterhouse LLP, Chartered Accountants.
As per our report of even date. For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta
Partner Partner Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976 Independent Director Independent Director
Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
Executive Director Executive Director
Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025 Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
525
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 129
of the Comapnies Act, 2013
5
elur
htiw
daer
3102
,tcA
seinapmoC
eht
fo
921
noitces
fo
)3(
noitces-bus
ot
osivorp
tsrfi
eht
ot
tnausruP
:1
–
COA
mroF
4102
,seluR
)stnuoccA(
seinapmoC
fo
serutnev
tnioj
dna
seinapmoc
etaicossa
,seiraidisbus
fo
tnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
fo
serutaef
tneilas
gniniatnoc
tnemetatS
seiraidisbuS
:A
traP
)5202
,13
hcraM
dedne
raey
eht rof
/
ta
sA(
)erorc
H(
CFDH
CFDH
CFDH
CFDH
CFDH
CFDH
OGRE
efiL
CFDH
CMA
CFDH
tessA
CFDH
CFDH
BDH
lanoitanretnI
noisneP
CFDH
etP
ahirG
ahirG
eetsurT
selaS
latipaC
lareneG
ecnarusnI
lanoitanretnI
tnemeganaM
seitiruceS
laicnaniF
eht fo
emaN
.rS
eR dna
efiL
tnemeganaM
seitiruceS
7detimiL
6stnemtsevnI
ynapmoC
etavirP
srosivdA
ecnarusnI
ynapmoC
)CSFI(
ynapmoC
)CSFI(
secivreS
yraidisbus
.oN
ynapmoC
ynapmoC
detimiL
detimiL
detimiL
detimiL
ynapmoC
detimiL
4detimiL
detimiL
9,3detimiL
detimiL
6,5 detimiL
5detimiL
detimiL
,10
yluJ
,10
yluJ
,10
yluJ
,10
yluJ
,10
yluJ
,10
yluJ
,10 yluJ
,10
yluJ
,10
yluJ
,10
yluJ
,10
yluJ
,10 rebotcO
rebmetpeS
,13
tsuguA
nehw
ecnis etad
ehT
1
3202
3202
3202
3202
3202
3202
3202
3202
3202
3202
3202
4202
5002
,82
7002
deriuqca
saw seiraidisbus
41.7
43.0
01.0
00.221
12.2
38.527
51.252
00.45
99.251,2
00.43
09.601
-
77.71
87.597
latipac
erahS
2
20.23
45.6
87.3
16.641
45.524
47.574,4
)66.41(
66.31
79.179,31
)31.4(
42.720,8
)75.0(
28.033,3
79.320,51
sulprus
& sevreseR
3
50.04
21.7
54.4
85.165
00.325
58.353,13
35.893
69.521
43.331,943
60.13
36.357,8
92.0
11.130,41
92.366,801
stessa
latoT
4
09.0
42.0
75.0
79.292
52.59
82.251,62
40.161
13.85
83.800,333
91.1
94.916
68.0
25.286,01
45.348,29
seitilibaiL
latoT
5
-
-
00.3
-
47.872
34.373,72
72.003
76.07
35.182,633
-
78.882,8
-
78.050,1
31.060,2
stnemtsevnI
6
47.2
38.5
42.3
74.341,1
90.813
93.602,11
80.072
78.57
66.969,69
48.1
62.850,4
-
68.462,3
82.003,61
8revonruT
7
)09.4(
)10.4(
67.0
22.511
50.391
39.366
51.01
85.8
88.772,1
)78.0(
44.682,3
)65.0(
61.694,1
08.729,2
noitaxat
erofeb
tfiorP
8
)52.0(
-
91.0
31.93
23.84
67.361
-
61.3
)42.425(
-
93.528
-
31.173
88.157
noitaxat
rof noisivorP
9
)56.4(
)10.4(
75.0
90.67
37.441
71.005
51.01
24.5
21.208,1
)78.0(
50.164,2
)65.0(
30.521,1
29.571,2
noitaxat
retfa
tfiorP
01
40.53
-
-
-
-
71.541
-
-
02.034
-
50.594,1
-
43.898
01.832
diaP dnediviD
11
%00.001
%00.001
%00.001
%00.001
%43.98
%33.05
%00.001
%00.001
%23.05
%00.001
%74.25
%00.001
%55.49
%23.49
gnidloherahs
fo
%
21
:setoN
.5202
,13
hcraM
.e.i
,knaB
eht
fo
taht
sa
etad
gnitroper
emas
eht
ot
pu
nward
neeb
evah
seiraidisbus
evoba
eht
fo
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detidua
ehT
1
elbacilppa
sa
snoitaluger
/
sdradnats
gnitnuocca
eht
htiw
ecnadrocca
ni
deraperp
stnemetats
laicnanfi
detidua
eht
morf
detcartxe
si
noitamrofni
laicnanfi
ehT
2
.seiraidisbus
evitcepser
eht
ot
.detimiL
seitiruceS
CFDH
fo
yraidisbus
denwo-yllohw
a
si detimiL
)CSFI(
seitiruceS
CFDH
3
.detimiL
ynapmoC
tnemeganaM
tessA
CFDH
fo
yraidisbus
denwo-yllohw
a
si detimiL
)CSFI(
lanoitanretnI
CMA
CFDH
4
CFDH
fo
seiraidisbus
denwo-yllohw
era
)
”LCRLIH“
( detimiL
ynapmoC
eR
dna
efiL
lanoitanretnI
CFDH
dna
detimiL
ynapmoC
tnemeganaM
noisneP
CFDH
5
.detimiL
ynapmoC
ecnarusnI
efiL
526
HDFC Bank Limited
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 129
of the Comapnies Act, 2013
DSU
1
fo
5202
,13
hcraM
ta
sa
etar
egnahcxe
gnisolc
eht
gnisu
seepuR
naidnI
otni
detalsnart
si
stnemtsevnI
ahirG
dna
LCRLIH
fo
noitamrofni
laicnanfi
ehT
6
.574.58
`
=
=
DGS
1
fo
5202
,13
hcraM
ta
sa
etar
egnahcxe
gnisolc
eht
gnisu
seepuR
naidnI
otni
detalsnart
si
detimiL
etP
ahirG
fo
noitamrofni
laicnanfi
ehT
7
.17.36
`
.stnemetats
laicnanfi
evitcepser
rieht
ni
seiraidisbus
s’knaB
eht
yb
detroper
emocni
etagergga
eht
si
evobaniereh
detroper
revonruT
8
.detimiL
)CSFI(
seitiruceS
CFDH
:snoitarepo
ecnemmoc
ot
tey
era
hcihw
seiraidisbus
fo
semaN
9
.detimiL
etavirP
secivreS
tnempoleveD
dna
noitacudE
CFDH
:raey
eht
gnirud
dlos
ro
detadiuqil
neeb
evah
hcihw
seiraidisbus
fo
semaN
01
serutneV
tnioJ
dna
seinapmoC
etaicossA
:B
traP
elbacilppA
toN
527
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BBUUSSIINNEESSSS RREESSPPOONNSSIIBBIILLIITTYY AANNDD SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT
Statement by the Director Responsible for the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
HDFC Bank’s sustainability journey began about a decade Sustainability is a shared journey, and at HDFC Bank, we
ago when it officially adopted ‘Sustainability’ as the fifth value, remain deeply committed to collaborating with partners,
alongside customer focus, operational excellence, product regulators and communities to create long-term value – socially,
leadership and people. We have built upon our commitment environmentally and economically. During the year, we have
every year since then. played a pivotal role in supporting the government’s flagship
schemes across micro-insurance, pensions, MSME funding,
In the Financial Year 2024-25, we continued to embed digitisation initiatives, agriculture and livelihood.
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) principles into
our operations, decision-making and stakeholder engagement Our efforts toward social development through our CSR
while driving growth that is inclusive, resilient and future- programme, Parivartan, touched millions of lives across India.
ready. Several initiatives were adopted to reduce emissions We strengthened rural livelihoods, enhanced financial literacy,
from our own operations including increase in the renewable supported healthcare infrastructure, empowered communities
energy mix, deployment of IT solutions to track and optimise through education and skill development, especially in regions
energy consumption, and shift to energy efficient equipment, most in need.
amongst others.
At HDFC Bank, we recognise that the future of finance lies in
The Bank scaled up its commitment to Sustainable Finance, enabling solutions that strike a balance between economic
supporting a diverse portfolio of sustainable projects well-being and protecting the planet, and we are fully committed
ranging from clean energy to electric mobility and MSMEs to to this.
affordable housing. In 2024, we issued our first Sustainable
Bond, mobilising resources to fund impactful green and social
initiatives that support underserved communities and climate-
conscious businesses.
Environmental and social yardsticks have been integrated into
our credit evaluation processes, ensuring that sustainability risks
and opportunities are appropriately factored into our lending
Kaizad Bharucha
decisions. Our business teams are sensitised periodically on
Deputy Managing Director
Environmental, Social and Governance aspects preparing the
Bank to meet the commitment on Sustainable Finance.
528
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. Details
1. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity L65920MH1994PLC080618
2. Name of the Listed Entity HDFC Bank Limited
3. Year of Incorporation 1994
4. Registered office address HDFC Bank House, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400 013
5. Corporate address HDFC Bank House, Shiv Sagar Estate, Dr Annie Besant Road, Worli, Mumbai
– 400 018
6. E-mail id esg@hdfcbank.com
7. Telephone 022 – 6652 1000
8. Website www.hdfcbank.com
9. Financial year for which reporting is being done April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 2024-25)
10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed BSE Limited; National Stock Exchange of India Limited, American Depository
Shares (ADS) listed on the New York Stock Exchange (Depository for ADS is
represented in India by JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association)
11. Paid-up capital ` 765.22 Crore
12. Name and contact details (telephone, email address) Mr. Ritesh Sinha
of the person who may be contacted in case of any Head - ESG
queries on the BRSR report Telephone number: +91-22-3075 3894
E-mail id: ritesh.sinha2@hdfcbank.com
13. Reporting boundary Disclosures made in this report are on a standalone basis and pertain only to
Are the disclosures under this report made on a HDFC Bank Limited.
standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on a
consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the
entities which form a part of its consolidated financial
statements, taken together).
14. Name of assurance provider SGS India Private Limited
15. Type of assurance obtained Reasonable assurance on BRSR Core KPIs and Limited Assurance for select
non-core BRSR KPIs.
For further details, refer Reasonable Assurance Report and Limited Assurance
Report issued by SGS India Private Limited.
II. Products / services
16. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover)
S. Description of main activity Description of business activity % of turnover of the
No. entity
1. Financial and Insurance Service HDFC Bank operates in three business verticals - Wholesale, Retail and 100
Treasury. All products and services are offered under these segments.
17. Products / services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover)
S. Product / Service NIC Code % of total turnover
No. contributed
1. Banking activities by central, commercial and savings banks 64191 100
529
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
III. Operations
18. Number of locations where plants and / or operations / offices of the entity are situated
Location Number of plants Number of offices
National Not Applicable (N.A.) Retail Branches: 9,441
ATMs & Cash Deposit & Withdrawal Machines: 21,139
Presence in 4,150 towns and cities
International N.A. Branches: 5 (Hong Kong, Singapore, Bahrain, Dubai International Financial Centre and GIFT
City*)
Representative offices: 4 (Dubai, Kenya, Abu Dhabi and United Kingdom)
*International Banking Unit located at Gift City, Gandhinagar, Gujarat
19. Markets served by the entity
a. Number of locations
Locations Number
National (No. of states) 28 states and 8 union territories in India
International (No. of countries) 7
b. What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
Given the nature of the banking business, this is not applicable.
c. A brief on types of customers
T he Bank caters to a diverse customer base. As of March 31, 2025, the Bank had 97 million customers. To effectively
meet the needs of this wide customer base, the Bank operates through three key business verticals:
Retail Banking Wholesale / Corporate Banking Commercial / Rural Banking
The retail business division serves The target segment are large The commercial segment focuses on Micro,
individuals, salaried professionals, micro corporates, public sector units, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs),
and small businesses, self-help groups, government entities and multinational emerging corporates, commercial
non-resident Indians and high net worth corporations. This entails commercial, agriculture, small and marginal farmers
individuals. This entails loans, deposits transactional and investment banking and other businesses which have a strong
and a wide range of financial products and services. presence in semi-urban and rural areas.
services.
IV. Employees
20. Details as of March 31, 2025
a. Employees (including differently abled)
S. Particulars Total (A) Male Female
No.
No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C) % (C/A)
EMPLOYEES
1. Permanent (D) 2,14,521 1,58,449 74 56,072 26
2. Other than permanent (E)* 31 24 77 7 23
3. Total employees (D + E) 2,14,552 1,58,473 74 56,079 26
WORKERS^
4. Permanent (F) 0 0 - 0 -
5. Other than permanent (G) 0 0 - 0 -
6. Total workers (F + G) 0 0 - 0 -
Note: *Employees employed on a contract basis.
^ All employees of the Bank are categorised as permanent or other than permanent i.e. on a contract basis. The Bank does not
employ any workers; accordingly, worker-related KPIs are nil and the same have not been included in any of the prescribed tables
in the BRSR.
530
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
b. Differently abled employees
S. Particulars Total (A) Male Female
No.
No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C) % (C/A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1. Permanent (D) 212 168 79 44 21
2. Other than permanent (E) 0 0 0 0 0
3. Total differently abled employees (D + E)* 212 168 79 44 21
*Based on voluntary disclosures by employees and/or disability certificates.
21. Participation/inclusion/representation of women
Total (A) No. and percentage of females
No. (B) % (B/A)
Board of Directors 13 3 23
Key Management Personnel* 6 0 0
*Comprises 4 Executive Directors, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary.
22. Turnover rate for permanent employees (%)
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total
Permanent Employees (%) 22.2 23.7 22.6 26.5 28.2 26.9 34.2 34.1 34.2
V. Holding, subsidiary and associate companies (including joint ventures)
23. (a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures (As of March 31, 2025)
S. HDFC Securities IFSC Limited Indicate whether holding / Subsidiary / Associate / % of shares held by
No. Joint Venture listed entity
1 HDFC Sales Private Limited Subsidiary 100.00
2 Griha Investments (Mauritius) Subsidiary 100.00
3 Griha Pte. Limited (Singapore) Subsidiary 100.00
4 HDFC Trustee Company Limited Subsidiary 100.00
5 HDFC Securities Limited Subsidiary 94.55
6 HDB Financial Services Limited Subsidiary 94.32
7 HDFC Capital Advisors Limited Subsidiary 89.34
8 HDFC Asset Management Company Limited Subsidiary 52.47
9 HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited Subsidiary 50.32
10 HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Subsidiary 50.33
Limited
11 HDFC Securities IFSC Limited Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Securities Ltd.) 94.55
12 HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Asset Management 52.47
Co. Ltd.)
13 HDFC Pension Management Company Limited Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Life Insurance Co. 50.32
Ltd.)
14 HDFC International Life and Re Co. Ltd. Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Life Insurance Co. 50.32
Ltd.)
Does the entity indicated in column A participate in the Business Responsibility initiatives of the listed
entity? (Yes / No)
No. The subsidiary companies undertake their own business responsibility initiatives and do not participate in the Business
Responsibility initiatives of the Bank.
531
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
VI. CSR Details
24. (i) Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013: Yes
(ii) Turnover: ` 3,46,149.32 crore
(iii) Net worth: ` 4,88,899.89 crore
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25. Complaints / grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on
Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC)
Stakeholder Grievance Redressal
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
group Mechanisms in Place (Yes / No)
from whom
(If yes, then provide web-link Number of Number of Remarks Number of Number of Remarks
complaint is
for grievance redress policy) complaints complaints complaints complaints
received
filed during pending filed during pending
the year resolution the year resolution
at close of at close of
the year the year
Communities Yes 8 1 - 0 0 -
Issues and grievances by
community stakeholders are
addressed at:
CSR-compliance@hdfcbank.
com
Investors Yes 0 0 - 1 0 -
(other than Grievance redressals for
shareholders) investors are part of the
terms of reference of the
Stakeholders’ Relationship
Committee detailed in the
Corporate Governance
Report.
Shareholders Yes 155 5 Non-receipt 183 5 Communications
Grievance redressals for of the Annual inter alia
investors form part of the Report, pertained
terms of reference of the Communications to dividend,
Stakeholders’ Relationship inter alia non-receipt
Committee. Details of the pertained of the Annual
Shareholders’ Helpdesk are to dividend, Report, transfer
elucidated in the Report on transfer / / transmission of
Corporate Governance. transmission shares, merger
E-mails for grievances / of shares, and related issues
investor related activities: queries on IEPF and queries on
claims IEPF claims
hdinvestors@datamaticsbpm.
com
shareholder.grievances@
hdfcbank.com
532
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Stakeholder Grievance Redressal
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
group Mechanisms in Place (Yes / No)
from whom
(If yes, then provide web-link Number of Number of Remarks Number of Number of Remarks
complaint is
for grievance redress policy) complaints complaints complaints complaints
received
filed during pending filed during pending
the year resolution the year resolution
at close of at close of
the year the year
Employees Yes. Employee concerns 77 28 Nature of 114 43 Nature of
may be raised internally grievances grievances
through ‘My Concern Portal’, inter alia entails inter alia entails
available to all employees breach of Code breach of Code
under the Human Capital of Conduct, of Conduct,
Management (HCM) portal. improper improper
This platform helps business business
employees to raise their practices practices,
concerns in a secure and behavioural
seamless manner for a timely issues
resolution of the same.
Employee related grievances
are also received through the
whistleblower mechanism of
the Bank.
Whistleblower Policy
(link below)
Customers Yes 4,57,466 16,306 Refer Annex 4,85,339 14,232 Refer Annex
Grievance Redressal Policy on Customer on Customer
(link below) Complaints Complaints
and Grievance and Grievance
Redressal for Redressal for
further details. further details.
Cases pending Cases pending
are within the are within the
stipulated stipulated
turnaround time turnaround time
of the Bank of the Bank
Value Chain Yes 3 0 Improper 3 0 Improper
Partners Whistleblower Policy (link business business
below) practice / practice /
behavioural behavioural
issue issue
Others Yes 14 6 Breach of code 26 13 Breach of code
of conduct, of conduct,
Whistleblower Policy (link improper improper
below) business business
practices, practices,
people related people related
issues issues
Note:
1. Number of complaints / pending resolutions for employees, value chain and others are grievances received under the
Whistleblower Policy of the Bank.
2. Customer complaints and grievance redressal are as per disclosures in the Annex to the Directors’ Report for the
current and previous year.
533
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Weblinks:
Whistleblower Policy
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/?path=/Footer/About%20
Us/Corporate%20Governance/Codes%20and%20Policie/pdf/Whistleblower-Policy-2019.pdf
Grievance Redressal Policy
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/?path=/Footer/Useful%20
Links/Our%20Corporate%20Commitment/pdfs/Grievance_Redressal_Policy_Version_1_1_3.pdf
26. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues.
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or
mitigate the risk, as per the following format:
Sr. Material issue Indicate Rationale for Approach to adapt or mitigate Positive /
No identified whether identifying the risk / Negative
risk or opportunity Implications
opportunity
1 Financial Opportunity The Bank has a multi- The Bank sees immense potential in increasing Positive
inclusion and pronged approach to financial penetration across the country.
deeper financial enable the efficient
penetration distribution of last mile We expanded our reach to over 2,35,000 villages,
funding and facilitating with 51% of the branches in rural and semi-urban
deeper financial areas. This strategy is in alignment with the Bank’s
inclusion. vision of taking banking to the unbanked.
Besides focused We provide customised banking solutions to meet
efforts on expanding customer requirements across all income segments.
our footprint into During the year, the Bank launched GIGA, a complete
deeper geographies, financial suite of products for the gig workers.
the Bank is also
working on leveraging In FY 2024-25, the Bank enrolled 4.5 million
digital initiatives to customers under various social security schemes
extend its reach in the of the government. These schemes inter alia entail
deeper geographies. enrolment for basic banking accounts, low-cost
insurance to underprivileged segments of society,
We also recognise the guaranteed pension for the unorganised sector
role of government employees and other pension schemes.
as a key stakeholder
and the importance The Bank actively supports several schemes of
of helping the the government which inter alia include loans to
government fulfil its street vendors, artisans, MSMEs, loans to women
financial inclusion entrepreneurs, farmers, support towards agri-
agenda through infrastructure projects, micro food processing, agri
various government clinics and agri-business centres, and livelihood
sponsored finance missions. These schemes support underprivileged
schemes. segments of society and help create employment
opportunities.
Housing fulfils a key The Bank is committed to offering home loan
social objective. Given solutions to all income categories. Of the home loans
the housing shortage approved during the year, 37% in value terms and
in the country, the 64% in volume terms were to customers from the
Bank recognises the economically weaker segments (EWS), low-income
potential to ncrease group (LIG) and middle-income groups (MIG) where
mortgage penetration annual household incomes are up to ` 3 lakh, ` 6
in India. lakh and ` 18 lakh respectively.
Of the total home loans disbursed during the year,
72% of the loans in value terms were to women
borrowers.
534
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
2 Responsibility Opportunity The Bank is The core focus areas of Corporate Social Positive
towards Society committed to Responsibility (CSR) of the Bank entail:
transforming the lives • Rural development
of millions of Indians
• Promotion of education
through its initiatives.
• Skill, training and livelihood enhancement
The vision is to
contribute to the • Healthcare and hygiene
social and economic • Financial literacy and inclusion
development of
• Natural resource management
the community by
empowering them
The Bank has cumulatively impacted 105.6 million
and driving a positive
lives on a pan-India basis through its social initiatives.
change in their lives,
that in turn enables In FY 2024-25 the Bank spent an amount of ` 1,068
them to actively crore towards CSR.
participate in the
growth of the nation.
3 Responsible Opportunity The Bank sees The Bank has a Sustainable Finance Framework Positive
Lending opportunities in which inter alia focuses on 10 green categories:
supporting customers Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency, Pollution
in transitioning to Prevention and Control, Sustainable Water
greener pathways. and Wastewater Management, Environmentally
Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources
and Land Use, Terrestrial and Aquatic Biodiversity,
Clean Transportation, Climate Change Adaptation,
Circular Economy and Green Buildings. These are
some areas where the Bank sees opportunities
through the provision of transition financing.
Risk The Bank is also The Bank has an ESG Risk Management Framework Negative
cognisant of climate- for lending wherein certain wholesale borrowers with
related financial risks direct risk appetite above a prescribed threshold
and the need to undergo enhanced Environmental and Social
address these issues. (E&S) due diligence as part of the Credit Appetite
Memorandum. The Bank also has an exclusion
Risks entail possible list for lending, wherein it will not lend to specified
physical and transition sectors/categories which in the Bank’s assessment
risks, pertaining are detrimental from an environmental and social
to the Bank’s own (E&S) risk perspective.
assets and its lending
portfolio. The Bank The Bank on a voluntary basis has been making
recognises the climate-related financial disclosures.
importance of making
better climate-
informed financial
decisions.
There could arise
reputational risks if
the Bank is unable
to meet changing
requirements of its
key stakeholders
pertaining to its
climate-related
financial disclosures.
535
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
The National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) as prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate
Affairs advocates nine principles referred as P1-P9 as given below:
P1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is ethical, transparent and accountable
P2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
P4 Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive towards all its stakeholders
P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6 Businesses should respect, and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
P7 Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent
P8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Policy and Management Processes
Disclosure Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
Ethics & Product Human Responsiveness Respect Protect Public Inclusive Customer
Transparency Responsibility Resources to Stakeholders for Human Environment Policy Growth Engagement
Rights Advocacy
Policy and management processes
1. a. Whether your entity’s Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
policy / policies cover
each principle and its
core elements of the
NGRBCs. (Yes / No)
b. Has the policy been Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
approved by the Board?
(Yes / No)
c. Web Link of the Policies, The policies have been developed based on best practices or as per regulatory requirements and through appropriate consultation
if available with relevant stakeholders. Policies may include a combination of internal policies of the Bank which are accessible to all internal
stakeholders and policies placed on the Bank’s website. Also refer to Codes and Policies section on our website.
(Refer to Note 1 for further details)
2. Whether the entity has Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
translated the policy into
procedures. (Yes / No)
3. Do the enlisted policies Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
extend to your value
chain partners? (Yes
/ No)
4. Name of the national Note 2 Note 3
and international codes
/ certifications / labels /
standards (e.g., Forest
Stewardship Council,
Fairtrade, Rainforest
Alliance, Trustee)
standards (e.g., SA
8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS)
adopted by your entity
and mapped to each
principle.
5. Specific commitments, Note 4(i) Note 4(ii) Note 4(iii)
goals and targets set by
the entity with defined
timelines, if any.
6. Performance of the Note 4(i) Note 4(ii) Note 4(iii)
entity against the specific
commitments, goals,
and targets along-with
reasons in case the
same are not met.
536
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Governance, leadership, and oversight
7. Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, The statement is at the beginning of the BRSR.
highlighting ESG related challenges, targets, and achievements Further details on ESG are elucidated in various sections of the Integrated
Annual Report.
8. Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director
oversight of the Business Responsibility policy(ies)
9. Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director Yes. The CSR and ESG Committee of the Board has direct oversight on ESG
responsible for decision making on sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). and sustainability related issues. The Committee is chaired by an independent
If yes, provide details director. The committee meets on a quarterly basis.
The Deputy Managing Director is responsible for ESG and sustainability related
issues at the Bank.
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
11. H as the entity carried out Note 5 Note 6 Note 5 Note 5 Note 5 Note 5 Note 5 Note 5 Note 5
independent assessment /
evaluation of the working of its
policies by an external agency?
(Yes / No). If yes, provide the
name of the agency
12. I f the answer to the question -
above is “No” i.e. not all
Principles are covered by a
policy, reasons to be stated:
Subject for Review Review of principles undertaken by and frequency
Performance against above policies and follow up action While the CSR & ESG committee meets on a quarterly basis, review of the
BRSR is done on an annual basis by the Board.
Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to he The Bank is in compliance with the extant regulations, as applicable.
principles
Note 1
Principle-wise policies
P1 Ethics & Transparency Code of Conduct & Ethics Manual
Conduct Philosophy
Policy on KYC norms, AML and CFT measures
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
Whistleblower Policy
P2 Product Responsibility Sustainable Finance Framework
Code of Bank’s Commitment to Customers
Fair Practice Code for Lending
DSA Code of Conduct
P3 Human Resources Code of Conduct & Ethics Manual
Health, Safety & Wellness Policy
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy
ESG Policy Framework
P4 Responsive to Stakeholders, particularly the marginalised Sustainable Livelihood Initiative
CSR Policy
ESG Policy Framework
P5 Respect for Human Rights Human Rights Statement
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy
Code of Conduct & Ethics Manual
P6 Protect Environment Sustainable Finance Framework
ESG Policy Framework
Environment Policy
P7 Public Policy Advocacy Conduct Philosophy
P8 Inclusive Growth CSR Policy
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy
Sustainable Finance Framework
P9 Customer Engagement Corporate Commitment
Conduct Philosophy
Grievance Redressal Policy
Whistleblower Policy
537
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Note 2: As of March 31, 2025, 2,507 of the branches / offices were certified as green by the Indian Green Building Council
(IGBC).
Note 3: The information security programme is based on ISO 27001: 2013 and NIST framework. The Business Continuity
Programme is also ISO 22301: 2019 certified.
Note 4: Goals and Targets
(i) T he Bank upholds the principles of an inclusive environment at the workplace and stands committed to increasing
gender diversity at the workplace. The Bank aims to achieve gender diversity of 27% (share of women employees)
by FY27.
(ii) The Bank aspires to be carbon neutral by FY32. For further details, refer to the ‘Environment’ section in the
Integrated Annual Report.
(iii) The Bank has considered multiple targets as part of its ‘Parivartan’ initiative, which is elucidated in the section
‘Social - Communities’ in the Integrated Annual Report.
Note 5: Policies of the Bank are evaluated internally and annually where applicable.
Note 6: The Bank has a Second Party Opinion for its Sustainable Finance Framework by Sustainalytics.
538
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY AND IN A
MANNER THAT IS ETHICAL, TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial
year
Segment Total number of training and Topics / principles covered under the training % of persons in respective
awareness programmes held and its impact category covered by the
awareness programmes
Board of Directors 46 Regulations, cyber security, banking 92
technologies, Know Your Customer (KYC) &
Key Managerial 45 98
Anti-Money Laundering (AML), Climate Risk,
Personnel (KMP)
Impact of Geopolitical Risks & Supply Chain
Disruptions, business verticals, customer
service, subsidiaries, risk management,
human resources, investments, investor
relations amongst others.
Impact: Keep the directors and KMPs
abreast of various developments in the
Bank, regulatory updates and other requisite
familiarisation programmes. This enables
increased strategic inputs.
Employees other 1,488 Trainings are conducted through external 97^
than Board of and internal programmes. Certain trainings
Directors or KMPs are role specific. Training through the Bank’s
‘MPower’ platform entail a combination of
mandatory and voluntary trainings.
Some of the role agnostic trainings inter alia
are:
• Code of Conduct
• Cyber Security
• Human Rights
• PoSH Policy
• KYC & AML
• ESG & Sustainability
Impact: Upgradation of skills sets and
knowledge enhances employee productivity
and ensures alignment of ethics and values
that the Bank upholds.
^ As of March 31, 2025, certain newly recruited employees would be in the process of completing trainings. Specific
timelines are prescribed for employees to complete specified trainings.
539
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
2. Details of fines / penalties / punishment / award / compounding fees / settlement amount paid in roceedings
with regulators / law enforcement agencies / judicial institutions in FY 2024-25
(Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website:
Monetary
NGRBC Name of the Amount Brief of the Case Has an appeal
Principle regulatory / (In `) been preferred?
enforcement (Yes / No)
agencies / judicial
institutions
Penalty/Fine 1 - Nil N.A. N.A.
Settlement 1 RBI 1,00,00,000 Contravention under the Direction issued No
by RBI on 'Interest Rate on Deposits' and
'Recovery Agents engaged by Banks'
Settlement 1 RBI 75,00,000 Contravention under the Direction on No
Know Your Customer (KYC) issued by the
RBI
Compounding Fee - - - - -
Non-Monetary
NGRBC Name of the Brief of the Has an appeal been preferred? (Yes / No)
Principle regulatory / case
enforcement
agencies / judicial
Institutions
Imprisonment 1 Nil N.A. N.A.
Punishment 1 Nil N.A. N.A.
3. Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the appeal / revision preferred in cases where
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
N.A.
4. Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available,
provide a web-link to the policy.
Yes, the Bank has an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. The Policy applies to all persons working for or on behalf of
the Bank, including the third parties the Bank engages with.
Web link:
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
5. Number of Directors / KMPs / employees against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery / corruption
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Directors Nil Nil
KMPs Nil Nil
Employees Nil Nil
540
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
6. Details of complaints with regards to conflict of interest
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Number Remarks Number Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to Nil N.A. Nil N.A.
issues of conflict of interest of directors
Number of complaints received in relation to Nil N.A. Nil N.A.
issues of conflict of interest of KMPs
7. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action
taken by regulators / law enforcement agencies / judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts
of interest.
N.A.
8. Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the
following format:
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables 4.6 7.4
Note: Numerator consists of sundry creditors for purchase of fixed assets and expenses accrued but not paid (expenses
payable). The denominator for the above KPI represents ‘purchases’ made from vendors forming part of Schedule 16 and
additions to fixed assets as per Schedule 10 of the Standalone Audited Financial Statements of the Bank.
An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in
the table above.
9. Openness of Business
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with loans
and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter Metrics FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Concentration of a. Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases - -
Purchases
b. Number of trading houses where purchases are made - -
from
c. Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total - -
purchases from trading houses
Concentration of a. Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales - -
Sales
b. Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are made - -
c. Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total sales - -
to dealers / distributors
Share of RPTs in a. Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total 1.44% 2.35%
purchases
b. Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales) 2.17% 1.81%
c. Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related 0.26% 0.39%
parties / total loans & advances)
d. Investments (Investments in related parties / Total 1.66% 1.92%
Investments made)
541
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Note:
• There were no purchases from trading houses in FY 2024-25.
• The Bank does not make any sales to dealers / distributors. The Bank’s products and services are offered to
customers directly.
An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in
the table above.
Leadership Indicators
1. Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial
year
The Bank actively conducts various awareness programmes for its value chain partners, which may be attributed to Principle
1, 2 and 4. Elucidated below are some of the awareness programmes:
Financial Literacy: The Bank recognises that financial literacy is extremely critical to make financial inclusion meaningful.
To help increase and strengthen the eco-system of Financial Literacy Centres (FLCs), the rural branches of the Bank
conducts Financial Literacy Camps for farmers, self-help groups, small and micro entrepreneurs and senior citizens amongst
others. The focus of the FLC camps is to create financial literacy awareness and safe usage of digital platforms. The Bank
has cumulatively covered over 1.84 crore customers through its FLCs. During the financial year under review, the Bank
conducted 4.97 lakh FLC camps covering 30.65 lakh participants.
Cyber Security Awareness: HDFC Bank regularly conducts cyber fraud awareness campaigns to educate customers,
employees, stakeholders, and the general public on Fraud Modus Operandi, Social Engineering Techniques, Cyber Security,
and Secure Banking Practices.
During the financial year 2024-25, the Bank conducted over 6,000 Cyber Fraud Awareness Workshops. These workshops
aimed at educating customers, law enforcement agencies, senior citizens, Self-Help Groups, educational institutions, rural
customers, vendors, partners and employees, among others.
Key initiatives include – (i) “Each One Teach One” campaign conducted during Teachers’ Day week reaching 11,400
participants, (ii) “Teach India” cyber security campaign was conducted engaging over 300,000 participants, and (iii) Webinar
on Fraud Trends and Safe Digital Banking Practices was conducted for employees across the bank. The webinar was
addressed by a retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, sharing valuable insights to the Safe Digital Banking Practices.
The Bank’s website also hosts a Secure Banking section with Do’s and Don’ts, Top 10 common scam and details of Cyber
Crime Helpline to promote safe and secure banking.
A mandatory course on information security awareness is designed by the Bank. All the employees of the Bank are
mandated to take this course annually. A similar course on information security is mandated for all vendors operating out
of our offices.
D irect Selling Agents: The Bank engages and spends a great deal of effort training its direct selling agents especially in
terms of harnessing the new digital platforms as well as ensuring that they adhere to the Bank’s Model Code of Conduct
and have the right information to provide customers on various products and services of the Bank.
Capacity Building: Recognizing the Securities and Exchange Board of India’s (SEBI) mandate for value chain disclosures
under the BRSR Core framework, the Bank actively collaborated with its value chain partners through, (i) Targeted training
and awareness programs to enhance value chain partners’ understanding of ESG principles and BRSR Core requirements
and (ii) Strengthening data collection systems to improve transparency and accountability.
542
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid / manage conflict of interests involving members of the
board? (Yes / No) If yes, provide details of the same.
Yes. The Board of Directors are subject to the Board-approved Code of Ethics / Conduct which mandates that Board
members shall avoid conflict of interest and disclose to the Board any material transaction or relationship that reasonably
could be expected to give rise to such a conflict. The Board members are required to disclose any change in their interest
in any entities to the Board as and when such changes occur and at a minimum at the first meeting of the Board held in
the financial year.
I n line with the extant RBI circulars on ‘fit and proper’ criteria, the Board members are required to provide a declaration
and undertaking to the Bank on an annual basis and at the time of their appointment / re-appointment. This declaration
also contains information of entities in which the directors have interest.
A s and when any director is appointed / re-appointed, the Bank’s secretarial team carries out a due diligence exercise
which inter alia examines the possibility of conflict of interest.
Web-link: Code Of Ethics / Conduct
543
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
PRINCIPLE 2: B USINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS
SUSTAINABLE AND SAFE
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by
the entity, respectively.
Details of improvements in
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
environmental and social impacts
R&D Nil Nil N.A.
Capex 0.51% Nil During FY 2024-25, the Bank
commenced reporting on its capital
expenditure towards.
The key initiatives adopted in FY
2024-25 include installation of (i)
Energy efficient equipment including
BEE certified 5-star ACs, CPCB
IV Compliant Diesel Gensets, (ii)
Renewable energy infrastructure and
(iii) Sewage Treatment Plant (STP)
Enhanced energy efficiency and
shift to renewable energy will result
in reduction of GHG emissions
emanating from our day-to-day
operations.
Note: During the year, the Bank also made capital expenditure towards digitalisation initiatives which results in faster and
greater efficiencies for customers. From an environmental perspective, this enables reduction in consumption of paper.
Expense towards these initiatives have not been considered.
2. a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes / No)
W herever feasible, the Bank actively integrates sustainable sourcing in its operations. For procurement of equipment,
the Bank ensures that energy efficiency standards are considered during the purchase of electronic equipment such
as computers, laptops, lighting devices, ACs, amongst others.
A s of March 31, 2025, the Bank had 2,507 branches/offices in different cities, certified under the Green Interiors Rating
System of Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). These green office ratings entail Platinum, Gold and Silver ratings
from IGBC.
I n line with IGBC’s comprehensive rating modules encompassing eco design approach, interior materials, water
conservation, indoor environment, energy efficiency and innovation, sustainable design elements have been
incorporated at the Bank’s green certified premises. The Bank uses GreenPro certified materials such as plywood,
laminates, flooring tiles, false ceiling tiles, paints, adhesives and finishes in these premises.
D uring the year, we launched XPRESSWAY, a digital platform that provides a one-stop destination to avail banking
products and services via do-it-yourself application, resulting in significant reduction in paperwork. The Bank also
replaces the use of virgin paper with recycled paper wherever feasible.
b. If yes, what % of goods were sourced sustainably?
I n FY 2024-25, recycled paper constituted 24% of our total paper procurement. Over a quarter of our offices adhered
to IGBC prescribed sustainable sourcing checklist. Besides this the bank also procures energy efficient electronic
equipments wherever feasible.
544
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the
end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
Given the nature of the business, the Bank does not have ‘physical’ product offerings in the normal course of its operations
and hence reclamation of products is not applicable.
4. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes,
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted
to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
The Bank does not have ‘physical’ product offerings in the normal course of its operations and hence Extended Producer
Responsibility is not applicable given the nature of business.
Leadership Indicators
1. Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details.
N.A.
2. If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and / or risks arising from production or disposal
of your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any
other means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
N.A.
3. Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for
manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Recycled or re-used input material cost to total material cost
Input material cost
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
24% 15%
Note: Recycled paper is one of the key input materials relevant for provision of banking services. In FY 2024-25, recycled
paper procured constituted 24% of our total paper procurement which reduced the upstream emissions associated with
paper procurement by 117.92 tCO e.
2
4. Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Safely Safely
Re-used Recycled Re-used Recycled
Disposed Disposed
Plastics (including packaging) - - - - - -
E-waste - - - - - -
Hazardous waste - - - - - -
Other waste - - - - - -
N ote: Given the nature of the business, the Bank does not engage in offering physical products and hence this is
not applicable.
5. R eclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
N.A.
545
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES,
INCLUDING THOSE IN THEIR VALUE CHAINS
Essential Indicators
1. a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees
% of employees covered by
Category Total (A) Health Insurance Accident Insurance Maternity Benefits Paternity Benefits Day Care Facilities
Number % (B / A) Number % (C/A) Number % (D/A) Number % (E/A) Number % (F/A)
(B) (C) (D) (E) (F)
Permanent employees
Male 1,58,449 1,58,449 100 1,58,449 100 0 0 1,58,449 100 1,58,449 100
Female 56,072 56,072 100 56,072 100 56,072 100 0 0 56,072 100
Total 2,14,521 2,14,521 100 2,14,521 100 56,072 26 1,58,449 74 2,14,521 100
Other than permanent employees
Male 24 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Female 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Total 31 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
N ote: All employees are covered under health and accident insurance (within India). Medical expenses and insurance
to maternity claims are covered under health insurance coverage. Employees based abroad are covered as per benefits
guided by local regulations in respective countries.
The Bank undertakes various employee engagement initiatives for the well-being of its employees. For the physical well-
being of the employees, the Bank offers medical insurance, medical reimbursements and health check-ups. Some offices
of the Bank have creche facilities in its premises and for other locations on a pan-India basis, the Bank has tie ups with
external parties who run day care centres where employees can avail such services.
The Bank supports mental wellbeing of its employees through Employee Assistance Program (EAP) that provides confidential,
24/ 7 support to employees facing personal or work-related challenges. The Bank also publishes mindfulness series where
situational coping mechanisms and mindfulness techniques are shared periodically with all employees. Stress management
and emotional well-being sessions are also conducted periodically. An internal wellness channel is run to create awareness
about the importance of nutrition, exercise, mindfulness and overall well-being of all the employees.
b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers
N.A.
c. Spending on measures towards well-being of employees
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of 0.21% 0.22%
the company
An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in
the table above.
Note:
• For the numerator, well-being measures for employees represents maternity and paternity leave benefits and expenses
towards Mediclaim insurance, health check-ups and medical reimbursements.
546
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
• For the denominator, revenue includes Interest Earned and Other Income, excluding profit/ (loss) on sale of buildings
& other assets (net) in the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank.
• For maternity and paternity benefits, per day salary is calculated basis the fixed pay at the financial year end or the
fixed pay of the employee on the date of leaving, as applicable.
2. Details of retirement benefits for the current and previous financial year
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Benefits No. of employees Deducted and No. of employees covered Deducted and deposited
covered as a % of total deposited with the as a % of total employees with the authority
employees authority (Y / N / N.A.) (Y/N/N.A.)
PF 100 Yes 100 Yes
Gratuity 100 Yes 100 Yes
Employee State Insurance N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
(ESI)
Others N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
3. Accessibility of workplaces
Are the premises / offices accessible to differently abled employees as per the requirements of the Rights
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
T he Bank has recognised the importance of improving infrastructure requirements to facilitate fair and free access for all
employees. 2,044 of the Bank’s branches have ramps installed for facilitating access to differently abled stakeholders. The
Bank’s ATM machines for visually challenged customers operate on a voice guided system with braille enabled keys which
guide in transacting at the ATM.
4. Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If
so, provide a web-link to the policy.
The ‘Conduct Philosophy’ enshrines that the Bank is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate on the basis
of race, caste, religion, colour, marital status, gender, sexual orientation, age, nationality or ethnic origin.
Web link: Conduct Philosophy
The Diversity, Equity, Inclusion (DEI) Policy adopted by the Bank reiterates on equal opportunities for Persons with Disabilities.
Web link: DEI Policy
5. Return to work and retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Permanent employees
Benefits
Return to work rate (%) Retention rate (%)
Male 99.7 78.1
Female 97.3 71.4
Total 99.1 76.5
Note: Retention rate determines those who returned to work after parental leave ended and were still employed 12
months later.
547
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
6. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees
If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes, the Bank has a grievance mechanism for employees. The Human Resources department engages closely with
employees to get a pulse of the sentiment of employees. The employees have access to the ‘My Concern’ portal to put
forth their grievances, if any. All the concerns are collated and redirected to relevant teams for resolution.
7. Membership of employees in association(s) or unions
FY 2024-25
Total employees in No. of employees in % (B / A)
Category
respective category (A) respective category, who
are part of association(s) or
union (B)
Total Permanent Employees 2,14,521 208 0.10
Male 1,58,449 153 0.10
Female 56,072 55 0.10
FY 2023-24
Total Permanent Employees 2,13,527 213 0.10
Male 1,57,917 159 0.10
Female 55,610 54 0.10
8. Details of training given to employees
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Category Total (A) On health and On skill upgradation Total (D) On health and safety/ On skill upgradation
safety/wellness wellness measures
measures
No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C) % (C/A) No. (E) % (E/D) No. (F) % (F/D)
EMPLOYEES
Male 1,58,449 1,58,449 100 1,55,697 98 1,57,917 1,57,917 100 1,53,513 97
Female 56,072 56,072 100 55,246 99 55,610 55,610 100 53,907 97
Total 2,14,521 2,14,521 100 2,10,943 98 2,13,527 2,13,527 100 2,07,420 97
OTHER THAN PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
Male 24 0 0 0 0 31 0 0 0 0
Female 7 0 0 0 0 7 0 0 0 0
Total 31 0 0 0 0 38 0 0 0 0
9. Details of performance and career development reviews of employees
The Bank adopts a comprehensive multi-dimensional performance management system that enables strategic alignment,
individual goal setting, continuous feedback, and career development by carrying out performance reviews twice a year- (i)
mid-year and (ii) annual review.
M anagement by Objectives (MBO): Employees set predefined and measurable goals after discussions with their
supervisors at the beginning of the year. The goals and KRAs are aligned with the strategic objectives set for the year by
the senior management and cascaded to the rest of the Bank.
T eam Performance Evaluation: The Bank conducts an organization wide survey on sentiment, culture and team
experience, which is aggregated and the scores of the same are used as inputs during the annual performance review
discussion of managers. Managers are also evaluated based on their team’s performance and overall competency.
Development needs are identified basis this exercise.
548
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
A gile Communication: The Bank encourages ongoing performance conversations between employees and their
supervisors and records it formally during mid-year and annual performance review. The appraiser and the appraisee
have a joint performance discussion based on the self-evaluation filled by the appraisee. The discussion includes feedback
on performance, competencies, development needs and career aspirations, post which the appraiser records his/ her
evaluation and overall feedback in the document.
P erformance Grading: Performance is evaluated on a 4-point scale. In addition, the Bank has a talent management and
review process where HR along with the business or functional heads review the talent at certain periodicity and identifies
specific development needs to support their career progression. This translates into training and development initiatives
and lateral career movement opportunities for the talent.
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Category
Total (A) No.(B) % (B/A) Total (C) No. (D) % (D/C)
EMPLOYEES
Male 1,58,287 1,38,899 88 1,57,948 1,35,649 86
Female 56,017 48,266 86 55,617 45,713 82
Total 2,14,304 1,87,165 87 2,13,565 1,81,362 85
Note: Column ‘B’ and ‘D’ comprise all employees who are eligible for performance and career development review. Only
employees who have completed the probation period with the Bank are eligible for performance review.
10. Health and safety management system
a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity?
(Yes / No). If yes, the coverage such system?
H DFC Bank aims to maintain health and safety standards at the workplace. Safety checks and assessments of the
physical infrastructure are carried out periodically. The Bank also conducts several awareness and training programs
for its employees and relevant stakeholders.
D uring the year, the ‘Fire and Life Safety’ module was launched on our learning and development platform MPower
to ensure employee awareness on how to handle crisis and how to use the life safety equipment.
E mergency evacuation drills and training programmes on ‘How to Use Fire Extinguishers’ are conducted on a
regular basis.
T o enhance fire preparedness and to ensure safety of the employees, fire and safety audits are carried out in offices
on a pan-India basis.
b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-
routine basis by the entity?
T he Bank has an internal incident reporting portal which captures incidents across locations. The concerned teams
compile the root cause analysis of the incidents and maintain the record of incidents, if any, on the portal.
c. Whether you have processes for employees to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves
from such risks.
Yes.
d. Do the employees have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services?
Yes.
549
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
11. Details of safety related incidents
Safety Incident / Number Category FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Employees 0 0
Number of Permanent Disabilities
Workers 0 0
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person Employees 0 0
hours worked) Workers 0 0
Employees 0 0
No. of fatalities
Workers 0 0
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding Employees 0 0
fatalities) Workers 0 0
Note:
• All employees of the Bank are categorised as permanent or other than permanent i.e. on a contract basis. The Bank
does not employ any workers; accordingly, worker related KPIs are nil and the same have not been included in any
of the prescribed tables in the BRSR.
• For high consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities), the Bank has considered work-related
injury or ill-health, which results in an injury from which the employee cannot or is not expected to recover fully to the
previous health status.
• The Bank has considered injuries/fatalities caused due to the nature of the work or directly related to the performance
of work-related tasks.
An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in
the table above.
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
The Bank has an Occupational Health and Safety Policy. The Bank also has in-house safety and security professionals to
help ensure a safe workplace. Awareness programmes on safety are conducted for various stakeholders. During the year,
bank initiated the ‘3E Program’ – Educate, Enhance & Establish.
E ducate – Inculcate the culture of safety by sharing information through internal communication on different subjects and
ensure that the employees are equipped to handle any kind of crisis.
Enhance – On-ground training on ‘Fire & Life Safety’ through evacuation drills is conducted to ensure preparedness. During
FY 2024-25, 177 fire drills were conducted across locations.
Establish – Multi-lingual poster with emergency contact numbers and evacuation steps are put up in all the branches.
Further, a benchmarking and gap assessment is undertaken periodically to assess requisite up-gradations or changes
required to benchmark standards on Environment, Health and Safety (EHS).
550
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
13. Number of complaints on the following made by employees
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Filed during Pending Remarks Filed during the Pending
the year resolution at year resolution at the Remarks
the end of year end of year
Working conditions 0 0 - 0 0 -
Health and safety 0 0 - 2 0 Behavioural issue
in one case;
Other case on
office amenities
was found to be
unsubstantiated
14. Assessments for the year
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or
third parties)
Health and safety practices 100% assessment as part of internal audits on safety related issues.
5,770 electrical safety third party audits were carried out on a pan-India basis
Working Conditions 0
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions.
The Bank recognises the importance of a robust Environment, Health and Safety framework to ensure maintenance of
benchmark health and safety practices within the organisation. With increased focus on health and well-being, special
health check-up camps are conducted on a periodic basis for employees.
Further, as a responsible bank, under the Business Continuity Plan, the Bank conducts robust drills on a periodic basis to
ensure readiness in the eventuality of the BCP needing to be activated.
Employees are encouraged to raise safety-related issues, if any, on the ‘My Concern’ portal on the intranet.
Leadership Indicators
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of employees
(Y / N)
Yes, the Bank extends a comprehensive compassion package in the event of death of an employee as detailed below:
• Payment of Ex-Gratia Scheme: To provide immediate monetary assistance to the distressed family and financial
support and help to recover from the sudden deprivation of the income of the deceased employee, ex-gratia lumpsum
amount as per grade up to a certain level is given;
• Financial support on education to the dependent children till graduation in India up to a maximum of ` 5 lakh per child
for 2 children;
• Compassionate employment: With an objective to provide support to the family who has lost an earning member
due to death of an employee, the kin of the employee is offered employment in the Bank based on the respective
educational qualification of the candidate, subject to fulfilment of other eligibility criteria. The Bank also provides the
necessary training and skills to the candidate as required.
551
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and
deposited by the value chain partners.
As per the Bank’s Code of Conduct, it expects its employees and all third parties it deals with, to adhere to the ethics and
values as elucidated in the code. The Bank ensures that taxes/ statutory dues as applicable to the transactions within the
remit of the Bank are deducted and deposited in accordance with its laid out standard operating procedures which are
in line with extant regulations. The Bank expects its value chain partners, including service providers to be compliant with
statutory dues/ other requirements. These form a part of the covenants in the legal contracts between the Bank and its
value chain partners.
3. Provide the number of employees having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health /
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in
suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected No. of employees that are rehabilitated and
employees placed in suitable employment or whose family
members have been placed in suitable
employment
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Employees N.A. There were no work-related injuries.
4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programmes to facilitate continued employability and the
management of career endings resulting from retirement of employment? (Yes / No)
Yes. The Bank offers a comprehensive suite of learning offerings in facilitator led and self-paced learning formats. The
learning offerings cover a wide range of functional, professional development and leadership development themes.
The Bank runs a unique retirement transition programme, ‘Life 2.0’. The programme covers financial planning, healthy living
and other subject areas to ensure retired employees are gainfully engaged post-retirement.
5. Details on assessment of value chain partners
% of value chain partners (by value of
business done with such partners) that
were assessed
Health and safety practices
Nil
Working conditions
Note: As part of the ESG & Climate Risk Assessment in accordance with the ESG Risk Management Framework, certain
wholesale loans undergo an enhanced E&S assessment. These borrowers provide the Bank with details on their health
and safety practices and working conditions as part of the social impact assessment.
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising
from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
N.A.
552
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
PRINCIPLE 4: B USINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL ITS
STAKEHOLDERS
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
HDFC Bank maps its stakeholders based on their level of interest, influence, and impact on the Bank. This inter alia includes
communities, investors, employees, customers, value chain partners, regulators and the government.
2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each
stakeholder group.
Key Stakeholders Whether identified Channels of communication Frequency of Purpose and scope of
as Vulnerable & (Email, SMS, Newspaper, engagement engagement including
Marginalised Group Pamphlets, Advertisement, (Annually / Half yearly key topics and concerns
(Yes / No) Community Meetings, / Quarterly raised during such
Notice Board, Website), / others - please engagement
Others specify)
Communities Yes, children, youth, Planning, Meeting and Exercises Type: Information, Poverty and drudgery
farmer communities - Needs Assessment / Baseline / Consultation, alleviation, Improvement
Participatory Rural Appraisal Participation in quality of education,
Focused Group Discussions Appropriate resource
Consultative Workshops Frequency: management,
Continuous Environmental
Awareness Sessions and Field
engagement / sustainability, Improvement
Demonstrations
Annual performance in community hygiene
Periodic progress reviews and review and sanitation
monitoring
Investors / No Quarterly financial reports, press Type: Information, Compliance, Governance
Shareholders releases, results conference Participation & ethical practices, and
calls and investor presenations Economic performance
and conferences, Analyst days, Frequency:
Investor days, interactions with Continuous
shareholders and Annual General engagements /
Meetings (AGMs) Quarterly / Annual
Employees No Employee on-ground and virtual Type: Information, Employee engagement,
connect by human resources, Consultation, Culture and employee
leadership and manager connect; Participation experience, Employee
wellness and safety,
Engagement and Pulse & Vibes Frequency: On- Learning and
surveys to assess sentiment of going / Development, Inclusive
employees periodic work culture,
Work-life balance
Employee connect initiatives like
talent hunt, wellness initiatives,
employee engagements among
others
Customers Yes, if they qualify Multiple channels – physical and Type: Information, Ease of transacting across
based on specified digital, Customer satisfaction Consultation channels; Innovative
criteria such as surveys, technology applications;
income and/or gender Customer feedbacks, Regular Frequency: Data security; Advanced
or any other criteria interaction with customers Continuous analytics
Value chain No Regular meetings, emails, phone Type: Information Partnership, governance
partners calls and surveys and ethical practices
Frequency:
Continuous
engagement/ Annual
performance review
553
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Key Stakeholders Whether identified Channels of communication Frequency of Purpose and scope of
as Vulnerable & (Email, SMS, Newspaper, engagement engagement including
Marginalised Group Pamphlets, Advertisement, (Annually / Half yearly key topics and concerns
(Yes / No) Community Meetings, / Quarterly raised during such
Notice Board, Website), / others - please engagement
Others specify)
Regulators & No Regular meetings, policy updates Type: Information, Compliance, Social
Government and ministry directives, mandatory Consultation, Security schemes,
filings with key regulators Participation Relevant national
mandates
Frequency:
Continuous
engagement or as
per requirement
Leadership Indicators
1. Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental,
and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the
Board.
The Bank is dedicated to driving positive change and believes that sustainable growth is key to creating long-term value
for all the stakeholders. Active engagement on economic, environmental and social matters is conducted with the relevant
stakeholder groups – customers, employees, shareholders, investors, regulators, vendors and communities – on an
ongoing basis.
These engagements take place through multiple channels such as town halls, training sessions, social media platforms,
customer satisfaction surveys, stakeholder engagement exercises and materiality assessment.
These forums provide valuable insights that help identify key issues, evaluate business practices, mitigate risks, and enhance
the Bank’s impact across the ecosystem. Feedback from these engagements is analysed and communicated to the Board
and Senior Management through a structured process. The Bank ensures that stakeholder concerns are considered in
strategic decision-making through the following governance mechanisms:
• The CSR & ESG Committee of the Board is responsible for overseeing the identification, implementation, and monitoring
of all the CSR initiatives. It also ensures transparent reporting and effective communication with stakeholders on CSR,
ESG framework and related strategic goals and disclosures.
• The Bank’s Board-level Customer Service Committee is constituted to drive continuous improvements in the quality
of customer services provided by the Bank and develop innovative measures for enhancing the customer experience
and quality of customer service.
2. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental,
and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders
on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
Yes. The Bank engages with its key stakeholders on an ongoing basis to identify pertinent environmental and social topics
of interest to its stakeholders and addresses them through periodic updates through policies and programmes. The Bank
reviewed its material topics through consultations with multiple stakeholder groups. The exercise was designed to identify
how various areas impact the Bank’s stakeholders. For each of the material topics identified through this consultation
process, the Bank has a robust approach, as detailed in its Integrated Annual Report. The Bank will continue to align its
overall strategy in line with material topics identified.
To quote a few examples, the Bank had aligned its ESG reporting with the requirements of SEBI which is one of its key
stakeholders. Additionally, the Bank ensures compliance with the requirements of RBI as updated from time to time. The
Bank is also cognizant of the evolving needs of its customers and offers new products to cater to customers’ preference
for ease of transactions across channels. Similarly, the Bank continues to offer new technology driven, best-in-class
learning resources to its employees to cater to their learning and development needs. The Bank’s CSR programmes are
also designed to cater to the local needs and context of the communities they are designed to serve.
554
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
3. Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/
marginalised stakeholder groups.
The Bank is committed to addressing the needs of vulnerable and marginalised stakeholder groups through both its
financial inclusion strategy and community development initiatives. With the guidance of the Board governed Corporate
Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy, the Bank continues to implement well-structured programmes and interventions aimed
at improving the well-being of marginalised communities and contributing to their sustainable development.
The key approach focused on lending to marginal/vulnerable groups is the Bank’s Sustainable Livelihoods Initiative,
empowering them through access to credit and livelihood support. Over 50% of the Bank’s branches are in rural and
semi-urban areas, to increase the financial inclusion penetration across the country.
The Bank actively supports several schemes of the government which inter alia include loans to street vendors, artisans,
MSMEs, loans to women entrepreneurs, farmers, contributing to employment generation and improved livelihoods. The
Bank has also extended financial support to agri-infrastructure projects, micro food processing, agri clinics and agri-
business centres and rural and urban livelihood missions. In FY 2024–25, the Bank enrolled 4.5 million customers under
various government social security schemes, including basic banking accounts, low-cost insurance for underprivileged
segments, and pension schemes for unorganised sector workers.
Further, the Bank is committed to expand access to affordable housing. During the year, 64% of home loans (in volume
terms) and 37% (in value terms) were approved for customers from economically weaker sections (EWS), low-income
groups (LIG), and middle-income groups (MIG).
555
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
PRINCIPLE 5: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS
Essential Indicators
1. Employees who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies)
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Category No. of No. of
Total (A) employees % (B/A) Total (C) employees % (D/C)
covered (B) covered (D)
EMPLOYEES
Permanent 2,14,521 2,04,683 95 2,13,527 1,93,104 90
Other than permanent 31 - - 38 - -
Total Employees 2,14,552 2,04,683 95 2,13,565 1,93,104 90
Note: Human rights training entails training of the Bank’s policies and procedures with respect to human rights issues.
2. Details of minimum wages paid to employees.
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Category Total (A) Equal to More than Total (D) Equal to More than
Minimum Wage Minimum Wage Minimum Wage Minimum Wage
No. (B) % (B/A) No. ( C) % (C/A) No. (E) % (E/D) No. (F) % (F/D)
EMPLOYEES
Permanent 2,14,521 0 0 2,14,521 100 2,13,527 0 0 2,13,527 100
Male 1,58,449 0 0 1,58,449 100 1,57,917 0 0 1,57,917 100
Female 56,072 0 0 56,072 100 55,610 0 0 55,610 100
Other than 31 0 0 31 100 38 0 0 38 100
Permanent
Male 24 0 0 24 100 31 0 0 31 100
Female 7 0 0 7 100 7 0 0 7 100
3. a. Details of remuneration / salary / wages
Male Female
Number Median remuneration / Number Median remuneration /
salary / wages of respective category (`) salary / wages of respective category (`)
Board of Directors 10 1,23,50,000 3 84,50,000
Key Managerial Personnel 2 2,97,91,531 0 0
Employees other than
1,58,443 5,56,005 56,072 3,86,345
BoD and KMP
Note: Further categorisation of details of remuneration of employees other than Board of Directors (BoD) and Key
Managerial Personnel (KMP)
Employees other than Male Female
BoD and KMP*
Number Median remuneration / Number Median remuneration /
salary / wages of respective category (`) salary / wages of respective category (`)
Senior Management 216 1,23,89,109 25 1,22,67,665
Middle Management 7,959 39,05,221 1,200 39,46,992
Junior Management 28,666 15,12,120 5,499 14,80,000
Non-Supervisory Staff 1,21,602 3,93,363 49,348 3,50,045
(Includes sales officers)
556
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
3. b. Gross wages paid to females as % of total remuneration paid
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of wages paid 20% 19%
Note: The calculation of gross wages paid to female employees excludes retirement benefits, ESOPs and staff
welfare expenses.
An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in
the table above.
4. Do you have a focal point (Individual / Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or
issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes / No)
Yes. Refer Section B for details on the authority responsible for implementation and oversight of business responsibility.
5. Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues
The Bank strictly adheres to the conduct philosophy adopted, which prohibits the use of child, forced, or compulsory
labour. The conduct philosophy includes mechanisms to address issues related to mental or physical coercion, verbal
abuse, sexual harassment, sexual abuse and slavery of employees. The Bank maintains a ‘zero tolerance’ policy on sexual
harassment. An Internal Complaints Committee is in place to address such complaints. The Bank also has a whistleblower
mechanism that provides a comprehensive framework for capturing and addressing complaints or grievances from the
relevant stakeholders.
6. Number of complaints on the following made by employees
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Pending Pending
Filed during resolution Filed during resolution at
Remarks Remarks
the year at the end of the year the end of the
the year year
Sexual Harassment 75 10 - 77 12* -
Discrimination at workplace 0 0 - 0 0 -
Child Labour 0 0 - 0 0 -
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour 0 0 - 0 0 -
Wages 0 0 - 0 0 -
Other human rights related issues 0 0 - 0 0 -
*Complaints reported as pending at the close of FY 2023-24 were resolved in FY 2024-25.
7. Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
Redressal) Act, 2013 (PoSH)
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Total complaints reported under Sexual Harassment of Women at the 75 77
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
Complaints on PoSH as a % of female employees (%) 0.13 0.16*
Number of complaints on PoSH upheld 24 25
Note: For the purpose of calculating PoSH complaints as a percentage of female employees, average number of female
employees is considered, in line with the Industry Standard Forum guidance.
Average number of female employees is computed basis the total female headcount at the beginning of the year and at
the end of the year.
*Previous year’s number has been revised, accordingly.
557
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
8. Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases
As a responsible employer, the Bank is committed to creating a culture which is conducive, fair and harmonious amongst
its employees. The Bank recognises its responsibility towards safeguarding and protecting women at the workplace from
harassment. The Bank has put in place a code of conduct, applicable to all employees of the Bank. The Bank’s Internal
Committee deals with cases of sexual harassment of women at the workplace and ensures that there is a fair and detailed
investigation done in utmost confidentiality, thus ensuring protection to the aggrieved party. Further, the whistleblower policy
also serves as a safe mechanism which ensures confidentiality and ensures no discrimination towards the complainant.
9. Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts (Yes / No)?
Yes, The Bank respects and upholds the principles of human rights as established in the United Nations Universal Declaration
of Human Rights. Through this commitment, the Bank seeks to institutionalise appropriate policies and processes that
safeguard the fundamental rights of all relevant stakeholders.
As part of the ESG Risk Management Framework on lending, loans above a stipulated threshold undergo enhanced
environmental and social due diligence. The Bank’s vendors and suppliers are expected to adhere to all applicable laws
addressing child, forced or trafficked labour.
10. Assessments for the year
% of offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
Forced / involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Nil
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others - please specify
11. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising
from the assessments at Question 10 above.
N.A.
Leadership Indicators
1. Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances
/ complaints.
N.A.
2. Details of the scope and coverage of any human rights due-diligence conducted.
Nil
3. Is the premise / office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
The Bank is committed to improving infrastructure and services to be more inclusive and also ensure fair and free access
for visitors. In terms of accessibility, 2,044 of the Bank’s branches have ramps installed for facilitating access to differently
abled stakeholders. Many of the Bank’s premises are located on the ground floor or have elevator access. The Branch ATMs
are voice-guided and Braille keypads assist visually impaired customers. Further, the Bank also offers doorstep banking
services for senior citizens and differently abled customers.
558
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
4. Details on assessment of value chain partners
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Nil
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others - please specify
Note: While assessments by value have not been aggregated, for our service providers, there are enabling clauses in the
master agreements on adherence to applicable labour legislations. As part of the ESG and Climate Change Assessments
undertaken for certain wholesale borrowers as per the ESG Risk Management Framework, parameters such as labour/
employee health and safety, prohibition of child labour and human rights protection are included in the E&S assessment.
5. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising
from the assessments at Question 4 above.
N. A.
559
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
PRINCIPLE 6: B USINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE THE
ENVIRONMENT
Essential Indicators
1. Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity
Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
From renewable sources (in GJ)
Total electricity consumption (A) 66,436.61 11,772.84
Total fuel consumption (B) - -
Energy consumption through other sources (C) - -
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C) 66,436.61 11,772.84
From non-renewable sources (in GJ)
Total electricity consumption (D) 14,10,725.08 25,23,514.68
Total fuel consumption (E) 5,85,716.08 4,97,686.11
Energy consumption through other sources (F) - -
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F) 19,96,441.16 30,21,200.79
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F) (in GJ) 20,62,877.77 30,32,973.62
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumed / Revenue 5.96 9.87
from operations) (GJ per ` in crore)
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 12.32 20.39
Parity (PPP) (Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for
PPP) (GJ per USD in million)
Energy intensity in terms of physical output (GJ/ Full Time Employees (FTE)) 9.62 14.20
Note:
• Energy consumed from fuels include energy from consumption of petrol and diesel in company-owned vehicles
and gensets.
• For gensets and company owned vehicles, petrol/ diesel purchase data is extracted from the Bank’s financial records.
The cost of diesel/ petrol purchased is converted into litres of petrol/ sdiesel using state-wise/ national average rates
derived from information available in the public domain.
• A combination of consumption based and spend-based approach is adopted to calculate electricity consumption
from local grids – for branches, offices, ATMs and Data Centers.
• Electricity consumption from renewable energy sources is generated through in-house solar rooftops installed at 25
locations and purchased green power at 19 locations.
• Total energy consumption decreased primarily due to the change in energy accounting methodology. There is a
transition from a purely spend-based estimation approach to a more refined method that combines actual energy
consumption data with financial data, resulting in a more accurate reporting of electricity consumption.
• All the intensity related computation across energy, emissions, water and waste are based on Total Revenue, which
includes interest earned under Schedule 13 and other income, excluding profit/ (loss) on sale of buildings & other
assets (net) earned under Schedule 14 of the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank.
• For the purpose of calculation of intensity, adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP), conversion factor @20.66 INR/
USD as per IMF has been applied consistently for both FY2024-25 and FY2023-24.
560
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, an independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited for the FY 2024-25 indicators
in the table above.
2. Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance,
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y / N) If yes, disclose whether targets set
under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial
action taken, if any.
N.A.
3. Provide details of the following disclosures related to water.
Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water 0 0
(ii) Groundwater 0 0
(iii) Third party water 26,02,703.66 24,08,078.16
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water 0 0
(v) Others 0 0
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v) 26,02,703.66 24,08,078.16
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres) 5,20,540.73 4,81,615.63
Water intensity per ` of turnover (Total water consumption / Revenue 1.50 1.57
from operations) (Kilolitre per ` crore)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 3.11 3.24
Power Parity (PPP) (kilolitre per PPP adjusted million USD)
Water intensity in terms of physical output (Total water consumption / 2.43 2.26
Full Time Employee) (kilolitre per employee)
Note:
• Water withdrawn is estimated based on the document by the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA), which specifies
that an office employee consumes 45 litres per day per head. This amount is recorded as water withdrawn from third
party source.
• Water discharged is considered as 80% of the water withdrawn from source based on Central Pollution Control Board
(CPCB) database report dated December 24, 2009. Therefore, it is assumed that of the total water withdrawal, only
20% is consumed.
Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, an independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited for the FY 2024-25 indicators
in the table above.
561
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
4. Provide the following details related to water discharged
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) To surface water
No treatment 0 0
With treatment - please specify level of treatment 0 0
(ii) To Groundwater
No treatment 0 0
With treatment - please specify level of treatment 0 0
(iii) To Seawater
No treatment 0 0
With treatment - please specify level of treatment 0 0
(iv) Sent to third parties
No treatment 20,82,162.93 19,26,462.53
With treatment - please specify level of treatment 0 0
(v) Others
No treatment 0 0
With treatment - please specify level of treatment 0 0
Total water discharged (in kilolitres) 20,82,162.93 19,26,462.53
Note: Water discharged is considered as 80% of the water withdrawn from source based on CPCB database report dated
December 24, 2009 and reported as water sent to third parties.
Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, an independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited for the FY 2024-25 indicators
in the table above.
5. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage
and implementation.
The Bank does not generate industrial wastewater, as the operations are primarily service led. The Bank’s facilities are
either connected to municipal wastewater collection systems or to the facility-owner’s wastewater treatment systems. The
wastewater generated by the Bank’s activities are therefore directed to established systems where it is treated appropriately
as per the discretion of the municipal agencies/ facility owner (third parties).
6. Details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity
Parameter Unit FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
NOx Metric Tonnes 308.25 -
SOx Metric Tonnes 24.32 -
Particulate Matter (PM) Metric Tonnes 9.63 -
Persistent organic pollutants (POP) Metric Tonnes - -
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Metric Tonnes - -
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) Metric Tonnes - -
Others - please specify Metric Tonnes - -
562
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
N ote: The NOx, SOx and PM emissions provided above are attributed to diesel consumption in DG sets within the Bank’s
operational boundary. These emissions have been calculated using site-specific data and emission factors published by
the USEPA.
While the nature of banking operations does not typically result in significant air emissions, the Bank is cognisant of air quality
within its premises. As a proactive measure, the Bank has undertaken the estimation and disclosure on air emissions.
7. Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity
Parameter* Unit FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
CO CH N O HFCs CO CH NO HFCs
2 4 2 2 4 2
Emissions Emissions Emissions (tCO e) Emissions Emissions Emissions (tCOe)
2 2
(tCO e) (tCO e) (tCO e) (tCOe) (tCOe) (tCOe)
2 2 2 2 2 2
Total Scope 1 Metric tonnes 42,024.21 61.21 562.76 35,351.32 35,818.59 51.35 442.51 47,868.03
emissions of CO
2 Total: 77,999.50 Total: 84,180.48
(GHG: CO , equivalent
2
CH4, N O,
2
HFCs)
Total Scope 2 Metric tonnes 2,84,877.91 5,01,899.03
emissions of CO
2
(GHG: CO ) equivalent
2
Total Scope Metric tonnes 1.05 1.91
1 and Scope of CO e /
2
2 emission Revenue
intensity (` in crore)
per ` Crore
of turnover
(Total Scope
1 and Scope
2 GHG
emissions /
Revenue from
operations)
Total Scope Metric tonnes 2.17 3.94
1 and Scope of CO e /
2
2 emission Revenue
intensity per (USD in
Million USD million)
of turnover
adjusted for
Purchasing
Power
Parity (Total
Scope 1 and
Scope 2 GHG
emissions /
Revenue from
operations
adjusted for
PPP)
Total Scope MTCO e 1.69 2.74
2
1 and Scope per Full time
2 emission employee
intensity (FTE)
in terms of
physical
output
563
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Note:
• Scope 1 emissions include emissions from company-owned cars, company-owned diesel gensets, fugitive emissions
from air conditioners and fire extinguishers.
• For the computation of emissions from company-owned cars and company-owned gensets, emission factors from
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) guidelines 2006 have been applied to quantities deemed for energy
consumption in Principle 6, Essential Indicators: Question 1.
• Fugitive emissions from fire extinguishers are estimated using operational assets and public factors on leakage from
USEPA guidance, with Global Warming Potential (GWP) values derived from IPCC Sixth Assessment Report (AR6).
• For air conditioners, the Bank’s operational assets define the boundary. Emissions are estimated using India’s
refrigerant usage trends, vendor-provided average refrigerant capacities, leakage assumptions from Council on Energy,
Environment and Water (CEEW) and GWP derived factors from IPCC AR 6.
• Scope 2 emissions are reported using a combination of consumption based and spend-based data. The reported
figures are derived using market-based approach with grid emission factor from Version 20 of the Central Electrical
Authority’s CO database.
2
• Scope 1 emissions have reduced largely on account of gradual transition to low GHG fire extinguishers from high
GHG based fire extinguishers.
• The reduction in Scope 2 emissions is primarily attributed to the procurement of renewable energy, sourced through
rooftop solar installations and green power purchase. In addition, system enhancements during FY 2024-25 enabled
the shift to a mixed approach of using– consumption and spend-based data, as compared to a complete spend
based computation adopted in the previous year.
Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, an independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited for the FY 2024-25 indicators
in the table above.
8. D oes the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
Yes. The Bank is cognisant of its impact on the environment and is actively engaged in reducing its energy consumption
and emissions across its operations. Automated energy management solutions are deployed at some of the branches,
which helps monitor energy consumption and control usage. This initiative has resulted in savings of about 623.84 MWh
in FY 2024-25, leading to avoidance of 453.53 tCO e emissions.
2
The Bank implemented static Power Factor (PF) solutions through the installation of Active Harmonic Filter (AHF) with the
aim to address the correction of power factor and bring in efficiencies at the branch locations. The project was implemented
at 84 locations and electricity savings amounted to close to 84.32 MWh in FY 2024-25.
Wherever feasible, the Bank has adopted renewable energy sources into the overall power consumption. The Bank has 25
rooftop solar plants with a cumulative capacity of about 743 kWh across the country leading to an emission reduction of
609.02 tCO e. During the year, the bank increased the number of locations under green power. As on March 31, 2025, 19
2
locations received 100% green power. This resulted in increase in the renewable energy mix of the bank by 17,616.9 MWh,
resulting in the avoidance of approximately 12,807.48 tCO e of Scope 2 emissions.
2
To adopt a more holistic approach to emission reduction within owned operations, the Bank evaluates all the new projects
for feasibility of green certification by the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). As of March 31, 2025, 2,507 branches and
offices have been green certified by IGBC.
564
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
9. Provide details related to waste management by the entity
Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A) 105.91 252.61
E-waste (B) 165.39 110.58
Bio-medical waste (C) - -
Construction and demolition waste (D) - -
Battery waste (E) 34.13 20.51
Radioactive waste (F) - -
Other Hazardous waste (G) (Includes DG Oil waste) 69.06 89.85
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H) 297.02 288.48
Sector specific - Paper waste (I) 3,401.59 3,441.49
Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H + I) 4,073.10 4,203.52
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover 0.01 0.01
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations) (MT / ` in crore)
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 0.02 0.03
Power Parity (PPP)
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
(MT per adjusted USD in million)
Waste intensity in terms of physical output (Total waste generated per 0.02 0.02
Full time employee (FTE))
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other
recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Category of waste
(i) Recycled
Plastic waste (A) 11.77 0.00
E-waste (B) 133.77 109.74
Bio-medical waste (C) - -
Construction and demolition waste (D) - -
Battery waste (E) 34.13 20.51
Radioactive waste (F) - -
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G) 1.90 0.00
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. (Break-up 48.36 10.16
by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
Paper waste (I) 191.89 0.00
(ii) Re-used - -
(iii) Other recovery operations - -
Total waste diverted from disposal 421.82 140.41
Total For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Category of waste
(i) Incineration - -
(ii) Landfilling - -
(iii) Other disposal operations
Plastic waste (A) 94.14 252.61
E-waste (B) 31.62 0.84
Bio-medical waste (C) - -
565
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Construction and demolition waste (D) - -
Battery waste (E) - 0.00
Radioactive waste (F) - -
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any (G) 67.16 89.85
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any (Break-up 248.66 278.31
by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
Paper waste (I) 3,209.70 3,441.49
Total waste diverted to disposal 3,651.29 4,063.11
Note:
• Due to the nature of operations of the Bank, no bio-medical, construction and demolition, and radioactive waste
attributable to the Bank was generated.
• E-Waste generated, recycled and disposed, includes IT related e-waste and datacentre e-waste which is centrally
managed and recycled through authorised vendors.
• Paper waste majorly constitutes paper procured for the Bank’s own use and is shown as sector-specific paper waste.
The quantity of waste generated is assumed to be disposed through other disposal operations.
• The waste quantities presented in the table above are estimated by extrapolating actual data from select locations,
using employee count as an operational proxy. These figures primarily cover waste from owned facilities with waste
segregation and recycling practices in place, except for e-waste, battery waste and paper waste, which also include
data from other locations.
• During the reporting period, the Bank implemented several initiatives to reduce the usage of single-use plastic in the
office premises and also sensitised the workforce towards exploring alternative solutions to replace plastic waste,
leading to reduction in amount of plastic waste generated.
Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
(Y / N) If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, an independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited for the FY 2024-25 indicators
in the table above.
10. Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes
and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
The Bank does not use hazardous and toxic chemicals in its products and processes. However, the Bank has been working
towards sustainable management of waste generated from day-to-day operations. The Bank has adopted an internal
Standard Operating Procedure to document its approach to waste segregation and handling in the office premises. The
Bank segregates and recycles dry waste at select large offices. The dry waste is collected and disposed through authorised
vendors who eventually recycle the waste. In FY 2024-25, approximately 421.82 tonnes of waste were diverted from landfill
through recycling initiatives.
Disposal of Bank’s owned IT e-waste and battery waste was handed over to authorized recyclers, thus ensuring circularity. In
FY 2024-25, e-waste and battery waste within its premises and co-located data centres led to the generation and recycling
of 133.77 tonnes of e-waste and 34.13 tonnes of battery waste.
11. If the entity has operations/offices in / around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.)
where environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details.
Given the nature of the business, the Bank does not have any operations or offices in ecologically sensitive areas.
566
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
12. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws,
in the current financial year.
N.A.
13. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law / regulations / guidelines in India; such as the
Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment
Protection Act and Rules thereunder (Y / N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances.
The Bank complies with all applicable laws. There have been no instances of non-compliance with respect to the above-
mentioned regulations.
Leadership Indicators
1. Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres)
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
(i) Name of the area
(ii) Nature of operations
(iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge
N. A.
2. Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter* Unit FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
CO CH N O CO CH NO
2 4 2 2 4 2
Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions
(tCO e) (tCO e) (tCO e) (tCOe) (tCOe) (tCOe)
2 2 2 2 2 2
Total Scope 3 emissions Metric tonnes of CO 2,30,310.04 62,945.73
2
(Break-up of the GHG into equivalent
CO , CH , N O, HFCs,
2 4 2
PFCs, SF , NF , if available)
6 3
Total Scope 3 emissions Metric tonnes of 0.67 0.20
per ` crore of turnover CO e per ` in crore
2
Total Scope 3 emission tCO e / Full time 1.07 0.29
2
intensity employee (FTE)
Note:
As part of our commitment to capturing value chain impacts, we are enhancing the coverage of our Scope 3 emission
disclosures. We have included two more categories in the current reporting year, (i) Employee Commute (ii) Fuel and Energy
Related Activities, in addition to emissions from Waste Generated in Operations, Business Travel and Upstream Leased
Assets, reported last year.
F inanced Emissions: In FY 2024-25, the Bank conducted a comprehensive assessment of financed emissions for
its business loans with a total exposure of ` 1.90 lakh crore, in line with PCAF’s guidance. The evaluated portfolio, was
associated with an estimated 23.8 million tonnes of CO e emissions.
2
567
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
3. W ith respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention
and remediation activities.
Given the nature of business, the Bank does not have significant direct impacts on biodiversity. However, the Bank does
ensure that the large industrial, infrastructure projects it lends to, are in compliance with all extant environmental regulations,
including those linked to biodiversity.
4. If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please
provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following:
Sr. No Initiative undertaken Details of the initiative Outcome of the initiative
1. On-site Solar Installation 25 Solar rooftop installations 837.72 MWh of electricity consumed from the
commissioned so far with a total installed solar rooftop plants, leading to an emission
capacity of around 743 kWp. reduction of 609.02 tCO e.
2
2. Green Power 100% of the power consumed at 19 loca- Procurement of 17,616.9 MWh of electricity
tions is from green energy sources. under the green power arrangement during FY
2024-25, as a result of which, 12,807.48 tCO e
2
emissions were avoided during the year.
3. Automated Energy Management Automated energy management solutions Automating energy management has resulted in
Solutions that help monitor energy consumption and savings of electricity amounting to about 623.84
control usage have been implemented in MWh during the reporting period, leading to
350 branches. avoidance of 453.53 tCO e emissions.
2
4. Active Harmonic Filter (AHF) Static Power Factor (PF) solutions The project led to electricity savings of 84.32
implemented across 84 locations through MWh resulting in reduction
the installation of Active Harmonic Filter of GHG emissions by 61.3 tCO e
2
(AHF) to address the correction of power during the year.
factor and bring in efficiencies at the
branch locations.
5. Energy Efficient Equipment During FY 2024–25, the Bank allocated a Installation of energy-efficient equipment such as
total of 0.51% of the Bank’s overall capital BEE 5-star rated air conditioners, and CPCB IV
expenditure promote energy efficiency. compliant diesel generator sets; implementation
of renewable energy solutions like solar panels
and installation of sewage treatment plants
(STPs).
5. Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan?
Yes, the Bank has a comprehensive Business Continuity Program certified under ISO 22301:2019 that ensures the reliability
and seamless continuity of operations. Additionally, the Bank’s business continuity programme overseen by the Business
Continuity Steering Committee and chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, ensures the reliability and continuity of critical business
operations and the accelerated resumption of services post-incident. The Business Continuity Programme defines clear
roles and responsibilities across Crisis Management, Business Recovery, Emergency Response and IT Disaster Recovery
teams. it is subject to regular internal, external and regulatory reviews.
The Bank imbibes highest standards of information and cyber security practices and data privacy measures. Proactive
measures are taken to ensure the data protection and maintenance of customer trust.
6. Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
The Bank is cognisant of the impact that its value chain may have on the environment. The Bank’s ESG Risk Management
Framework incorporates Environmental and Social due diligence for specified wholesale loan exposures.
568
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Beyond verifying the borrowers’ compliance with statutory laws and regulations, the Bank also assesses the corporate
borrowers in terms of their current position with regards to ESG & climate change, their transition plans and their initiatives on
mitigation of risks related to ESG and climate change. As regulatory frameworks on value chain and disclosures on Scope 3
emissions continue to evolve, we ensure ongoing compliance through active monitoring and alignment with best practices.
7. P ercentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for
environmental impacts.
As a part of the regular credit monitoring process, the Bank assesses, relevant issues regarding environmental & social
issues and the impact of climate change on the borrower’s operations.
8. How many green credits have been generated or procured?
(a) By the company - Nil
(b) By the top ten (in terms of value of purchases and sales respectively) value chain partners - Data not
available
569
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES, WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY
POLICY, SHOULD DO SO IN A MANNER THAT IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT
Essential Indicators
1. a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers / associations.
The Bank is a member of 12 key trade and industry chambers / associations.
b. List of top 10 the trade and industry chambers / associations the entity is a member of / affiliated to
S. Reach of trade and industry chambers /
Name of the trade and industry chambers / associations
No. associations (State / National)
1 Bombay Chambers of Commerce and Industry National
2 National Association of Software and Services Companies National
3 Indian Banks Association National
4 Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India (FIMMDA) National
5 Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) National
6 Society of Indian Automobiles Manufacturers National
7 Indian Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association National
8 Secondary Loan Market Association National
9 International Swaps and Derivatives Association International
10 Primary Dealers’ Association of India National
2. Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by
the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of authority Brief of the case Corrective action taken
Nil N.A. N.A.
There have been no cases of anti-competitive conduct by the Bank.
Leadership Indicators
1. Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity
Whether information Frequency of Review by Board
S. Public policy Method resorted
available in public (Annually / Half yearly / Quarterly / Web Link, if available
No. advocated for such advocacy
domain? (Yes/No) Others – please specify)
N.A. The Bank does not engage in policy advocacy.
The Bank, however, does participate in external meetings pertaining to the banking sector and may provide feedback/
recommendations on emerging regulations and other relevant issues.
570
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
PRINCIPLE 8: BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT
Essential Indicators
1. Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws,
in the current financial year.
N.A.
As per the BRSR, this section pertains to Social Impact Assessment in compliance with Right to Fair Compensation &
Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. Given the nature of the business of the Bank,
this is not applicable.
2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being
undertaken by your entity.
N.A.
3. Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
Internally there is a robust mechanism in place for the redressal of all grievances/complaints related to CSR project raised by
the community stakeholders. There is a dedicated email id CSR-Compliance@hdfcbank.com displayed on the bank’s website
for receiving community grievances/ complaints. Further there is a designated team and internal committee formed that
evaluates and redresses such grievances received.
4. Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers.
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers 10% 3%
Directly from within India 98% 98%
An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in
the table above.
Note: The denominator for the above indicator represents ‘purchases’ made from vendors forming part of Schedule 16
and additions to fixed assets as per Schedule 10 of the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank.
5. J ob creation in smaller towns – Disclose remuneration paid to persons employed (including employees
employed on a permanent or contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total remuneration
Location FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Rural 4% 4%
Semi-urban 14% 16%
Urban 22% 21%
Metropolitan* 60% 59%
*Metropolitan includes employees posted at overseas locations.
Note:
For the purpose of categorisation of people employed at locations in rural/ semi-urban/ urban/ metropolitan, the base
location of employees as at March 31, 2025 has been considered, as per the Reserve Bank of India classification system.
An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in
the table above.
571
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Leadership Indicators
1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above).
N.A.
2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational
districts as identified by government bodies.
S. No. State Aspirational District Amount spent (` in crore)
1 Andhra Pradesh Vizianagaram 0.06
2 Andhra Pradesh Visakhapatnam 3.14
3 Andhra Pradesh Y.S.R. Kadapa 0.06
4 Assam Goalpara 0.04
5 Assam Barpeta 0.28
6 Assam Hailakandi 1.86
7 Assam Baksa 2.05
8 Assam Darrang 0.04
9 Assam Udalguri 2.04
10 Assam Dhubri 1.30
11 Bihar Sitamarhi 0.54
12 Bihar Araria 2.04
13 Bihar Katihar 2.04
14 Bihar Muzaffarpur 0.59
15 Bihar Begusarai 0.16
16 Bihar Khagaria 0.04
17 Bihar Banka 1.12
18 Bihar Sheikhpura 0.04
19 Bihar Aurangabad 0.09
20 Bihar Gaya 0.09
21 Bihar Nawada 0.68
22 Bihar Jamui 1.21
23 Chhattisgarh Korba 1.98
24 Chhattisgarh Rajnandgaon 0.27
25 Chhattisgarh Mahasamund 4.31
26 Chhattisgarh Kanker 0.54
27 Chhattisgarh Dantewada 0.13
28 Chhattisgarh Bijapur 0.04
29 Chhattisgarh Bastar 2.33
30 Chhattisgarh Kondagaon 0.92
31 Chhattisgarh Sukma 0.10
32 Gujarat Dahod 0.04
33 Gujarat Narmada 0.04
572
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
S. No. State Aspirational District Amount spent (` in crore)
34 Himachal Pradesh Chamba 0.21
35 Jammu & Kashmir Kupwara 0.93
36 Jammu & Kashmir Baramulla 1.04
37 Jharkhand Garhwa 0.04
38 Jharkhand Chatra 0.09
39 Jharkhand Giridih 0.16
40 Jharkhand Godda 1.17
41 Jharkhand Sahibganj 0.04
42 Jharkhand Pakur 0.04
43 Jharkhand Bokaro 2.87
44 Jharkhand Lohardaga 0.17
45 Jharkhand Palamu 0.69
46 Jharkhand Latehar 0.10
47 Jharkhand Hazaribagh 2.33
48 Jharkhand Ramgarh 2.60
49 Jharkhand Dumka 0.73
50 Jharkhand Ranchi 5.11
51 Jharkhand Khunti 0.21
52 Jharkhand Gumla 0.59
53 Jharkhand Simdega 0.73
54 Karnataka Raichur 0.59
55 Karnataka Yadgir 0.73
56 Kerala Wayanad 0.54
57 Madhya Pradesh Chhatarpur 1.48
58 Madhya Pradesh Damoh 0.04
59 Madhya Pradesh Barwani 0.04
60 Madhya Pradesh Rajgarh 0.04
61 Madhya Pradesh Vidisha 0.04
62 Madhya Pradesh Guna 1.44
63 Madhya Pradesh Singrauli 1.49
64 Madhya Pradesh Khandwa 2.47
65 Maharashtra Nandurbar 0.56
66 Maharashtra Washim 0.23
67 Maharashtra Gadchiroli 1.25
68 Maharashtra Osmanabad 2.35
69 Manipur Chandel 0.61
70 Meghalaya Ribhoi 2.72
71 Odisha Dhenkanal 3.05
72 Odisha Gajapati 0.04
73 Odisha Kandhamal 3.08
573
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
S. No. State Aspirational District Amount spent (` in crore)
74 Odisha Balangir 0.04
75 Odisha Kalahandi 3.90
76 Odisha Rayagada 0.21
77 Odisha Koraput 0.54
78 Odisha Malkangiri 2.52
79 Odisha Nabarangpur 0.08
80 Odisha Nuapada 0.81
81 Punjab Moga 3.09
82 Punjab Firozpur 0.54
83 Rajasthan Dholpur 0.04
84 Rajasthan Karauli 2.95
85 Rajasthan Jaisalmer 0.12
86 Rajasthan Sirohi 1.24
87 Rajasthan Baran 0.49
88 Sikkim West Sikkim 0.24
89 Tamil Nadu Virudhunagar 1.82
90 Tamil Nadu Ramanathapuram 1.30
91 Telangana Asifabad 0.06
92 Telangana Bhadradri 0.04
93 Tripura Dhalai 0.49
94 Uttar Pradesh Chitrakoot 2.31
95 Uttar Pradesh Fatehpur 0.04
96 Uttar Pradesh Bahraich 1.33
97 Uttar Pradesh Balrampur 3.85
98 Uttar Pradesh Siddharthnagar 1.39
99 Uttar Pradesh Chandauli 0.66
100 Uttar Pradesh Sonbhadra 3.17
101 Uttarakhand Udham Singh Nagar 3.42
102 Uttarakhand Haridwar 7.56
3. (a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers
comprising marginalised / vulnerable groups? (Yes / No)
No.
(b) From which marginalised/vulnerable groups do you procure?
N.A.
(c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
N.A.
574
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
4. Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity
(in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge.
N.A.
5. Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
N.A.
6. Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects
S. No. of persons benefitted % of beneficiaries from vulnerable
CSR Project
No. from CSR projects and marginalised groups
1 Rural development 23,75,952 100
2 Promoting education 4,74,036 100
3 Skill training and livelihood enhancement 8,08,752 100
4 Environmental sustainability 1,30,641 100
5 Healthcare & hygiene 72,876 100
575
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
PRINCIPLE 9: B USINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CONSUMERS IN A
RESPONSIBLE MANNER
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
The Bank has adopted a well laid out Customer Service Approach and all its products and processes are customer centric
to ensure seamless and quality customer service.
Customers are informed about the channels available for redressal of grievances. Some of these channels where complaints
are received are the retail branch, phone banking call center, e-mails, grievance redressal cell, Principal Nodal Office, social
media platforms, toll free number, virtual channels, letters amongst others. Complaints are also inter alia received through
external sources including regulatory bodies, RBI Ombudsman, National Consumer Help Line and Centralised Public
Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (CPGRAMS).
The Bank has implemented a Complaint Management System, ‘CRM Next’ for recording, resolving and monitoring of the
complaints received. The Cards Business Customer Interface system is used for recording of credit card related complaints.
Turnaround times are prescribed for various categories of complaints. On adequate resolution of the case, the same is
communicated to the customer.
With a view to improve efficiency of the Grievance Redressal Mechanism in the Bank, a formal four level Grievance Redressal
Mechanism is available:
Centralised Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System:
Level-1: Resolution of first-time complaints received at any of the customer facing channels
Level-2: Complaints escalated to Grievance Redressal Cell
Level-3: Complaints escalated to the Principal Nodal Officer
Level-4: If the complaints are still not resolved to the satisfaction of the customer, they have the option to approach the
RBI Ombudsman.
A complaint review mechanism has been implemented to ensure a proper review of a rejected customer complaint to ensure
decisions are unbiased and fair prior to the same being communicated to the customer. Further, as per extant guidelines, the
Bank has appointed three internal Ombudsmen to ensure that all rejections/ denials are independently reviewed by them.
2. Turnover of products and / services as a percentage of turnover from all products / service
As % of total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product N.A. given the nature of the banking business
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and or safe disposal
576
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
3. Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Received Pending Remarks Received during Pending Remarks
during the resolution at the year resolution at end
year end of year* of year*
Data privacy 1 0 - 5 0 -
Advertising 43 1 - 36 0 -
Cyber-security 0 0 - 0 0 -
Delivery of essential 3,166 27 - 3,063 29 -
services
Restrictive Trade - - - - - -
Practices
Unfair Trade Practices^ 12,100 145 - 11,563 72 -
Others 4,42,156 16,133 - 4,70,672 14,131 -
*Pending cases are within the stipulated turnaround time (TAT) of the Bank.
^Also includes complaints on Restrictive Trade Practices
4. Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues
FY 2024-25 Number Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls Nil -
Forced recalls Nil -
5. Does the entity have a framework / policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes / No) If
available, provide a web-link of the policy.
Yes. The links for cyber security and data privacy are as under:
Cyber Security Measures
Data Privacy
The Bank has a board approved Information Security Policy and Cybersecurity Policy. The primary purpose of the Information
Security Policy is to provide guidance on the Information Security controls that are applicable to various processes, services,
people, IT and other assets across the Bank. The Bank’s Information Security policy is based the guidelines provided by the
regulator on Information Security, Electronic Banking, Technology Risk Management and Cyber Frauds (G. Gopalakrishna
Committee) and industry standards (ISO 27001:13 and NIST 800-53). This inter alia covers critical areas of IT governance,
information security, IS audit, IT operations, IT services outsourcing, cyber fraud, business continuity planning, customer
awareness programmes and legal aspects.
The Bank’s Cybersecurity Framework ensures that appropriate cyber security practices are followed across the Bank’s
information systems. The Bank’s Cybersecurity Framework consists of key components -- identify, protect, detect, respond
and recover. The Bank has a Security Operations Center (SOC), an upgraded monitoring and detection solution, 24x7
defacement monitoring and vulnerability management of the Bank’s internet properties, a dedicated programme for attack
surface management, antivirus / malware programme, patch management and penetration testing amongst others to fortify
the Bank’s assets, infrastructure and applications.
577
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REASONABLE ASSURANCE REPORT
Data Privacy Framework
• Privacy Governance: The Bank has established a robust privacy governance framework that guides data privacy.
This framework includes a designated data privacy officer (DPO), cross-functional privacy teams and a clear chain of
responsibility for privacy-related matters.
• Data Collection and Use: The Bank is committed to transparent data collection and responsible use of personal
information. The Bank communicates the purposes for which the data is collected. Individuals are provided with clear
and concise privacy notices and are given the opportunity to provide informed consent for data processing activities.
• Privacy Education and Awareness: The Bank is committed to fostering a privacy-conscious culture within the
organisation. The Bank provides privacy training and awareness programmes to employees, emphasising their
roles and responsibilities in protecting personal information. E-learning programmes, regular privacy updates and
communication channels are maintained to keep employees informed about privacy-related matters, emerging risks
and best practices.
• Privacy by Design: Privacy is a fundamental consideration in the development of our products, services and systems.
The Banks embraces the principles of ‘privacy by design’ to embed privacy safeguards into our processes from the
outset. The Bank has established a process of performing data protection/privacy impact assessment to identify any
privacy risk in any new/existing offerings of the Bank.
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising and delivery
of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product
recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
T he Bank’s ‘CRM Next’ system has the capability to record and categorise grievances into various types and maintain
turnaround times for specific categories and sub-categories of grievances. Through the auto escalation mechanism there
is more effective monitoring.
7. Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a. Number of instances of data breaches:
The Bank did not witness any instances of data breaches during the year.
b. Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
Nil
c. Impact, if any, of the data breaches
N.A.
Note: An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on Question 7(b) for FY 2024-25.
Leadership Indicators
1. Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide
web link, if available).
(provide web link, if available).
The weblink is: http://www.hdfcbank.com/
Details of the nodal officers of the Bank with their contact details are also provided on the website.
578
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
2. Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and / or
services.
The Bank’s Corporate Commitment and Citizens Charter elucidates on these aspects. The link is:
HDFC Bank Citizen’s Charter
As a socially responsible corporate and leader in banking, the Bank recognises the importance of educating the public
about safe banking practices in the era of digital payments. The Bank launched the ‘Vigil Aunty’ campaign to find an
effective and creative way of educating and protecting Indians from fraudsters in an entertaining way. Further details are
in the link below:
Vigil Aunty - Use Secure Banking Services for a Fraud Free India | HDFC Bank
3. Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption / discontinuation of essential services.
The Bank takes proactive measures to ensure the reliability and seamless continuity of its operations. The Bank prioritises
the highest standards of information and cyber security practices and data privacy measures, ensuring protection of
sensitive data and maintaining the trust of its customers. Additionally, the ISO 22301:2019 certified Business Continuity
Programme ensures the reliability and seamless continuity of operations. The Business Continuity Programme is designed
to align with regulatory guidelines and undergoes thorough reviews and audits. The Bank’s Business Continuity Programme
helps manage continuity of critical business operations and accelerated resumption of services post the incident.
4. Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws?
(Yes /No / Not applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to
consumer satisfaction relating to the major products/services of the entity, significant locations of operation
of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes / No)
Customer feedback is critical and respective teams are expected to define actionables to improve the customer experience
and share best practices to ensure consistent delivery across the bank. The Bank recognises the importance of the simple
‘listen-learn-act’ process to build a strong customer-centric culture.
The Bank’s Net Promoter Score (NPS) measures customer satisfaction on a pan-India basis and across a suite of products
and services. The NPS, which is branded “Infinite Smiles” is an ongoing survey. In FY 2024-25, 3 million customers
responded to the survey and the overall NPS score stood at 70.
579
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
RREEAASSOONNAABBLLEE AASSSSUURRAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT
SGS India Private Limited +91 080 6938 8888
4B, Adi Shankaracharya Marg, +91 22 6640 8888
www.sgs.com
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT
Independent Assurance Statement to HDFC Bank Limited on its BRSR report for the FY 2024-25.
The Board of Directors,
HDFC Bank Limited
Nature of the Assurance
SGS India Private Limited (hereinafter referred to as ‘SGS India’) was engaged by HDFC Bank Limited (the ‘Company’) to conduct
an independent assurance of the Company’s BRSR Core attributes pertaining to the reporting period of April 1, 2024, to March
31, 2025. SGS India has conducted a Reasonable level of Assurance for BRSR core parameters. This assurance engagement
was conducted in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) and ISAE 3410.
Reporting Framework
The Report has been prepared following the
1) BRSR Core–Framework for assurance and ESG disclosures for value chain (SEBI vide Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122) dated July 12, 2023
2) BRSR reporting guidelines (Annexure II) as per SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD-2/P/CIR/2021/562 dated May 10,
2021, and incorporated Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 11, 2023, and as amended
from time to time.
3) Greenhouse Gas Protocol standard
Intended Users of this Assurance Statement
This Assurance Statement is provided with the intention of informing all HDFC Bank Limited’s Stakeholders.
Responsibilities
The information in the report and its presentation are the responsibility of the management of the Company. SGS India has not
been involved in the preparation of any of the material information included in the report.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, and statements within the defined scope of assurance, aiming to
inform the management of the Company, and in alignment with the agreed terms of reference. We do not accept or assume any
responsibility beyond this specific scope. The Statement shall not be used for interpreting the overall performance of the Company,
except for the aspects explicitly mentioned within the scope.
Assurance Standard
SGS has conducted an engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE)
3000(revised) and ISAE 3410 (Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information). Our
evidence-gathering procedures were designed to obtain a ‘Reasonable’ level of assurance, which is a high level of assurance in
accordance with ISAE 3000(revised) standard but is not absolute certainty. It involves obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence to
support the conclusion that the information presented in the report is fairly stated and is free from material misstatements.
Statement of Independence and Competence
The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and assurance, operating in more than 140 countries and
providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and
580
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SGS India Private Limited +91 080 6938 8888
4B, Adi Shankaracharya Marg, +91 22 6640 8888
www.sgs.com
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083
training; environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS affirm its independence from HDFC Bank Limited, being
free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organization, its subsidiaries and stakeholders.
The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised
auditors registered with ISO 26000, ISO 20121, ISO 50001, SA8000, RBA, QMS, EMS, SMS, GPMS, CFP, WFP, GHG
Verification and GHG Validation Lead Auditors and experience on the SRA Assurance.
Scope of Assurance
The assurance process involved assessing the quality, accuracy, and reliability of BRSR Core Indicators (KPIs) within the report
for the period April 1, 2024, to March 31, 2025. The reporting scope and boundaries include HDFC Bank Limited and its regional
offices spread across Central, North, East, West and South in the different states of India.
Assurance Methodology
The assurance comprised a combination of desktop review, interaction with the key personnel engaged in the process of
developing the report, on-site visits, and remote verification of data. Specifically, SGS India undertook the following activities:
(cid:120) Assessment of the suitability of the applicable criteria in terms of its comprehensiveness, reliability, and accuracy.
(cid:120) Interaction with key personnel responsible for collecting, consolidating, and calculating the BRSR core KPIs, BRSR
non-core indicators and assessing the internal control mechanisms in place to ensure data quality.
(cid:120) Application of analytical procedures and verification of documents on a sample basis for the compilation and reporting
of the KPIs.
(cid:120) Assessing the aggregation process of data at the Head Office level.
(cid:120) Critical review of the report regarding the plausibility and consistency of qualitative and quantitative information related
to the KPIs.
Limitations
The assurance scope excludes:
(cid:120) Disclosures other than those mentioned in the assurance scope.
(cid:120) Data review outside the operational sites as mentioned in the reporting boundary.
(cid:120) Validation of any data and information other than those presented in “Findings and Conclusion”.
(cid:120) The assurance engagement considers an uncertainty of ±5% based on the materiality threshold for Assumption/
estimation/measurement errors and omissions.
(cid:120) The Company’s statements that describe the expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim to future
intention provided by the Company, and assertions related to Intellectual Property Rights and other competitive
issues.
(cid:120) Strategy and other related linkages expressed in the Report.
(cid:120) Mapping of the Report with reporting frameworks other than those mentioned in the Reporting Criteria above
(cid:120) The assurance scope excluded forward-looking statements, product- or service-related information, external
information sources and expert opinions.
SGS India verified data on a sample basis; the responsibility for the authenticity of the data entirely lies with the Company. The
assurance scope excluded forward-looking statements, product- or service-related information, external information sources and
expert opinions. SGS India has not been involved in the evaluation or assessment of any financial data/performance of the
company. Our opinion on financial indicators is based on the third-party audited financial reports of the Company. SGS India does
not take any responsibility for the financial data reported in the audited financial reports of the Company.
Findings and Conclusions
Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, we are satisfied that the information presented
by the Company in its report, on the Core Indicators (Annexure A) is complete, accurate, reliable, has been fairly stated in all
material respects, and is prepared in line with the BRSR requirements.
581
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
REASONABLE ASSURANCE REPORT
SGS India Private Limited +91 080 6938 8888
4B, Adi Shankaracharya Marg, +91 22 6640 8888
www.sgs.com
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083
For and on behalf of SGS India Private Limited
Ashwini K. Mavinkurve, Abhijit Joshi Blessy Sen
Technical reviewer– ESG &
Head – ESG & Sustainability Services, SGS Lead Verifier – ESG & Sustainability
Sustainability Services, SGS India
India Services, SGS India
Pune, India
Pune, India Mumbai, India
13th June 2025 Team Member: Namrata Kamble ,
Vaibhavi Kulkarni and Prasad Borse
5 82
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(cid:3)
SGS India Private Limited +91 080 6938 8888
4B, Adi Shankaracharya Marg, +91 22 6640 8888
www.sgs.com
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083
Annexure-A
The list of BRSR Core Indicators that were verified within this assurance engagement is given below:
S.No. BRSR Core Attribute BRSR Core Indicator
(cid:124) Total Scope 1 emissions
1 Greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint (cid:124) Total Scope 2 emissions
(cid:124) GHG Emission Intensity (Scope 1 +2)
2 Water footprint (cid:124) Total water consumption
(cid:124) Water consumption intensity
(cid:124) Water Discharge by destination and levels of Treatment
3 Energy footprint (cid:124) Total energy consumed
(cid:124) % of energy consumed from renewable sources
(cid:124) Energy intensity
4 Embracing circularity (cid:124) Plastic waste
(cid:124) E-waste
(cid:124) Bio Medical Waste
(cid:124) Construction and demolition waste
(cid:124) Battery waste
(cid:124) Radioactive waste
(cid:124) Other hazardous waste
(cid:124) Other non-hazardous waste
(cid:124) Total waste generated
(cid:124) Waste intensity
(cid:124) Each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through
recycling, re-using or other recovery operations
(cid:124) For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature
of disposal method
5 Employee well-being and safety (cid:124) Spending on measures towards well-being of employees as a % of
total revenue of the Company
(cid:124) Details of safety related incidents for employees
6 Enabling gender diversity in business (cid:124) Gross wages paid to females as % of wages paid
(cid:124) Complaints on POSH
7 Enabling inclusive development (cid:124) Input material sourced from MSMEs/ small producers as % of total
purchases
(cid:124) Wages paid to persons employed in smaller towns as % of total wage
cost
8 Fairness in engaging with customers and (cid:124) Instances involving loss/breach of data of customers as a percentage
suppliers of total data breaches or cyber security events
(cid:124) Number of days of accounts payable
9 Open-ness of business (cid:124) Concentration of purchases & sales done with trading houses,
dealers, and related parties
(cid:124) Loans and advances & investments with related parties
583
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
FINANCIAL CALENDAR The Depository for ADR is represented in India by JP
Morgan Chase Bank N.A., India Sub Custody, 3rd Floor, JP
[April 01, 2025 to March 31, 2026] Morgan Tower, OFF C.S.T. Road, Kalina, Santacruz (East),
Board Meeting for Saturday, April 19, 2025 Mumbai - 400098.
consideration of Annual
Financial Statements The annual listing fees of the New York Stock Exchange has
been duly paid.
Date, Time and Venue of Friday, August 8, 2025 at
the 31st (Thirty First) Annual 2:00 p.m. through two-way Video
General Meeting Conference OUTSTANDING GDR / ADR OR ANY OTHER
Record date for purpose Friday, June 27, 2025 CONVERTIBLE INSTRUMENTS
of determining eligibility of
dividend The Bank has 34,27,00,981 ADRs outstanding as on March 31,
Dividend declaration date Friday, August 8, 2025 2025. These represent 102,81,02,943 underlying equity shares
Expected date of payment of On or after Monday, August 11, [1 (One) ADR represents 3 (Three) equity shares] constituting
dividend 2025 13.44% of the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank. Since
Board Meeting for Tentatively within 21 days from the the underlying Ordinary (Equity) Shares represented by ADRs
consideration of unaudited end of the respective quarter have been allotted in full, the outstanding ADRs have no
financial results for first three impact on the equity share capital of the Bank.
quarters of FY 2025-26
Other than the stock options/restricted stock units granted
LISTING
to the employees of the Bank, which will result in an addition
to the equity share capital of the Bank upon the exercise of
(i) Listing on Indian Stock Exchanges:
such options/units and subsequent allotment of equity shares,
The Equity Shares and Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”) the Bank has no outstanding warrants or other convertible
of the Bank are listed at the following Stock Exchanges: instruments as on March 31, 2025 which could have an impact
on the equity share capital of the Bank.
Sr. No. Name and Address of the Stock Exchange
SHAREHOLDERS HOLDING MORE THAN 1% OF
1 BSE Limited, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Fort,
Mumbai- 400023 THE SHARE CAPITAL OF THE BANK AS ON MARCH
31, 2025
2 National Stock Exchange of India Limited, Exchange Plaza,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai- 400051
Sr. Name of the Shareholder No. of Shares % to
No. Capital
The annual listing fees for the FY 2024-25 has been duly paid
1. JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA* 1,02,81,02,943** 13.44
to the above referred Stock Exchanges.
2. SBI NIFTY 50 ETF 48,59,35,660 6.35
3. Life Insurance Corporation of India 36,07,73,905 4.72
Names of Depositories in India for dematerialization of 4. ICICI Prudential Value Discovery 21,49,66,966 2.81
equity shares (ISIN No. INE040A01034) Fund
5. Government of Singapore 19,26,77,328 2.52
• National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) 6. HDFC Trustee Company Ltd. A/C 17,59,18,810 2.30
HDFC Balanced Advantage Fund
• Central Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”)
7. UTI - Nifty Exchange Traded Fund 13,75,31,862 1.80
8. Nippon Life India Trustee Ltd-A/C 12,97,11,189 1.70
(ii) International Listing of Securities: Nippon India ETF NIFTY 50 BEES
9. NPS Trust- A/c HDFC Pension 11,57,48,627 1.51
Sr. Security Name and address of Name & address of Management Company Ltd
No.Description the Stock Exchange Depository
Scheme E - Tier I
1 HDFC Bank The New York Stock J P Morgan Chase 10. Government Pension Fund Global 9,50,58,803 1.24
Limited - Exchange NA. 11. Vanguard Total International Stock 7,97,63,956 1.04
American 11 Wall St, New York, Shareowner Services Index Fund
Depository NY 10005, USA. P.O. Box 64504,
Total 3,01,61,90,049 39.43
Receipt (“ADR”) St. Paul, MN 55164-
0504.
* JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA is a depository for the ADRs of the Bank.
** 3 (Three) equity shares represent 1 (One) ADR.
584
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS OF THE BANK AS ON MARCH 31, 2025
Sr. Name of the Shareholder No. of shares % to Capital
No.
1. JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA* 1,02,81,02,943** 13.44
2. SBI NIFTY 50 ETF 48,59,35,660 6.35
3. Life Insurance Corporation of India 36,07,73,905 4.72
4. ICICI Prudential Value Discovery Fund 21,49,66,966 2.81
5. Government of Singapore 19,26,77,328 2.52
6. HDFC Trustee Company Ltd. A/C HDFC Balanced Advantage Fund 17,59,18,810 2.30
7. UTI-Nifty Exchange Traded Fund 13,75,31,862 1.80
8. Nippon Life India Trustee Ltd-A/C Nippon India ETF NIFTY 50 BEES 12,97,11,189 1.70
9. NPS Trust- A/c HDFC Pension Management Company Ltd Scheme E - Tier I 11,57,48,627 1.51
10. Government Pension Fund Global 9,50,58,803 1.24
Total 2,93,64,26,093 38.39
* JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA is a depository for the ADRs of the Bank.
** 3 (Three) equity shares represent 1 (One) ADR.
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS ON MARCH 31, 2025
Shares Range % to Total No. of
No. of Shares % to Capital No. of Holders
Holders
From To
1 100 6,12,47,295 0.80 32,36,301 84.52
101 1,000 15,28,28,038 2.00 4,86,053 12.69
1,001 5,000 17,07,98,818 2.23 78,153 2.04
5,001 10,000 10,02,65,159 1.31 14,891 0.39
10,001 20,000 8,26,68,213 1.08 6,065 0.16
20,001 30,000 4,38,96,896 0.57 1,795 0.05
30,001 40,000 3,08,53,552 0.40 892 0.02
40,001 50,000 2,49,73,753 0.33 557 0.02
50,001 1,00,000 9,18,25,202 1.20 1,300 0.03
1,00,001 9,99,99,99,999 6,89,28,64,748 90.08 3,139 0.08
TOTAL 7,65,22,21,674 100.00 38,29,146 100.00
38,14,592 shareholders hold 7,64,55,47,584 equity shares in dematerialized form representing 99.92% of the share capital of the
Bank. Balance 66,74,090 equity shares representing 0.08 % of the share capital are held in physical form by 14,554 shareholders.
The shares of the Bank are widely traded on the Stock Exchanges in India.
585
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
CATEGORIES OF SHAREHOLDERS AS ON MARCH 31, 2025
Category of Shareholders No. of Shares % to Capital
Promoters 0 0
ADR 1,02,81,02,943* 13.44
Foreign Institutional Investors/ Foreign Portfolio Investors/ Foreign Bank 3,19,91,52,912 41.81
Overseas Corporate Bodies, Foreign Bodies, Foreign National, NRI repatriable 3,67,21,675 0.48
Financial Institutions / Banks /Mutual Funds / Central Government / Qualified 1,79,90,84,521 23.51
Institutional Buyer
Insurance Companies 52,94,89,898 6.92
Indian Companies 12,78,48,495 1.67
Resident Individuals 82,09,23,140 10.73
Others 11,08,98,090 1.44
TOTAL 7,65,22,21,674 100.00
* 3 (Three) equity shares represent 1 (One) ADR.
Shares held as a percentage of total Share Capital
1.44%
10.73% 13.44%
1.67% ADR
Foreign Institutional Investors/ Foreign Portfolio Investors/
6.92%
Foreign Bank
Overseas Corporate Bodies, Foreign Bodies, Foreign
National, NRI repatriable
Financial Institutions / Banks /Mutual Funds / Central
Government / Qualified Institutional Buyer
Insurance Companies
23.51% Indian Companies
41.81% Resident Individuals
Others
0.48%
586
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SHARES LYING IN UNCLAIMED SUSPENSE In case of shareholders or claimants who fail to submit the
ACCOUNT dematerialization request to their respective Depository
Participant within 120 days from the date of issuance of the
Shares issued in physical form pursuant to a stock split
Letter of Confirmation by the RTA, the corresponding shares
remaining unclaimed, are transferred to the “Unclaimed
are required to be transferred to the “Suspense Escrow Demat
Suspense Account” as per circular no. CIR/CFD/DIL/10/2010
Account”.
dated December 16, 2010 issued by Securities and Exchange
Board of India (“SEBI”). The details of the shares transferred to The details of such shares transferred to the suspense escrow
the unclaimed suspense account are given hereunder: demat account are given hereunder:
Particulars Records / No. Equity Shares
of shareholders (Face value of Particulars Records / No. Equity Shares
` 1 each) of shareholders (Face value of
` 1 each)
Opening Balance as on April 2,190 8,80,944
Opening Balance as on April 9 4,330
1, 2024
1, 2024
Less: Claims received and 83 50,000
Added during the period 23 9,830
shares transferred
Claims received and released 9 4,500
Closing Balance as on March 2,107 8,30,944
during the period
31, 2025 *
Closing Balance as on March 23 9,660
* Voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owners
31, 2025*
of such shares claim these shares.
* Voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owners
SHARES LYING IN SUSPENSE ESCROW DEMAT
of such shares claim these shares.
ACCOUNT
DIVIDEND
• PURSUANT TO THE AMALGAMATION
Receipt of Dividends through Electronic mode
Pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation of Housing
Development Finance Corporation Limited (“HDFC Limited”)
The SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
with and into the Bank and in accordance with applicable laws
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) mandates
mandating issuance of shares solely in dematerialized form,
listed companies to make all payments to investors including
all equity shares held in physical form by the shareholders of
dividend to shareholders, by using any RBI approved electronic
HDFC Limited, were transferred by the Bank to the “Suspense
mode of payment viz., National Automated Clearing House
Escrow Demat Account”. The details of the shares transferred
(NACH), Direct Credit, Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS),
to the suspense escrow demat account are given hereunder:
National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT), etc.
Particulars Records / No. Equity Shares
In order to receive the dividend electronically, all the eligible
of shareholders (Face value of
` 1 each) shareholders holding shares in dematerialized/physical mode
Opening Balance as on April 2,572 56,88,658 are requested to update with their respective Depository
1, 2024 Participants/RTA (as the case may be), their correct core
Less: Claims received and 365 9,00,396 banking account number, including 9-digit MICR Code and
shares transferred 11-digit IFSC Code, e-mail ID and Mobile No(s). This will facilitate
Closing Balance as on March 2,207 47,88,262 the remittance of the dividend amount, as directed by SEBI,
31, 2025 * directly in the bank account electronically. Updation of e-mail
* Voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owners IDs and Mobile No(s) will also enable sending communication
of such shares claim these shares. relating to credit of dividend, unclaimed dividend etc.
• PURSUANT TO SEBI CIRCULAR DATED JANUARY
In case dividend paid by electronic mode to the shareholders
25, 2022
holding shares in dematerialized form is returned or rejected
In accordance with the SEBI Circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/ by the corresponding bank due to any reason, the Bank will
MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022, the issue a dividend warrant and print the bank account details
Registrar and Transfer Agent (“RTA”) on receipt of service available in its records on the said dividend warrant to avoid
requests shall verify and process the same and thereafter fraudulent encashment of the warrants. The dividend warrant
issue a Letter of confirmation in lieu of physical shares will be dispatched by the RTA to the registered address of
certificate(s), to the shareholder/claimant within 30 days of its the shareholder.
receipt of such request.
587
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
TRANSFER OF UNCLAIMED DIVIDEND AND 2020-21 July 20, 2021 August 20, 2028
EQUITY SHARES TO INVESTOR EDUCATION AND
2021-22 June 30, 2022 July 29, 2029
PROTECTION FUND AUTHORITY
2022-23 - Interim May 4, 2023 June 3, 2030
(i) Unclaimed Dividend
In accordance with the aforesaid provisions of the Act and
Pursuant to the applicable provision of Sections 124(5) of relevant rules made thereunder, the following unclaimed
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), any money transferred to dividends of the Bank and HDFC Limited have been transferred
the Unpaid Dividend Account of a company in pursuance to IEPF during the financial year 2024-25:
of this section and remaining unpaid or unclaimed for a
consecutive period of 7 (Seven) years from the date of such
Particulars Dividend Amount (`) Date of transfer
transfer shall be transferred by the company along with
Unclaimed Interim 69,17,805 April 24, 2024
interest accrued, if any, thereon to the Investor Education and
Dividend for FY
Protection Fund (“IEPF”) established by Central Government 2016-17 of HDFC
under section 125(1) of the Act. Limited
Unclaimed Final 3,31,60,965 October 3, 2024
Accordingly, the Bank is required to transfer to the IEPF, all Dividend for FY
dividends remaining unclaimed for a consecutive period of 2016-17 of of HDFC
Limited
7 (Seven) years from the date they become due for payment.
Unclaimed Final 4,87,70,040 August 27, 2024
Dividends of the Bank and HDFC Limited for and up to the Dividend for FY
2016-17 of the Bank
financial year ended March 31, 2017 have already been
transferred to the IEPF and the dividends of the Bank and
(ii) Unclaimed Equity Shares
HDFC Limited for the financial year ended March 31, 2018
will be transferred to the IEPF during the current financial
Pursuant to the applicable provisions of Section 124(6) of
year. The details of unclaimed dividends for the financial year
the Act, all equity shares in respect of which dividend has /
ended 2018 onwards and the last date for claiming such
have remained unpaid or unclaimed for a consecutive period
dividends are given hereinafter.
of 7 (Seven) years, the corresponding equity shares shall be
Details of dividends of the Bank to be transferred to transferred to IEPF as notified by the Ministry of Corporate
IEPF: Affairs (“MCA”), Government of India. In accordance with the
aforesaid provisions of the Act and rules made thereunder,
Dividend for the year Date of Declaration Last date for the Bank has, during the financial year 2024-25, transferred
ended of dividend claiming dividend
the following equity shares in respect of which dividend has
March 31, 2018 July 29, 2018 July 28, 2025
/ have remained unclaimed for a consecutive period of 7
March 31, 2019 July 12, 2019 July 11, 2026 (Seven) years to IEPF.
Special Interim July 20, 2019 July 19, 2026
Dividend 2019-20 Particulars Number of Equity Date of transfer
shares
March 31, 2021 July 17, 2021 July 16, 2028
Equity shares corresponding 67,265 April 30, 2024
March 31, 2022 July 16, 2022 July 15, 2029 to unclaimed interim dividend
March 31, 2023 August 11, 2023 August 10, 2030 of HDFC Limited for FY
2016-17
March 31, 2024 August 9, 2024 August 8, 2031
Equity shares corresponding 59,724 October 10, 2024
Details of dividends of HDFC Limited to be transferred to unclaimed final dividend of
HDFC Limited for FY 2016-
to IEPF:
17
Dividend for the year Date of Declaration Last date for Equity shares corresponding 1,74,623 October 10, 2024
ended of dividend claiming dividend to unclaimed final dividend of
the Bank for FY 2016-17
2017-18 - Final July 30, 2018 August 28, 2025
2018-19 - Interim March 6, 2019 April 6, 2026
2018-19 - Final August 2, 2019 August 31, 2026
2019-20 July 30, 2020 August 28, 2027
588
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Status of shares transferred in favour of IEPF Authority are DEDUCTION OF TAX AT SOURCE ON DIVIDEND
given below:
In terms of the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961
(“the IT Act”), dividend paid or distributed by a company on or
Particulars Number of
Equity shares after April 1, 2020 is taxable in the hands of the shareholders.
with IEPF The company shall therefore be required to deduct tax at
Authority
source at the time of payment of dividend. The deduction of
Opening Balance as on April 01, 2024 1,02,83,395
tax at source will be based on the category of shareholders and
Less: Claims Settled during the FY 2024-25 1,63,284
subject to fulfilment of conditions as provided herein below:
Add: Shares transferred to IEPF during the 3,01,612
FY 2024-25
(i) For resident shareholders
Closing Balance as on March 31, 2025 1,04,21,723
Tax will be deducted at source (“TDS”) under Section 194 of
In terms of Section 124(6) of the Act and Rule 7 of the IEPF the IT Act @ 10% on the amount of dividend payable unless
Rules, the shareholders whose dividend and corresponding exempt under any of the provisions of the IT Act. However,
equity shares stand transferred to IEPF can claim those in case of resident shareholders, TDS would not apply if the
dividend and shares from IEPF by making an online application aggregate of total dividend distributed/paid to them by the
in Form IEPF-5 which is available at https://www.iepf.gov.in. Bank during a financial year does not exceed ` 10,000/-.
Guidelines to file your claim Tax will not be deducted at source in cases where a
Shareholder provides Form 15G (applicable to all individuals)
• For claiming the shares and dividend from the IEPF / Form 15H (applicable to an individual above the age of 60
Authority, shareholders can make an online web-based years), provided that the eligibility conditions are satisfied.
application through the MCA portal. Shareholders need NIL / lower tax shall be deducted on the dividend payable
to register themselves on the MCA portal by creating to following resident shareholders on submission of self-
Login ID credentials. After successful login into the MCA declaration as listed below:
portal, shareholders have to click on “MCA Services” tab
i. Insurance companies: Declaration that the provisions
and choose “IEPF-5” option under “Investor Services”
of Section 194 of the IT Act are not applicable to them
and follow the due process for filing the form.
along with self-attested copy of registration certificate
and Permanent Account Number (“PAN”) card;
• Printout of the duly filled Form IEPF-5 with the claimant’s
and joint holders’ (if any) signatures along with the ii. Mutual Funds: Declaration by Mutual Fund eligible for
acknowledgment issued after uploading the form exemption under section 10(23D) of the IT Act along
together with an indemnity bond in original, cancelled with self-attested copy of registration documents and
cheque leaf of active bank account (details of which are PAN card;
mentioned by the claimant at the time of uploading the
iii. Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) established in
web-based form), and other documents as mentioned
India: Declaration that the Shareholder is eligible for
in Form IEPF-5 will have to be submitted to the Nodal
exemption under section 10(23FBA) of the IT Act and they
Officer (IEPF) of the Bank in an envelope marked “Claim
are established as Category I or Category II AIF under the
for refund from IEPF Authority”. Certain information about
SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012,
the Bank which will have to be submitted are as under:
along with copy of self-attested registration documents
and PAN card;
a) Corporate Identification Number (CIN) of the
Bank: L65920MH1994PLC080618 iv. New Pension System Trust: Declaration along with self-
b) A ddress of registered office of the Bank: HDFC attested copy of documentary evidence supporting the
Bank House, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel exemption and self-attested copy of PAN card;
(West), Mumbai- 400013
v. O ther shareholders: Declaration along with self-attested
c) Email ID of the Bank: shareholder.grievances@ copy of documentary evidence supporting the exemption
hdfcbank.com and self-attested copy of PAN card;
589
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
vi. S hareholders who have provided a valid certificate the Bank. In the absence of the same, the Bank will not be
issued under section 197 of the IT Act for lower / nil rate obligated to apply the beneficial DTAA rate at the time of
of deduction or an exemption certificate issued by the tax deduction on dividends. Form 10F in digital format is
income tax authorities along with Declaration. mandatory for non-resident shareholders having PAN in India
or who are required to obtain PAN in India. Form 10F in any
The Bank is obligated to deduct TDS based on the records other format will not be considered for treaty benefit.
available with RTA and no request will be entertained for
Higher rate of TDS
revision of TDS return.
• In case of individual shareholders who do not have PAN /
(ii) For non-resident shareholders (including Foreign
Invalid PAN/ PAN not linked with Aadhar / not registered
Portfolio Investors)
their valid PAN details in their account, TDS at the rate
of 20% shall be deducted under Section 206AA of the
Tax is required to be withheld in accordance with the provisions
IT Act.
of Section 195 and Section 196D of the IT Act at applicable
rates in force. As per the relevant provisions of the IT Act,
To summarise, dividend will be paid after deducting the tax
the tax shall be withheld @ 20% (plus applicable surcharge
at source as under:
and cess) on the amount of dividend payable. However, as
per Section 90 of the IT Act, a non-resident Shareholder has
i. N IL for resident shareholders receiving dividend
the option to be governed by the provisions of the Double
upto ` 10,000/- or in case Form 15G / Form 15H (as
Taxation Avoidance Agreement (“DTAA”) between India and
applicable) along with self-attested copy of the PAN card
the country of tax residence of the Shareholder, if they are
is submitted.
more beneficial to the Shareholder. For this purpose, i.e. to
avail the DTAA benefits, the non-resident Shareholder will have ii. 10% for other resident shareholders in case copy of PAN
to provide the following: card is provided / available.
iii. 2 0% for resident shareholders who do not have PAN/
i. S elf-attested copy of PAN card, if any, allotted by the
Invalid PAN/PAN not linked with Aadhar/not registered
Indian Income Tax Authorities;
their valid PAN details in their account.
ii. Self-attested copy of Tax Residency Certificate (“TRC”)
iv. Tax will be assessed on the basis of documents submitted
obtained from the tax authorities of the country of which
by the non-resident shareholders.
the Shareholder is resident;
v. 20% plus applicable surcharge and cess for non-
iii. Electronically generated Form 10F from income tax portal;
resident shareholders in case the relevant documents
iv. Self-declaration by the non-resident Shareholder of are not submitted.
meeting DTAA eligibility requirement and satisfying
vi. Lower/ NIL TDS on submission of self-attested copy of
beneficial ownership requirement;
the valid certificate issued under section 197 of the IT Act.
v. In case of Foreign Portfolio Investors, self-attested copy
In terms of Rule 37BA of Income Tax Rules 1962, if dividend
of SEBI registration certificate;
income on which tax has been deducted at source is
vi. In case of Shareholder being tax resident of Singapore, assessable in the hands of a person other than the deductee,
along with the above (as may be applicable), please furnish then such deductee should file declaration with the Bank in
the letter issued by the competent authority or any other the manner prescribed in the Rules.
evidences demonstrating the non-applicability of Article
24 - Limitation of Relief under India-Singapore DTAA. In case tax on dividend is deducted at a higher rate in the
absence of receipt or defect in any of the aforementioned
Application of beneficial DTAA rate shall depend upon the
details / documents, you will be able to claim refund of the
completeness and satisfactory review by the Bank, of the
excess tax deducted by filing your income tax return. No claim
documents submitted by non-resident shareholders and
shall lie against the Bank for such taxes deducted.
meeting requirement of the Act read with applicable DTAA. It
must be ensured that self-declaration should be addressed
to the Bank in the format communicated via emails sent by
590
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Disclaimer: The information set out herein above is included The aforesaid forms can be downloaded from the
for general information purposes only and does not constitute website of the Bank at https://www.hdfcbank.
legal or tax advice. Since the tax consequences are dependent com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
on facts and circumstances of each case, the investors are shareholders-information-and-helpdesk and
advised to consult their own tax consultant with respect to website of RTA at https://www.datamaticsbpm.com/registrar-
specific tax implications arising out of receipt of dividend. and-transfer-agent/information-to-shareholders/.
UPDATION OF PAN, EMAIL ADDRESS, BANK SHARE TRANSFER PROCESS AND SYSTEM
ACCOUNT DETAILS AND CHOICE OF NOMINATION
BY SHAREHOLDERS HOLDING SHARES IN The Bank’s shares which are in dematerialized form are
ELECTRONIC FORM transferable through the depository system. Requests for
transmission / transposition or for deletion of name in case of
Shareholders holding shares in dematerialized mode are physical share certificates are processed by the RTA and are
requested to update their records such as tax residential approved by the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of the
status, PAN, email address, mobile number(s), Bank account Bank or authorized officials of the Bank. The service requests
details and choice of nomination with their relevant depositories of such nature are generally processed within a period of
through their depository participant. 15 (fifteen) days from the date of receipt of the relevant and
complete documents by the RTA.
UPDATION OF PAN, KYC DETAILS & CHOICE OF
NOMINATION BY SHAREHOLDERS HOLDING Please note that as per the SEBI Listing Regulations, any
SHARES IN PHYSICAL FORM requests for transfer of securities in physical form shall not
be processed.
As per circulars issued by SEBI from time to time, it is
mandatory for holders of physical securities to furnish PAN, SHAREHOLDER FEEDBACK
KYC details (viz. contact details, mobile number, bank account
details, signature) and Nomination/Opt-out of Nomination, In furtherance to the Bank’s endeavour to continue engaging
before getting any Investor Service Request processed. with its shareholders and to understand their perspective of
the Bank, an online shareholder feedback form seeking their
Further, sharesholders holding shares in physical form, whose views on various matters relating to investor services has
folio(s) do not have PAN or KYC details updated, shall be been provided on the website of the Bank. The summary of
eligible for dividend in respect of such folios, through electronic feedback provided by the shareholders is placed before the
mode with effect from April 1, 2024, only upon furnishing the Stakeholders Relationship Committee of Directors of the Bank.
said details in entirety.
The web link to access the online shareholder feedback
Members who are yet to update the said details in their form is: https://hdfcbank.syd1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_
physical folios are, therefore, requested to furnish their PAN, b9MyqIaGEzjpCMS.
KYC details and Choice of Nomination, by sending a physical
copy of the prescribed forms duly filled and signed by the COMMODITY PRICE RISKS AND FOREIGN
registered holders to the RTA at the below mentioned address: EXCHANGE RISKS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
Datamatics Business Solutions Limited
Being in the business of banking, as per the extant regulations,
Plot No. A 16 & 17, Part B Cross Lane,
the Bank does not deal in any commodity, though, it can
MIDC, Andheri (East), Mumbai- 400093.
be exposed to the commodity price risks in its capacity as
lender / banker to its customers. Currently, the Bank has open
On receipt of the said documents and its verification, the RTA
exposure in Precious Metals i.e., Gold / Silver and such open
would update the requested details in its records and dividend
exposures in Gold / Silver are primarily on account of positions
for the year ended March 31, 2025 will be directly credited to
created from short term deposits under the Gold Monetization
the bank account of the shareholder within 15 days from the
Scheme (GMS) raised from Customers and trading positions
date of receipt of the documents.
in Gold / Silver. These positions are managed similar to other
foreign exchange exposures using spot, outright forwards and
591
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
swap transactions in Gold/Silver and monitored as part of The USD/ INR rate for valuation of contracts having longer
the trading portfolio within the stipulated trading risk limits maturities i.e. greater than 1 (One) year is implied from the
viz. Net overnight open position limit, Intraday open position applicable INR and USD swap curves. For other pairs, where
limit, Value-at-Risk limit, Stop Loss Trigger Level etc. that are the rates / tenors are not published by FEDAI, the spot and
defined in the Treasury Limits Package. forward points are obtained from Refinitiv or Bloomberg for
valuation of the foreign exchange deals. The foreign exchange
In addition, Bank is authorized by RBI to import gold and silver profit or loss is arrived on present value basis thereafter, as
and the exposure arising out of import of gold and silver on directed by FEDAI, whereby the forward profits or losses on
consignment basis is covered on back to back basis. The the deals, as computed above, are discounted till the valuation
spot, forward and swap contracts, outstanding as on the date using the applicable discounting yields. The resulting
Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are revalued at the profit or loss on valuation is recognized in the Statement of
closing spot and forward rates respectively as notified by Profit and Loss.
FEDAI (Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India) and
at interpolated rates for contracts of interim maturities.
Exposure of the Bank to commodity and commodity risks faced by the Bank throughout the year:
a) Total exposure of the Bank to commodities in INR - NIL
b) Exposure of the Bank to various commodities:
Commodity Name Exposure in INR Exposure in Quantity % of such exposure hedged through commodity derivatives
towards the particular terms towards the
Domestic Market International Market Total
commodity particular commodity
OTC Exchange OTC Exchange
Gold NIL NIL - - - - -
Silver NIL NIL - - - - -
c) Commodity risks faced by the listed entity during the year and how they have been managed - NA
Note: As part of trading position in Gold and Silver, the Treasury Bullion Desk has open position of 89.20 ounce and 0.01 ounce
respectively, which is equivalent to ` 23,417,425.50 as on March 28, 2025, and was within the NOOP limit prescribed for XAU
& XAG.
CREDIT RATINGS 2. Vistra ITCL (India) Limited, Office No. 505 A2/ 5th
Floor, B wing, The Capital building, BKC, Bandra E,
The details of all credit ratings obtained by the Bank for all debt Mumbai- 400051. Tel: 022 6930 0000
instruments are furnished in the Directors’ Report.
3. SBICAP Trustee Company Limited, 04th Floor, Mistry
PLANT LOCATIONS Bhavan, 122 Dinshaw Vachha Road, Churchgate,
Mumbai- 400020. Tel: 022 4302 5555
Being in the banking business, the Bank does not have plants.
However, the Bank had 9,455 branches and 21,139 ATMs 4. IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited, Universal Insurance
across 4,150 cities / towns as on March 31, 2025. The locations Building, Ground Floor, Sir Phirozshah Mehta Road, Fort,
of the branches are also displayed on the Bank’s website. Mumbai- 400001. Tel: 22 4080 7000
DEBENTURE TRUSTEES SHAREHOLDERS’ HELPDESK
The following are the debenture trustees for the privately Dividend payments and all other investor related activities are
placed NCDs of the Bank: attended to and processed at the office of the RTA.
1. Axis Trustee Services Limited, The Ruby, 2nd For grievances/complaints/queries/requests, shareholders /
investors may contact at the following address:
Floor, SW, 29, Senapati Bapat Marg, Dadar West,
Mumbai- 400028. Tel: 022 6230 0451
592
HDFC Bank Limited
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Mr. Sunny Abraham / Ms. Manisha Parkar / For IEPF Related matters:
Ms. Darshana Champanekar Mr. Ajay Agarwal (Nodal Officer)
Ms. Rupa Joshi and Ms. Vaishali Vyas (Deputy Nodal Officers)
Datamatics Business Solutions Limited – Registrar and
Tel: +91 (22) 66316000
Transfer Agent
E-mail: shareholder.grievances@hdfcbank.com
Plot No. A 16 & 17, Part B Cross Lane, MIDC, Andheri (East),
Mumbai- 400093
Queries relating to the Bank’s financial performance may be
Tel: +91-022 - 66712213-14, 91 22 66712001-6
addressed to: investor.relations@hdfcbank.com
E-mail: hdinvestors@datamaticsbpm.com
Timings: 10:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (Monday to Friday except Name of the Compliance Officer of the Bank:
public holidays) Mr. Ajay Agarwal
Company Secretary
Shareholders’ Helpdesk Timings: 10:00 a.m. to 3:30 Group Head- Secretarial & Group Oversight
p.m. Between Monday to Friday (except on Bank holidays) Tel: +91 (22) 66316000
Tel: +91 -022- 66316000
Email: shareholder.grievances@hdfcbank.com
SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION ON THE BANK’S WEBSITE
Relevant information regarding shareholders’ services, investor grievance redressal process and other matters concerning
shareholders have been provided in detail under the Shareholders’ Information and Helpdesk on the Bank’s website.
Further, details on the following matters are hosted on Bank’s website and can be accessed using the links mentioned:
Particulars Weblink
Investors' Grievances Contact and https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
Escalation Matrix shareholders-information-and-helpdesk/investors-grievances-contacts--
escalation-matrix
Shareholder Correspondence https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
shareholders-information-and-helpdesk/shareholders-helpdesk
Shareholder’s Rights https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
shareholders-information-and-helpdesk/shareholders-rights
Shareholder’s FAQ’s https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-
42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/?path=/Footer/About%20Us/Other%20
stakeholders%27%20Information/2025/july/Shareholders-FAQ.pdf
General guidelines on Dematerialization https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-
42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/?path=/Footer/About%20Us/Corporate%20
Governance/Shareholders%27%20Information%20and%20Help/pdf/Mandatory-
dematerialization-of-securities.pdf
Codes and Policies https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/codes-
and-policies
593
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
BANKING CUSTOMER HELPDESK Contact us online:
In the event of any queries / complaints, banking customers Fill up the “Complaint Form” available at the following website
can directly approach the Branch Manager or can call / write link: https://leads.hdfcbank.com/applications/webforms/
to the Bank using the following contact details: apply/HDFC_CustomerCenter/.
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/need-help/contact-us
Contact us at: Our customer care (Phone Banking) numbers
1800 1600 / 1800 2600 (accessible across India) Customer
For grievances other than shareholder grievances please send
travelling overseas can reach us on 022-61606160 and/or the
your communication to the following email addresses:
followings websitelink: https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/
need-help/contact-us. 1. Depository Services: dphelp@hdfcbank.com
Write to: 2. Retail Banking / ATM / Debit Cards / Mutual Fund:
support@hdfcbank.com
For Credit Cards:
3. L oans, Advances / Advance against shares:
loansupport@hdfcbank.com
For Regular Post: HDFC Bank Cards Division, P.O. Box.
8654, Ambattur Industrial Estate, P.O., Chennai - 600058.
4. Credit Cards: customerservices.cards@hdfcbank.com
or visit us at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/need-
For Courier: HDFC Bank Cards Division, Door No 94 SP,
help/contact-us for more information.
Estate Bus Stand, Wavin Main Road, Mogappair West,
Chennai 600058. 5. Home Loan: For customer queries, write to customer-
service@hdfcbank.net.
For Products (other than Credit Cards): HDFC Bank Limited,
Empire Plaza I, 1st Floor, LBS Marg, Chandan Nagar, Vikhroli For more information and for grievances, visit us at https://
West, Mumbai- 400083, Email: support@hdfcbank.com. www.hdfc.com/grievance-redressal.
594
HDFC Bank Limited
www.hdfcbank.com


Powering Progress 
Together
Banking today is more than managing 
money — it’s about fulﬁlling aspirations, 
and shaping futures. At HDFC Bank, we 
see ourselves not just as custodians 
of capital but as partners in progress 
for individuals, businesses, and 
communities alike. We aim to simplify 
complexities, unlock opportunities 
and help dreams take ﬂight. Our 
ability to evolve with changing times—
powered by innovation, a strong 
performance culture and a deep sense 
of responsibility—has made us a trusted 
ally in the everyday lives of millions 
across India.
We believe in creating long-term, 
holistic value for all stakeholders. 
Whether it’s helping individuals 
realise their ﬁnancial aspirations, 
enabling entrepreneurs to expand their 
businesses, supporting underprivileged 
communities through impactful 
initiatives or contributing meaningfully 
to India’s socio-economic growth—
our role goes far beyond traditional 
banking. We are deeply committed to 
being a partner in progress both for our 
customers and for the nation.

Opportunity Meets Execution
One of our key strengths lies in identifying high-potential 
opportunities and capitalising on them through execution. 
With a robust and well-integrated physical and digital 
infrastructure we are able to extend top-tier banking 
services across the length and breadth of the country—from 
urban hubs to remote rural locations. This reach, combined 
with our in-depth understanding of the market, has enabled 
us to scale sustainably. Our performance reﬂects this 
strength—consistent growth in our balance sheet and 
proﬁtability, underpinned by prudent risk management and 
a best-in-class asset quality.
The Power of the Group
The successful merger of HDFC Limited with and into 
HDFC Bank, has been a transformative milestone creating 
a stronger ﬁnancial services entity. Through this integration, 
we have acquired a trusted and widely recognised home 
loan product, along with other subsidiaries such as HDFC 
Life Insurance Company Ltd, HDFC ERGO General 
Insurance Company Ltd and HDFC Asset Management 
Company. This enables us to serve customers more 
comprehensively across their ﬁnancial lifecycle. The Bank 
now has enhanced cross-selling opportunities, giving it 
the ability to offer end-to-end ﬁnancial solutions under one 
roof. This enables us to redeﬁne customer convenience and 
strengthen our market position.
Banking for Indians
Our extensive portfolio encompasses a wide range of 
offerings—from personal loans, credit cards and mortgages 
for individuals to working capital, trade ﬁnance, and 
cash management solutions for MSMEs and emerging 
corporates. Whether in metros, semi-urban towns or rural 
heartlands, we serve customers at every stage of their 
ﬁnancial journey.
Digital First, Customer Always
In an era of digital disruption, our focus is on making 
banking seamless, intuitive and personal. We leverage data 
analytics, AI and automation to offer personalised services, 
improve response times and ensure 24x7 connectivity. This 
relentless focus on digital innovation enhances operational 
efﬁciency while deepening customer engagement 
and loyalty.
Driving Social Impact through Parivartan
Our commitment to inclusive development is embodied 
in our CSR initiative—Parivartan, which means 
‘Transformation’. Through Parivartan, we are creating 
lasting impact in six important areas: Rural Development, 
Promotion of Education, Skill Development & Livelihood 
Enhancement, Healthcare & Hygiene, Financial Literacy 
& Inclusion and Natural Resource Management. These 
initiatives aim to empower communities, foster self-reliance 
and contribute to equitable societal progress.
Growing with our People
We recognise that our people are our greatest strength. 
At HDFC Bank, we foster a culture of inclusivity, respect and 
meritocracy. We are focused on creating an environment 
where every employee is encouraged to grow, thrive and 
contribute meaningfully. From leadership development to 
bridging the gender gap, we are committed to building a 
workplace that champions diversity, nurtures talent and 
inspires excellence.
Sustainability: A Core Commitment
Sustainability is a core value of the Bank. Integrating ESG 
factors into our credit appraisal and due diligence processes 
is a priority. Our goal is clear: To become carbon-neutral 
in our operations by FY32. Through enhanced disclosures, 
transparent reporting and proactive initiatives, we continue 
to strengthen our sustainability framework year after year.
Governance Anchored in Trust
Even as we pursue ambitious growth, we remain ﬁrmly 
anchored in our principles of integrity and accountability. 
Our governance practices are aligned with the highest 
standards, ensuring compliance, risk mitigation and robust 
internal controls. This strong governance framework 
underpins our efforts to generate sustainable value for all 
our stakeholders.
Partnering India’s Journey Forward
As India positions itself as major global player, the role of 
Banking has perhaps never been more critical. HDFC Bank 
is playing its part through ﬁnancial innovation, strategic 
partnerships, fostering digital inclusion, and creating 
sustainable social impact. We are proud of the opportunity 
of contributing to India’s progress.

Overview
About the Report ............................ 04
Highlights ........................................ 06
Who Governs Us
Chairman's Message ...................... 08
Message from the MD & CEO ..........12
Board of Directors ........................... 18
Senior Management Team  ............. 28
Introduction to HDFC Bank
Our Presence .................................. 34
Our Journey .................................... 36
Our Performance
Financial Performance ..................... 40
Business Segments ........................ 42
Home Loan Advantage ................... 44
Commercial and Rural Cluster ........ 46
Power of the Group ......................... 48
How We Create Value
Our Value Creation Model ............... 54
Stakeholder Engagement ................ 56
Materiality ........................................ 60
Our Strategy
Strategy in Action .............................74
External Environment ...................... 90
Risk Management ........................... 96
Business Continuity Management, 
Information & Cyber Security Practices 
and Data Privacy Measures ........... 106
Responsible Business
ESG Strategy encompassing 
Sustainable Finance ............................ 112
Environment ........................................118
Customer Centricity ............................136
Future Ready Digital Bank ...................142
Social - People ....................................150
Social - Community.............................168
Nation Building ....................................192
Connecting the Capitals ......................196
10 year Financial Highlights .................198
Awards & Accolades  ......................... 200
Assurance Statement ..........................201
GRI Index  .......................................... 204
Statutory Reports and  
Financial Statements
Directors Report & Annexures ............ 208 
Certiﬁcate on Corporate 
Governance ........................................277
Certiﬁcate on SEBI Listing ...................278 
Report on Corporate Governance ...... 280
Independent Auditor's Report for 
Standalone Financials .........................310
Standalone Balance Sheet ..................320
Standalone Proﬁt and Loss Account ..... 321
Standalone Cash Flow Statement .......322
Schedules to the 
Financial Statements ...........................324
Independent Auditor's Report for 
Consolidated Financials ......................428
Consolidated 
Balance Sheet .................................... 446
Consolidated 
Proﬁt and Loss Account ......................447
Consolidated 
Cash Flow Statement ......................... 448
Schedule to the 
Consolidated Statement ..................... 450
Statement Pursuant 
to Section 129 .....................................526
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report ...........................528
Shareholder Information ..................... 584
Wholesale  
Banking
Retail 
Banking
Treasury
What's Inside
O
n
li
n
e
 
v
e
r
s
i
o
n
 
o
f 
t
h
e
 
r
e
p
o
r
t
 
c
a
n
 
b
e
 
a
c
c
e
s
s
e
d
 
h
e
r
e

Note: The results for the year ended March 31, 2025 include the operations of HDFC Limited and its subsidiaries (which became subsidiaries 
of the Bank on amalgamation) effective from July 01, 2023 and hence are not comparable with results for the year ended March 31, 2024.
YoY
Our Performance
Balance Sheet Size (I Cr)
39,10,199
 8.1%
36,17,623
39,10,199 
Deposits (I Cr)
27,14,715
 14.1%
23,79,786
27,14,715
Dividend 
Per Share (I)
22.0^
19.5
22.0
Profit After Tax (I Cr)
67,347
 10.7%
60,812
67,347
Advances (I Cr)
26,19,609
 5.4%
24,84,862
26,19,609
Return on Assets  
(Average) (%)
1.91
1.98
1.91
Earnings Per Share (I)
88.3
 2.9%
85.8
88.3 
Return on Equity (%)
14.6
16.1
14.6
Cost to Income 
Ratio (%)
40.5
40.2
40.5
 FY25
 FY24
^Proposed
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
03
Overview

ABOUT THE REPORT
The Integrated Annual Report for 
FY 2024-25 reﬂects HDFC Bank’s 
(referred to as ‘We’, ‘Us’, or ‘the 
Bank’) commitment to create 
meaningful value for a diverse array 
of stakeholders including customers, 
shareholders, investors, regulators, 
employees, and society at large. 
Beyond ﬁnancial metrics, the report 
explores non-ﬁnancial performance, 
strategic priorities, and sustainability 
efforts of the Bank. It provides 
insights into HDFC Bank's wholistic 
value creation model, operational 
landscape, stakeholder concerns, 
strategic and ESG pillars, and 
corporate governance framework. 
These aspects are underpinned by a 
robust risk management framework 
integral to the Bank's operations. As 
we near 2 years since the merger, 
this report captures HDFC Bank’s 
journey of progress in integration and 
growth. It highlights how synergies 
have supported expansion supported 
by the Bank’s focus on a stable 
and cohesive culture. Through 
collaboration and innovation, HDFC 
Bank continues to drive sustainable 
progress endeavouring to make a 
lasting impact on all those it serves. 
Reporting Principles and 
Framework
The ﬁnancial information presented 
in this report is in line with the 
requirements of 
 −The Companies Act, 2013 (including 
the rules made thereunder)
 −The Companies (Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2021
 −The Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015
 −The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
and other relevant RBI regulations 
The report has been prepared in 
alignment with the <IR> framework 
prescribed by the IFRS Foundation 
and also contains disclosures with 
reference to Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Standards (2021), Task Force on 
Climate related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD), Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report (BRSR) 
and United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (UN SDGs). 
There are no restatements of 
information provided in the integrated 
report during the reporting year.
Materiality and Scope
This report includes information which 
is material to all stakeholders of the 
Bank and provides an overview of 
its business and related activities. 
The report discloses matters that 
substantially impact or affect the 
Bank’s ability to create value and 
could inﬂuence decisions of providers 
of ﬁnancial capital. In FY23, the 
material matters thus identiﬁed 
were reviewed and refreshed to 
integrate the concept of double 
materiality in accordance with GRI 
Standards 2021. For GRI topics and 
relevant disclosures, please refer 
to the GRI Content Index, provided 
in the report. During the year, we 
conducted an internal reassessment 
of the material topics identiﬁed in 
the previously and reafﬁrmed their 
continued relevance. This evaluation 
considered our operational context, 
including regulatory compliances, 
evolving industry trends, and our 
risk landscape.
Read more on Pg. 60
Reporting Boundary
The non-ﬁnancial information in 
this report covers the activities and 
progress of the Bank on a standalone 
basis. It covers information pertaining 
to the period from April 1, 2024, to 
March 31, 2025. The last report was 
published for the period April 1, 2023 - 
March 31, 2024. The Integrated Report 
for FY 2023-24 can be accessed here.
Assurance Statement
Reasonable assurance on BRSR 
Core KPIs and limited assurance on 
the select indicators in the BRSR & 
Integrated Annual Report respectively 
has been provided by SGS India 
Pvt. Ltd. as per the SEBI guidelines 
in accordance with the ISAE 3000 
(Revised), GHG Protocol and ISAE 
3410 Standards. The assurance 
reports attached in the report 
contains details of the subject matter, 
criteria, procedures performed, 
and reasonable assurance opinion 
and limited assurance conclusion, 
as applicable.
Responsibility Statement
The content of this report has been 
reviewed by the senior management 
of the Bank and is reviewed and 
approved by the Board of Directors 
to ensure accuracy, completeness 
and relevance of the information 
presented in line with the principles 
and requirements of the Integrated 
Reporting <IR> Framework.
Governance over Integrated 
Reporting Process
The FY2024-25 Integrated 
Annual Report reﬂects a rigorous 
organisation-wide process, overseen 
by the Group Executives and the 
Board, showcasing the organisation’s 
integrated thinking. The report 
outlines the Bank's value creation 
process, considering its operating 
environment, external factors, and 
its short, medium, and long-term 
objective. The report aligns with the 
Integrated Reporting Framework, its 
contents detailing the performance of 
this value creation process. Led by the 
Group CFO, the report is informed by 
extensive discussions across various 
functions and board meetings. After 
multiple drafts and reviews, the CFO 
and Senior Management ensure its 
accuracy before presenting it to the 
Board of Directors.
HDFC Bank Limited
04

Our Purpose
“We exist to help every Indian make better money choices,  
today and tomorrow”
Integrated thinking and delivering on our purpose
Our Integrated Reporting Process
How We Create Value
What Impacts Value Creation
Short-, medium-
and long-term 
Outlook
Integrated Reporting Framework <IR> 
and other reporting standards
Assurance Model
Senior Management Sign-off
Risks, Opportunities, Strategy and 
Performance of the Company
Board and Senior  
Management Review
Board Approval
Board  
Committees
Business  
Segments
Financial & Non-
Financial Targets
Leadership team & 
Senior Management
Key Business 
Activities
Devising our 10 
Strategic Pillars
Report Compilation
Validating integrity  
of the Report
Integrated  
Report Approval
Adopting 
Transparent, 
Accountable 
Governance
Our agile, 
informed 
and holistic 
Business model
Our Operating Context
Dynamic External Environment
Stakeholder Priorities
Our 14 key Material topics
Customer
Risks
Opportunity
Employee
Community
Investor
Government 
& Regulatory  
Bodies
Suppliers
The Value created, preserved or depleted through our business activities across the 
6 capitals as per the <IR> framework
We ensure 
consistent 
shareholder 
returns through 
robust ﬁnancial 
practices, utilising 
customer deposits, 
shareholder 
equity, retained 
earnings, and 
external borrowings.
Our pan India 
network of 
banking outlets, 
ofﬁces, ATMs, and 
touchpoints, along 
with strong IT 
infrastructure 
and security 
measures, engages 
stakeholders and 
supports growth 
through ﬁnancial 
inclusion initiatives.
Our people are 
our greatest asset. 
Through innovation, 
collaboration, 
and inclusivity, 
we empower 
their growth and 
well-being, driving 
exceptional service 
and success.
We leverage 
innovative technology 
for operational 
efﬁciency and 
competitive 
edge, built on 
deep expertise, 
agile systems, 
and the Group's 
esteemed reputation.
Building trust-
based stakeholder 
relationships is key 
to our success. 
We responsibly 
contribute to 
the economy, 
cultivating long-term 
relationships with 
customers, partners, 
merchants, and 
the community.
We rely on natural 
resources like 
energy and 
water to run our 
business and 
deliver services. 
We manage waste 
and minimise our 
environmental 
impact on climate 
and ecosystems.
N
F
SR
M
I
H
Financial 
Capital
Manufactured  
Capital
Human  
Capital
Intellectual  
Capital
Social & Relationship  
Capital
Natural 
Capital
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
05
Overview

HIGHLIGHTS
Delivering All-round 
Performance
Strong Financials
K26,19,609 crore
Advances
K27,14,715 crore 
Deposits
1.33% 
Gross NPA
19.6% 
Capital Adequacy Ratio
1.91% 
Return on Average 
Assets
Committed to a 
Sustainable Future
18.69% 
Financing towards green 
and social sectors
3.22% 
Share of RE in our 
electricity mix (Increase 
from 0.39% in FY24)
K1,068 crore 
CSR Spend on 
Parivartan projects
Enabling Last-Mile 
Access
9,455  
Branches 
(Including 5 overseas 
branches and 9 DBUs)
15,399 
Total Business 
Correspondents
21,139 
Total ATMs + Cash 
Recycler Machines 
Network
4,150 
Cities & Towns covered
2,35,000+
Villages where Bank  
is present
HDFC Bank Limited
06

Strengthening 
Human Capital
2,14,521  
Total Employees
26.1% 
Women in Workforce
1.25+ crore
Learning Hours
Embracing a 
Digital-ﬁrst Era
97%  
Of all financial 
transactions enabled 
through digital channels
3.7 crore+ 
customer 
Engagements (monthly) 
On HDFC Bank One 
Platform
99% 
Personal Loans 
Originated Digitally
*As per Kantar BrandZ 2025 Most Valuable Global Brands
A Brand Built on Trust 
and Transparency
$44.96 billion* 
Brand Valuation
70 
Bottoms Up NPS Score
85th Percentile
S&P Corporate 
Sustainability 
Assessment
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
07
Overview

Dear Stakeholders,
Greetings !
I am pleased to present to you the 
Integrated Annual Report of the Bank for 
the Financial Year 2024-25.
External Environment and 
Performance Resilience
Financial Year 2024–25 was 
characterised by global recalibration with 
rapidly shifting monetary policy stances, 
emerging economic vulnerabilities 
and persistent geopolitical tensions. 
Global GDP growth slowed to 3.3 
per cent, tempered by slowing major 
economies, disruptions and capital 
ﬂow realignments. The geopolitical 
tensions, wars in Ukraine and the 
Middle East persisted, and we also 
have a dispensation in the US that has 
a fairly tough stance on tariffs. These 
developments unsettled supply chains, 
ampliﬁed risk aversion, caused exchange 
rate volatilities and underscored the 
continuing inter-dependence of the 
global economies highlighting the 
uncertainties of the Global Economic 
Order. Global monetary policy in the 
advanced economies, after periods 
of tightening, has moved towards 
policy easing since mid-2024. Trade 
policies turned restrictive, and levels of 
public debt remain high in developed 
economies. The economic outlook for 
the year ahead is uncertain and muted, 
in view of the unfolding trade wars. This 
could further upend trade ﬂows and 
moderate global growth momentum 
in merchandise, commodities 
and services.
A Year of Resilience 
and Steady Progress
As a Group, we have 
a much broader 
responsibility to our 
stakeholders across 
the entities.
CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE
HDFC Bank Limited
08

The Indian economy, despite global 
headwinds, has demonstrated great 
resilience with stable and predictable 
policy actions in the ﬁscal and monetary 
domain that ensured we continue to 
sustain the growth momentum coming 
out of the shocks of the preceding years. 
The economy grew at 6.5 per cent in 
the ﬁscal year 2024-25 with inﬂation 
moderating to 4.6 per cent, performing 
under a shifting domestic policy stance 
that transitioned from a “Withdrawal of 
Accommodation” to “Accommodative” 
and back to “Neutral” recently. Our 
regulator has been proactive in its policy 
response, with inﬂation under reasonable 
control, despite pressures coming in 
from a sharp depreciation of the rupee. 
It has rationalised regulatory burden and 
removed restriction on ﬁnancial sectors 
through its policy actions. The national 
economic policy regime has stepped up 
to stabilise the economy, adhering to its 
stated objective of balancing the budget 
and keeping the ﬁscal deﬁcit within 
limits thereby creating space for private 
players in the credit ﬂow. There has been 
policy action towards lowering policy 
rates, enhancing liquidity in the system 
through reduction in CRR and attempt 
at ensuring a less volatile exchange rate. 
It is expected that the economic growth 
would continue to show momentum, 
despite the global vulnerabilities, 
particularly affecting global merchandise 
trade. We are well positioned to take 
advantage of the realignments in 
international trade ﬂows and supply 
chains that are now unfolding. Looking 
ahead, the Indian economy is poised 
to grow 6.5 per cent or even higher, 
supported by slight upward trend in 
domestic rural demand on the back 
of healthy agricultural production, 
moderation in inﬂation and tax cuts that 
can potentially support urban demand. 
A pick-up in government spending and 
easing of liquidity with potential lowering 
of policy rates are expected to give a 
ﬁllip to private capex which has so far 
remained muted. 
Merged Strengths
Two years back we concluded the 
merger of HDFC Limited into HDFC 
Bank, bringing HDFC Limited and 
diverse ﬁnancial services entities within 
the Bank’s fold thus transforming the 
Bank into one of the leading ﬁnancial 
institutions of India. The HDFC Bank 
Group is now a ﬁnancial conglomerate in 
the true sense of the term. It now has a 
sizeable presence in insurance (both life 
and general), mutual funds, brokerage 
and alternative investments. FY25 
marked the ﬁrst full year of operations 
of the combined Group and it now 
stands strengthened, much bigger in 
scale, broadened in capability and more 
uniﬁed in purpose. The operational 
aspects of the integration are now 
substantially complete. The expansion 
of home loans across our network, 
greater choice of Group products to the 
expanded customer base and a more 
cohesive branding have contributed to 
the growth of the Bank, which is at the 
apex of the Group. As a Group, we have 
a much broader responsibility to our 
stakeholders, across the entities.
Financial Performance 
The year under review was the ﬁrst full 
year after the merger which had resulted 
in a marked increase in the size of the 
Bank’s balance sheet and a change in 
its composition. The merger witnessed 
substantial improvement in the asset 
quality with durable high-quality assets 
coming on board. However, it was 
a merger of two entities that were 
differently regulated. On the liability 
side it brought in considerable amount 
of debt that had to be pared down. 
Through much of FY25, monetary 
policy stance was one of “Withdrawal 
The HDFC 
Bank Group is 
now a ﬁnancial 
conglomerate in 
the true sense of 
the term. It now 
has a sizeable 
presence in 
insurance (both 
life and general), 
mutual funds, 
brokerage and 
alternative 
investments.
FY25 marked the first 
full year of operations 
of the combined 
Group and it now 
stands strengthened, 
much bigger in scale, 
broadened in capability 
and more unified in 
purpose.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
09
Who Governs Us

CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE
of Accommodation”, which constrained 
system-wide credit growth during 
the year on account of restricted 
liquidity. Against this backdrop, the 
Bank recalibrated its strategy with the 
objective of increasing the proportion of 
deposits in the funding mix and reducing 
the loan to deposit ratio.
Proactive management of the balance 
sheet, in order to meet regulatory 
requirements, resulted in deposit 
growth of 14.1 per cent during the year 
while advances growth was tempered 
at 5.4 per cent. Proﬁt After Tax grew 
by 10.7 per cent to H67,347.4 crore in 
the last ﬁnancial year and Net Interest 
Margin stood at 3.48 per cent, reﬂecting 
resilience in core income. Gross Non-
Performing Assets stood at just 1.33 per 
cent, reﬂecting the Bank’s unwavering 
focus on maintaining its asset quality. 
I am pleased to report that the Board 
of Directors recommended a dividend 
of H22.0 per equity share of H1 for the 
year ended March 31, 2025, subject to 
shareholder approval at the forthcoming 
annual general meeting.
The Bank has a clear roadmap for 
growth anchored on values that 
have served the Group well for over 
four decades. The report covers in 
considerable detail the Bank’s ﬁnancial 
performance and its strategy for 
the future.
Governance 
As we navigate the post-merger 
environment, we remain aware of the 
enhanced regulatory expectations 
placed on us as a Domestic Systemically 
Important Bank (D-SIB) listed on the 
stock exchanges. In the past ﬁnancial 
year, we undertook a signiﬁcant 
transformation of our compliance 
function, reinforcing our commitment 
to governance, transparency and 
regulatory excellence. Internal systems 
have been recalibrated to ensure full 
adherence to statutory requirements 
and transparent reporting. We also 
continue to invest in technology-led 
solutions to ensure accuracy, timeliness 
and accountability across all aspects of 
regulatory requirements.
In order to address our enhanced 
stature as a ﬁnancial conglomerate 
we have strengthened our oversight 
on the Group companies, comprising 
the asset management company, 
insurance companies, investment 
advisory company, and the various other 
entities in the fold, while being mindful 
of not impeding the independence 
of the respective entities. We have a 
dedicated Group Oversight Department 
which monitors the implementation 
of the Group Oversight Framework 
and this function reports into one of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank. 
This function also briefs the Board of 
Directors on critical updates, if any, 
regarding the Group companies. The 
Board and its committees endeavour to 
ensure accountability and responsibility 
of the senior management in adhering to 
established principles of Governance. 
Customer Experience and 
Building Technology for 
the Future
Customer focus and customer 
satisfaction remains the cornerstone 
of the Bank’s growth strategy. A sharp 
increase in the number of customers has 
made us more conscious and focussed 
on this objective. We strive to set high 
standards of response to customer 
grievances and continuously analyse 
and mitigate the root causes and irritants 
that come in the way of enhanced 
customer experience at our branches or 
in the digital interfaces. We seek to align 
As global shifts
continue to test 
institutional 
resilience,
your Bank remains 
anchored in purpose,
core values and discipline.
Our commitment 
to giving back to 
the communities 
where we operate 
is of utmost 
importance...
Over ten crore  
people have benefitted 
through our CSR 
programmes
HDFC Bank Limited
10

incentives to employees with parameters 
of customer satisfaction.
In an increasingly digital world, the 
customer journey design is guided by a 
clear ambition to serve customers better, 
faster and at scale. This year, we have 
made strong progress across the ﬁve 
key pillars of technology, viz. Journeys, 
Channels, Core, Data, and Security. 
To strengthen execution and accelerate 
delivery, we continued to mature the 
technology use cases that help us make 
your Bank, the ‘bank of the future’. This 
model enabled parallel development 
of high-impact initiatives during FY25, 
reducing time-to-market and enhancing 
reusability across platforms. 
Looking ahead, IT-enabled user journeys 
remain a key priority. Through biometric 
onboarding, assisted journeys, and 
ofﬂine-ready apps, we extended access 
to more underserved and semi-urban 
markets while reimaging best in class 
customer experiences. Generative 
AI (GenAI) presents a generational 
transformation opportunity and 
responsibility. However, we are ensuring 
there is adequate appreciation of risk, 
reliability and information security 
which is embedded in our approach to 
designing the cutting-edge AI solutions 
in a calibrated fashion.
Going forward, with our pan India 
geographical spread and large customer 
base, I remain conﬁdent in our ability 
to deliver personalised and secure 
banking experiences to individuals and 
enterprises we serve. India’s banking 
and ﬁntech landscape has already 
made a strong mark on the global stage 
– with its scale, innovation and digital 
adoption setting new benchmarks. This 
momentum is only set to accelerate and 
HDFC Bank is committed to playing its 
part in shaping this future. 
Social Value Creation 
Inclusive banking is the cornerstone of 
Inclusion and is a major policy of the 
Government. Credit ﬂow to underserved 
sections is also done through Priority 
Sector Lending. Your Bank has steadily 
improved the quantum of organic 
lending and reduced dependence on 
Priority Sector Lending Certiﬁcates. 
The Bank has been taking recourse 
to various credit support mechanisms 
sponsored by the government to 
maintain the asset quality.
Our commitment to giving back to the 
communities where we operate is of 
utmost importance. We collaborate with 
grassroot organisations, policymakers 
and local bodies to ensure that our 
efforts are both strategic and impactful.
Through our six focus areas—Rural 
Development, Education, Skilling and 
Livelihood, Healthcare, Natural Resource 
Management, and Financial Literacy and 
Inclusion—we have positively impacted 
over 10 crore lives.
Another milestone for 
the Group
I would like to update you on a signiﬁcant 
development with reference to HDB 
Financial Services Limited, a subsidiary 
of the Bank. During the last ﬁnancial year 
the IPO process was initiated. The IPO 
was successfully concluded in the ﬁrst 
quarter of the current ﬁnancial year. With 
this, the group consists of four publicly 
listed entities, including the Bank.
Banking on What’s Next
We live in a world where 
interdependence is inescapable and 
uncertainty, unavoidable. As global shifts 
continue to test institutional resilience, 
your Bank remains anchored in purpose, 
core values and discipline. The strength 
of our integrated model and the 
synergies we continue to realise across 
the Group, position us well to navigate 
what lies ahead.
I take this opportunity to welcome 
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan as an 
Independent Director to the Board. 
He was appointed w.e.f. November 
18, 2024, for a period of three years. 
His appointment was approved by the 
shareholders of the Bank via Postal 
Ballot on January 11, 2025. I thank the 
Board members for their contributions 
during the year.
I would be failing in my duty if I do not 
acknowledge the pivotal role of the 
Union Government and various State 
Governments in steering the economy. 
I sincerely thank Reserve Bank of India, 
Securtites and Exchange Board of 
India and other regulators who have 
consistently guided us.
I also thank the senior management of 
the Bank and the Group companies and 
all the employees for their dedication 
and sincerity.
Our customers are our greatest strength. 
I thank them for their continuing support. 
We commit ourselves to improving 
delivery of service to them continuously.
Our single biggest strength is the resolve 
and strength of our colleagues. I thank 
our teams across the country for giving 
their best and helping the Bank perform 
well in the year.  
Warm regards,
Atanu Chakraborty
Part-time Chairman and  
Independent Director  
HDFC Bank Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
11
Who Governs Us

HDFC Bank has 
continued its 
performance and has 
progressed well on 
many dimensions.
Dear Stakeholders,
Warm greetings to all of you.
Financial Year 2024-25 has been a 
year of consolidation and progress for 
the merged entity with the stage of 
integration well behind us. 
The ﬁnancial year gone by was marked 
by global disruption, geopolitical 
conﬂicts, military actions, and an 
uncertain trade environment that had 
and will have an impact on global supply 
chains. With changes in monetary 
policy stances, heightened tensions 
across various parts of the world and 
resultant economic uncertainty, the 
Indian economy - while not immune to 
the broader environment - continued 
to be buoyant and resilient. It sustained 
its position as the fastest growing 
major economy. 
Against this background I am happy to 
share that HDFC Bank has continued 
its performance and has progressed 
well on many dimensions that I plan to 
elaborate further.
Let me now share a perspective on the 
economy and the Bank’s performance.
Macroeconomic 
Environment 
Over the previous three ﬁscal years, 
the Indian economy has grown at an 
average of 8.8 per cent driven by a 
healthy growth in the services sector, 
rise in construction and infrastructure 
activity, and an improvement in the 
agriculture sector. In addition, consumer 
demand has been supported by greater 
credit penetration and an increase in 
Balance sheet strength 
and merger synergies 
create tailwinds for FY26
HDFC Bank has
H
ontinued its
co
erformance and has
pe
rogressed well on
p
many dimensions.
m
MESSAGE FROM THE MD & CEO
HDFC Bank Limited
12

leveraged consumption. While private 
investment trends have been uneven, 
the government has done the heavy 
lifting in increasing capacity expansion 
in the infrastructure and renewable 
energy sectors. Moreover, structural 
reforms and policies introduced by 
the government over the last decade, 
like GST are also now beginning to 
play out in supporting medium term 
growth prospects.
Last year, while GDP growth moderated 
to 6.5 per cent, India continued to be 
one of the fastest growing economies 
in the world despite rising global 
headwinds. Consumption growth picked 
up in FY25, driven by a recovery in rural 
demand. Elevated inﬂation led to some 
moderation in urban consumption. The 
moderation in GDP growth in FY25 was 
mirrored in the slowed banking system 
credit growth, to 11.0 per cent from 
20.2 per cent. 
With inﬂation now beginning to trend 
below 4 per cent we have seen a series 
of steps on both, the ﬁscal and monetary 
front, to boost demand. Frontloading 
of 100 bps rate cuts by the RBI, tax 
cuts introduced by the government 
this year, and the expectation of a 
normal monsoon, lower interest rates 
and sufﬁcient liquidity basis CRR cuts, 
all point to a favourable environment 
for demand revival in the current 
ﬁnancial year. 
In addition, a combination of counter-
cyclical monetary and ﬁscal support 
is likely to anchor domestic growth in 
ﬁnancial year 2025-26. The government 
has budgeted H11 lakh crore in capital 
spending and is focusing towards 
crowding in private investments. Finally, 
healthy balance sheets of ﬁnancial 
institutions, households and corporates 
augur well for growth.
India growth is expected to hold up in 
FY26, with the RBI forecasting GDP 
growth at 6.5 per cent.
However, this outlook is not without 
risks. On the global front, US tariff 
announcements have increased 
uncertainty and raised risks of a growth 
slowdown which could weigh on India’s 
exports of goods and services. As 
per the latest IMF estimates, global 
growth is estimated to slow down to 
2.8 per cent in 2025 from 3.3 per cent 
in 2024. On the domestic front, risks to 
growth include a slower-than-expected 
rebound in consumption demand, 
weather related disruptions leading to 
inﬂation spikes and ﬁnancial market 
volatility due to global headwinds. The 
escalating geopolitical tensions and tariff 
uncertainties only adds to the complexity 
of the overall environment.
Two years ago, I had articulated why 
I believe that India has a once in a 
lifetime opportunity. That belief is 
further solidiﬁed now in spite of what 
is happening around us as our strong 
macro fundamentals, low external 
vulnerability, and a sound ﬁnancial 
system position India favourably 
to weather global headwinds. The 
changing global trade landscape also 
presents an opportunity for India to 
become a manufacturing and services 
hub for the world. India’s relative 
growth outperformance compared to 
peers, regulatory reforms, favourable 
demographics, supportive monetary and 
ﬁscal policy, increasing digitalisation and 
a healthy ﬁnancial system, augur well 
for attracting foreign investments and 
propelling medium-term growth outlook 
for the country.
Our Performance 
The results for FY25 represented the 
ﬁrst full year of operations since the 
merger on July 1, 2023. I am happy 
to report that in the last ﬁnancial year, 
your Bank reported healthy growth 
while maintaining pristine asset quality 
which has been its USP across business 
cycles. Net Proﬁt increased by 10.7 per 
cent to H67,347.4 crore on March 31, 
2025 while Net Interest Income grew by 
13.0 per cent to H1,22,670.1 crore. Our 
Net Interest Margin (NIM) stood at 3.48 
per cent.
Your Bank’s balance sheet rose by over 
eight per cent to H39,10,199 crore. Gross 
NPAs were at 1.33 per cent of Gross 
Advances. Advances grew by 5.4 per 
cent to H26,19,609 crore while Deposits 
grew 14.1 per cent to H27,14,715 crore. 
I had mentioned last year that this is 
HDFC Bank 2.0. We have progressed 
from then to navigating this transition 
across NIMs, our liability proﬁle and 
our strategic direction to pursue 
proﬁtable growth. 
As is evident, our deposits grew 2.5 
times faster than loans. As stated we 
have taken afﬁrmative steps to bring 
down the credit to deposit ratio and 
reduce the percentage of high cost 
borrowings. We consciously calibrated 
our loan growth in FY25 to reposition 
the balance sheet. Aided by appropriate 
and disciplined pricing and focussed on 
quality growth we were successful in 
achieving the same. 
You will be happy to know that the 
percentage of high cost borrowings has 
come down to 14 per cent at the end 
of the ﬁscal year 2024-25. The credit 
deposit ratio has been brought down to 
96 per cent as on March 31, 2025 from a 
high of about 110 per cent at the time of 
the merger.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
13
Who Governs Us

Our deposits have grown faster than 
the system and what is noteworthy is 
that, with a market share of ﬁve per cent 
of branches in the banking system, we 
have a market share of 11 per cent of 
banking deposits. The Bank garnered 
an incremental deposit market share of 
approximately 14.6 per cent in the last 
ﬁnancial year. Aggression has been in 
intent and execution, but not in pricing, 
be it for assets or for liabilities.
I believe we have successfully navigated 
the merger and the Bank is now 
positioned for faster growth. The reset in 
loan growth and the consolidation of the 
merger has resulted in a much stronger 
bank, that is now poised to capitalise 
further on growth opportunities.
As stated earlier, we are conﬁdent of 
growing our advances on par with the 
system in FY26 and higher than the 
system in FY27.
The growth enablers, apart from balance 
sheet strength, remain technology, 
customer centricity and our people. Let 
me now elaborate on these themes.
Technology 
Building Intelligence, Scale, 
and Trust in the Digital Age
Technology has been and is a core 
differentiator for HDFC Bank—driving 
speed, scale, and simplicity in how we 
serve customers across India. 
Over the last four plus years, we have 
worked tirelessly on scaling, fortifying 
and modernising our technology 
backbone through enhanced 
investments on resources and 
collaboration with our key partners and 
the results are now visible. 
Our core now seamlessly supports 
scalability and resiliency. Reliability 
has been built by design. Our focus to 
further modernise through our ‘Hollow 
the Core’ programme is progressing 
well. Our modernised and scaled 
core systems can meet exponential 
demand—enabling us to serve our 
growing customer base faster and adapt 
with agility.
We have fully digitised a majority of 
our retail / MSME product acquisition 
journeys and the key service 
journeys and our focus has now 
moved to improving our real-time 
credit decisioning at scale. We are 
conﬁdent that we will move the needle 
substantially in this area in the current 
ﬁnancial year and this will enable us 
to improve our productivity and serve 
our customers far better with these 
investments. Our ﬂagship platforms like 
PayZapp, SmartHub Vyapar, Xpress Car 
Loan, HDFC Bank One and SmartWealth 
continued to scale by expanding their 
reach during the year. Details pertaining 
to the performance of each of these 
digital offerings of the Bank are shared in 
the report. 
We took the decision to invest in 
our Enterprise and Digital Factories 
for creating / co-creating our digital 
offerings. I am happy to share that we 
have launched an early access version 
of our fully home grown digital interfaces 
(across our website, Mobile Banking 
and NetBanking) and will soon cover 
our entire customer base. All the three 
new digital interfaces bring in enhanced 
security, performance and hyper 
personalisation to the forefront for the 
convenience of our customers. 
Your Bank has been a leading investor 
in Analytics across consumer, credit, 
fraud and risk areas. I had mentioned 
last year that we are evaluating GenAI 
and what it can do for us. I agree and 
believe strongly when people say that 
GenAI is as big as the Internet or mobile 
with immense transformative potential, 
Our deposits 
have grown 
faster than the 
system and what 
is noteworthy 
is that, with a 
market share of 
ﬁve per cent of 
branches in the 
banking system,  
we have a market 
share of 11 per cent 
of banking deposits. 
The Bank garnered an 
incremental deposit 
market share of 
approximately  
14.6 per cent in  
the last financial year.
MESSAGE FROM THE MD & CEO
HDFC Bank Limited
14

though with sufﬁcient guardrails. I am 
happy to share we are moving beyond 
pilots to a structured, centralised, 
platform-driven model (with strong 
safeguards and scalable design) where 
GenAI is applied to deﬁned problem 
classes – whether it’s speeding up 
operations, enhancing staff productivity 
or improving customer service. We 
have identiﬁed more than 15 lighthouse 
programmes that we will implement with 
GenAI and the implementation progress 
is being tracked with the vigour and 
rigour that a transformative technology 
like GenAI deserves. As digital adoption 
rises, GenAI will play a central role in 
how we innovate, stay resilient, and 
create value for the future.
As someone deeply passionate about 
technology, I truly believe we are 
entering our most transformative phase 
yet. The tools are new, but the purpose 
remains the same - to empower every 
customer, partner, and community 
we serve with world-class customer 
experience through responsible 
innovation. Digitalisation also helps 
further ﬁnancial inclusion, bringing 
several more people into the digital 
economy for the ﬁrst time and your 
Bank is at the forefront of innovation and 
partnerships on this.
Cyber Security 
As cyber-attacks grow in complexity 
and frequency, we continue to invest 
in advanced cybersecurity capabilities 
to stay ahead. In the last ﬁnancial year, 
we enhanced our security measures 
through several targeted controls and 
use of AI enabled security measures. 
This has helped in continuous validation, 
proactive threat detection, faster 
response, and improved incident 
resilience. Our cybersecurity practices 
are aligned with leading frameworks and 
global best practices in governance, 
risk, and compliance. At the same time, 
all our lines of defence are working in 
close coordination to ensure we meet 
and exceed regulatory expectations.
Overall, the Bank's cybersecurity 
measures are focused on ensuring 
the highest level of protection against 
cyber threats, with proactive monitoring 
and automated incident response 
capabilities, enhanced network visibility 
and a zero-trust approach to security.
The Bank continues to enhance its 
information security posture through 
a range of strategic and technology-
driven initiatives aimed at strengthening 
its information security and resilience 
against evolving cyber threats. 
These initiatives align with regulatory 
expectations and industry best practices 
to ensure the conﬁdentiality, integrity, 
and availability of the Bank's digital 
infrastructure and applications. Key 
initiatives include the establishment 
of a next-generation Cybersecurity 
Operations Centre (CSOC) augmented 
by AI and ML capabilities, to keep an 
eye on threats and respond quickly. 
We routinely check our systems for 
any weaknesses through our VAPT 
(Vulnerability Assessment & Penetration 
Testing) programme, monitor all digital 
entry points to manage exposure (Attack 
Surface Monitoring), ensure our software 
is always up to date (patch management) 
and strengthen protection against 
email-based attacks. The Bank regularly 
runs real-life simulations as cyber 
resilience stress tests for the ability to 
handle cyberattacks. 
Technology being only part of 
the solution, we have also placed 
appropriate emphasis on empowering 
our customers and users through 
education, awareness, and support. 
With the rise of phishing, impersonation 
scams, and deep fake based attacks, 
the Bank is using multichannel 
campaigns to deliver the right education 
and awareness. The Bank’s 'Vigil 
Aunty' (VA) campaign covers various 
modus-operandi of fraudsters and is an 
example of our commitment towards 
the well-being of our customers. This 
initiative has been very well received and 
I’m sure has encouraged people across 
the country to practice safe banking 
habits. Internally, we have scaled up 
simulation exercises and trainings to 
ensure our people are as well-equipped 
as our systems.
We remain focused on being a cyber 
resilient, regulatorily compliant and 
trusted institution that can adapt and 
succeed in the emerging risk landscape.
Customer Centricity 
One of my key focus areas is to continue 
to reinforce our Service First culture. I 
have always emphasised that it rests on 
two pillars - an empathetic organisation 
empowered with tools to service 
the customer. 
As we digitalised our journeys and 
employee / consumer adoption 
increased, our First Time Right service 
has improved resulting in signiﬁcant 
reduction in customer complaints 
pertaining to delay in acquisition 
and servicing.
We are continuing our ‘Inﬁnite Smiles’ 
programme (NPS or Net Promoter 
System) with rigour and vigour to 
proactively listen to our customers 
voices and keep improving our 
products and processes. The NPS 
implementation serves as an early 
warning system for us to identify areas 
of continuous improvement.
We have increased our emphasis on 
training and improving our front line 
capabilities. We continuously monitor 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
15
Who Governs Us

customer experience delivery and have 
increased the weightage of service in the 
performance measurement framework 
across all levels in the organisation. 
Our colleagues have enthusiastically 
adopted this.
I am excited by the prospect of what 
GenAI can do to improve customer 
service. The Bank is working to 
leverage the positive aspects of Artiﬁcial 
Intelligence (AI) to enable our front line 
colleagues to have all the latest and 
right information available with them to 
answer and service customer queries. 
This improves our ability to respond to 
customers with speed, consistency and 
accuracy and most importantly in line 
with the extant regulatory guidelines. 
One of the important beneﬁts of the 
usage of AI would be to arrest similar 
types of customer issues in future, 
vastly reducing instances of customer 
dissatisfaction.  
We continue to invest in our distribution 
channels. The Bank added over 700 
branches in the ﬁnancial year 2024-25 
taking the total number of branches 
to 9,455 as of March 31, 2025 and will 
continue adding to these. Branches are 
the fulcrum of customer relationships 
especially in the semi-urban and rural 
areas where we have more than half our 
branches. The new branches are our 
investments for the future enabling us to 
serve local communities better. 
People
Our people continue to be the most 
important pillar of the organisation. It 
is gratifying to share some of the key 
People initiatives we have undertaken 
this year. 
Sustaining our growth while maintaining a 
nearly ﬂat headcount is a testament to the 
efﬁciency and dedication of our teams. 
Furthermore, the signiﬁcant reduction 
in attrition from 26.9 per cent in FY24 
to 22.6 per cent in FY25 underscores 
the positive strides we are making in 
fostering an enabling work environment. 
This is reﬂected in the healthy 
engagement scores of employees 
across levels.
The continued focus on Diversity, 
Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) and our 
ongoing Culture Transformation journey 
remain integral to the Bank’s long-
term vision. Our investment in building 
culture capability has impacted over 
27,000 managers, equipping them 
further to lead with empathy, agility, 
and innovation. 
Over the last few years, we have been 
actively working towards improving our 
gender ratio, not only because it’s the 
right thing to do but because we believe 
that it makes us a better organisation. 
We have sustained a gender ratio of 26 
per cent through the year, which is a 
signiﬁcant improvement from 18.09 per 
cent in ﬁnancial year 2020-21.
Our capability building strategy is clear: 
Build future ready leaders and future-
proof skills. In FY25, we took signiﬁcant 
strides in leadership-development, 
achieving a remarkable 500 per cent 
increase in coverage. 
To keep pace with rapid change, the 
Bank is concentrating on reskilling and 
upskilling through a role-based learning 
architecture. We have also launched 
a GenAI Academy to accelerate 
capability in Generative AI. As GenAI 
becomes central to both current and 
future organisational capability, we 
are investing in developing skills in this 
space through a structured academy 
model, offering robust curriculum and 
tiered proﬁciency levels. 
As part of our ongoing commitment 
towards fostering a healthy workplace, 
the Bank runs several initiatives on 
Employee Wellness focused on holistic 
wellbeing, such as Inner Harmony, 
Mindfulness Series, stress management 
and conﬁdential counselling services. 
These efforts are designed to help 
employees manage both personal and 
professional challenges and cultivate a 
balanced work environment.  
While we celebrate these signiﬁcant 
achievements, we stay grounded in the 
understanding that our journey towards 
a truly future-ready organisation, is an 
ongoing one. We remain committed to 
building upon this foundation.
Environmental, Social 
and Governance 
I believe that a steadfast commitment to 
ESG principles is paramount in driving 
our transformation strategies. Our Bank 
is dedicated to fostering and advancing 
growth by integrating sustainable 
practices in our operations, empowering 
society through inclusion and upholding 
the highest standards of governance. 
ESG is one of the key drivers for 
creating resilience in the dynamic 
environment and to create long-term 
value for our stakeholders, which we are 
committed to. 
HDFC Bank Parivartan celebrates a 
decade of impactful CSR initiatives, 
with HDFC Bank emerging as one of 
the top spenders in CSR in India. Our 
efforts have focused on sustainable and 
inclusive growth, reaching remote and 
underserved areas across India, thus far 
impacting the lives of over 10 crore  
people across 28 States and 
8 Union Territories. 
Through our ﬂagship Holistic Rural 
Development Programme (HRDP), 
we have reached over 6000 villages, 
including 298 border villages 
providing support across agriculture, 
skill development and livelihood 
enhancement, healthcare and hygiene, 
education and ﬁnancial literacy.
MESSAGE FROM THE MD & CEO
HDFC Bank Limited
16

This year, your Bank has introduced 
a new focus area - Natural Resource 
Management that focusses efforts 
on providing renewable energy 
solutions especially solar, solid waste 
management, afforestation as well as 
soil and water conservation.
Our work has signiﬁcantly beneﬁtted 
various communities, ensuring access to 
essential services and opportunities for 
growth. This has been made possible by 
the relentless hard work and dedication 
of our partners, colleagues, and the 
communities we serve.
The Merger 
As I mentioned earlier, FY25 was the ﬁrst 
full year of the merger, and we have built 
upon it. As a merged entity, the HDFC 
Bank Group has several key subsidiaries 
with businesses in life as well as general 
insurance, mutual funds and brokerage, 
positioning it as a strong ﬁnancial 
services conglomerate. 
The mortgage business which was a key 
component of the merger, has grown 
from strength to strength and is now 
the largest in the country. This portfolio 
has also been a catalyst for increased 
cross sell opportunities within the HDFC 
Bank Group. More than 95 per cent of 
the incremental home loan customers 
are now opening CASA accounts 
with the Bank, with over half of them 
opting for additional product offerings. 
This enhances customer convenience 
while also strengthening the Bank’s 
relationship with customers, helping 
it to become their primary banker. It 
broadens the market opportunities 
through the multiplicity of products 
available to our customers.
HDFC Bank Group 
We understand the role the Group 
plays in the Indian ﬁnancial system 
and the need for us to set standards 
in performance and governance as we 
have always done. We stand committed 
to that.
Furthermore, the Bank’s NBFC 
subsidiary, HDB Financial Services 
Limited has recently concluded a 
successful IPO. This was done in 
accordance with regulatory requirements. 
Conclusion 
Despite global headwinds there is 
considerable optimism about the 
Indian economy which is expected to 
continue being the fastest growing large 
economy in the world. The successful 
playing out of the merger synergies, the 
reduction in the credit deposit ratio and 
the large scale mobilisation of deposits, 
all constitute tailwinds for your Bank. To 
use a cricketing analogy, we focussed 
on taking singles in the year that 
concluded and are now positioned to go 
for the boundaries.
I’m proud of the contribution of our 
colleagues across the country who 
have worked with passion to serve our 
clients and our communities. My grateful 
thanks to them and to our customers 
for their support and continued belief in 
the brand. I would also like to extend my 
thanks to members of the Bank’s Board, 
our regulators and all other stakeholders 
for their valuable support. 
We remain committed to delivering 
excellence. 
Warm regards,
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Managing Director & 
Chief Executive Officer 
HDFC Bank Limited
The successful 
playing out of 
the merger 
synergies, the 
reduction in the 
credit deposit 
ratio and the 
large scale 
mobilisation 
of deposits, 
all constitute 
tailwinds for 
your Bank. To use 
a cricketing analogy, 
we focussed on taking 
singles in the year that 
concluded and are now 
positioned to go for the 
boundaries.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
17
Who Governs Us

CSR & ESG Committee
CSR & ESG
Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee
RPMC
Fraud Monitoring Committee
FMC
Credit Approval Committee
CAC
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
SRC
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
NRC
Audit Committee
AC
IT Strategy Committee
ITSC
For more details about the Board, please refer to our Report on Corporate Governance 
Length of service of Directors on the 
Board of HDFC Bank (Years)
3-8
<3
>8
Age group of Directors (Years)
60-70
<60
>70
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty
Part-Time Chairman and 
Independent Director
NRC
RPMC
ITSC
 1
Mr. M. D. Ranganath
Independent Director
AC
NRC
RPMC
ITSC
ISC
RCWDI
RCNCB
 2
Mr. Sandeep Parekh
Independent Director
CSC
CRNM
NRC
SRC
RPMC
CAC
PC
RCWDI
RCNCB
ISC
3
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita 
Maheshwari
Independent Director
CSR 
& ESG
CSC
ITSC
PC
4
Mrs. Lily Vadera
Independent Director
RPMC
AC
SRC
FMC
5
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh 
Kumar Bhanwala
Independent Director
NRC
FMC
AC
CSR 
& ESG
CRNM
6
Mr. Keki Mistry
Non-Executive  
(Non-Independent) Director 
SRC
ISC
8
ITSC
CSR 
& ESG
Mr. Santhosh 
Keshavan
Independent Director
7
  Member
  Chairperson
Premises Committee
PC
Review Committee for Wilful Defaulter’s Identiﬁcation
RCWDI
Review Committee for Non-Cooperative Borrowers
RCNCB
Committee for Resolution of NCLT Matters
CRNM
Investments Strategy Committee
ISC
% of Independent Directors 
on the Board of the Bank
53.85
Women Directors  
on the Board
3
Customer Service Committee
CSC
RCWDI
RCNCB
RPMC
FMC
CSC
ITSC
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan
Managing Director &  
Chief Executive Officer
10
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
Deputy Managing Director
SRC
CSR 
& ESG
FMC
CAC
CRNM
11
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri
Executive Director
CSC
RCWDI
RCNCB
12
Mrs. Renu Karnad
Non-Executive  
(Non-Independent) Director 
PC
SRC
CSR 
& ESG
RPMC
FMC
CAC
9
SRC
ITSC
PC
CRNM
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan
Executive Director
13
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
HDFC Bank Limited
19
18
Who Governs Us

PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 1
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty 
DIN: 01469375
Part-Time Chairman and 
Independent Director
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, aged sixty-ﬁve 
(65) years, served the Government 
of India, for a period of thirty-ﬁve 
(35) years, as a member of Indian 
Administrative Service (IAS) in Gujarat 
cadre. Mr. Chakraborty graduated as 
a Bachelor in Engineering (Electronics 
& Communication) from NIT 
Kurukshetra. He holds a Diploma in 
Business Finance (ICFAI, Hyderabad) 
and a Master's degree in Business 
Administration from the University of 
Hull, UK. 
He has mainly worked in areas 
of Finance & Economic Policy, 
Infrastructure, Petroleum & Natural 
Gas. In the Union Government, he 
held various posts such as Secretary 
to Government of India in the Ministry 
of Finance (Dept. of Economic Affairs) 
during FY 2019-20. As Secretary 
(DEA), he coordinated economic policy 
making for all ministries/departments 
and managed entire process of 
formulation of Budget making for 
Union of India, including its passage 
in Parliament. He was responsible 
for ﬁscal management policies, 
policies for public debt management 
and development & management of 
ﬁnancial markets. Mr. Chakraborty 
also handled ﬁnancial stability and 
currency, domestic & foreign related 
issues as well. He managed ﬂow of 
funds with multilateral and bilateral 
ﬁnancial institutions and had multiple 
interfaces with them. He also headed 
a multi-disciplinary task force that 
produced the National Infrastructure 
Pipeline (NIP). He has also served as 
Secretary to the Union Government 
for Disinvestment (DIPAM) wherein 
he was responsible for both policy as 
well as execution of the process of 
disinvestment of Government of India's 
stake in state owned enterprises.
During the period 2002-07, 
Mr. Chakraborty served as Director 
and subsequently as Joint Secretary, 
Ministry of Finance (Department of 
Expenditure). During this period, he 
appraised projects in the Infrastructure 
sector as well as looked after 
subsidies of Government of India. He 
had also updated and modernised 
the Government's Financial & 
Procurement rules. Mr. Chakraborty 
has also discharged varied roles in the 
Gujarat State Government including 
heading the Finance Department 
as its Secretary. He had been 
responsible for piloting the private 
sector investment legislation in the 
State. In the State Government, he has 
worked on the ground in both public 
governance and development areas.
Mr. Chakraborty has also served on 
the Board of World Bank as alternate 
Governor as well as on the Central 
Board of Directors of the RBI. He 
was also the Chairman of National 
Infrastructure Investment Fund (NIIF) 
as also on the Board of many listed 
companies. Mr. Chakraborty was 
also the CEO/MD of the GSPC group 
of companies as well as Gujarat 
State Fertilizers and Chemicals Ltd. 
Mr. Chakraborty had published 
articles in reputed journals in the 
areas of public ﬁnance, risk sharing 
in Infrastructure projects and 
gas infrastructure. 
Mr. Chakraborty does not hold any 
shares of the Bank as on  
March 31, 2025.
Directorships in Other 
Listed Companies
Mr. Chakraborty does not hold 
directorship in any other listed entity.
 2
Mr. M. D. Ranganath  
DIN: 07565125
Independent Director
Mr. M. D. Ranganath, aged sixty-
three (63) years, has over 32 years of 
experience in the Global IT services 
and ﬁnancial services industry. 
Mr. Ranganath is a PGDM from IIM 
Ahmedabad. He holds Master’s 
degree in Technology from IIT 
Madras and a Bachelor’s degree 
in Engineering from the University 
of Mysore. He is a member of 
CPA, Australia. 
He is currently the Chairman of 
Catamaran Ventures LLP. He was 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of Infosys 
Limited, a globally listed corporation, 
till November 2018.
HDFC Bank Limited
20

During his tenure of 18 years at 
Infosys, he was an integral part of the 
growth and transformation of Infosys 
and effectively played leadership roles 
in a wide spectrum of areas such as 
Strategy, Finance, M&A, Consulting, 
Risk Management and Corporate 
Planning culminating in the role of 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and worked 
closely with the Board of Infosys and 
its Committees in formulating and 
executing its strategic priorities. In the 
years 2017 and 2018, Mr. Ranganath 
was the recipient of the Best CFO Asia 
award in the technology sector by 
Institutional Investor publication based 
on a poll of buy side and sell side 
investor community.
Prior to Infosys, he worked at ICICI 
Limited and executed responsibilities 
in corporate credit, treasury, 
equity portfolio management and 
corporate planning.
Mr. Ranganath is on the board of 
Indian Institute of Management, 
Bangalore. He is a member of CII 
corporate governance council and 
GIFT city’s advisory committee on 
funds management.
Mr. Ranganath does not hold any 
shares of the Bank as on 
March 31, 2025.
Directorships in Other 
Listed Companies
Mr. Ranganath does not 
hold directorship in any other 
listed company.
3
Mr. Sandeep Parekh  
DIN: 03268043
Independent Director
Mr. Sandeep Parekh, aged ﬁfty-three 
(53) years, holds an LL.M. (Securities 
and Financial Regulations) degree 
from Georgetown University and an 
L.L.B. and L.L.M. degrees from Delhi 
University. He is the managing partner 
of Finsec Law Advisors, a ﬁnancial 
sector law ﬁrm based in Mumbai. 
He was an Executive Director at 
the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India during 2006-08, heading 
the Enforcement and Legal Affairs 
departments. He is a visiting faculty 
at the Indian Institute of Management, 
Ahmedabad. He has worked for 
law ﬁrms in Delhi, Mumbai and 
Washington, D.C. Mr. Parekh focuses 
on securities regulations, investment 
regulations, private equity, corporate 
governance and ﬁnancial regulations. 
He is admitted to practice law in 
New York. He was recognised by the 
World Economic Forum as a 'Young 
Global Leader' in 2008. He was 
Chairman and member of various 
SEBI and RBI Committees and sub-
Committees. He sits on the Advisory 
Committee of School for Regulatory 
Studies and Supervision (SRSS) 
of National Institute of Securities 
Market (NISM). He has published 
op-eds in the Financial Times and the 
Economic Times.
Mr. Parekh does not hold any shares 
of the Bank as on March 31, 2025.
Directorships in Other 
Listed Companies
Mr. Parekh does not hold directorship 
in any other listed company.
4
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari   
DIN: 01641411
Independent Director
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari, aged 
ﬁfty-nine (59) years, has over thirty 
(30) years of experience and has 
lived and worked in the US and India. 
She is a US Board certiﬁed Pediatric 
Cardiologist, who completed her 
MBBS at Osmania Medical College 
followed by post-graduation at AIIMS, 
Delhi and Yale University in the US. In 
addition to being a clinician, Dr. (Mrs.) 
Maheshwari is a medical entrepreneur 
and co-founder at the Telerad Group 
which includes:
(a) A-Kal Televerse Private Limited 
(India’s ﬁrst and largest teleradiology 
company that has provided over 8 
million diagnostic reports to patients 
and hospitals globally),
(b) Telerad Tech Private Limited 
which builds AI enabled tele health 
software and
(c) RXDX Healthcare - a chain of 
multi-specialty neighbourhood phygital 
clinics in Bangalore and rural India
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
21
Who Governs Us

PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(d) Daignostix Services Private Limited 
(Formely known as Avrio Technologies 
Private Limited)
Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari has also 
incubated other start-up companies 
in the telehealth space such as 
Healtheminds - a tele-counselling 
platform. She is active in the social 
arena in India where she runs 2 
trust funds. ‘People4people’ has 
put up over 650 playgrounds in 
government schools and Telerad 
Foundation provides teleradiology 
and telemedicine services to poor 
areas in Asia that do not have access 
to high quality medical care. Her 
other interests include teaching. Dr. 
(Mrs.) Maheshwari has been running 
India’s e-teaching programme for 
postgraduates in Pediatric Cardiology 
for over a decade. She is a mentor in 
Residence for the Sustainable Health 
Initiative of the Yale Institute for Global 
Health where she along with her 
spouse have instituted the Kalyanpur-
Maheshwari Endowment for Global 
Health Innovation. She is currently 
the President of the Pediatric Cardiac 
Society of India.
Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari has over 
200 academic presentations and 
publications to her credit and is an 
inspirational speaker having given 
over 200 lectures, including several 
TEDx talks. Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari is 
the recipient of several prestigious 
awards and honours including: 
Trailblazing Indian Cardiac leader at 
the ET Indian Cardiac Care Innovation 
Summit 2024, Business world’s 20 
most inﬂuential women in healthcare 
2022, WOW (Woman of Worth) 2019 
award, Amazing Indian award- Times 
Now 2014; Top 20 women Health care 
achievers in India, Modern Medicare 
2009; Yale University- Outstanding 
Fellow Teacher of the Year Award, 
1995, amongst others.
Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari does not hold 
any shares of the Bank as on 
March 31, 2025.
Directorships in Other 
Listed Companies
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals 
Limited- Independent Director 
5
Mrs. Lily Vadera   
DIN: 09400410
Independent Director
Mrs. Lily Vadera, aged sixty-four 
(64) years, has over 33 years of 
experience in Central banking. She 
is a M.A in International Relations. 
She retired as an Executive Director 
from the RBI in October 2020. As the 
Executive Director of the RBI, she 
was in-charge of the Department of 
Regulation (DoR) where she dealt with 
the regulatory framework for various 
entities in ﬁnancial sector, covering all 
categories of banks and non-banking 
ﬁnance companies.
She was instrumental in putting in 
place a framework for a regulatory 
sandbox to provide an enabling 
environment for ﬁntech players to 
foster innovation in ﬁnancial services 
and played a signiﬁcant role in the 
amalgamation of banks in stress. 
She represented RBI and played an 
important role as a member of the 
Insolvency Law Committee set up by 
the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs (MCA).
Mrs. Lily Vadera does not hold any 
shares of the Bank as on 
March 31, 2025.
Directorships in Other 
Listed Companies
Mrs. Lily Vadera does not 
hold directorship in any other 
listed company.
6
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala   
DIN: 06417704
Independent Director
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala, 
aged sixty-three (63) years, has 
a vast experience of more than 
38 years in areas such as Board 
governance & management, Finance, 
Rural development, promoting & 
supporting sustainable agriculture, 
and supervision & development of 
Rural Cooperative Banks. He earned 
a B.Sc. in Dairy Technology from 
National Dairy Research Institute 
(NDRI), Karnal.
Dr. (Mr.) Bhanwala is a Postgraduate 
in Management from IIM, Ahmedabad 
and holds a Ph.D. in Management. 
He has been awarded an honorary 
doctorate in Science by Tamil Nadu 
Agricultural University, Coimbatore, 
and the Indian Council of Agricultural 
Research-Central Institute of Fisheries 
Education, Mumbai.
He was the Chairman of the 
National Bank for Agriculture and 
Rural Development (NABARD), the 
Apex Development Bank of the 
Country from December 18, 2013, 
HDFC Bank Limited
22

to May 27, 2020. He has been the 
Executive Director and later Chairman 
cum Managing Director of India 
Infrastructure Finance Company 
Ltd. (IIFCL). He has also been the 
Managing Director of the Delhi State 
Cooperative Bank. Recently, he also 
served as the Executive Chairman of 
a listed NBFC (Capital India Finance 
Limited). He is also a director of 
Microﬁnance Industry Network 
(Association of NBFC- MFIs). 
Dr. (Mr.) Bhanwala headed the 
Technical Group appointed by 
SEBI on the Social Stock Exchange 
(September 2020). He was a member 
of the Expert Committee on the 
Primary (Urban) Cooperative Banks 
of the RBI constituted after the 
amendment in the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949.
He has broad experience with 
Deposit Insurance & Credit Guarantee 
Corporation (DICGC), IRMA (Institute 
of Rural Management Anand), National 
Institute of Bank Management (NIBM), 
and as an Independent Director on 
the boards of Bayer Crop Science and 
Arya Collateral Warehousing Services 
Private Limited. He has served as Vice 
Chairman of the Asia-Paciﬁc Rural 
and Agricultural Credit Association 
(APRACA).
Dr. (Mr.) Bhanwala holds 100 equity 
shares of the Bank as on 
March 31, 2025.
Directorships in Other 
Listed Companies
Multi-Commodity Exchange of 
India Limited – Non-Executive 
(Independent) Chairman 
7
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan     
DIN: 08466631
Independent Director
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan, aged ﬁfty-
one (51) years, is a strategic executive 
with 30 years of global business and 
technology experience in ﬁnancial 
industries. Mr. Keshavan has a BS 
degree in Computer Science from 
University of Mysore and Master of 
Business Administration (MBA) in 
Information Systems from University of 
Alabama, Birmingham (UAB).   
His experience includes major 
business transformations, M&A, 
managing product launches, setting 
up global operations and managing 
companies through ﬁnancial 
challenges. A performance driven 
executive, he has an entrepreneurial 
mindset, accumulated from diverse 
experience spanning startups, 
technology companies to large 
publicly traded banking and ﬁnancial 
corporations.   
Mr. Keshavan is deeply knowledgeable 
about enterprise technology, cyber 
security, operations, customer 
experience, strategic planning, vendor 
management, ﬁnancial analysis, and 
overall risk management. He has 
worked across retirement, employee 
beneﬁts, asset management, 
insurance and banking sectors. He 
has extensive experience partnering 
with technology, audit, HR, and 
risk committees.   
Currently, Mr. Keshavan is the 
Executive Vice President and Chief 
Technology & Operations Ofﬁcer 
of Voya Financial Inc (NASDAQ: 
VOYA) and is a member of the 
Voya’s Executive Committee. The 
transformation at Voya was focused on 
Digital and Data infrastructure creating 
new capabilities for customers, 
radically enhancing customer 
experience across all channels and 
cost optimisation through ecosystem 
simpliﬁcation, migration to public 
cloud and elimination of legacy 
technology. He was instrumental in 
starting Voya India, currently serving 
as Chairperson, which is serving 
as a crucial talent base and global 
capabilities canter for Voya.   
Before joining Voya in 2017, 
Mr. Keshavan served as Chief 
Information Ofﬁcer, core banking for 
Regions Financial Corp (NASDAQ: RF). 
He managed the technology teams, 
integration of Regions Financial Corp 
and AmSouth Bank and was part of 
the management team for turning the 
bank to sustained proﬁtability post 
2007 ﬁnancial crisis. Mr. Keshavan  
was previously the Vice President of 
technology at Fidelity Investments 
where he led all aspects of pricing 
and cash management supporting the 
investment management and treasury 
functions. Prior to this role, he worked 
for SunGard Data Systems (now 
Fidelity Information Services – FIS) in 
various roles and eventually named 
as Managing Director of Retirement 
Services for International Operations. 
He managed global teams with P&L 
responsibility and grew the business 
unit setting up green ﬁeld operations 
including Japan, Australia and India. 
Mr. Keshavan started his career as a 
software developer for a start up in 
Bangalore, India.   
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
23
Who Governs Us

PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr. Keshavan currently serves on 
the board of trustee for New York 
Institute of Technology (since 2021). 
He also served on the board of 
Connecticut Insurance and Financial 
Services, which is part of department 
of economic development (DECD) 
for state of CT from April 2018 to 
March 2024.
Mr. Keshavan does not hold any 
shares of the Bank as on 
March 31, 2025.
Directorships in Other 
Listed Companies
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan does 
not hold directorship in any other 
listed company.
Directorships in Other 
Listed Companies
Mr. Keshavan does not hold 
directorship in any other 
listed company.
8
Mr. Keki Mistry    
DIN: 00008886
Non-Executive  
(Non-Independent) Director
Mr. Keki M. Mistry aged seventy 
(70) years, was the Vice Chairman & 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Housing 
Development Finance Corporation 
Limited (HDFC Limited) prior to its 
amalgamation with the Bank w.e.f. 
July 1, 2023. 
Mr. Mistry is a qualiﬁed Chartered 
Accountant and a Fellow Member of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India. He is a renowned professional 
with over four decades of varied 
work experience in banking and 
ﬁnancial services domain. Mr. Mistry 
is the Chairman of the Primary 
Market Advisory committee (PMAC) 
constituted by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI). He is 
also the Co-Chair of the B20 [South 
Africa 2025] Task Force on Integrity 
& Compliance. 
Mr. Mistry is currently a member of 
the Expert Committee constituted 
by SEBI for facilitating ease of doing 
business and harmonisation of the 
provisions of the SEBI (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018 with that of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
Mr. Mistry chairs the Working Group 
1 of the Expert Committee. He is 
also a Chairman of the Governance 
Committee of Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund of SBI Fund 
Management Ltd and FICCI’s Capital 
Markets Committee - specialised sub-
group on Debt. 
Mr. Mistry is also a member of 
Standing Committee on Primary 
Markets, which has been constituted 
by the International Financial Services 
Centres Authority [IFSCA]. 
Mr. Mistry holds 10,98,629 equity 
shares of the Bank as on  
March 31, 2025.
Directorships in Other 
Listed Companies
 −HDFC Life Insurance Company 
Limited- Non-Executive Chairman
 −Tata Consultancy Services Limited- 
Independent Director 
 −The Great Eastern Shipping 
Company Limited- 
Independent Director 
 −HDFC ERGO General Insurance 
Company Limited (Debt Listed)- 
Non-Executive Chairman 
9
Mrs. Renu Karnad     
DIN: 00008064
Non-Executive 
(Non Independent) Director
Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad, aged 72 
years, was the Managing Director 
of Housing Development Finance 
Corporation Limited (“HDFC Limited”) 
prior to its amalgamation with the 
Bank w.e.f. July 1, 2023. 
She is a post graduate in Economics 
and Law. She is a Parvin Fellow, 
Woodrow Wilson School of 
International Affairs, Princeton 
University, USA. She brings with 
her rich experience and enormous 
knowledge of the mortgage sector, 
having been associated with real 
estate & mortgage industry in India for 
over 40 years.
Mrs. Karnad joined HDFC Limited in 
1978 and was inducted onto its Board 
in 2000. She has been instrumental in 
building the retail distribution network 
at HDFC Limited and has played key 
role in introducing several innovative 
& customer friendly products and 
services in the mortgage market. 
Apart from being HDFC Limited’s 
brand custodian, Mrs. Karnad was 
the guiding force behind formulation 
of the organisation’s communication 
strategy, digital transformation, and 
public image. 
As a part of the management team, 
Mrs. Karnad has played an important 
role in the successful transformation 
of HDFC Limited into India’s leading 
Financial Services Conglomerate. 
Mrs. Karnad has served as the 
President of International Union 
HDFC Bank Limited
24

for Housing Finance (IUHF), an 
association of housing ﬁnance ﬁrms 
present across the globe till 2024.  
She has also served as a Director, 
Asian Real Estate Society.
Over the years, Ms. Karnad has 
had to her credit, numerous awards 
and accolades. She was awarded 
"Outstanding Woman Business 
Leader" at the CNBC-TV18 Indian 
Business Leader Awards (IBLA) 2012, 
was part of the 25 Most Inﬂuential 
Women Professionals in India – India 
Today Magazine’s power list 2011, 
has featured in the ET – Corporate 
Dossier list of India Inc’s ‘Top 15 
powerful women CEOs’ in 2010, 
Verve, international magazine’s list 
of 50 power women in 2010 and in 
Business Today magazine's list of 
'Most Powerful Women in Indian 
Business' for seven years up to 2012, 
in year 2013 she was inducted into 
Hall of Fame, Fortune India Magazine’s 
most powerful women from 2011 to 
2018, has featured amongst the list 
of '25 top non-banking women in 
ﬁnance' by U.S. Banker magazine in 
2008, In 2006, Wall Street Journal 
Asia adjudged her among the 'Top Ten 
Powerful Women to Watch Out for 
in Asia'.
Mrs. Karnad, holds 45,97,949 equity 
shares of the Bank as on 
March 31, 2025.
Directorships in Other 
Listed Companies
 −GlaxoSmithKline 
Pharmaceuticals Limited- Non- 
Executive Chairperson 
 −HDFC Asset Management Company 
Limited- Non-Executive Director
 −EIH Limited- Independent Director 
 −HDFC ERGO General Insurance 
Company Limited (Debt Listed) 
Non-Executive Director  
(Nominee of the Bank)
10
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan   
DIN: 08614396
Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, aged sixty 
(60) years, is the Managing Director 
and the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the 
Bank. He has an overall experience 
of thirty-two (32) years. He has 
completed his graduation in Science 
with specialisation in Physics, is a 
Chartered Accountant by profession 
and holds a Master’s degree in 
Economics of Money, Banking 
& Finance from the University of 
Shefﬁeld, United Kingdom.
Mr. Jagdishan joined the Bank in the 
year 1996 as a Manager in the Finance 
function. He became the Business 
Head - Finance in 1999 and was 
appointed as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in 
the year 2008. He played a critical role 
in supporting the growth trajectory of 
the Bank and led the ﬁnance function 
with a pivotal role in aligning the 
organisation in achieving the strategic 
objectives over the years.
In 2019, he was appointed as the 
“Strategic Change Agent of the Bank”. 
Prior to his appointment as Managing 
Director and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
of the Bank, Mr. Jagdishan was the 
Group Head of the Bank and headed 
the Finance, Human Resources, 
Legal & Secretarial, Corporate 
Communications, Infrastructure & 
Administration as well as Corporate 
Social Responsibility funtions.
Mr. Jagdishan holds 17,40,443 equity 
shares of the Bank as on 
March 31, 2025.
Directorships in Other 
Listed Companies
Mr. Jagdishan does not hold 
directorship in any other 
listed company.
11
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha     
DIN: 02490648
Deputy Managing Director
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, aged sixty 
(60) years, is the Deputy Managing 
Director (DMD) of the Bank. 
Mr. Bharucha holds a Bachelor’s 
degree in Commerce (B.Com) from 
Sydenham College of Commerce and 
Economics (University of Mumbai).
A career banker with more than 39 
years of experience, he has been 
an integral part of the Bank since its 
inception in 1995. Among his several 
contributions in building the Bank, 
he has played a key role in building 
the credit and risk frameworks that 
underpin the Bank’s operations.
These frameworks have supported 
the Bank’s consistent growth, 
safeguarding its ability to navigate 
volatile economic conditions 
effectively.  
As DMD, he oversees a broad 
spectrum of responsibilities within 
the Bank. Mr. Bharucha heads the 
Wholesale Banking, PSUs, MNC, 
Capital & Commodity Markets 
and Realty Business Finance, 
Mr. Bharucha also manages Inclusive 
Banking Initiative group, Corporate 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
25
Who Governs Us

Social Responsibility (CSR) and 
Environmental, Social & Governance 
(ESG) functions.
In his current role as DMD, he 
co-chaired and spearheaded the 
Integration Committee, which was 
tasked with the responsibility of 
ensuring complete integration for the 
smooth merger of HDFC Ltd. with 
HDFC Bank. 
Mr. Bharucha joined the Board of 
the Bank in 2014 and is its longest 
– serving Executive Board member. 
During his tenure as the Bank’s 
Executive Director, he managed 
diverse portfolios including Corporate 
Banking, Capital & Commodities 
Markets, Emerging Corporates, 
Business Banking, Healthcare 
Finance, Agri-lending, Tractor 
Financing, Commercial Vehicle 
Finance, Infrastructure Finance and 
Inclusive Banking Initiatives.
Under his leadership, the Bank’s CSR 
Programme, is amongst the top three 
in the country. Mr. Bharucha is also 
the chief sponsor of Diversity and 
Inclusion initiatives at the Bank.
Mr. Bharucha also serves as the 
Designated Director for the Financial 
Intelligence Unit (FIU) and the Internal 
Ombudsman Committee. He has 
been a part of the Reserve Bank of 
India committees, sub committees 
as well as government appointed 
inter-ministerial committee. He also 
regularly engages with regulators and 
government bodies to provide views 
on policy. 
Mr. Bharucha holds 22,43,241 equity 
shares of the Bank as on  
March 31, 2025.
Directorships in Other 
Listed Companies
 −HDFC Life Insurance Company 
Limited- Non-Executive Director 
(Nominee of the Bank) 
12
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri  
DIN: 01550468
Executive Director
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, aged ﬁfty-
nine (59) years, has over 37 years 
of experience. He is the Executive 
Director of the Bank and heads the 
ATM, Operations and Administration 
functions. Mr. Zaveri holds a Master's 
Degree in Commerce from Mumbai 
University and is a Certiﬁed Associate 
of the Indian Institute of Bankers.
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri oversees 
Operations, Cash Management, ATM 
Product & Administration of the Bank. 
In his current role, he is responsible for 
Business and Operations across the 
country and for creating and delivering 
a ﬂawless operations execution 
capability across the diversiﬁed 
product suite of the Bank to the 
Corporate, MSME & Retail verticals 
including for Asset, for Liabilities 
and for Transaction Services of 
Payments & Cash Management, Trade 
Finance & Treasury, ATM Product & 
Administration. He has headed the 
critical functions of Operations, Cash 
Management and Technology at 
the Bank.
Mr. Zaveri joined the Bank in 1998 in 
the Operations function. He became 
Business Head – Wholesale Banking 
Operations in the year 2000 and 
was appointed as Group Head - 
Operations in 2009. He assumed 
additional responsibilities of the 
Information Technology function in 
2015. In his previous role as Group 
Head - IT, he has contributed to the 
Digital transformation of the Bank 
by embracing technology to ensure 
operational efﬁciency resulting in 
improved customer experience across 
different product offerings of the Bank.
Mr. Zaveri has also participated in 
RBI’s Internal Payments Council 
Meet and was part of the Umbrella 
Organisation for Payments Committee 
of 2004 that led to the formation of 
National Payment Corporation of 
India (NPCI). He is the only elected 
Indian from India on the SWIFT Scrl 
Global Board, Brussels. He has been 
featured twice in the “Who’s Who in 
Treasury and Cash Management” 
by Global Trade Review. He has also 
been a member of various committees 
formed by the RBI and Indian 
Banks’ Association. 
Prior to joining the Bank, Mr. Zaveri 
worked for Oman International Bank 
and Barclays Bank. 
Mr. Zaveri holds 1,89,154 shares of the 
Bank as on March 31, 2025.
Directorships in Other 
Listed Companies
Mr. Zaveri does not hold directorship 
in any other listed company.
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
HDFC Bank Limited
26

13
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan      
DIN: 00030248
Executive Director
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, aged 
sixty-ﬁve (65) years, is the Executive 
Director of the Bank and heads 
the Human Resources, Corporate 
Legal, Group Oversight & Secretarial, 
Investment Banking, Information 
Security Group, Ethics Function 
and Fraud & Vigilance functions of 
the Bank. 
He holds a Bachelor’s degree in 
Commerce from University of Delhi 
and is an Associate of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI).
Mr. Rangan was an Executive Director 
& Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of HDFC 
Limited prior to its amalgamation with 
the Bank w.e.f. July 1, 2023 and is an 
expert in ﬁnance, accountancy, audit, 
economics, corporate governance, 
legal & regulatory compliance, risk 
management and strategic thinking. 
He has a vast experience in the 
housing ﬁnance and real estate 
sector. Mr. Rangan has worked on 
international consulting assignments 
in housing ﬁnance in Ghana 
and Maldives.
He has been a member of various 
committees related to ﬁnancial 
services such as RBI’s Committee 
on Asset Securitisation and 
Mortgage Backed Securitisation, 
Technical Group formed by National 
Housing Bank (NHB) for setting up 
of a Secondary Mortgage market 
Institution in India, NHB’s Working 
Group on Covered Bonds and 
NHB’s Working Group on Credit 
Enhancement Mechanism.
Mr. Rangan was conferred the "Best 
CFO in the Financial Sector for 2010" 
by ICAI. He was also honoured with 
“Lifetime Achievement Award” at the 
sixth edition of Financial Express CFO 
Awards 2023.
Mr. Rangan holds 15,31,698 equity 
shares of the Bank as on 
March 31, 2025.
Directorship in Other 
Listed Companies
 −HDFC Asset Management 
Company Limited- Non-Executive 
Director (Nominee of the Bank)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
27
Who Governs Us

LEADERSHIP TEAM 
Sashidhar Jagdishan 
Managing Director and  
Chief Executive Officer
Kaizad Bharucha
Deputy Managing Director 
Bhavesh Zaveri 
Executive Director 
V Srinivasa Rangan 
Executive Director 
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Chief Financial Officer
24
Raveesh Kumar Bhatia 
Group Head - Emerging 
Corporates Group and Health 
Care Finance
18
Suketu Kapadia 
Group Head - Internal Audit
26
Sampath Sathyamurthy Kumar 
Group Head - Retail Branch  
Banking II
Smita A Bhagat 
Group Head - Retail Branch 
Banking I
Sundaresan M 
Group Head - RCSC, INF Credit, 
CAI & Credit Bureau Management
Vivek Jagdish Capoor 
Group Head-FAG & Taxation
Ravi Santhanam 
Chief Marketing Officer, Head - 
Direct to Consumer Business
19
23
20
Vinayak Ravindra 
Mavinkurve 
Group Head-Realty 
Business Finance
29
30
14
Prasun Singh 
Chief Ethics Officer
16
Rakesh Kumar Rajput  
Group Chief Compliance Officer
16
Ramesh Lakshminarayanan 
Chief Information Officer 
15
Rakesh Singh 
Group Head - Financial Institutions, 
International Banking,  
Private Banking & BaaS
17
13
Prashant Ramesh Mehra
Group Head - Collections, 
Credit Intelligence and Control, 
Debt Management
Sanjay John D Souza 
Group Head-Business 
Banking, Emerging & Micro 
Enterprises Group
21
22
Sanmoy Chakrabarti
Group Chief Risk Ofﬁcer
Sudhir Kumar Jha 
Group Head-Legal & Group 
General Counsel
25
Sumant Vinay Rampal 
Group Head-Mortgage Business
27
28
Notes: 
 
* Mr. Ajay Agarwal was appointed as Company Secretary and Head-Group Oversight with effect from July 21, 2024. He was further elevated as Group 
Head-Secretarial and Group Oversight with effect from April 1, 2025.   
$ Mr Prasun Singh was elevated as Group Head - Ethics with effect from June 1, 2025.
- Mr. Rahul Shyam Shukla, Group Head, is on sabbatical leave.
Abhijit Singh 
Group Head-BaaS,Digital 
Ecosystem and 
International Banking
1
Anjani Kumar Rathor 
Group Head - Digital & 
Customer Experience,  
Quality Initiative Group 
3
Ajay Agarwal 
Company Secretary and 
Group Head-Secretarial & 
Group Oversight
2
4
Arup Kumar Rakshit 
 
Group Head - Treasury
4
Arvind Vohra 
Group Head – Retail Assets,  
RBG & SLI
5
8
Gourab Roy 
 
Group Head – Transactional 
Banking Operations
8
Jimmy M Tata 
Chief Credit Officer
9
11
11
Nirav Vimal Shah 
Group Head - Corporate Banking, 
Emerging Corporate Group and 
Healthcare Finance
12
Parag Rao 
Group Head-Payments Business, 
Liability Products, Consumer 
Finance & Marketing
6
Ashima Khanna Bhat 
Group Head - Virtual Channels, 
Virtual Care, Business Enhancement 
Unit, Channel Enablement Group 
and Infrastructure 
6
10
N Srinivasan 
Group Head-Retail 
Asset Operations
10
Ashish Parthasarthy 
Group Head-Branch Banking, 
Infrastructure, Treasury & 
Virtual Channels
7
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
HDFC Bank Limited
29
28
Who Governs Us

PROFILE OF LEADERSHIP TEAM
1
Abhijit Singh 
Group Head-BaaS, Digital Ecosystem 
and International Banking
Mr. Abhijit Singh is the Head of 
Banking as a service (BaaS), Digital 
Ecosystem Banking and International 
Banking. He has an MBA in Finance 
from Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of 
Management Studies, Mumbai 
and holds a bachelor’s degree in 
engineering from the University 
of Mumbai with over 25 years or 
experience. He has done pioneering 
work in emerging technologies 
like blockchain and aiding in large 
organizations’ digital transformation.
2
Ajay Agarwal
Company Secretary and Group Head – 
Secretarial & Group Oversight
Mr. Ajay Agarwal is the Company 
Secretary and Compliance Ofﬁcer 
under SEBI Regulations, of HDFC 
Bank. He is also Group Head - 
Secretarial and Group Oversight. He 
is a seasoned company secretary and 
governance professional with over 27 
years of experience in corporate and 
securities law, corporate governance 
and legal & regulatory compliances. 
His role also includes enabling the 
Bank to have an effective oversight 
on its subsidiary companies to 
meet the regulatory requirements 
and expectations.
3
Anjani Kumar Rathor 
Group Head - Digital & Customer 
Experience, Quality Initiative Group
Mr. Anjani Rathor is the Head - Digital 
& Customer Experience and Quality 
Initiative Group. He is responsible 
for Digital Experience, Customer 
Experience and Data. He holds 
a postgraduate diploma from IIM 
Calcutta and a bachelor’s degree in 
technology from IIT Kharagpur. He has 
over 28 years of experience and joined 
the Bank in February 2020.
4
Arup Kumar Rakshit 
Group Head – Treasury
Mr. Arup Rakshit is the Head of 
Treasury at HDFC Bank and is 
responsible for the ALM, Trading and 
Customer Business. He joined the 
Bank in 2006 and held leadership 
roles at Treasury Sales before 
becoming the Head of Treasury. He 
holds a B.Tech Degree, Banaras Hindu 
University, Varanasi, and an MBA from 
IIM Calcutta. He is having more than 
34 years of experience.
5
Arvind Vohra 
Group Head - Retail Assets,  
Rural Banking Group & SLI
Mr. Arvind Vohra is the Head of Retail 
Assets, Retail Agri and SLI businesses 
at the Bank. An electronics engineer 
by education, Mr. Vohra completed 
an MBA from Xavier Institute of 
Management, Bhubaneswar. He has 
30 years of experience.
6
Ashima Khanna Bhat 
Group Head - Virtual Channels, 
Virtual Care, Business Enhancement 
Unit, Channel Enablement Group 
and Infrastructure
Ms. Ashima Bhat is the Head of Virtual 
Relationship, Virtual Care, Virtual Sales 
Channels, BEU and Infrastructure 
functions at the Bank. Ms. Ashima 
Bhat has been with the Bank since 
its inception in 1994. In her 30 plus 
years journey with the Bank, she has 
managed diverse portfolios.
7
Ashish Parthasarthy 
Group Head - Treasury, Retail 
Branch Banking, Virtual Care, Virtual 
Channels, Business Enhancement 
Unit, Infrastructure, Retail Trade and 
Forex, Alternate Banking and Channel 
Partnerships, Startup & Third Party 
Product – Research
Mr. Ashish Parthasarthy is the Head 
of Treasury, Retail Branch Banking, 
Virtual Care, Virtual Channels, 
Business Enhancement Unit, 
Infrastructure, Retail Trade and Forex, 
Alternate Banking and Channel 
Partnerships functions, Startup, Third 
Party Product- Research at the Bank. 
He holds a Bachelor’s degree in 
engineering from the National Institute 
of Technology, Karnataka and a 
Postgraduate diploma in management 
from the Indian Institute of 
Management, Bangalore. He has over 
36 years of experience in banking, 
with particular expertise in the interest 
rate and currency markets.
HDFC Bank Limited
30

8
Gourab Roy 
Group Head – Transactional 
Banking Operations
Mr. Gourab Roy is the Head of 
Transaction Banking Operations at 
the Bank. He holds a Master degree 
in Commerce. He has over 33 
years of experience in the ﬁnancial 
services industry.
9
Jimmy M Tata 
Chief Credit Officer and Group Head - 
Collections, Debt Management, Credit 
Intelligence & Control, Credit Analytics 
and Innovation, Retail Credit Strategy 
and Control, CTG Credit, Retail Agri 
Credit, Credit Strategy Unit, Dept 
for Special Ops, AFU, Retail Credit, 
Wholesale Credit, SME Credit & Home 
Loan Credit
Mr. Jimmy Tata is the Chief Credit 
Ofﬁcer at the Bank. He holds 
a Master’s degree in Financial 
management from the Jamnalal 
Bajaj Institute of Management. He 
is a qualiﬁed Chartered Financial 
Analyst from the Institute of Chartered 
Financial Analysts of India. Mr. Tata 
has been with the Bank since 1994 
and has over 35 years of broad 
experience across the banking and 
ﬁnancial sector. Mr. Tata is a Director 
on the Board of the International 
Asset Reconstruction Co. Pvt. Ltd 
(IARC), HDB Financial Services Ltd 
and a Trustee on the HDB Employees 
Welfare Trust.
10
N Srinivasan 
Group Head – Retail Asset Operations
Mr. N.Srinivasan is Head of retail 
Assets Operations at the Bank. He 
is a Chartered Accountant, Cost 
Accountant and a Company Secretary. 
He has over 34 years of experience in 
ﬁnancial services including 29 years in 
banking operations.
11
Nirav Vimal Shah 
Group Head - Corporate Banking, 
Emerging Corporate Group & 
Healthcare Finance
Mr. Nirav Shah is the Head of 
Corporate Banking, Emerging 
Corporate Group and Healthcare 
Finance at the Bank. He holds a 
Bachelor’s degree in commerce and 
a Master of Management Studies 
in Finance from Mumbai University. 
He has over 30 years of experience, 
26 years of which has been with 
the Bank.
12
Parag Rao 
Group Head-Payments Business, 
Liabilities Products, Consumer Finance 
& Marketing
Mr. Parag Rao is the Head of 
Payments, Liability Products, 
Consumer Finance & Marketing 
function at the Bank. He holds a 
Master’s degree in management 
studies from S.P. Jain Institute of 
Management, Mumbai University and 
a Bachelor’s degree in engineering 
from the Regional Engineering College 
in Jamshedpur. He has over 31 years 
of professional experience.
13
Prashant Ramesh Mehra 
Group Head - Collections, 
Credit Intelligence and Control, 
Debt Management
Mr. Prashant Ramesh Mehra is the 
Head – Collections, Credit Intelligence 
and Control and Debt Management 
at HDFC Bank. In this role, he is 
responsible for ensuring the portfolio 
quality, debt management and NPA 
control for the retail lending product 
segments of the Bank. Mr. Mehra has 
been with the Bank since December 
1998. He holds a bachelor’s degree in 
production engineering and an MBA 
from Mumbai University. He is having 
more than 30 years of experience.
14
Prasun Singh 
Group Head - Ethics Function
Mr. Prasun Singh heads the Ethics 
function at the Bank. Mr. Singh holds 
a Bachelor of Arts (Honours) degree 
in French from Jawaharlal Nehru 
University, New Delhi, an Executive 
Postgraduate Programme in General 
Management (EPGM) from MIT 
Sloan School of Management, a Post 
Graduate Diploma in Journalism and 
a Bachelor of Laws (LLB) degree. He 
has 30 years of experience.
15
Ramesh Lakshminarayanan 
Chief Information Officer
Mr. Ramesh Lakshminarayanan is 
the Chief Information Ofﬁcer and 
Group Head - IT at the Bank. He 
holds a Bachelor’s degree in physics 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
31
Who Governs Us

PROFILE OF LEADERSHIP TEAM
from Mumbai University and an MBA 
from the University of Pune. He is an 
industry veteran with over 25 years 
of experience.
16
Rakesh Kumar Rajput 
Group Chief Compliance Officer-
(Compliance)
Mr. Rakesh Kumar Rajput is the 
Chief Compliance Ofﬁcer at the 
Bank since October 2023. Mr. Rajput 
holds a Bachelor of Science (Honrs) 
and is a Certiﬁed Associate of the 
Indian Institute of Bankers He holds 
an advanced Diploma in Business 
Management. He has 30 years 
of experience.
17
Rakesh Singh 
Group Head - Capital & Commodity 
Markets, International Business, Private 
Banking Group, Digital Ecosystem, 
Baas & Thematic Research
Mr. Rakesh Singh is the Head of 
Financial Institutions, International 
Business, Private Banking Group, 
Digital Ecosystem, Thematic Research 
and BaaS. He holds an MBA from the 
Institute of Management Technology, 
Ghaziabad and has over 30 years of 
experience in the ﬁnancial sector.
18
Raveesh Kumar Bhatia 
Group Head - Emerging Corporates 
Group and Health Care Finance
Mr. Raveesh K. Bhatia is the Head 
of Emerging Corporates Group and 
Healthcare Finance. He is responsible 
for extending the wide range of 
the Bank’s products and services 
to the mid-market segment and 
healthcare segment. Mr. Bhatia joined 
HDFC Bank in 2009 and has over 
three decades of work experience. 
Mr. Bhatia holds an MBA from 
IIM Ahmedabad.
19
Ravi Santhanam 
Chief Marketing Officer,  
Head - Direct to Consumer Business
Mr. Ravi Santhanam is Head and Chief 
Marketing Ofﬁcer and Head – Direct 
to Consumer Business at HDFC Bank. 
He is responsible for driving the digital 
origination and fulﬁllment of all Bank 
products and all Direct to Consumer 
products of the Bank. He has over 28 
years of experience. Mr. Santhanam 
has a mechanical engineering degree 
from Anna University and is also 
an alumnus of Indian Institute of 
Management Calcutta and Harvard 
Business School.
20
Sampath Sathyamurthy Kumar 
Group Head - Retail Branch Banking II
Mr. S. Sampath Kumar is the Head 
of Retail Branch Banking II. He has 
over 31 years of experience and 
is an alumnus of the University of 
Madras, Tamil Nadu. He is having 
rich experience in NRI Domestic 
& Overseas Business, Third Party 
Products and Tele-Sales  
& Service Relationships.
21
Sanjay John D Souza 
Group Head – Business Banking Group, 
Emerging Enterprises Group & Micro 
Enterprise Group
Mr. Sanjay D’Souza is the Head of 
Business Banking Group, Emerging 
and Informal Micro Enterprises Group 
at the Bank. Mr. D’Souza holds a 
Master’s degree in Management 
Studies from the Sydenham Institute 
of Management Studies, as well as 
a Bachelor’s degree in Mechanical 
Engineering from The National Institute 
of Technology, Karnataka. He is a 
seasoned banking professional with 
33 years of overall experience.
22
Sanmoy Chakrabarti 
Group Chief Risk Officer (Integrated 
Risk Management, Market Risk, ORMG, 
Risk Management, Treasury Mid office)
Mr. Sanmoy Chakrabarti serves as 
the Group Chief Risk Ofﬁcer at HDFC 
Bank and its subsidiaries. He holds 
a Master’s degree in Quantitative 
Economics from the Indian Statistical 
Institute. He has over two decades of 
experience in Risk Management.
23
Smita A Bhagat 
Group Head - Retail Branch Banking I
Ms. Smita Bhagat is the Head of Retail 
Branch Banking-I, RTFX and Alternate 
Channel and Partnership. She holds 
bachelor’s degrees in arts, economics 
and statistics, a master’s degree of 
commerce in ﬁnancial management, 
and an MBA from the University of 
HDFC Bank Limited
32

Rajasthan. She has more than  
30 years of experience in banking  
and joined the Bank in 1999.
24
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan 
Chief Financial Officer, (Finance 
including Business Intelligence Unit, 
Corporate Communications)
Mr. Srinivasan Vaidyanathan is the 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer at the Bank. 
He is a commerce graduate from 
Madras University. He is a Fellow of 
India Chartered Accountants and 
Cost & Management Accountants, 
Fellow of the UK Association of 
International Accountants and a 
Member of CMA, USA. He is also an 
MBA. Mr. Vaidyanathan is an All-India 
Rank Holder at the Intermediate and 
Final level of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India. He has over  
30 years of experience in the ﬁnancial 
services industry.
25
Sudhir Kumar Jha 
Group Head - Legal & Group 
General Counsel
Mr. Sudhir Kumar Jha is the Head of 
Legal function and Group General 
Counsel at the Bank. He is a qualiﬁed 
lawyer from Campus Law Centre, 
University of Delhi. He specialised in 
International Trade and Finance from 
Oxford University and did a Master’s in 
Financial Management from Jamnalal 
Bajaj Institute of Management Studies 
(JBIMS), Mumbai. He has 33 years 
of experience.
26
Suketu Kapadia 
Group Head - Internal Audit
Mr. Suketu Kapadia is the Group Head 
of Internal Audit function at the Bank. 
He is a Chartered Accountant and a 
member of The Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India and holds a 
Bachelor’s degree in Commerce 
from Mumbai University. He is also a 
Certiﬁed Information Systems Auditor. 
Mr. Kapadia is an audit professional 
with more than 29 years of experience 
in Assurance, Risk Management, 
Finance and Consulting.
27
Sumant Vinay Rampal 
Group Head - Mortgage business 
(Home loan, LAP)
Mr. Sumant Vinay Rampal is the Head 
of Mortgage Business (Home Loan, 
LAP) at the Bank. He is an alumnus of 
the Symbosis Institute of International 
Business, Pune. Mr. Rampal has been 
a Corporate and Wholesale banker 
throughout his two-and-a-half-decade 
career with the Bank.  
28
Sundaresan M 
Group Head - RCSC, INF Credit,  
CAI & Credit Bureau Management
Mr. Sundaresan M. is Head of 
Retail Credit Strategy & Control at 
the bank. Since joining the bank 
in 2002, his portfolio of expertise 
spans policy development, credit 
strategy, risk analytics, underwriting, 
and collections. He is a graduate in 
Mechanical Engineering from PSG 
Tech Coimbatore and has honed 
his leadership and strategic skills at 
the Indian Institute of Management, 
Lucknow. He is having more than  
30 years of experience.
29
Vinayak Ravindra Mavinkurve 
Group Head – Realty Business Finance
Mr. Vinayak Mavinkurve is the Head of 
Realty Business Finance at the Bank. 
He holds a B.Tech degree in Electrical 
Engineering from VJTI, Mumbai and an 
MMS degree from NMIMS, Mumbai. 
He has 31 years of experience.
30
Vivek Jagdish Capoor 
Group Head-FAG & Taxation
Mr. Vivek Capoor is the Head of 
Finance. He looks after the reporting 
of ﬁnancials of the Bank under Indian 
GAAP and US GAAP and also 
oversees the corporate tax function. 
He graduated from the Sydenham 
College of Commerce and Economics 
and is a Chartered Accountant. 
He joined HDFC Bank in 1998 and 
has over 25 years experience in the 
banking and ﬁnance domain
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
33
Who Governs Us

OUR PRESENCE
Expanding 
Reach, 
Deepening 
Relationships
HDFC Bank’s expanding branch 
network, backed by digital 
capabilities, ensures deeper 
customer engagement, drives 
deposit growth, and broadens 
ﬁnancial access especially in the 
semi-urban and rural regions.
HDFC Bank is focused on expanding its distribution 
network to ensure sustainable funding for the future 
and tap into new markets. Opening new branches is 
about getting future ready as going by past experience 
maximum deposit mobilisation takes place from older 
branches. The Bank’s expanded branch network and 
digital platforms have enabled effective reach across 
urban and rural markets Moreover, it believes that 
physical presence will be an integral component in 
customer engagement. As digitalisation advances, the 
branches are evolving from being mere transaction 
points into customer experience hubs, fostering 
deeper customer relationships and enhancing the 
overall banking experience. 
Our strategically located 9,455 branches (51 per cent 
are in semi-urban and rural areas), help enhance 
customer service and broaden access to previously 
underserved markets. Our overseas branches are 
tailored to meet the speciﬁc needs of Non-Resident 
Indian (NRI) customers. 
HDFC Bank's extensive distribution includes 
branches, Business Correspondents (BCs), 
ATMs, Cash Recycler Machines (CRMs) and 
merchant services—ensuring widespread customer 
accessibility. Further, the merger strengthens our 
geographic coverage by integrating HDFC Limited's 
footprint with the Bank’s pan India network, 
ensuring comprehensive service across the country. 
Complementing this physical presence, our digital 
platforms and innovative products deliver seamless 
banking experiences.
In line with the Government’s Digital Banking Units 
(DBUs) initiative, the Bank has established nine 
DBUs across Haridwar (Uttarakhand), Chandigarh, 
Faridabad (Haryana), South 24 Parganas (West 
Bengal), Pune (Maharashtra), Thane (Maharashtra), 
Panipat (Haryana), Patna (Bihar), and Salem (Tamil 
Nadu). These DBUs provide efﬁcient, secure and 
paperless banking services.
HDFC Bank Limited
34
34
HDFC Bank Limited

International Presence
The Bank’s global footprint includes 
ﬁve branches located in Hong Kong, 
Bahrain, Dubai International Financial 
Centre (DIFC), Singapore and an IFSC 
Banking Unit in Gujarat International 
Finance Tec-City. Additionally, we 
have four representative ofﬁces 
in Kenya, Abu Dhabi, Dubai and 
London respectively, catering to Non-
Resident Indians (NRIs) and Persons 
of Indian Origin. Our NRI clients are 
offered a diverse range of products, 
such as offshore deposits, bonds, 
equity, mutual funds, treasury and 
structured products, sourced through 
our Bahrain Branch from third-party 
providers. Additionally, our suite of 
products for corporate clients includes 
trade credits, foreign currency term 
loans, external commercial borrowings 
and derivatives for hedging purposes.  
As on March 31, 2025, our 
international business recorded a 
balance sheet size of US $ 10.83 
billion, with advances comprising 1.75 
per cent of the bank's total advances.
Driving Our CSR 
initiatives
Our extensive national footprint 
provides us with invaluable insights 
into diverse regions, including semi-
urban and rural areas. We leverage this 
to drive our sustainable development 
agenda and empower communities 
across the country.
As of March 31, 2025 the total lives 
impacted through our CSR initiatives 
is over 10 crore* (*including both 
immediate and extended beneﬁciaries).
Our Pan India Presence
2,664 
Branches
4 
DBUs
2
Other BCs
278
CSC BC 
Metro
1,981
Branches
3 
DBUs
27
Other BCs
616
CSC BC  
Urban
3,182
Branches
0 
DBUs
320
Other BCs
2,204
CSC BC
Semi-Urban
1,614
Branches
2
DBUs
391
Other BCs
11,561
CSC BC
Rural
7,915
Metro
9,441
Branches 
(excluding 5 
overseas branches) 
24,849
Total Banking 
Outlets
9
DBUs 
5,317
Urban
6,007
Semi Urban
1,900
Rural
21,139
Total ATMs + Cash Recycler 
Machines Network
15,399
Total Business 
Correspondents (BCs) 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
35
Introduction to HDFC Bank

OUR JOURNEY
Landmark 
Moments
1994
• Housing Development Finance Corporation 
(HDFC) Limited received an in-principle 
approval from the RBI to set up a private 
sector bank 
• Incorporated in August 1994 as HDFC 
Bank Limited
1977
• Housing Development Finance 
Corporation (HDFC) Limited was 
incorporated on October 17.
• HDFC promoted as a 'development 
finance institution' by the Industrial 
Credit and Investment Corporation 
of India Limited, the International 
Finance Corporation, Washington 
[IFC(W)] and His Royal Highness 
The Aga Khan.
• Mr. H. T. Parekh appointed 
as Chairman.
1978
• HDFC Limited's first Public 
Issue of equity shares of 
D10 crore.
2000
• A Bank with many ﬁrsts
• First Bank to launch Mobile Banking in India
Launched ﬁrst SMS–
based Mobile Banking
2003-04
• First bank in India to offer Credit Card in 
100+ cities
• Touched 10 Lakh users
2006
Two new cards launched 
exclusively for women on 
International Women’s Day
1997
maiden dividend 
announced
1999
• Launched first international Debit Card in 
India in association with Visa International
• Began its digital journey by launching 
online real-time NetBanking
• First ever mega merger in Indian banking 
industry – Times Bank merged with 
HDFC Bank
2008
• Opened first overseas commercial  
branch in Bahrain
• Merger of Centurion Bank of Punjab with 
HDFC Bank – One of the largest mergers in 
the Indian banking industry
2010
Launched 40% faster ATMs 
first of its kind in Asia
1995
• Banking licence received in January 1995
• IPO oversubscribed 55 times
• Listed on BSE and NSE
First corporate ofﬁce and 
branch opened
2011
Growing market leadership – Expanded 
customer base to become market leaders 
in Auto Loans, Personal Loans, and 
Credit Cards
2012
• Launched Mobile Banking App in Hindi 
• Launched a nationwide sports initiative – 
Josh Unlimited, for employees
2001
•  Overseas listing Listed on New York Stock 
Exchange (NYSE)
• Became the first private bank authorised 
to collect Income Tax
2013
The Bank’s Sustainable Livelihood 
Initiative (SLI) crosses a milestone - 
impacting 20 lakh household
App in Hindi 
rts initiative – 
es
ood 
one - 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
37
36
Introduction to HDFC Bank
HDFC Bank Limited
37
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
36
1997-98
New logo launched

2025
Launched PIXEL:  
A new generation of 
Digital Credit Cards
2014
• Sustainability established as a 
core value of the Bank 
• Created a new Guinness World 
Record for organising the largest 
single-day blood donation drive 
• Became market leader in issuing 
Credit Cards in 2013-14 with 55 
Lakh+ Cards
2015
• Launched its sonic branding i.e. 
Musical Logo (MOGO) to be used 
across multiple touch points 
• Launched PayZapp, India’s first 
1-click mobile-pay solution 
• Launched 10-second personal 
loan disbursement in the retail 
lending space
• Concurrent QIP issue and 
Follow-on offering: J9,723 crore
2019
• Voted no.1 in India by 
customers in Forbes World’s 
Best Banks Survey
• BSE inks pact with HDFC 
Bank to give a boost to Start-
Up platform
• 1 Million+ units of blood 
collected via HDFC Bank 
Parivartan’s Blood Donation 
Drive over a period of 12 years, 
primarily from employees
• Opened 5,000th branch
• Marked the start of its 25th year
2023
• Launched a revamped 
PayZapp 2.0 payments app 
that provides customers with 
a seamless, intuitive user 
experience with enhanced 
security features
• HDFC Bank and HDFC Limited 
merged with effect from July 
1, 2023, creating one of the 
world’s most valued Banks. 
This strengthened our position 
as a leading financial services 
conglomerate and completes 
its product suite through the 
addition of home loans.
2024
• RBI approved appointment 
of Mr. Kaizad Bharucha as 
Deputy Managing Director 
and Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri as 
Executive Director w.e.f. April 
19, 2023
• Appointed Mr. V Srinivasa 
Rangan as Executive Director 
w.e.f. November 23, 2023
• Launched UPI QR code 
interoperable with Central 
Bank Digital Currency (CBDC), 
among the first banks in 
the country to complete the 
integration process.
• PayZapp 2.0 reached 75 
lakh registrations
• Educated over 2 lakh citizens 
on safe digital banking 
practices pan India
OUR JOURNEY
2018
Next-gen MobileBanking 
App launched
Signed MoU with 
CSC, Govt of 
India to support 
ﬁnancial inclusion 
in rural areas
2016
• ATMs turned to LDMs (Loan 
Dispensing Machines)
• Launched SmartUp 
programme for Start-Ups
2017
Introduced EVA chatbot 
- India’s first AI-based 
chatbot to provide 
customer service
• Launched SmartUp 
Zones for Start-Ups
• Launched EasyEMI on 
Debit Cards
• Launched an all-in-one 
DigiPOS machine
2021
• Embarked on 'Project 
Future Ready'
• Pledged to become carbon 
neutral by 2031-32
• Became only private sector bank to 
have a branch in Lakshadweep
• Inaugurated its ﬁrst branch 
in Singapore.
• Launched ‘Anmol Salary Account’ 
- India’s First Cyber Fraud 
Cover Integrated Offering for 
PSU Employees
• Launched GIGA - A Complete 
Financial Suite of Products for 
Gig Workers
• Became ﬁrst domestic bank to 
execute a gold forward deal from 
GIFT City
• Tata Neu HDFC Bank Credit Card 
crosses a milestone - issuance of 
over 2 million cards.
2020
• Ranked India’s most 
valuable brand (for the 
seventh consecutive year) by 
BrandZ Report
• Launch of HDFC Bank 
Millennia range of cards
• First ever leadership 
change (new MD & CEO, 
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 
takes over)
• First-of-its-kind product 
launch: KGC-Shaurya card 
for armed forces
• Launch of contactless, 
consent-based customer 
on-boarding via video 
KYC facility
• Deploying mobile ATMs 
during the lockdown
2022
HDFC Bank 
and HDFC 
Ltd. announce 
transformational 
merger
Launched SmartHub Vyapar -  
A one-stop merchant solution 
App for all banking and business 
solutions
Launched 'Vigil Aunty' campaign 
to promote freedom from fraud 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
HDFC Bank Limited
39
38
Introduction to HDFC Bank
39
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
38
HDFC Bank Limited

FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Delivering 
Growth with 
Prudence
36,17,623 
24,66,081 
39,10,199 
FY24
FY25
FY23
Balance Sheet Size (I Cr)
39,10,199
In a year in which India continued 
to remain the fastest-growing 
major economy, HDFC Bank 
consolidated its position as the 
country’s largest private sector 
bank by Balance Sheet size while 
maintaining healthy asset quality.
The Balance Sheet size grew by 8.1 per cent in 
the ﬁscal, with a 14.1 per cent increase in Deposits 
and a 5.4 per cent growth in Advances. The Bank 
consolidated its position as the largest private 
sector bank by Balance Sheet size in India without 
compromising on asset quality. 
This was achieved through the extensive reach 
across 9,455 branches as well as a strong digital 
footprint. Our Proﬁt After Tax grew by 10.7 per cent 
and GNPA stood at 1.33 per cent. 
The Cost to Income Ratio marginally increased to 
40.5 per cent in FY25 from 40.2 per cent in FY24. 
The Bank added over 700 branches in the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025. The Net Interest 
Margin was at 3.48 per cent. 
The Bank remains well-capitalised, reﬂected in 
a Capital Adequacy Ratio of 19.6 per cent. As a 
responsible bank, it has built a substantial cushion 
against any adverse impact with a Provision 
Coverage Ratio of 67.86 per cent. HDFC Bank 
continued to deliver value to shareholders, with a 
ROE of 14.6 per cent. The Earnings Per Share (EPS) 
increased by 2.9 per cent to J88.3, while dividend 
per share rose by 12.8 per cent to J22.0 in FY25.
23,79,786 
18,83,395 
27,14,715 
FY24
FY25
FY23
Deposits (I Cr)
27,14,715 
40.2
40.4
40.5 
FY24
FY25
FY23
Cost to Income Ratio (%)
40.5  
1.24
1.12 
1.33 
FY24
FY25
FY23
Gross NPA Ratio (%)
1.33  
HDFC Bank Limited
40

Overview
60,812 
44,109 
67,347 
FY24
FY25
FY23
Profit After Tax (I Cr)
67,347 
24,84,862
16,00,586 
26,19,609 
FY24
FY25
FY23
Advances (I Cr)
26,19,609 
1.98 
2.07 
1.91 
FY24
FY25
FY23
Return on Assets (Average) (%)
1.91  
85.8
79.3
88.3
FY24
FY25
FY23
Earnings Per Share (I)
88.3 
16.1 
17.4 
14.6 
FY24
FY25
FY23
Return on Equity (%)
14.6 
19.5
19.0
22.0
FY24
FY25
FY23
Dividend Per Share (I)
22.0 
   Commission, Exchange, 
Brokerage  
  Other Interest Income 
  FX & Derivative Income
  Income from Investments
  Others 
  Interest from Advances
Rupee Earned FY25 (%)
9.2 2.5
1.4
16.6
1.4
68.9
   Tax Provisions 
  Provisions
  Dividend
  Transfer to Reserve
  Operating Expense
   Interest Expense
Rupee Spent FY25 (%)
6.6 3.6
4.6
8.5
21.2
55.5
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
41
Our Performance

BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Building India's 
Financial Future
The Wholesale Banking business 
of HDFC Bank caters to a wide 
spectrum of clientele, including Large 
Corporates, Multinational Corporations, 
Government, Public Sector Enterprises, 
Emerging Corporates and Business 
Banking/SMEs. The Bank extends 
diverse and comprehensive end to 
end ﬁnancial products and services, 
such as loans, deposits, payments, 
collections, tax solutions, trade ﬁnance, 
cash management solutions and 
corporate cards. Post the merger 
of HDFC Limited with HDFC Bank, 
the Bank inherited the realty ﬁnance 
business. The bank increased its focus 
to provide construction ﬁnance in 
residential, commercial space as well 
as lease rental discounting to leading 
developers in FY25. 
The Bank's goal is to serve as a one-
stop solution for the extensive business 
requirements of our customers in 
Wholesale Banking business. It offers 
personalised solutions to address 
speciﬁc customer requirements, 
supported by dedicated relationship 
managers who act as the single point 
of contact for all their banking needs. 
Leveraging the extensive experience in 
serving the wholesale segment, HDFC 
Bank has built a strong reputation for 
delivering quality and reliable services 
to its customers. 
Wholesale Banking
Retail Banking
HDFC Bank's Retail business 
serves a wide and diverse customer 
base, including individuals, salaried 
professionals, and small businesses 
such as Kirana stores, Self Help 
Groups (SHGs), and Non-Resident 
Indians (NRIs). With a focus on 
understanding and meeting the 
unique needs of these customers, the 
Bank offers a comprehensive suite of 
products and services. This includes 
Savings and Current accounts, 
a range of loan options for personal 
and business purposes, Credit 
and Debit cards, Digital wallets, 
Insurance and Investment products, 
and Remittance services. From 
affordable housing to home loans for 
NRIs, the Bank’s extensive product 
portfolio is supported by advanced 
digital capabilities and deep industry 
expertise, ensuring a smooth 
and convenient experience for all 
its customers.
The Treasury department oversees 
the Bank's cash and liquid assets and 
manages investments in securities 
and other market instruments. It is 
responsible for maintaining liquidity, 
monitoring interest rate risks on 
the balance sheet, and ensuring 
Treasury
compliance with statutory reserve 
requirements. Additionally, the 
department addresses customers' 
treasury needs, generating fee income 
from customer transactions and 
handling their foreign exchange and 
interest rate risks.
HDFC Bank Limited
42

We are the Preferred Banker 
of Choice across segments, 
and this is enabled by: 
Delivery of best-in-class services 
through customised solutions, 
products and through optimum use 
of technology 
 −Strong product proposition for 
NRIs through branches in India 
and overseas 
 −Our extensive distribution network 
combining both physical and digital 
channels to provide a seamless 
customer experience
 −Market leader in several asset 
categories with best-in-class 
portfolio quality 
 −Pioneer and strong player in the 
digital loan marketplace 
 −Providing customers with a product 
suite across all asset classes for 
'optimal asset allocation' depending 
on clients’ risk proﬁles and goals 
 −Strong presence in 
Payments Business 
 −A leader in Cash Management 
Services, offering effective and 
tailored solutions.
 −Open architecture, best-in-class 
portfolio quality and regular 
portfolio rebalancing 
 −Robust Risk Management practices 
across all businesses and activities 
 −Providing solutions to meet the 
hedging needs of non-residents in 
Indian markets. 
 −Integrated trade and treasury 
solution for customers 
 −Primary dealer for 
Government securities
Services Offered 
to Customers
Foreign Exchange and Derivatives’ 
Transactions, Solutions on Hedging 
Strategies, Trade Solutions - Domestic 
and Cross Border, Bullion and Others.
Loans and Deposits
Working Capital Facilities, Term 
Lending, Project Finance, Realty 
Finance Business, Supply Chain 
Financing, Export Finance, Trade 
Credit and Wholesale Deposits.
Investment Banking
Capital Finance through Debt/
Equity Capital Markets, Mergers 
& Acquisitions, IPOs, Private 
Equity, Venture Capital Fund 
Raising, Loan Syndication and 
Customised Solutions.
Loan Products
Personal, Auto, Gold, Two-Wheeler, 
Small Ticket Working Capital, 
Offshore, Agri and Tractor, Healthcare 
Finance, Commercial Vehicle & 
Equipment Finance, Infrastructure 
Finance, Loan Against Securities and 
Digital Loan against Mutual Funds.
Accounts and Deposits
Savings, Current and Corporate 
Salary Accounts, NRI Deposits, 
Fixed and Recurring Deposits.
Other Banking Products  
and Services
Forex & Derivatives, 
Custodial Services, Cash 
Management services, Letters 
of Credit, Guarantees and 
Correspondent Banking.
Other Products and 
Services 
Credit, Debit and Prepaid 
Cards, Digital Wallets, Wealth 
Management Solutions, Kisan 
Gold Card. A distributor of Mutual 
Funds as well as Life, General and 
Health Insurance.
Mortgages 
Home Loans: Rural Housing Loans, 
Loan Against Property, Reﬁnance 
and Home Loans to NRI’s
Key Functions Performed
Manages the Asset/Liability of 
the Bank, maintains a portfolio of 
Government Securities in line with 
regulatory norms of RBI and others, 
manages the liquidity and interest 
rate risks on the balance sheet, 
and is also responsible for meeting 
statutory reserve requirements.
Our Offerings
Our Edge
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
43
Our Performance

Enabling 
Homeownership 
with Trust and 
Innovation
With over four and a half decades 
of experience in understanding the 
evolving aspirations of homebuyers, 
the HDFC Bank Group recognises 
that a home loan is more than a 
ﬁnancial product, it’s an emotional 
milestone and often the single 
largest investment in a person’s life.
The merger marked a signiﬁcant milestone, integrating 
the legacy of trust in housing ﬁnance with the scale 
and technology prowess of India’s leading private 
sector bank. Post-merger, HDFC Bank now has the 
country’s largest mortgage portfolio.
Key Highlights for the Financial 
Year 2024-25
 −Seamless Access: Home loans are now 
available across a wide network of HDFC 
Bank branches and digital platforms, ensuring 
greater accessibility and convenience.
 −Customer-Centric Approach: Tailored 
home loans offering coupled with products 
like savings accounts, credit cards, CD 
loans, insurance and wealth solutions basis 
customer requirements.
 −Cross-Sell Success:
 
−Over 95 per cent of new home loan 
customers are opening CASA accounts.
 
−Over 50 per cent are opting for additional 
product offerings, strengthening long-
term customer relationships.
 −Digital Leadership: Continued investment 
in digital solutions has signiﬁcantly improved 
turnaround times and customer convenience 
at every stage of the home loan journey.
 −Strategic Growth: By leveraging the legacy 
home loan customer base, HDFC Bank is 
deepening its liability relationships and offering 
a full ﬁnancial services suite across pay, save, 
invest, borrow, insure and trade.
 −Robust Demand Outlook: With a strong 
institutional framework and rising urbanisation, 
the Bank is conﬁdent about the long-term 
housing demand in India and is well-positioned 
to be the preferred home loan partner.
HDFC Bank remains committed to delivering 
best-in-class mortgage solutions with trust and 
innovation backed by a deep understanding of its 
customers’ needs.
HOME LOAN ADVANTAGE
HDFC Bank Limited
44
44
HDFC Bank Limited

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
45
Our Performance

COMMERCIAL AND RURAL CLUSTER
Fuelling Growth 
in Semi-Urban 
and Rural India
The Commercial and Rural Cluster 
plays an important role in meeting 
Priority Sector Lending (PSL) 
requirements as well as advancing 
the Bank's ﬁnancial inclusion goals. 
As on March 31, 2025, it managed  
J9.08 lakh crore portfolio, serving 
a diverse clientele encompassing 
Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises (MSMEs), farmers 
(including small and marginal), 
healthcare and equipment ﬁnance 
customers, commercial transport 
companies and joint liability and 
self-help groups.
The multitude of businesses within the Bank’s  
Commercial and Rural Cluster are tied together by 
their signiﬁcant presence in Semi Urban and Rural 
(SURU) India. Over half of the Bank’s branches are 
strategically located in SURU regions, ensuring 
extensive coverage and accessibility to essential 
ﬁnancial services . Over the past three years, the 
Bank has expanded its reach from 91,000 villages to 
2.35 lakh villages. Further, the SME franchise is now 
present in 725 out of 789 districts. This distribution 
network facilitates easier access to banking 
facilities, empowering individuals and businesses in 
underserved geographies. 
Going forward, the Bank aims to deepen its 
engagement in these geographies by offering a 
comprehensive suite of solutions tailored to the 
diverse ﬁnancial needs of its clientele. 
Driven by this expansive physical footprint and deep 
local engagement this vertical recorded a robust 12.8 
per cent year-on-year growth in advances.
It plays a crucial role in fulﬁlling the Bank’s Priority 
Sector Lending (PSL) requirements, contributing up 
to 65 per cent of the overall PSL portfolio. Recent 
changes in MSME thresholds and home loan eligibility 
under PSL have expanded the customer base driving 
further growth. With a focused district-level strategy, 
the Bank ranks among the top three MSME lenders 
in 21 states including a leadership position in 14. The 
PSL book continues to support the Bank’s ﬁnancial 
inclusion goals while remaining proﬁtable, with a 
strong Return on Assets (ROA), robust asset quality, 
and effective risk management.
HDFC Bank Limited
HDFC Bank Limited
46
HDFC Bank Limited
46

Agriculture ﬁnance remains a key 
revenue stream with strategic 
diversiﬁcation into high-yield segments 
like dairy and horticulture. The 
Bank actively supports government 
initiatives such as Agriculture 
Infrastructure Fund (AIF), Farmer 
Producer Organisations (FPOs) and 
Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of 
Micro Food Processing Enterprises 
(PMFME), while extending credit to 
small and marginal farmers to further 
strengthen rural development and 
inclusive growth.
HDFC Bank's strategic focus on 
expanding into new territories and 
strengthening the sales force has 
enabled it to secure a leading market 
share in the commercial vehicle 
and equipment ﬁnancing sector. 
Additionally, it is actively cultivating an 
ecosystem to enhance its reach within 
the Transportation Finance domain 
supported by strong OEM relationship.
In terms of servicing, a dedicated 
relationship team engages regularly 
with customers to address their 
banking needs through personalised 
support. These interactions also 
enable the Bank to offer suitable 
cross-sell solutions aligned 
with the customer’s proﬁle and 
business lifecycle.
PRODUCT SUITE
 −Working 
Capital Loans
 −Term Loans
 −Supply 
Chain Management
 −Project Finance
 −Export Finance
 −Micro Finance
 −IPOs, Private Equity, 
VC Fund Raise, 
Loan Syndication
 −Mergers 
& Acquisitions
Agriculture 
Finaance
 −Crop Loan/
Farmer Finance
 −KCC
 −Dairy/Cattle Finance
 −Commercial Vehicle/
Equipment Finance
 −Tractor Finance
 −Infrastructure 
Finance
Agriculture
Finaance
A
i
lt
 −CASA Accounts
 −Fixed Deposits
 −Salary Account
 −Bank Guarantee/LCs
 −International Trade
 −Trade Flows 
& Derivatives
Working Capital and 
Term Loan Assets
Sustainable Livelihood Initiative (SHG and JLG)
Investment  
Banking
Transportation 
Finance Group
Agriculture Finance
Liabilities
Trade Finance & 
FX Advisory
Complementing its relationship-led 
model, the Bank has strengthened 
digital interventions to boost efﬁciency 
and service delivery. Customer data 
is directly sourced from account 
aggregators and statements, 
enabling quicker underwriting and 
digital summaries. Aadhaar-based 
authentication and veriﬁcation are 
seamlessly integrated while small-
ticket loans are sourced entirely 
through digital channels. An industry-
ﬁrst mobile app powers the pledge 
process under the Commercial and 
Rural Cluster. Going forward, the Bank 
will focus on enhancing digital account 
management, streamlining workﬂows 
and reducing administrative effort 
through technology-driven solutions.
Overall, the segment offers vast 
market potential, and the Bank is 
well-positioned to capitalise the 
opportunity through its strengths.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
47
Our Performance

POWER OF THE GROUP
Re-Imagining 
Value Creation 
Following the merger, the 
number of HDFC Bank’s 
subsidiaries has grown from 
2 to 14 with ﬁve identiﬁed as 
key subsidiaries. This has 
signiﬁcantly enhanced HDFC 
Bank Group’s ability to offer 
comprehensive ﬁnancial 
solutions to deepen and 
lengthen customer relationships.
Serving Your Financial Needs
We exist to assist Indians make better money choices, 
today and tomorrow
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited 
50.3%
HDB Financial Services Limited 
94.3%
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited 
50.3%
HDFC Securities Limited 
94.5%
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited 
52.5%
HDFC Bank Limited
48

HDFC Bank has ﬁve key subsidiaries 
viz., HDFC Life Insurance Company 
Limited (HDFC Life), HDB Financial 
Services Limited (HDBFS), HDFC 
ERGO General Insurance Company 
Limited (HDFC ERGO), HDFC Asset 
Management Company Limited (HDFC 
AMC) and HDFC Securities Limited 
(HSL).
By leveraging synergies across 
the Group's ecosystem, we aim to 
deliver innovative ﬁnancial solutions 
that anticipate and meet the 
evolving needs through the lifecycle.
Our collaborative strategy aims to 
empower our Group in facilitating 
deeper engagements across various 
touchpoints, fortifying connections, 
nurturing long-lasting customer 
relationships and facilitating cross sell. 
This advantage is pivotal in navigating 
the dynamic ﬁnancial services 
landscape. In our efforts we are 
backed by a consolidated employee 
base with diverse skillsets, 
a combined branch network 
and various other physical/
digital touchpoints.
We are committed to fostering 
progress together by harnessing 
our collaborative strengths to drive 
sustainable growth and proﬁtability. 
HDFC Life and HDFC ERGO prepare 
their ﬁnancial results in accordance 
with Indian GAAP and other 
subsidiaries do so in accordance 
with the notiﬁed Indian Accounting 
Standards ('Ind-AS'). 
The details of the subsidiaries 
including ﬁnancial performance (on 
a standalone basis) and key initiatives 
for the Financial Year 2024-25 are 
given below.
FY25 Financials
In FY 2024-25, HDFC Life known 
for its innovative products and 
customer-centric approach has 
secured about 5 crore lives with 
an overall claim settlement ratio 
of 99.8 per cent. It has over 
650 branches across India. For 
FY25, HDFC Life reported New 
Business Margin of 25.6 per 
cent, Value of New Business 
of I3,962 crore, an Embedded 
Value of I55,423 crore and 
delivered Proﬁt After Tax of 
I1,802 crore. As on March 31 
2025, HDFC Life had an AUM 
of I3,36,282 crore.
FY25 Key Initiatives
1.  Expanding Distribution
Footprint: Added 200+ branches
in the last 24 months, of which 117
branches were added in FY25. It
onboarded ~40 new partners in
FY2024-25, such as Sundaram
Finance, Aditya Birla Finance, Mirae
Asset, Sharekhan, amongst others.
2.  Product Innovation: Launched
industry-ﬁrst product in participating
and pension segment - Click
2 Achieve Par Advantage and
Sanchay Aajeevan Guaranteed
Advantage (SAGA)
3.  Technology Transformation:
Technology initiative 'Project
INSPIRE' aimed at reimagining
systems and processes to be
scalable and agile is progressing
steadily and incremental tech
assets are being rolled out
through the course of the year
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited
Established in 2000, HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (‘HDFC Life’ or the 
‘Company’), in which the Bank holds a 50.3 per cent stake, is a listed, leading, long-
term life insurance solutions provider in India. It offers a broad range of individual and 
group plans across the Protection, Pension, Savings, Investment, Annuity and Health 
categories. Its portfolio comprises over 70 products and optional riders which are 
designed to meet the diverse needs of its customers.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
49
Our Performance

POWER OF THE GROUP 
FY25 Financials
The company’s Proﬁt After Tax 
stood at I2,176 crore as on 
March 31, 2025 compared to 
I2,461 crore as on March 31, 
2024. The Total Loan Book grew 
by 18.47 per cent to I1,06,878 
crore on March 31, 2025 
compared to I90,218 crore on 
March 31, 2024. The Gross Non 
Performing Asset (GNPA) ratio 
stood at 2.26 per cent and Net 
Non Performing Asset (NNPA) 
ratio at 0.99 per cent as on 
March 31, 2025. GNPA stood 
at 1.90 per cent and NNPA 
at 0.63 per cent for the year 
ended March 31, 2024. Capital 
Adequacy Ratio stood at 19.22 
per cent as on March 31, 2025.
FY25 Key Initiatives  
CRM System 
HDB Financial Services implemented 
an advanced CRM system to 
transform customer experience and 
improve operational efﬁciency. It 
enhances productivity and delivers 
a seamless customer experience. A 
cloud-based infrastructure ensures 
scalability. The real-time engagement 
capabilities of the CRM facilitated 
instant query resolution, proactive 
support and tailored offers using 
predictive analytics. By integrating 
multiple touch-points to deliver an 
omnichannel experience, HDBFS is 
poised to leverage this platform to 
increase its revenue streams.
NPCI’s e-KYC Setu System 
HDBFS has integrated NPCI’s 
e-KYC Setu System streamlining 
the account opening process. 
Developed through a collaboration 
between the National Payments 
Corporation of India (NPCI) and 
the Unique Identiﬁcation Authority 
of India (UIDAI), this system has 
enabled customers to open loan 
accounts without the need for 
document uploads. The secure 
OTP-based process has ensured 
quick and hassle-free authentication 
from any location. Additionally, it 
has enhanced ﬁnancial inclusion 
and digitalised loan disbursement 
processes, providing convenience 
and accessibility to customers.
HDB Financial Services Limited
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFS), in which the Bank holds a 94.3 per cent stake, 
is a non-deposit taking NBFC. HDBFS has a comprehensive bouquet of products and 
service offerings that are tailor-made to suit its customers’ requirements including ﬁrst-
time borrowers and the underserved segments. It is engaged in the business of lending, 
fee-based products and BPO services. The company has a strong network of over 
1,771 branches spread across 1,170 cities.
HDFC Bank Limited
50

FY25 Financials
HDFC ERGO has demonstrated 
consistent proﬁtable growth, 
achieving a 28 per cent CAGR 
over 17 years, outpacing the 
general insurance industry’s 15 
per cent. Its market share rose 
from 0.8 per cent in FY08 to 5.1 
per cent in FY25. Proﬁt After Tax 
grew 14 per cent year-on-year 
to I500 crore in FY25 from 
I438 crore in FY24.
FY25 Key Initiatives 
1. 
 HDFC ERGO made further 
investments in expanding its 
claims network. During FY25, 
it serviced motor OD claims 
across 648 districts. Further, 
its network of empanelled 
hospitals and diagnostic centres 
is spread across 610 districts of 
the country.
2. 
 HDFC ERGO conducted the 
grand ﬁnale of the 1st edition of 
TechPreneur, a future forward 
start-up challenge to boost 
innovation in insurance, 
where 17 participants were 
shortlisted for the ﬁrst round of 
pitching from among the initial 
competitive pool of over 140 
start-ups.
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (HDFC ERGO), in which the Bank 
holds a 50.3 per cent stake, offers a comprehensive bouquet of general insurance 
products - such as Health, Motor, Travel, Home, Personal Accident and Cyber Insurance 
for its retail customers. It also offers products like Property, Engineering, Marine and 
Liability Insurance to its SME & corporate customers. Further rural customers can 
secure crop and cattle insurance.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
51
Our Performance

POWER OF THE GROUP 
FY25 Financials
Total Income for the Financial 
Year 2024-25 recorded a year-
on-year growth of 28 per cent 
to I4,058 crore. Proﬁt After 
Tax grew by 26 per cent to 
I2,461 crore.
FY25 Key Initiatives 
1. 
 Expanded product suite with 7 
NFOs, taking the total to over 100 
products and I7.5 lakh crore in 
overall AUM.
2. 
 Strengthened the passive 
portfolio, raising the total to 44 
passive funds across Index and 
ETFs, with I574 billion in AUM.
3. 
 Added 26 new ofﬁces, bringing 
the total count to 280.
4. 
 Enhanced the digital 
infrastructure to deliver a 
fast, secure and user-friendly 
investment experience with 
innovations like WhatsApp 
transactions and integration 
with Open Network for Digital 
Commerce (ONDC) platform.
5. 
 Forayed into AIFs with the 
successful closure of its ﬁrst 
Category II AIF Fund of Funds.
6. 
 Strengthened international 
presence by launching three 
funds through wholly owned 
subsidiary, HDFC AMC 
International (IFSC) Limited.
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (HDFC AMC), investment manager to 
HDFC Mutual Fund, is one of India’s largest mutual funds. With a 52.5 per cent stake 
held by HDFC Bank, it offers a wide range of savings and investment products to over 
1.32 crore investors through 2.33 crore live accounts. Established in 1999, it has a 
strong presence across 280 ofﬁces, 95,000+ distribution partners and digital platforms. 
HDFC AMC also provides Portfolio Management Services and Alternative Investment 
Funds to HNIs, family ofﬁces, corporates, trusts, and institutions, ensuring accessible, 
efﬁcient ﬁnancial solutions across diverse customer segments.
HDFC Bank Limited
52

FY25 Financials
In the Financial Year 2024-25, 
HSL's total income grew ~23 
per cent to I3,265 crore from 
I2,661 crore in the previous 
year. Net revenue (total income 
less ﬁnance costs) stood at 
I2,479 crore, up 20 per cent 
y-o-y. Operating expenses of 
I983 crore resulted in a cost-to-
revenue ratio of 39.7 per cent. 
PAT was I1,125 crore, up 18 
per cent. EPS was I638. The 
average margin trading funding 
(MTF) portfolio increased 
signiﬁcantly by 50 per cent y-o-y 
to I8,343 crore. Equity trade 
volumes grew 24 per cent y-o-y 
to I8 lakh crore.
FY25 Key Initiatives 
• 
Empowering Investors: HDFC 
Sky, HSL’s ﬂat price broking 
service app, saw remarkable 
growth in FY25. It facilitates 
seamless participation for 
investors and traders at all 
experience levels, offering a 
wide range of investment and 
trading options.
• 
To demystify ﬁnancial jargon 
and promote literacy in core 
concepts of investing and 
trading, HDFC Sky unveiled the 
Sky Learn initiative, providing 
video-driven content across 
multiple digital channels. 
Embracing the motto ‘Make 
Money Matter’, HDFC Sky 
is committed to fostering a 
digital-ﬁrst, tech-powered 
platform that empowers every 
Indian citizen to invest wisely 
and conﬁdently.
HDFC Securities Limited
HDFC Securities Limited (HSL), in which the Bank holds a 94.5 per cent stake, is among 
the leading broking ﬁrms in India, serving 68 lakh customers with a comprehensive 
range of investment and protection products. It leverages real-time, data-driven insights 
and research-backed information to empower investors. HSL has 134 branches across 
106 cities and towns as on March 31, 2025. Approximately, 96 per cent of its customers 
accessed its services digitally. HSL’s ranking in NSE active clients has improved to the 
6th position with 15.25 lakh customers from 7th position last year.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
53
Our Performance

OUR VALUE CREATION MODEL
CORE VALUES
Customer Focus | Operational Excellence | Product Leadership |  
People | Sustainability
Serving 
ﬁnancial 
needs of 
Indians
B
U
S
I
N
E
S
S
 
S
E
G
M
E
N
T
S
R
e
t
a
il
W
h
o
l
e
s
a
l
e
CEO PRIORITIES
Employee First
Customer First
Technology First
Power of the Group
OUR PERFORMANCE
KEY BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Lending  |  Branch operations | Underwriting 
and risk management | Investment 
management | Asset-liability management | 
Time Deposits | Customer services | Current 
and Saving Accounts | Collections | 
At - Scale Distribution
OUR CONTEXT
1  External Environment
2  Stakeholder Engagement
3  Material Topics
4  Risk Management 
OUR STRATEGIC PILLARS
 −Branch Channel Engagement and 
Virtual Relationship Management 
(VRM)
 −Government and Institutional 
(G&I) Business
 −Wealth Management
 −Technology & Digital
 −Digital Marketing
 −Payments Business
 −Retail Assets
 −Mortgage Assets
 −Commercial & Rural Cluster
 −Corporate Cluster
Click the number beside each element 
for more information
 −Total Deposits 
H27,14,714.9 crore
 −Total Advances 
H26,19,608.6 crore
 −Net Interest Income 
H1,22,670.1 crore
 −Total Income 
H3,46,149.3 crore
 −Share of Digital 
transactions in 
Total ﬁnancial 
transactions – 97%
 −Dividend per share – 
H22.0^ 
^Proposed
Click here for more on our priorities and the 
Strategic pillars of the bank
OUTPUTS
T
r
e
a
s
u
r
y
Impacts
Reﬂects
Drives
Guides  
Responds to
Derived
Inﬂuences
Shapes our 
view of
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
OUR PERFORMANCE ACROSS CAPITALS
1  2  3  4  5  
6  7  8  9  10
4  5
1  5
1  5  6  7  
8  9  10
1  8  9
4  5
FINANCIAL
 −
Total Deposits – H27,14,714.9 crore 
 −
Shareholders fund – H5,01,424.6 crore
 −
Borrowings – H5,47,930.9 crore
HUMAN
 −
Employee base – 2,14,521  
 −
Employee expense Staff Cost – H23,900.5 crore
 −
Learning and Development initiatives
 −
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion initiatives
 −
Talent Management
 −
Culture Ecosystem - Nurture, Care & Collaborate
INTELLECTUAL
 −
Credit policy and underwriting skills
 −
Digital solution and factory, Enterprise Factory
 −
Risk management framework integrating ESG factors
 −
Implementation framework on carbon neutrality
 −
State-of-the-art data centers
 −
Adoption of a zero-trust architecture approach 
supported by a sound Information and cyber security 
policy to ensure protection against cyberattacks
SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP
 −
Customer base – 9.7 crore
 −
CSR Spends on Parivartan projects – H1,068.03 crore
 −
No. of CSR implementation partners - 214
 −
Aligning stakeholders to ESG
 −
Partnership with Government
NATURAL
 −
Smart IOT based building management systems 
(BMS) active at about 350 branches
 −
All new branches and ofﬁces evaluated for IGBC 
certiﬁcation- 2,507 branches and ofﬁces green 
certiﬁed till date
 −
Installation of Active Harmonic Filters: 84 locations
 −
Sustainable Finance portfolio contributing to India’s 
NDCs and global SDGs
MANUFACTURED
 −
New branches opened in FY25 - 719 
 −
ATMs, Corporate ofﬁce, digital factories, data 
warehouse and others
 −
Bangalore ‘Netmagic· DC3B’ Certiﬁed green 
data center 
Inputs
Outcomes
Risks & SDGs
 −
Total Net Revenues – H1,68,302.4 crore
 −
Proﬁt after tax – H67,347.4 crore
 −
Return on Average Assets – 1.91%
 −
Return on Equity – 14.6%
 −
Cost-to-income ratio – 40.5%
 −
Capital Adequacy Ratio – 19.6%
 −
Net NPA – 0.43%
 −
Dividend Per Share – H22.0^
 −
Women in workforce – 26.14%
 −
Total Learning Hours – 1,24,95,372
 −
Employee attrition rate - 22.60% 
 −
86% of our acquisitions are digital
 −
97% of our ﬁnancial transactions are digital
 −
79% of servicing happens digitally
 −
19.3 lakh merchants active on our Smarthub Vyapar App
 −
Average customer uptime increased to 99.95%
 −
Brand Valuation – US$ 44.96 Billion*
 −
PayZapp has crossed 1.6 crore registrations as of  
March 31, 2025 
*As per Kantar BrandZ Most Valuable Global Brands 2025
 −
MSCI ESG Rating – AA
 −
Leadership category with score of 71 in CRISIL ESG 
Ratings for FY 2023-24 disclosures
 −
S&P Corporate Sustainability Assessment - 85th  Percentile 
(in FY 2024-25)
 −
10.56 crore lives impacted as on March 31, 2025 
(cumulatively - Including both immediate and extended 
beneﬁciaries)
 −
Energy saved through IoT based BMS implementation: 
623.84 MWh
 −
Reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emission intensity per HCr 
revenue from operations: 45%
 −
19 ofﬁce and branch locations received 100% green 
power in FY 25
 −
Sustainable bond proceeds of 150 Million USD allocated 
towards green transportation and MSMEs, veriﬁed and 
certiﬁed by a leading third party auditor
 −
Sustainable ﬁnance portfolio of 18.69%
 −
Total Banking Outlets – 24,854 (inclusive of 5 overseas 
branches)
 −
Total Branches – 9,455 (Inclusive of Overseas Branches 
and DBUs) – of which 51% are SURU branches
 −
Total Fixed Point Business Correspondents – 15,399
 −
ATMs + Cash Recycler Machines – 21,139
 −
Cities/towns covered – 4,150
^Proposed
Credit Risk
1
Market Risk
2
Compliance Risk
3
Operational Risk
4
Climate Risk
5
Liquidity Risk
6
Reputation Risk
7
Technology Risk
8
Risk of spill-over from Subsidiaries
10
Cyber and Data Risk
9
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
HDFC Bank Limited
55
54
How We Create Value

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Building 
Value through 
Collaborations
HDFC Bank is deeply committed 
to forging strong, purpose-driven 
partnerships with stakeholders 
through consistent, meaningful 
engagements throughout the year. 
By listening intently to their priorities 
and needs, we identify issues most 
critical to driving the Bank’s value 
creation while crafting innovative, 
forward-looking solutions that deliver 
lasting impact.
Purpose of Stakeholder Engagement 
Assessing Impact 
We collaborate with stakeholders to evaluate the 
actual and potential Environmental, Social, and 
Governance (ESG) impact from our activities. This 
process helps us actively address concerns and 
uncover opportunities for positive change.
Developing Solutions 
Working together with stakeholders is essential for 
identifying and implementing effective strategies to 
prevent and reduce potential risks.
Respecting Stakeholder Rights 
We understand that engaging with stakeholders goes 
beyond simply meeting our objectives—it’s also about 
respecting their rights. To that end, we are dedicated 
to upholding these rights and promoting an open and 
inclusive dialogue.
To truly amplify the voices of our stakeholders, 
the Bank has taken bold steps by establishing 
diverse communication channels and fostering 
direct engagement through the departments most 
connected to them. By actively monitoring the issues 
that matter most to stakeholders, their feedback has 
become a powerful catalyst for our internal growth 
and transformation.
Stakeholder Groups
We strategically map stakeholders based on their 
interest, inﬂuence, and impact; prioritise them by 
relevance, and craft tailored engagement strategies to 
address their unique needs. In FY 2024-25, the Bank 
deepened its commitment to meaningful dialogue 
with key stakeholder groups through a variety of 
initiatives, as follows.
Our 
Stakeholder 
Engagement 
Process
Identify 
potential topics
Revisit of material 
issues by the 
internal stakeholders
Stakeholder 
engagement 
and prioritisation
Customers
Employees
Vendors
Regulatory  
Bodies
Investors 
& Shareholders
Community
Deﬁne 
stakeholder 
groups
Revised 
materiality map
HDFC Bank Limited
56
56
HDFC Bank Limited

Key Concerns   
 −Ease of transacting 
across channels
 −Customer-centric products 
and services
 −Digital ﬁnance innovation
 −Customer data management
 −Consumer rights protection
Response
 −New products 
enabled by the Bank’s 
digitisation strategy
 −Making personalised 
recommendations through a 
Virtual Relationship Manager 
(VRM)
 −Information Education 
Communication (IEC) 
activities on data security 
and privacy
9.7 crore +
Customer Base
Customers
Value Drivers
 −HDFC Bank proudly serves over 9.7 crore customers, empowering them with seamless 
access to world-class ﬁnancial services through an extensive network of more than 
9,455 branches and 21,139 ATMs/CDMs across 4,150 cities and towns as of 
March 31, 2025.
 −We champion accessibility by ensuring our services reach all customers, including those 
with disabilities. Every ATM is equipped with voice-guided systems and Braille keypads 
to empower the visually impaired, while over 2,044 locations feature ramps to support 
wheelchair users.
Channels of Communication
 −Online and 
postal communication
 −Customer 
satisfaction surveys
 −Customer feedback
 −Regular interaction 
with customers
Type
Information, Consultation
Frequency
Continuous
Key Concerns   
 −Employee engagement
 −Culture and 
employee experience
 −Employee wellness 
and safety
 −Learning and Development 
(L&D)
 −Inclusive work culture
 −Work-life balance 
Response
 −Maintain high-level of 
ongoing employee connect 
and periodically obtain 
feedback through dipstick 
assessments and surveys
 −Focus on various aspects 
of employee wellness 
through the HDFC ‘Bank 
Cares’ Initiative
 −Strengthen focus on L&D 
by offering best-in-class 
learning resources and 
leveraging technology for 
enabling learning anywhere 
and at anytime
Channels of Communication
 −On-ground and virtual 
connect with employees
 −Leadership and 
manager connect
58.25 
Average Training 
Hours
Employees 
Value Drivers
 −We have a diverse workforce of over 2.14 lakh employees across different locations. 
 −We are dedicated to embedding the ‘HDFC Bank Way’—our cultural framework—into 
every employee’s journey, ensuring a superior experience, with women constituting 
26.1% of our total workforce as of March 31, 2025. 
 −We strive to provide periodic training and updates on ESG to all employees - including 
members of the CSR & ESG Committee of the Board. In FY 2024-25, a total of 1.25 
crore learning hours were recorded, reﬂecting a rise of over 88% in learning hours per 
employee compared to FY 2023-24.
 −Engagement and 
Pulse surveys
 −Employee connect 
initiatives like talent 
hunt, wellness initiatives 
etc. some of which also 
include their families
Type
Information, 
Consultation, Participation
Frequency
On-going/Periodic/Annual 
performance reviews
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
57
How We Create Value

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Key Concerns   
 −Compliance including public 
disclosure and reasonable 
assurance of BRSR 
Core KPIs
 −Social security schemes
 −Relevant national mandates
 −Risk Management and 
Internal Controls
Response
 −Compliance and ethics-
oriented culture including 
formulation of relevant 
policy frameworks and 
enforcement thereof
 −Awareness generation 
on the mandates by the 
Government of India
 −Strengthening of internal 
processes for BRSR 
Core reporting
4.5 Million 
Enrolments 
under various 
security 
schemes in 
FY 2024-25
Regulatory 
Bodies
Value Drivers
 −We ensure adherence to compliance standards set by the regulatory bodies. In 
FY 2024-25, we maintained 100% compliance with all regulatory ﬁlings and disclosures. 
Additionally, The Bank attained reasonable assurance for BRSR Core KPIs in public 
disclosure in line with SEBI circular dated Dec 18, 2024
 −The Bank facilitated the opening of more than 50 lakh PMJDY accounts and undertook 
90.97 lakh customer enrollments in social security schemes (PMJJBY, PMSBY and APY) 
since inception.
Channels of Communication
 −Regular meetings
 −Policy updates and 
ministry directives
 −Mandatory ﬁlings with 
key regulators
Type
Information, 
Consultation, Participation
Frequency
Continuous as 
per requirement
Key Concerns   
 −Governance and 
ethical practices
 −Transparency in 
sourcing processes
 −Support for MSMEs and 
local vendors
Response
 −Ensure timely payment 
for services
 −Whistle Blower Policy to 
ensure good practices
 −Preparation for BRSR Core 
value chain reporting
 −Direct sourcing of input 
material from MSMEs/
small producers
Vendors
Value Drivers
 −We work closely with our vendors to promote the integration of environmental and social 
concerns, emphasising the importance of adding value beyond economic gains. Our 
ESG policy framework ensures that vendors and suppliers comply with labour laws and 
human rights. We are strengthening our internal systems to enhance our engagement 
with the suppliers for reporting on BRSR Core KPIs and BRSR value chain reporting.
Channels of Communication
 −Regular meetings
 −Phone calls and surveys
Type
Information, Consultation
Frequency
Continuous Annual 
performance review
Vendors 
comply with all 
applicable laws 
including labour 
laws and human 
rights
HDFC Bank Limited
58

Key Concerns   
 −Compliance
 −Governance and 
ethical practices
 −Economic performance
 −Financial Inclusion
Response
 −Policies and demonstration 
of responsible 
business conduct
Channels of Communication
 −Quarterly ﬁnancial reports, 
Press releases, Results 
conference call and 
Investor presentations
 −Investor conferences, 
Analyst day, Investor 
days, Interactions 
with shareholders and 
Annual /Extra- Ordinary 
General Meetings
39 lakh+
shareholders
Investors and 
Shareholders
Value Drivers
 −Our Board-approved ESGRM framework, overseen by the CSR & ESG Committee of 
the Board and executed through collaborative management committees and cross-
functional working groups, drives our commitment to responsible banking.
 −We ensure transparency of disclosures by disclosing our ESG performance in the 
Integrated Annual Report.
 −We also partner with borrowers to promote sustainable practices, encouraging them 
to measure and disclose ESG factors, driving informed decisions and a positive 
environmental impact.
Type
Information, Participation
Frequency
Continuous/Quarterly/
Annual
Key Concerns   
 −Poverty and 
drudgery alleviation
 −Improvement in quality 
of education
 −Efﬁcient 
resource management
 −Environmental sustainability
 −Improvement in community 
hygiene and sanitation
Response
 −Holistic Rural Development 
Programme Focused 
education and 
skill development 
 −Soil and water conservation
 −Sustainable 
livelihood initiative
 −Financial literacy camps
Channels of Communication
 −Planning, meeting, 
and exercises – Needs 
assessment/Baselining/ 
Participatory Rural Appraisal
 −Focused Group Discussions
 −Consultative workshops
 −Awareness sessions and 
ﬁeld demonstrations
 −Periodic progress reviews 
and monitoring
10.56 crore 
Lives impacted 
since inception
Community
Value Drivers
 −We focus on improving lives of communities through CSR goals across six thematic 
areas: Rural Development, Promotion of Education, Skill Development & Livelihood 
Enhancement, Healthcare & Hygiene, Financial Literacy & Inclusion, and Natural 
Resource Management.
 −Under the Companies Act, 2013, Indian banks are mandated to spend 2% of their 
average net proﬁts on CSR activities under the Companies Act, 2013. The CSR spend 
for FY 25 was H1,068 crore.
 −Parivartan, our CSR brand, has already impacted over 10.56 crore lives across 
the country. 
Type
Information, 
Consultation, Participation
Frequency
Continuous Annual 
performance review
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
59
How We Create Value

Measuring 
Meaningful 
Impacts
HDFC Bank conducts 
materiality assessments 
to identify and prioritise 
sustainability issues that 
are critical to our business 
and stakeholders. In FY 
2023-24, we updated our 
process in line with the 
GRI Universal Standards 
2021, adopting a double 
materiality approach to 
evaluate both ﬁnancial 
relevance and broader 
environmental, social, and 
economic impacts. Building 
on the 16 topics identiﬁed 
in FY 2022-23 through 
stakeholder engagement 
and benchmarking, we 
reassessed each for impact 
signiﬁcance, likelihood, 
and strategic relevance. 
This led to a reﬁned set of 
14 topics—9 with positive 
and 5 with negative 
impacts. The evaluation 
was further informed by 
annual performance trends 
and key impact indicators, 
ensuring alignment with 
stakeholder expectations 
and our sustainability goals.
Identiﬁcation of Material Topics
We reviewed the 16 sustainability topics, identiﬁed through 
stakeholder inputs, data analysis and benchmarking. External 
experts helped reﬁne impact deﬁnitions, ensuring relevance to 
regulatory, industry and internal priorities.
Weighted Prioritisation
We prioritised these topics by consolidating stakeholder survey 
responses, assigning weights to each stakeholder group based 
on their relevance. Scores were calculated considering the reach, 
magnitude, and likelihood of impacts across our value chain, 
categorising topics as 'Most Important,' 'Important,' or 'Less 
Important.'
Evaluation of potential positive and negative impacts 
and reprioritisation of results
We analysed the economic, environmental, and social impacts of 
each topic, using stakeholder inputs. Applying a double materiality 
lens, we reﬁned and merged overlaps, narrowing 16 material topics 
to 14, ensuring they reﬂect both HDFC Bank’s ﬁnancial priorities 
and broader societal impact.
Integration into Risk Management Framework
These 14 topics were mapped against our risk management 
framework, identifying 9 as opportunities and 5 as potential risks, 
informed by annual due diligence on impact trends and stakeholder 
feedback, including investor ESG priorities.
Materiality Matrix Sign off
The ﬁnal materiality matrix, calibrated with stakeholder 
opinions and performance indicators, led to the ﬁnal ranking 
of the 14 sustainability issues into a materiality matrix.
The ﬁnal analysis was presented to the Board of Directors.
Materiality Assessment Process
MATERIALIT Y
HDFC Bank Limited
60

Materiality Matrix
Climate Change
Community-wellbeing
FINANCIAL MATERIALITY
The planet and society's impact on HDFC Bank's financial performance
IMPACT MATERIALITY
HDFC Bank's impact on the planet and society
Sustainable & 
Responsible financing
Sustainable 
Procurement
Customer Satisfaction
Employee Practices
Corporate Governance and Ethics
Customer Privacy 
and Data Security
Economic Performance
Digital Leadership
Financial Inclusion
Systemic Risk 
Management
Compliance
Asset Quality
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
61
How We Create Value

Economic Performance
Economic performance is critical to maintain stability 
and positive momentum. We strive to always provide 
our stakeholders with increased long-term value. 
Even in difﬁcult economic times, we have performed 
admirably because of careful management and capital 
allocation strategies.
Description of Impact
(Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
During periods of economic upturns, we experience 
increased opportunities for growth and proﬁtability. 
These favourable economic conditions create a 
conducive environment for strategic investments and 
business expansion initiatives. As we align our growth 
with that of the economy, we plan to capitalise on 
the increased demand for ﬁnancial services, expand 
our customer base, and explore new avenues for 
revenue generation.
J3,46,149.3 crore
Total Income
J67,347.4 crore
Profit after tax
FY25 Performance
Management of Material Topic
GRI topics: 201
Relevant Stakeholders: 
Compliance
We operate in a highly regulated industry where 
compliance is non-negotiable. As applicable, all our 
operations comply with legal, environmental, and 
social requirements imposed by regulatory bodies.
Description of Impact
(Compliance Risk, Potential Negative Impact)
Non-compliance with regulations can result in 
regulatory ﬁnes, legal actions, and reputational 
damage, as well as impact the Bank's ability to 
operate within legal boundaries. We maintain a strong 
foundation for regulatory compliance through periodic 
employee trainings, code of conduct, implementation 
of statutory laws, policies such as those on anti-
corruption, anti- bribery, POSH, regular internal audits 
and robust incident response planning.
GRI topics: 2-27
Relevant Stakeholders: 
Customers
Employees
Vendors
Government and Regulatory Bodies
Investors & Shareholders
Community
Zero
Environmental  
Non-Compliance Reported
Zero
Social Non-Compliance Reported
FY25 Performance
MATERIALIT Y
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
Capitals Impacted:
F
SR
M
I
H
Capitals Impacted:
N
F
H
HDFC Bank Limited
62

Customers
Employees
Vendors
Government and Regulatory Bodies
Investors & Shareholders
Community
Sustainable & Responsible Financing
At HDFC Bank, we recognise the signiﬁcant inﬂuence 
we have through our lending and ﬁnancing activities. 
Engaging in sustainable and responsible ﬁnancing 
practices allows us to invest in projects and industries 
that have positive environmental and social impacts. 
This not only aligns our values with the growing 
demand for ethical and sustainable investments but 
also enhances the Bank's reputation as a socially 
responsible institution. Furthermore, sustainable 
ﬁnancing helps us improve our risk management 
practices by reducing exposure to environmentally 
and socially risky assets as well as foster long-term 
relationships with clients who prioritise sustainability.
We believe in Responsible Financing and, as a rule, 
do not fund projects that are part of our Prohibition 
List owing to the negative impact on the environment, 
health, and safety. Our goal is to make funding 
available for environmentally viable projects that help 
GRI topics: 2-22
Capitals Impacted:
Relevant Stakeholders: 
mitigate climate change. To reduce our carbon footprint, 
we continue to invest in renewable energy and energy 
efﬁciency projects and encourage our customers to 
make "green banking" decisions.
Description of Impact
(Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
At HDFC Bank, we have adopted an enhanced 
and more comprehensive “ESG & Climate Change 
Assessment” framework, as part of our overall credit 
assessment for wholesale corporate borrowers. Further, 
the Bank has in place a “Sustainable Financing Criteria” 
Framework (“the Framework”) to enhance our portfolio 
from a climate and ESG perspective.
18.69%
Green and Social Financing 
Contribution to Total Finance
J4,94,140 crore 
Disbursed across Sustainable 
Finance sectors in FY25
FY25 Performance
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
N
SR
F
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
63
How We Create Value

Corporate Governance and Ethics
At HDFC Bank, we believe strong corporate 
governance is fundamental to our long-term success. 
We achieve this through a multi-pronged approach, 
prioritising transparency in disclosures and continuous 
improvement in our governance structure. We 
maintain open communication channels for clear 
and consistent information disclosure, fostering trust 
amongst our stakeholders. Our commitment extends 
beyond regulations, integrating ethical considerations 
into daily operations. We have a fair and independent 
Board that promotes responsible business practices 
taking into account, the economic, social, and 
environmental aspects of our business.
97%
Of our employees have undergone 
training on anticorruption policies and 
procedures
GRI topics: 2-9 to 2-23, 205, 206, 415
Relevant Stakeholders: 
Description of Impact
(Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
Our Corporate Governance philosophy is articulated 
in our ESG framework, providing direction around the 
cardinal principles of independence, accountability, 
transparency, fair disclosures, responsibility and 
credibility in the way we conduct our operations. We 
adhere to all relevant regulations, including the Indian 
Companies Act, Banking Regulation Act, and directives 
from RBI and SEBI. Our commitment extends beyond 
compliance, as evidenced by our policies and guidelines. 
We have policies on Antibribery and Anti-Corruption 
and Code of Conduct that ensure ethical operations. 
The Bank is committed to conducting its business in 
a transparent and ethical manner in accordance with 
the highest legal standards. We have a zero-tolerance 
approach to bribery and corruption in all its forms. In 
FY 25, there were 20 incidents of corruption, wherein 
employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption. 
The Bank implements multiple measures to detect and 
prevent bribery and corruption in its operations. In FY 25, 
97% of our total employees have undergone integrity 
based training programmes.
MATERIALIT Y
7 out of 13
Independent Directors
23%
Women Representation on the Board
FY25 Performance
Customers
Employees
Vendors
Government and Regulatory Bodies
Investors & Shareholders
Community
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
Capitals Impacted:
F
SR
I
H
Management of Material Topic
HDFC Bank Limited
64

Systemic Risk Management
Effective risk management safeguards our ﬁnancial 
health by identifying, assessing, and mitigating 
potential losses from credit defaults, market 
ﬂuctuations, liquidity issues, interest rate changes, 
and operational failures. Through the effective use 
of processes, information, and technology, we have 
developed a multi-layered risk management strategy 
that identiﬁes, assesses, monitors, and manages risks 
(credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, 
and operational risk). Our framework incorporates 
a Board-approved Stress Testing Policy & System, 
a vital component of our Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process (ICAAP). Stress testing plays 
a vital role in this assessment by simulating a variety 
of stressful, yet realistic scenarios to assess our 
vulnerability to extreme conditions.
GRI topics: 2-25
Relevant Stakeholders: 
Description of Impact
(Reputational Risk, Potential Negative Impact)
Effective risk management is crucial to safeguard our 
ﬁnancial health and prevent systemic instability. As 
a result, our multi-layered risk management strategy 
actively identiﬁes, assesses, and reports the risks 
inherent to our business operations to the appropriate 
levels of management so that risk mitigation actions can 
be implemented.
Furthermore, we recognise the growing importance of 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors. 
Our ESG & Climate Change Assessment framework 
helps us identify and mitigate potential ESG risks, and 
climate change threats associated with our borrowers 
and their business operations. 
Our independent risk management function ensures 
objectivity and oversight. A robust risk assessment helps 
us evaluate the likelihood and potential impact of each 
risk. We then implement a combination of mitigation 
techniques, such as setting credit limits, diversifying 
loan portfolios, managing interest rate exposure and 
implementing robust internal controls, to proactively 
manage these risks.
12
Number of risks 
identified
FY25 Performance
Emerging Risk
a) 
Geopolitical
b) 
Macroeconomic
Customers
Employees
Vendors
Government and Regulatory Bodies
Investors & Shareholders
Community
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
Capitals Impacted:
N
F
SR
M
I
H
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
65
How We Create Value

Financial Inclusion
2.35 lakh
Villages served in Semi Urban and 
Rural India
51%
Branches opened in Semi urban  
and Rural Areas
FY25 Performance
GRI topics: 203
Relevant Stakeholders: 
Financial inclusion is a pressing issue, and the 
banking sector bears the responsibility of serving the 
underbanked people in rural, semi-urban, urban and 
metropolitan India. We see this as an opportunity 
to broaden our reach and make our services more 
accessible to the poorest people across the country.
Description of Impact
(Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
Financial inclusion at HDFC Bank goes beyond 
traditional market expansion to offer opportunities 
to tap into untapped markets. This fosters ﬁnancial 
stability and economic participation at the individual 
and community level. While we continue to focus on 
the Corporate Cluster and Government Business 
to increase penetration, our business segment of 
Commercial (MSME) and Rural Banking is well- 
positioned to capture the next wave of growth. 
These initiatives will focus on extending outreach 
to unbanked segments, equipping them with the 
necessary tools for effective ﬁnancial management 
and increased economic engagement.
Digital Leadership
97%
Of our financial transactions are digital
86%
Of our acquisitions are digital
FY25 Performance
GRI topics: 418
Relevant Stakeholders: 
Digital leadership allows us to innovate, improve 
efﬁciency, and enhance customer experience, offering 
opportunities for growth and competitive advantage in 
the digital era. We believe in our ability to consolidate 
the market leadership in digital banking and 
ensuring the Bank is future-ready through continued 
investments in technology and talent.
Description of Impact
(Opportunity, Potential Positive Impact)
By developing mobile banking applications and net 
banking solutions, we have solidiﬁed our competitive 
edge and contributed to the transformation towards 
a digital and connected economy. Our user-friendly 
mobile apps and net banking interfaces not only 
empower customers with 24/7 access but also 
facilitate accessibility, simplicity, and agility apart 
from fostering ﬁnancial inclusion and economic 
growth for geographically isolated populations and 
small businesses. Additionally, we are continuously 
developing newer innovative and digital ﬁnancial 
products and services to further solidify our position as 
a leader in the digital banking landscape.
MATERIALIT Y
Customers
Employees
Vendors
Government and Regulatory Bodies
Investors & Shareholders
Community
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
Capitals Impacted: SR
Capitals Impacted:
F
SR
H
Management of Material Topic
HDFC Bank Limited
66

Asset Quality
GRI topics: 418
Relevant Stakeholders: 
HDFC Bank prioritises responsible asset management 
practices throughout the loan lifecycle, contributing to 
a sustainable ﬁnancial system. Regularly monitoring 
and managing asset quality are essential for 
maintaining the Bank's ﬁnancial stability and ensuring 
that we meet the obligations to depositors and 
other stakeholders.
Description of Impact
(Reputational Risk, Potential Negative Impact)
Asset quality is a fundamental risk for banks, directly 
impacting our ﬁnancial stability. Our assets are 
essentially promises of future repayment. Weak 
asset quality can lead to ﬁnancial losses and trigger 
a domino effect. This in turn can limit our ability to 
lend. In severe cases, very poor asset quality can 
even lead to disrupting the ﬁnancial system and 
impacting depositors and the broader economy. 
Therefore, maintaining a high standard of asset 
quality is critical for us to ensure our own ﬁnancial 
well-being and contribute to a healthy ﬁnancial 
system. As part of our Environmental, Social, and 
Governance (ESG) Risk Management Framework, 
we evaluate the environmental and social risks and 
opportunities associated with our lending activities. 
This analysis guides our lending decisions and 
fosters client relationships that promote sustainable 
business practices.
FY25 Performance
1.33%
Gross NPA ratio 
Sustainable Procurement
GRI topics: 204, 308, 414
Capitals Impacted:
Relevant Stakeholders: 
HDFC Bank implements a strategic approach to 
procurement, integrating environmentally and socially 
responsible considerations into our procurement 
practices. This approach yields operational efﬁciency, 
minimises waste generation, and reduces long-term 
operational expenditures for us.
Description of Impact
(Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
As part of our ESG Policy Framework, we recognise 
the need to work closely with our suppliers to 
reduce waste, improve efﬁciency, reduce carbon 
footprint, and engage with them to understand 
their commitment towards human rights and 
labour practices. 
We will thus continue to work towards greater 
integration of environmental & social considerations in 
our procurement practices. The Bank will make efforts 
to procure products which are recycled, environment 
friendly, energy-efﬁcient, and locally sourced.
FY25 Performance
24%
Recycled paper of total stationery 
paper procured
Customers
Employees
Vendors
Government and Regulatory Bodies
Investors & Shareholders
Community
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
Capitals Impacted:
N
F
SR
M
N
F
SR
M
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
67
How We Create Value

Customer Privacy and Data Security
Being in the service sector, Information Security and 
Data Protection are of utmost importance to us. We 
have implemented robust Information Security and 
Data Protection measures to ensure that our data 
protection practices strictly adhere to the Banking 
Codes and Standards Board of India’s (BCSBI) ‘Code 
of Bank’s Commitment to Customers’ and Employee 
and Customer Awareness Procedures. A Board-level 
IT Strategy Committee, chaired by an IT Director, 
oversees these critical functions.
Zero
Data breaches in FY 2024-25
FY25 Performance
GRI topics: 418
Relevant Stakeholders: 
Description of Impact
(Cyber and Data Risk, Potential Negative Impact)
We work in a highly automated environment and 
use cutting-edge technology to support a variety of 
operations with excessive dependence on service 
providers for cybersecurity. To avoid potential risks 
associated with system failures, cyberattacks, and 
information leaks, we have implemented dedicated 
Information Security and Cyber Security Policies. 
Furthermore, an independent assurance team within the 
Internal Audit function of the Bank continually assesses 
the effectiveness of our IT risk management strategies to 
ensure business continuity.
100%
Eligible employees mandated  
to undergo cybersecurity training
MATERIALIT Y
Customers
Employees
Vendors
Government and Regulatory Bodies
Investors & Shareholders
Community
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
Capitals Impacted:
M
I
H
F
SR
Management of Material Topic
HDFC Bank Limited
68

Customer Satisfaction
At HDFC Bank, customer satisfaction is paramount. 
We achieve this through a customer-centric approach, 
prioritising excellent service, personalised experiences 
and efﬁcient solutions. Our customer-centric approach 
caters to the ﬁnancial goals of our customers while 
providing them with insightful, relevant, contextualised, 
and hyper-personalised experiences, highlighting the 
value we place on exceeding customer expectations,
70
Customer Satisfaction Score 
(NPS Score)
FY25 Performance
GRI topics: 417, 418
Capitals Impacted:
Relevant Stakeholders: 
Description of Impact
(Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
We actively gather customer feedback through regular 
satisfaction surveys, allowing us to use their valuable 
input to continuously improve our products and services. 
We adhere to RBI’s Customer Rights, Grievances 
Redressal, and Compensation Policy, ensuring fair 
treatment for our customers. Moreover, we have multiple 
convenient channels, including 24/7 telephone support, 
intelligent customer service options, and visitor message 
boards for customers to connect directly with the Bank.
28 lakh
Feedback captured across key channels, 
critical episodes and key product journeys
Customers
Employees
Vendors
Government and Regulatory Bodies
Investors & Shareholders
Community
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
SR
I
H
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
69
How We Create Value

Employee Practices
We believe our people are the cornerstone of our 
success. We strive to establish a positive working 
atmosphere that encourages our employees' 
active development and engagement. We engage 
employees through a variety of activities. Over the 
years, our seminars and contests have attracted 
many participants. 
We have several codes and policies in place that 
apply to all our employees. The Bank also offers a 
variety of beneﬁts to its employees. Human capital 
enhancement requirements are proactively assessed 
and implemented.
26.13% 
Women in workforce
FY25 Performance
GRI topics: : 2-7, 401, 402, 403, 404, 405, 406, 407, 408, 409, 410
Capitals Impacted:
Relevant Stakeholders: 
Description of Impact
(Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
Our dedication to strong Employee Practices creates a 
ripple effect of positive and tangible beneﬁts. We conduct 
an annual employee survey to identify improvement 
areas, leading to initiatives that reduce stress, enhance 
purpose, and contribute to a positive work environment.
The Bank is an equal opportunity employer, fostering 
diversity and inclusion, and offering comprehensive 
beneﬁts including parental leave, medical care, post 
retirement support to all our employees. We offer 
best-in-class employee training & development – 
including through the MPower platform which enables 
dissemination of proprietary content on diverse topics.
Target
To achieve gender diversity (% of women) 
of 27% by FY27 
Initiatives to achieve this target are described in ‘Social 
-People’ chapter of the report
Healthy Workplace  
Award 2024 
(Gold Level)
MATERIALIT Y
Customers
Employees
Vendors
Government and Regulatory Bodies
Investors & Shareholders
Community
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
H
Management of Material Topic
HDFC Bank Limited
70

Community-wellbeing
Building stronger communities is a core value at our 
Bank. We actively partner with local communities 
to understand and address their needs. This 
engagement not only strengthens our relationships 
with the community but also helps us identify potential 
initiatives. Our dedicated Board-level CSR & ESG 
Committee oversees these initiatives, ensuring they 
make a measurable impact. Additionally, we believe 
in aligning our efforts with government programs to 
support the nation's overall growth and the well-being 
of its citizens.
K1,068 crore
CSR Expenditure
10.56 crore
Number of beneficiaries
FY25 Performance
GRI topics: : 203-1, 413
Relevant Stakeholders: 
Description of Impact
(Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
We have identiﬁed the most disadvantaged sections of 
society around our areas of operation and are working to 
empower them to be self-reliant through our CSR brand 
'Parivartan'.
Target
The Bank has considered multiple targets as part 
of our Parivartan initiative, more details on this can 
be found in the ‘Social - Communities’ chapter of 
this report.
Customers
Employees
Vendors
Government and Regulatory Bodies
Investors & Shareholders
Community
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
Capitals Impacted:
N
SR
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
71
How We Create Value

Climate Change
HDFC Bank recognises the materiality of climate 
change and its far-reaching impact on our 
business. We are committed to developing and 
implementing proactive mitigation and adaptation 
strategies including conducting comprehensive 
climate risk assessments to identify and manage 
potential physical and transition risks impacting our 
business. By integrating sustainability criteria into our 
operations and credit analysis, we aim to contribute 
to a low-carbon future while ensuring long-term 
ﬁnancial stability.
Description of Impact
(Climate Risk, Potential Negative Impact)
We have been tracking our carbon footprint since 
2010 and are committed to becoming carbon neutral 
in our own operations by FY32. 
0.59 million tCO2e
GHG Emissions (Scope 1, 2 & 3) 
5.96 GJ/ K crore 
Revenue from operations Energy intensity
1.05 (tCO2e/ K Cr Revenue from Operations
GHG Emissions intensity (Scope 1 + 2)
3.22%
Renewable Energy Consumed
2.06 million GJ
Energy Consumption 
FY25 Performance
To communicate climate-related risks and opportunities, 
we are implementing the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. We are 
assessing our resilience to physical and transition risks, 
strengthening data collection on climate-related factors, 
and developing methodologies for risk assessment and 
scenario analysis. These efforts ensure we navigate the 
evolving low-carbon economy while mitigating our own 
environmental impact.
Target
To become carbon neutral in our own 
operations by FY32 
Performance against the goal is elaborated in the 
‘Environment’ chapter of the IAR.
GRI topics: : 201-2, 305
Relevant Stakeholders: 
Capitals Impacted:
MATERIALIT Y
Customers
Employees
Vendors
Government and Regulatory Bodies
Investors & Shareholders
Community
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
N
M
I
H
F
Management of Material Topic
HDFC Bank Limited
72

Materiality Metrics for External Stakeholders
Impact Valuation
Output Metric
Impact Metric
Financial Inclusion
Financial Inclusion
Financial Inclusion
Customer Privacy and Data Security
Customer Privacy and Data Security
Customer Privacy and Data Security
Access to product/service with 
positive impact provided
2.35 lakh villages with banking 
presence, 51% of branches in 
semi-urban/rural areas
4.4% increase in rural 
households with access to 
ﬁnancial services.
Quantiﬁed quality of 
life impacted
Zero data breaches in FY25, 100% 
of eligible employees trained 
in cybersecurity.
We surveyed 30 lakh customers in 
FY 2024-25, achieving a Net Promoter 
Score (NPS) of 70.
The Bank evaluates data breaches 
to protect customers from ﬁnancial 
losses and privacy violations, 
preserving their trust and quality of life 
by avoiding economic harm.
HDFC Bank assesses how banking 
access in 2.35 lakh villages enhances 
economic participation and stability for 
rural communities, enabling ﬁnancial 
management and reducing inequality.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
73
How We Create Value

STRATEGY IN ACTION
Future-Ready Strategies 
for Enduring Impact  
74
HDFC Bank Limited
Post the merger of HDFC Limited with 
and into HDFC Bank effective 
July 1, 2023 the Financial Year 
2024–25 marked the ﬁrst full year of 
operations as a merged institution, 
and we are seeing synergies take a 
visible form. Our strategy remains 
anchored in delivering consistent, risk-
adjusted proﬁtable growth. Execution 
remains a key strength— enabling 
deeper customer engagement, 
technology-led efﬁciency gains, 
synergy realisation and stable 
asset quality. We remain focused 
on enhancing value through four 
strategic levers: people, customers, 
technology and the power of our 
group. Robust governance and risk 
management practices continue to be 
the cornerstone of this journey.
Onboarding
Employee ﬁrst
At-scale 
distribution
Customer ﬁrst
Robust risk 
management
Technology ﬁrst
Attractive macro-
variables
Power of  
the Group
What we have
Priorities to drive
Create incremental value
The Next 
3-5 Years
Growth 
strategy
Harness 
people 
capabilities
Customer 
service
Continue 
Technology 
Excellence
Capture  
Macro share
Customer 
engagement
What we have — positioned to consistently create value
HDFC Bank Limited
74

India’s economy remained resilient through a year of global volatility, supported 
by stable fundamentals, a strong regulatory framework and improving inﬂation 
dynamics. Growth of 6.5 per cent was aided by domestic demand, infrastructure 
build-out and rural momentum. The demand for trusted ﬁnancial intermediation 
continues to evolve and HDFC Bank remains well-placed to meet this need 
through its distribution. The Bank is well positioned to cater to demand across 
the GDP spectrum backed by its strong brand franchise.
Our employees are central to our 
execution strength. The Bank 
continues to embed its managerial 
behaviour architecture—Nurture, 
Care and Collaborate—to strengthen 
on-ground experience of culture. 
We remain committed to customer 
centricity with sharper focus on 
service quality, speed and trust. 
As digital adoption accelerates, 
technology remains integral to our 
strategy. We continue to invest in 
secure, scalable enterprise platforms 
that strengthen our Core. The 
merger has signiﬁcantly enhanced 
HDFC Bank Group’s ability to offer 
comprehensive ﬁnancial solutions 
to deepen and lengthen customer 
relationships. By leveraging digital 
tools and collaboration, we aim to 
enrich our customer proposition—
harnessing the power of the group. 
These priorities underpin our ten-pillar 
strategy and position us for consistent, 
stable and sustainable growth
Government 
and Institutional 
(G&I) Business
Corporate  
Cluster
Retail 
Assets
Wealth 
Management
Payments 
Business
Technology  
and Digital
Branch Channel 
Engagement and 
Virtual Relationship 
Management (VRM)
Customer Service 
and Experience
Strengthening 
Compliance
Effective Risk 
Management
Zero Paper, Zero 
Touch Operations
Culture
People Learning  
and Development
Digital 
Marketing
Commercial 
and Rural 
Cluster
Mortgage 
Assets
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
75
Our Strategy

STRATEGY IN ACTION
Branch Channel 
Engagement & Virtual 
Relationship Management 
(VRM)
Branch Channel Engagement
Leveraging technology, our branches 
are transitioning into engagement 
centres for meaningful conversations 
with customers and capture their 
feedback to serve them better. We 
aim to provide holistic and need-
based ﬁnancial solutions by leveraging 
our diverse range of products and 
services. Our strategic imperatives 
enabling re-imagining the role and 
architecture of Retail Branch Banking 
are explained below:
Micro market focused multi 
format distribution science
Customer Lifecycle 
Engagement
Growth segments: 
Rural, Government
Service First
Customer life 
centric insight led 
propositions
Al Analytics 
driven customer 
conversations (Next 
Best Action)
Digital 
Transformation
Strategic 
Imperatives
HDFC Bank Limited
76

Micro-market Focused Multi 
Format Distribution
We are transforming branch banking 
into a multi-format model based on a 
granular micro market approach. This 
involves using a multi-variate model 
to identify high potential markets, 
considering factors such as population 
demographics, deposits and 
advances data, delinquency insights, 
climate risk assessments and future 
trends. Branch formats may vary 
from full service physical branches 
to Smart Banking Lobbies or Digital 
Banking Units (DBUs) with self-service 
kiosks as well as through Business 
Correspondents (BCs). We closely 
track proﬁtability and break-even 
for each format to ensure targeted 
investments and cost-effectiveness. 
By expanding our presence in 
identiﬁed locations through multiple 
formats, we not only increase our 
catchment area but also beneﬁt 
from the network effects. Therefore, 
we continue to invest in expanding 
our presence in identiﬁed locations 
through multiple formats.
Bank’s Distribution Network 
(As on March 31, 2025)
 −Branches: 9,455 (Including 
international branches and 
DBUs)
 −ATMs / CRMs: 21,139
 −Cities / Towns: 4,150
 −51 per cent of our branches are 
in Semi-Urban and Rural areas
Customer Lifecycle 
Engagement and AI driven 
Customer Conversations
We leverage our extensive branch 
network as engagement centres to 
have high impact conversations with 
customers to partner with them over 
the long term. We source the right 
customers through a differentiated 
go-to-market approach and engage 
in need-based conversations offering 
tailored product propositions. 
Our relationship management 
architecture ensures continuous 
nurturing and implementation of 
next best actions aimed at fulﬁlling 
customer needs. With a 'service ﬁrst 
culture', we leverage robust analytics 
and AI to suggest personalised 
recommendations based on customer 
transactions and digital behaviour 
for services and products. This 
also allows for validation from the 
Relationship Manager which then 
results in recommendations for the 
next best action for each customer. 
Relationship Managers are also 
equipped with real-time data for 
immediate next best actions based 
on customer interactions. We are now 
looking to enter the next leg of this 
journey by leveraging the account 
aggregator model and Generative AI 
capabilities to ensure that we have the 
right proposition for the right customer 
at the right time.
Digital-led Service First 
Organisation
We focus on voice of customer-
led process improvements and 
digitalisation. Some of the key 
improvements include differentiated 
and priority servicing for senior 
citizens and High Net Worth (HNW) 
customers, real-time deliverable 
tracking and regular alerts to 
customers on processing milestones. 
We continue to embed and enhance 
customer digital journeys including 
Insta Service Journeys, in sales, 
service and operations. Mobile-
ﬁrst approach leveraging Aadhaar 
and ‘Walk Out Working’ (WOW) 
straight through journeys are some 
of the initiatives that are helping us 
achieve signiﬁcant beneﬁts in terms 
of improved customer experience. 
With a digital-ﬁrst mission, we are 
unlocking operational efﬁciencies and 
cost savings while delivering customer 
delight. Going forward, we aim to build 
a paperless retail experience through 
a bouquet of customer-centric digital 
journeys that make banking simple.
Launched in FY25
 −Phased roll out of new Net 
and MobileBanking
Rural Business Growth Levers
We develop curated propositions to 
address the speciﬁc needs of Semi-
Urban and Rural (SURU) markets. 
In FY24, we introduced 'Vishesh 
Banking Programme,' an industry-ﬁrst 
rural-focused customer managed 
programme. It provides customised 
beneﬁts like complimentary health 
check-up facility, tele consultation with 
doctor, free gold valuation, discounted 
pricing on loan processing fees 
and free subscription to Agri-Tech 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
77
Our Strategy

STRATEGY IN ACTION
app with discounted products and 
services. To expand our rural reach, 
we utilise business correspondents 
and innovative models like the Bank 
on Wheels. Additionally, we engage 
customers through ﬁnancial literacy 
programmes and opinion leader 
engagements to foster deeper 
relationships and recognise their 
contribution to society through an 
acknowledgement initiative known as 
'Samman Samaroh'. Collaborating 
with partners such as Farmer 
Producer Organisations (FPOs) and 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
(MSMEs) enables active engagement 
with the entire ecosystem in a 
comprehensive manner.
People Capability Building
All the aforesaid initiatives 
and reimagined approach are 
complemented by a strong focus on 
our people capability building using 
the Nurture, Care and Collaborate 
approach. We are investing in 
innovative ways of learning and 
capability development using internal 
and external partners and technology-
enabled platforms.
Virtual Relationship 
Management
Our VRM model integrates advanced 
technology with human expertise 
to deliver consistent, secure and 
personalised banking at scale. It 
enables deeper customer engagement 
across segments and is steadily 
emerging as a preferred channel for 
millions of retail banking customers. 
Our Virtual Relationship Management 
(VRM) strategy is anchored in digital 
convenience and personalised, need-
based engagement. It is built on three 
pillars—Virtual Relationship, Virtual 
Sales and Virtual Care—each 
tailored to serve distinct customer 
segments through targeted digital 
interventions. Virtual Relationship 
serves our managed customer base 
through proactive, personalised 
engagement. It includes our Video 
KYC team, which facilitates secure 
digital onboarding and veriﬁcation.
Virtual Sales focuses on the broader 
retail base, offering relevant products 
and services digitally—enhancing 
engagement and driving relationship 
value across segments.
IVR Offered in 
12 languages
Video KYC offered in 
6 languages
Virtual Care ensures seamless, 
round-the-clock support for major 
retail banking products, delivered 
through voice- and text-based 
channels for service continuity 
and convenience.
Our Virtual Relationship Managers 
engage with customers across the 
entire lifecycle—spanning savings, 
investments, borrowing and 
transactions—through an integrated, 
digital-ﬁrst model. This framework 
combines relationship expertise with 
a suite of digital tools including Video 
KYC, web chat, EVA (the Bank’s 
AI-enabled chatbot) and service 
interfaces on platforms such as 
Facebook Messenger.
We continue to enhance customer-
facing capabilities through upgraded 
Interactive Voice Response (IVR) 
systems and multilingual Voice BOT 
solutions, ensuring seamless access 
to key banking services round the 
clock. These tools are designed to 
support consistent and personalised 
engagement at scale.
Our VRM strategy is powered by 
a highly trained talent pool. Virtual 
Relationship Managers undergo 
structured programmes covering 
product knowledge, sales techniques, 
customer communication, compliance 
and regulatory frameworks. These 
efforts are backed by secure, 
automated systems designed to 
uphold customer data privacy and 
operational integrity.
The channel is further strengthened 
through analytics-led product 
distribution and digitally enabled 
service journeys. This ensures timely, 
relevant engagement and supports 
the Bank’s positioning as a full-service 
ﬁnancial partner to its retail customers.
HDFC Bank Limited
78

Government and 
Institutional (G&I) Business
Our efforts to grow the Government, 
Institutional & Start–Up businesses 
gathered further momentum in the 
Financial Year 2024–25. The key pillars 
of growth for the business are:
Market Leadership in Agency 
Business 
The Bank continues to be a leader 
in the agency business, ranking 
among the top three Agency Banks 
for direct and indirect tax collections. 
Additionally, it has begun sourcing 
accounts under the Senior Citizens 
Savings Scheme, a part of the 
National Small Savings Schemes 
initiative by the Ministry of Finance, 
Government of India. 
HDFC Bank market share in 
FY 2024-25
~18%
~25%
~17%
Direct Tax 
Collections
Goods & Service 
Tax Collections
Custom & Excise 
Duty Collections
Leveraging Our Distribution 
Network to Deepen Reach 
Given its large distribution franchise 
and its coverage in semi–urban and 
rural areas, HDFC Bank has emerged 
as a trusted partner to district and 
local level administrations in addition 
to the central and state governments. 
Leveraging technology to offer right ﬁt 
solutions, it has helped digitalisation of 
many Gram Panchayats by enabling 
collection of local taxes through QR. 
Likewise, in urban areas the Bank 
has collaborated with all tiers of 
municipal bodies from corporations, 
councils to nagar panchayats to 
aid digital collection and enhance 
customer convenience. In addition, 
it works with various bodies to 
support development of new areas 
by aiding land monetisation. The 
Bank has facilitated digitalisation of 
payments associated with the land 
acquisition process by aiding district 
level government authorities to 
expedite beneﬁciary identiﬁcation and 
related disbursements. 
At the state level, the Bank partners 
with parastatals to improve revenue 
generation by facilitating online 
tenders, auctions and collections. It 
works with over ten state governments 
to enable efﬁcient revenue collection 
and provides workﬂow-based 
solutions to streamline collections and 
disbursements for these entities.
Disbursing funds to the 
last mile 
With a 12 per cent year-on-year 
growth in total ﬂows processed, the 
Bank enabled the transfer of over 36 
per cent of the total funds disbursed 
by the Central Government to 
beneﬁciaries under various Centrally 
Sponsored Schemes, Central Sector 
Schemes and the 15th Finance 
Commission. In total, the Bank 
disbursed more than H90,000 crore 
across these schemes.  
Enhanced focus on serving 
those who have served the 
nation.
The Bank revamped its product 
offerings and overall engagement 
strategy to provide customer delight 
to pensioners through 5,000 branches 
which are enabled to offer SPARSH 
services to defence pensioners. In 
addition, the Bank provides Form 16 
to pensioners basis its automated 
workﬂows and has facilitated the 
submission of Life certiﬁcates digitally 
to Government of India’s Jeevan 
Praman Portal. 
HDFC Bank’s efforts were recognised 
by the Department of Pension & 
Pensioners' Welfare (DoPPW) under 
the Digital Life Certiﬁcate Campaigns 
2.0 and 3.0 for achieving a 99 per cent 
update rate for eligible life certiﬁcates 
in FY 2024–25.
Building new economy 
businesses – Investing for the 
future
The Bank remains committed to 
supporting the Startup ecosystem 
and recognises its role in shaping 
the nation’s economic growth. In 
FY 2024–25, several new initiatives 
were launched in collaboration 
with both public and private sector 
partners to fuel this ecosystem. The 
Bank revamped its overall products 
to be not just best-in-class but also 
future-ready, addressing the evolving 
needs of new economy businesses. It 
also entered the payments aggregator 
cross-border business, onboarding 
its ﬁrst client in this space as an AD-1 
Bank. Further, the Bank introduced 
GIGA—a specially designed 
programme for the fast-growing 
gig economy, covering the entire 
spectrum from blue-collar to white-
collar work—at the Global Fintech 
Festival in August 2024. 
Looking ahead, the Bank aims to 
further deepen its engagement across 
the Government and Institutional 
ecosystem by expanding its digital 
footprint, co-creating customised 
solutions with government bodies and 
enhancing last-mile service delivery 
through its robust distribution network
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
79
Our Strategy

STRATEGY IN ACTION
Wealth Management
In the Financial Year 2024-25, the 
team of over 1,000 Sales and Service 
experts has focused on extending 
wealth services to clients ranging 
from Ultra-HNW to Mass Afﬂuent 
client segments. 
HDFC Bank was adjudged as ‘India's 
Best for HNW’ in the Euromoney 
Private Banking Awards 2025. In the 
Global Private Banking Awards 2024 
organised by Professional Wealth 
Management (PWM)- a Financial 
Times publication - HDFC Bank was 
adjudged the Best Private Bank 
in India.
The Bank has made continuous and 
incremental efforts to generate as well 
as quantify the alpha delivered in each 
client’s portfolio. In 2025, 87 per cent 
of the Bank’s clients had generated a 
positive alpha with the median client 
alpha at 2.6 per cent. The aim is to 
incorporate alpha in all client reports 
and portfolio reviews.
With a sales force of over 850 
supported by over 150 service staff 
and over 100 Investment Analysts, 
HDFC Bank has the largest number of 
Wealth bankers in the country. With an 
increase in manpower, the Bank has 
made consistent efforts to provide the 
best education and training to private 
bankers. By conducting intensive 
training sessions in collaboration with 
top-ranked business schools such 
as Indian Institute of Management at 
Ahmedabad and Bangalore, the Bank 
has groomed our in-house talent.
Service First culture is the central pillar 
for business as HDFC Bank focuses 
on service led sales by prioritising 
client delight and relationship banking. 
Service Quality is an essential part of 
RM scorecards and Supervisor KPIs. 
Client engagement, portfolio servicing 
and Net Promoter Score are key 
business performance assessment 
measures. The Bank’s Service First 
Culture has led to an NPS score of 87 
in 2024-25 which is one of the highest 
in the industry.
With this segment speciﬁc focus, the 
Bank has been consistent in growing 
market share and emerging as one 
of the largest Wealth Managers in the 
country. With the help of over 100 
Investor Education Initiatives including 
having fund managers as expert guest 
speakers, the Bank has been able to 
signiﬁcantly expand its presence in 
the country, covering tier II & III cities 
as well.
HDFC Bank has endeavoured to 
become the market leader across all 
investor segments through curated 
offering in each segment. 
 −For Ultra-HNW clients, it has 
more than doubled the number 
of products referred on the 
Bank’s platform
 −Keeping Super-Afﬂuent clients in 
mind, it has introduced State-of-
the-art Wealthfy reports that provide 
detailed portfolio diagnostics 
and analysis. 
 −It has developed an advanced 
unassisted digital investment 
platform - SmartWealth that enables 
clients to track their portfolios 
and make investments through 
access to goal-based investment 
recommendations. With highly 
intuitive client experience and 
gamiﬁcation of client journeys, this 
mobile ﬁrst platform aims to provide 
access to the Bank’s research 
to all Mass afﬂuent clients. It has 
more than six lakh downloads and 
nearly four lakh clients onboarded 
on SmartWealth.
HDFC Bank’s wide range of 
investment offerings successfully 
adapt to the changing economic 
landscape to manage and create 
wealth for clients, with ‘Protect. 
Manage. Grow.’ being an essential 
cornerstone of the brand identity.
Technology & Digital
Shift Right, Build Forward: 
Architecting the Intelligent Core
The Financial Year 2024-25 was 
a signiﬁcant year in HDFC Bank’s 
technology evolution – one where 
foundational decisions around 
architecture, intelligence and resilience 
began converging into a long-term 
operating model. The Bank moved 
beyond the product upgrade thought 
process to deﬁne a platform-led, data 
powered, secure digital core – capable 
of scaling experiences, insights and 
systems cohesively. 
The 'Shift Right’ strategy, now deeply 
institutionalised, has helped reframe 
how HDFC Bank builds. It has steered 
the Bank towards a customer-
aligned modular and API-ﬁrst digital 
foundation. This shift is not cosmetic—
it is structural, inﬂuencing every layer 
of the Bank’s technology stack.
HDFC Bank Limited
80

Financial Year 2024-25 saw several 
milestones. The migration of its 
Core Banking System to a next 
gen engineered platform delivered 
enhanced performance, agility and 
scalability. IMPS Inwards, the ﬁrst 
deployment under the ‘Lighten the 
Core’ strategy, marked the beginning 
of transition away from monolithic 
systems to microservices-led, 
cloud-adaptive modules. These 
investments will shape the scale and 
responsiveness of future banking.
Our new Net and MobileBanking 
platforms have been engineered for 
high performance, intuitive navigation 
and advanced security to deliver a 
smarter, more seamless experience 
across digital fulﬁlment and customer 
engagements. The platforms are being 
rolled to our customers in phases 
and have received an encouraging 
response across the spectrum.
HDFC Bank advanced its Enterprise 
Data Lake initiative to centralise data 
across critical systems, enabling 
scalable analytics, improved data 
quality and streamlined governance 
aligned with regulatory standards. The 
Bank’s API orchestration framework 
matured signiﬁcantly, enabling 
scalable and secure integration 
across channels and partners. 
The groundwork has been laid for 
Banking-as-a-Service (BaaS) where 
banking capabilities are delivered as 
composite service and stitched into 
digital ecosystems in real time.
At the same time, cybersecurity 
and governance architectures were 
strengthened through Zero Trust 
controls, advanced monitoring 
systems and cloud-native security 
tooling. Investments in secure access, 
attack surface monitoring and 
infrastructure hardening continue to 
ensure that our expansion is grounded 
in resilience and trust.
Looking Ahead 
A key evolution in the Bank’s 
technology roadmap is the structured 
adoption of Generative AI.
We see GenAI as an accelerator—
not in isolation, but as a layer 
that catalyses our transformation 
strategy. Our approach focuses on 
solving enterprise-wide challenges 
through a 'Class of Problems' 
methodology—identifying repeatable 
use cases where GenAI can improve 
documentation, servicing, decision 
support, and knowledge workﬂows.
Digital Marketing
In today’s connected India, where 
every swipe and scroll signals 
opportunity, HDFC Bank’s digital 
strategy is not just a marketing lever—
it is a transformation engine. Over 
the past few years, the Bank has 
silently and systematically rewritten 
the rules of engagement, building a 
digital marketing ecosystem designed 
to inﬂuence, educate, transact, and 
retain. Across every touchpoint—from 
social stories to service journeys—our 
goal is singular: to create meaningful, 
data-led and delightful experiences for 
every customer, every day. 
1. Social: From Content to 
Conversation 
Social media isn’t just where our 
customers are—it’s where our brand 
comes alive and earns love. With over 
21 lakh followers across platforms 
and a standout IP like Vigil Aunty, 
HDFC Bank has become one of the 
few ﬁnancial institutions to own a 
cultural voice. Vigil Aunty, our social 
media inﬂuencer who educates 
customers about digital frauds, is 
more than a campaign—she’s a 
consumer advocate, a trust-builder 
and a household name with 8 lakh 
followers on WhatsApp. Beyond her, 
we consistently activate moment 
marketing— rooting our stories in 
Indian culture, current events and 
customer-centric themes to drive 
brand relevance in real-time. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
81
Our Strategy

STRATEGY IN ACTION
This approach has translated into 
tangible impact, with brand love on 
social media, growing by 56 per cent 
in the past year. 
We’ve also started using reels and 
video-ﬁrst formats to simplify complex 
banking actions—like setting up 
auto-debit, checking loan eligibility or 
upgrading account features—serving 
self-learners and assisted users alike. 
This is where visual service design 
meets content. 
2. Website: The New Branch 
Front Door 
The Bank’s website is not just a static 
information board—it is an intelligent, 
high-conversion, customer-ﬁrst engine. 
With 146 crore visits in FY 2024-25, 
our website has become the primary 
entry point for lakhs of product 
journeys. With intuitive navigation, 
optimised user ﬂows, and mobile-
ﬁrst design, it seamlessly transforms 
curiosity into action. Further, over 
19 crore visits were recorded for our 
Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) 
forms. These demonstrate how 
customers are increasingly completing 
full purchase journeys digitally without 
stepping into a branch. 
Across journeys, we integrate 
interactive explainer videos, 
personalised nudges and live support 
fallback to ensure every visitor, 
assisted or unassisted gets the 
help they need. 
3. Analytics: The Brain Behind 
the Experience 
What sets our digital ecosystem apart 
is how deeply it is intertwined with 
analytics. Using cloud-based AI/ML 
tools, we decode customer behaviour, 
preferences and needs. These insights 
help us curate hyper-personalised 
content, sharpen campaign precision 
and even shape product interventions. 
From hypothesis testing to funnel 
drop-off ﬁxes, our analytics muscle 
helps us move from guesswork to 
growth. And most critically, it allows 
us to deliver the right message, at the 
right time, through the right channel. 
The objective is that it helps 
customers feel heard before they 
speak and this helps us to make 
service intelligent, not reactive. 
4. Digital Sales: Orchestrated, 
Omni-Channel, Outcome-
Focused 
Our cross functional PODs don’t 
just build campaigns—they build 
outcomes across every customer 
segment. We’ve achieved a key 
milestone with unassisted digital 
channels now contributing 20 per 
cent to 45 per cent of overall business 
across core products like credit cards, 
personal loans, savings accounts and 
lending journeys. 
Whether it’s performance marketing 
on Google and Meta or full-funnel 
campaigns across email, social, 
and in-app journeys, our approach 
to paid marketing is grounded in 
solving real problems for real people. 
Powered by AI/ML and customer 
intelligence we optimise for high-
intent, high-ROI growth across the full 
customer lifecycle. 
Our digital strategy is incomplete 
without advocacy. Whether it's 
resolving queries swiftly on social 
media, sharing user testimonials, 
or activating online reputation 
management, our aim is to create 
vocal champions. And all this sits 
atop a rock-solid foundation of 
IT governance and data security 
ensuring that trust is not compromised 
in the pursuit of scale. 
Every lever—social, site, media, 
analytics, content, and service—is 
being orchestrated to serve the 
customer ﬁrst. And as we scale, we’re 
doubling down on videos, voice, 
vernacular and virtual handholding to 
give customers a better experience. 
Our digital marketing ambition is bold 
yet simple: To be India’s most loved, 
trusted and digital-ﬁrst Bank. 
HDFC Bank Limited
82

Payments Business 
HDFC Bank’s strategy revolves 
around the opportunities in the 
payment’s ecosystem and the vibrant 
Indian economy. 
Equipped with a comprehensive 
bouquet of products and services, 
our payments business offers end-
to-end solutions designed to cater to 
a wide range of customer segments 
across multiple geographies within 
and outside India. Our capabilities 
are built to serve customers on both 
the issuing and acceptance sides. 
The products are designed to cater 
to the unique payment requirements 
of several customer segments and 
industries, at scale. 
Our payment products play a 
central role in deepening customer 
relationships and strengthening the 
Bank’s position across both asset 
and liability products. The endeavour 
is on delivering solutions that 
enhance everyday convenience and 
contribute to customers’ long-term 
growth journeys.
Our Credit card business continues 
to be a leader on many fronts. 
Having built best in class products 
and platforms over the last two 
decades we continue to maintain 
our leadership position with more 
than two crore customers. A wide 
range of proprietary and co-branded 
card products ( including UPI 
based) backed by strong customer 
service across the physical and 
digital mediums, has ensured that 
we continue to build momentum by 
issuing more than ﬁve lakh cards every 
month on average.
From Awareness to Advocacy: Deepening the Dialogue
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
83
Our Strategy

Commercial cards which are used 
by various business entities to 
cater to multiple expenses around 
travel, entertainment, procurement 
and statutory payments has also 
been a key area of focus for the 
Bank’s payments business. With an 
experience of more than two decades 
of catering to SMEs and large 
corporates, our payments business 
offers unique payment solutions 
to various industries like aviation, 
travel and insurance. By leveraging 
advanced data analytics, we identify 
traditional payment ﬂows and migrate 
them to a convenient as well as 
seamless digital payment ﬂow thereby 
helping customers manage their 
payments in a more efﬁcient manner. 
Our commercial payment solutions 
have found wide acceptance across 
the industry ensuring that we are the 
market leaders not only on an overall 
basis but also on an individual basis 
across multiple segments.
The Bank is a leading issuer of Debit 
Cards with more than ﬁve crore debit 
cards in force. The spend per card 
is 3x of the industry average, thereby 
reﬂecting the superior proﬁle of the 
Bank’s customers. 
In addition to Credit and Debit Cards, 
the bank also offers a wide range of 
Prepaid Cards for use by individuals 
and corporates. These cards can 
be used across multiple merchant 
categories in India as well as overseas.
Our Acceptance Business which is 
spread across the length and breadth 
of the country has been a signiﬁcant 
contributor to the digital payment’s 
growth in the country. Over the last 
few decades we have continued to 
invest and grow this business by 
ensuring that we onboard small, 
medium and large businesses to 
accept multiple payment form factors 
which include Cards, UPI, Central 
Bank Digital Currency and Wallets. 
Equipped with ‘Vyapar’, our Digital 
Acceptance App Platform, we 
continue to maintain our leadership 
position in the acceptance 
business serving more than 30 lakh 
merchant establishments.
Our wide array of products gives 
us the ability to serve our merchant 
partners to collect timely payments 
through the ofﬂine as well as the online 
medium. Our product suite which 
includes Online Payment Gateways 
for collecting payments via Cards, 
Net-Banking and UPI is well designed. 
It is not only designed to meet the 
needs of start-ups as well as large 
businesses but also to cater to the 
growing requirements of various 
associations, trusts, religious and 
government institutions.
We also have the full array of products 
catering to our merchant partners 
enabling them to seamlessly collect 
payments in the ofﬂine world. We 
support collection of payments 
with both Cards and UPI through 
the ubiquitous POS terminals 
and also are a leading player in 
the UPI dominated QR payment 
acceptance. Our product range is 
ﬂexible and complemented with the 
latest technology to accommodate 
customisation requirements.
Innovation has been a constant theme 
across the payments business. The 
Financial Year 2024-25 saw HDFC 
Bank making signiﬁcant progress in its 
recent initiatives.
The Bank’s MyCards platform which 
is a one stop platform to manage 
HDFC Bank Credit & Debit Cards, 
FASTag and Consumer Durable 
loans continued to grow at a rapid 
pace. More than 3.5 crore customers 
(growth of 63 per cent) were added 
in FY25. The platform continues to 
be enriched through addition of new 
features at regular intervals.
SmartHub ‘Vyapar’ is a merchant app 
platform that provides retail merchants 
with payment conﬁrmation alerts, daily 
settlement reports, service support, 
access to loans, insurance and 
business growth features through third 
party service providers. HDFC Bank 
continued to witness widespread 
adoption with more than 19 lakh 
merchants on Vyapar as on March 
2025 with over 23 crore transactions 
per month.
Further, the Bank launched PayZapp 
2.0 a comprehensive mobile payment 
commerce app in March 2023. 
PayZapp supports a complete range 
of payments from Credit Cards, Debit 
Cards, Wallet and UPI with customers 
getting the choice of form factor to 
make payments at merchant stores 
using Scan, Tap or at Swipe. The 
app has reached the milestone of 1.6 
crore registrations in FY25 and over 50 
lakh active users per month. PayZapp 
is currently among the top-rated 
payments applications in the country.
‘SmartGateway’, a uniﬁed payment 
platform for online merchants was 
launched in February 2024 with the 
objective of fortifying Bank's market 
share in the merchant acquiring 
business. SmartGateway enables our 
merchants to collect payments with 
over 150 methods and assists them in 
maximising their sales with a best-
STRATEGY IN ACTION
HDFC Bank Limited
84

in-class success rate. The platform 
provides an insightful dashboard 
powered by smart analytics and will 
empower our merchants to provide a 
frictionless check out experience to 
their customers.
Given the Bank’s strong franchise 
on the issuance as well as the 
acceptance side, it also leverages 
its network of consumers and 
merchants to enable affordable 
solutions. The Bank has a very strong 
consumer ﬁnance programme helping 
consumers to purchase goods and 
services complementing their lifestyle.
The Bank continues to focus on 
sustainable growth strategies, 
emphasising on resilience and holistic 
impacts. Its digital strategy is aligned 
to enhance customer engagement 
across all touchpoints of the Bank. 
As an extension of our digital strategy, 
there has been a phased roll out 
of a completely new and refreshed 
MobileBanking and NetBanking 
platform which will be extended 
further. The existing platforms cater 
to more than three crore customers 
and the new platforms are designed 
with a user-friendly interface and 
best-in-class security, for seamless 
and secure customer experiences. 
These platforms will serve as the 
primary digital touchpoint, deepening 
customer engagement across all 
banking and ﬁnancial services. 
With intuitive navigation and robust 
functionality, they aim to become 
the preferred platforms for everyday 
ﬁnancial transactions. Customers 
will have a uniﬁed platform for UPI 
payment, bill payments, investments, 
loans, cards and more, further 
simplifying their ﬁnancial lives. 
By offering a comprehensive, secure 
and convenient digital experience, 
the Bank has positioned itself as the 
go-to ﬁnancial partner. This will drive 
higher digital adoption and long-term 
customer loyalty.
Furthermore, customer experience 
is being transformed through 
advanced conversational AI, intelligent 
automation and seamless service 
and sales journeys via ChatBanking 
on WhatsApp. Caller experience 
at PhoneBanking continues to 
get enhanced via optimised menu 
options for IVR and Voice Bot 
based transactions.
Retail Assets 
The Bank has been among the 
top two market players across all 
the asset categories relating to 
personal ﬁnance and continues to 
maintain its lead position through a 
combination of both secured and 
unsecured lending business. Its 
strategy entails a comprehensive 
approach to ensure sustainable 
growth and maintain impeccable 
asset quality. HDFC Bank's strength 
has been to continuously look for new 
opportunities and build up business 
propositions to cater to every segment 
of the industry. There is an array 
of products for both personal and 
business needs.
The Bank’s strategy is to continually 
enhance digital offerings across all 
retail assets. This is done in line with 
its risk appetite and the objective 
of maintaining consistently strong 
portfolio quality. The focus on digital 
distribution and increasing the 
unassisted sourcing through Xpress 
Personal Loan, Xpress Business 
Loan, Xpress Auto Loan, Loan Against 
Shares / Mutual Funds and Gold Loan 
will continue. 
Introduction of new workﬂow system 
for Gold Loan, will bring in enhanced 
customer experience. HDFC Bank 
continuously strives to acquire new 
customers with best-in-class asset 
offerings. The indigenous digital 
journey not only enables existing 
customers but also seamlessly 
propels business from new customers.
The Bank is advancing towards the 
development of a centralised GenAI 
platform to ensure consistency, 
quality, security, compliance, 
scalability and innovation. A uniﬁed 
platform offers signiﬁcant advantages, 
primarily in establishing and enforcing 
security and compliance guardrails 
with auditability and observability.
The large, existing customer base 
provides a fertile ground for future 
growth. The Bank would continue to 
provide products and offer solutions 
for customers’ needs based on its 
rich understanding of their proﬁle. This 
would bring in higher engagement 
through the internal channels viz., 
branch network and virtual team. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
85
Our Strategy

STRATEGY IN ACTION
Both the channels put together would 
reduce the overall cost of sourcing 
and improve the Cost to Income Ratio.
While HDFC bank continues to 
innovate and enhance digital offerings, 
it has also ensured robust analytics 
and risk management capabilities 
to back these offerings. Risk 
Management is at the core of the 
Bank’s product offerings with robust 
underwriting mechanisms in place. 
It ensures prudent pricing across all 
products factoring in the risk.
The Bank has expanded its branch 
network and would capitalise on the 
same by increasing offerings and 
deepening presence in emerging 
geographies. By leveraging 
partnerships with Business 
Correspondents and Business 
Facilitators, the credit offtake shall 
witness a further lift especially 
in the deeper and under-served 
geographies. This will further the 
cause of ﬁnancial inclusion. 
HDFC Bank’s delinquency levels have 
been one of the lowest, with a large 
portion of the customers having better 
credit scores. Its robust processes 
and controls have managed the risk 
associated with varied asset lending. 
The way forward is to continue to offer 
loans seamlessly across geographies, 
expanding reach in Semi-Urban and 
Rural markets for deeper penetration 
and maintaining the leadership in 
urban areas.
Mortgage Assets
The merger of HDFC Limited with 
and into HDFC Bank has been 
transformational for the Bank. It has 
now emerged as a Bank with one of 
the largest home loan portfolios in 
the country. 
It is offering home loans to customers 
as a complete package riding on 
HDFC Bank’s network of 
branches across the country, 
digital touchpoints, complete 
product range and superior 
technology. This synergy 
has positioned the Bank to 
offer best-in-class home loan 
offerings to existing and new 
customers. A wholesome 
product offering combined 
with improved turnaround time and 
in person customer connect is a 
potential game changer in terms of 
both turnover and cross-sell.
As a part of enhancing the cross-
sell strategy, home loan customers 
are now able to avail of a wide range 
of products/services like Deposits, 
Consumer Durable Loans, Credit 
Cards, Wealth Advisory Product, 
Unsecured Loans and other 
retail loans. 
Savings Accounts for incremental 
home loan customers has moved to 
over 95 per cent from pre-merger 
levels of 35 per cent. This sets the 
foundation for a stronger connect with 
incremental customers and the Bank 
continues to focus on establishing 
deeper banking relationships 
with them.
In addition to this, HDFC Bank’s 
strategy is to improve the focus on 
the self-employed category which will 
further increase opportunity in this 
HDFC Bank Limited
86

transport and healthcare businesses. 
The Bank is committed to resolving 
challenges such as limited credit 
access, high borrowing costs and 
collateral constraints that are faced 
by this sector. HDFC Bank’s lending 
activities under this segment play a 
signiﬁcant role in meeting the Priority 
Sector Lending (PSL) obligations.
The goals of the commercial and rural 
cluster are three-fold: 
(1) 
To increase PSL lending 
(2) 
To grow the book 
(3) 
 To generate income while 
maintaining portfolio quality 
The Bank’s PSL lending comprises 
40.4 per cent of our total book net 
of PSLC and organic book is 41.7 
per cent. 
It has in place a robust growth 
strategy for all major offerings. In 
MSME segment, the Bank already has 
a strong presence across all states, 
with a leading market share in 14 of 
them and securing a position among 
top 3 in 21 states. HDFC Bank is now 
building in granularity by targeting 
district-level leadership. 
The Bank continues to pursue 
agricultural ﬁnancing and considers 
the portfolio an important wallet 
generator for it in the future. HDFC 
Bank sees this potential, as trends 
shift from pre-crop working capital 
ﬁnancing to agri infrastructure 
ﬁnancing. Further as envisioned, 
it has built a strong portfolio of 
diverse offerings across high income 
agri products such as dairy and 
horticulture. Under agriculture ﬁnance, 
HDFC Bank currently has a presence 
in 2.35 lakh villages and aims to 
penetrate more in these villages to 
further build the portfolio. It currently 
holds the number one position in the 
transportation ﬁnance business. While 
it continues to innovate and enhance 
digital offerings, the Bank has ensured 
robust analytics and risk management 
capabilities to back these offerings. 
Risk Management is at the core of 
product offerings. Further there will be 
offerings in new and under-penetrated 
equipment category as well as 
non-equipment ﬁnancing. HDFC 
Bank will leverage its strong OEM 
relationships, common distribution 
channels, geographies and customer 
base across the existing portfolio and 
presence. As the Bank continues to 
digitalise a major part of this cluster, 
digitalisation and digital journeys will 
emerge as key growth enablers. 
HDFC Bank is digitalising customer 
touchpoints, document collection 
processes, sales service and others. 
It has enabled self-service digital 
capabilities across all the branches. 
The Bank has connected to direct 
data source including government 
sites to get the information in a 
digital way. Going forward, the Bank 
further aims to build capabilities 
for digital underwriting through 
data management and APIﬁcation. 
The cluster is in a good position 
to capitalise on the immense 
market potential.
segment. Post-merger, the Bank has 
launched and expanded its product 
basket through banking surrogate 
programmes as well as leveraging its 
knowledge for better assessment of 
such proﬁles for home loans.
The gross retail mortgages stood at  
H8,35,656.46 crore as compared to  
H7,74,406.33 crore in the previous year. 
The Bank believes that due to 
government focus and a favourable 
institutional framework and 
ecosystem, the fundamental demand 
for housing loans will continue to be 
strong in the long run in India. As 
the nation's growth story unfolds, 
HDFC Bank is fully geared to meet 
home loan demand and continue to 
be a preferred home loan provider 
in the country with the best-in-class 
product solutions and world class 
customer service.
Commercial and 
Rural Cluster
The Commercial and Rural Cluster 
caters to a diverse range of entities 
including Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises (MSMEs), Joint Liability 
and Self-Help Groups in the 
microﬁnance segment. It further 
serves the needs of small and 
marginal farmers, healthcare ﬁnance, 
equipment ﬁnance and commercial 
transport companies. Under this 
cluster, the Bank’s aim is to support 
the growth and success of MSMEs 
by providing access to credit and 
other ﬁnancial solutions and services. 
HDFC Bank caters to MSMEs in 
manufacturing, exports, retail and 
wholesale trade, supply chain network 
and infrastructure companies. 
It also meets the needs of farmer 
ﬁnance, commercial agriculture, joint 
liability and self-help groups under 
microﬁnance. Further it serves the 
needs of commercial equipment and 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
87
Our Strategy

STRATEGY IN ACTION
Corporate 
Ecosystem
Shareholders
Dividend Distribution
Government
Statutory Payments
Employees
Salary 
Empanelment
Channel
Supply Chain Finance
Suppliers/Dealers
Cash Management
Cross Border 
Vendors
• Trade
•  Cross Border 
Transactions
Customers
•  Digital 
Integrations
•  API Integrations
• H2H
Balance Sheet 
Support
Working Capital & 
Term Lending
Corporate Cluster
Corporate Cluster is one of the key 
pillars for the Bank. The customer 
base spans prominent and large 
business houses, Multi-National 
Corporations (MNCs), manufacturing 
and service sector companies, public 
sector enterprises and ﬁnancial 
institutions, amongst others. The 
Bank’s focus is on holistic corporate 
engagement and caters to them by 
extending credit as well as other 
banking products and solutions that 
assist corporations in managing their 
entire ﬁnancial business cycle. The 
corporate touchpoints encompass the 
gamut of the banking needs including 
working capital and term loans at the 
inception of a project, operational 
solutions such as cash management, 
supply-chain integration, international 
trade ﬁnancing and payment solutions 
such as tax management and 
payroll management.
HDFC Bank’s comprehensive range 
of products and services along with 
its relationship-based approach 
provides a competitive advantage. 
While the focus is on growth, the 
Bank ensures pricing discipline and is 
selective while taking exposures. It has 
a well-diversiﬁed book spread across 
multiple industries. The average rating 
of the book is between AA to AA+.
HDFC Bank endeavours to leverage 
its strong relationships with existing 
customers to increase wallet share. 
This entails deepening share within 
existing products as well as designing 
effective solutions across their needs 
to increase their product holding. In 
addition, the Bank is also focusing 
on new to bank acquisitions through 
engagement with large corporates, 
targeting government undertakings 
and MNCs to expand reach. It has put 
in place a liability strategy to improve 
wallet share through transaction 
banking, viz, cash management, 
payments and trade solutions. 
Supply chain ﬁnancing is also a key 
growth driver for the Bank. This is 
being bolstered through the use of 
technology such as a supply chain 
platform that acts as a one-stop shop 
for transaction needs, as well as the 
development of need-based offerings. 
The Bank has identiﬁed Trade as an 
initiative to capture incremental market 
share. Additionally, it is also attempting 
to tap opportunities in investment 
banking space to drive growth in 
fee income.
Key Growth Drivers
 −Deepening engagement with 
clients using digital channels
 −NTB initiative and contribution 
of NTBs
 −Focus clients initiative
 −Digital banking solutions
 −Revisit Corporate groups
 −Group level marketing
 −Building on existing 
relationship for increase 
in business
 −Reciprocity from large vendors
 −Exploring Investment 
Banking opportunities
 −Growth in trade
 −Targeting avenues for foreign 
exchange income
Client-ﬁrst
Liability
Fee Improvement
HDFC Bank Limited
88

STRATEGY IN ACTION
The Bank is continuing on a path 
of strategic digital transformation 
to further widen and deepen wallet 
share from corporates by enhancing 
employee experience, customer 
engagement and creating an 
ecosystem for seamless banking. 
It is enhancing employee experience 
through the launch of platforms 
enabling an end-to-end journey for 
the relationship managers, actionable 
analytics, pricing intelligence and 
dashboard automation. On the 
customer front, it is progressing on 
the path of shifting from a product 
focus to an ecosystem approach and 
investing in enabling ERP integration 
across functions.
In addition to pure construction 
ﬁnance facility, HDFC Bank is 
also ﬁnancing Greenﬁeld under-
construction commercial ofﬁce space 
with developers having a proven track 
record. The construction ﬁnance 
facilities will get converted into low-
risk Lease Rental Discounting (LRD) 
facilities resulting in healthy pipeline of 
LRD book for the Bank.
Through these initiatives, the Bank is 
re-imagining the corporate cluster to 
function as a digital corporate bank. 
The runway is long and the objective 
is to serve corporates with the entire 
gamut of products and services and 
capitalise on the beneﬁt of synergies 
across the bank.
HDFC Bank offers comprehensive 
structured off-balance sheet solutions 
to help corporates make their 
supply chain more robust. These 
programmes cater to the working 
capital requirements by easing liquidity 
and removing the underlying trade risk 
of the transaction. 
Supply Chain Finance (SCF)
As part of the digital transformation 
strategy, the Bank has the SCF 
Underwriting and Onboarding 
platform to ease the Anchor client’s 
counterparty onboarding process 
and provide instantaneous credit 
decisioning in less than 30 minutes of 
application submission. In addition to 
the enhanced customer experience, 
the platform also enhances the 
productivity of the Bank’s internal 
stakeholders. It enables the build of 
a granular SCF book and given the 
automation of the origination and 
underwriting legs, the platform is also 
expected to give an impetus to higher 
deal velocity on the existing SCF 
Transaction Platform.
Realty Finance Business 
Post-merger, the Bank inherited 
the realty ﬁnance business. It has 
commenced offering Construction 
Finance facilities to borrowers having 
a strong track record and a well-
established presence. This business 
largely covers the construction 
ﬁnance for both residential and 
commercial properties as well as 
rental discounting business. There 
was a signiﬁcant shift in regulation 
and processes and the Bank has 
successfully managed to ensure 
that the transition was smooth and 
seamless. There is a continuous 
endeavour to make borrower’s journey 
from application to disbursement 
smooth and fast. With continuous 
automation and digitalisation of 
various processes, HDFC Bank has 
been successful in reducing overall 
TAT resulting in customer satisfaction 
and better service.
The Bank offers funding for ready 
/ under construction residential / 
commercial properties, hotels, clubs, 
schools, hospitals, warehouses 
among others. Lease Rental 
Discounting (LRD) is another key 
product offered by Realty Business 
Finance. The Construction ﬁnance 
business provides synergy for home 
loan sales and also for LRD projects. 
These lower risks and provide long 
tenure asset.
HDFC Bank is the largest player in 
Real Estate ﬁnance with market share 
of close to 20 per cent. The team 
consists of experts across various 
aspects of Real Estate and related 
products. The Bank is geographically 
spread across 11 cities in India with 
a presence in both Tier I and II cities. 
The target is to expand to another 
eight cities in the current ﬁnancial year.
There is immense scope for 
providing other banking services to 
customers. HDFC Bank aims to be a 
one stop shop for these customers 
and provide them with services like 
CMS, liability products like Term 
Deposits and others. Through this 
the plan is to deepen wallet share 
across customers. 
Technological advancements and 
seamless end to end customer 
journeys are the key focus. Realty 
Business Finance strives hard to 
achieve this objective and play a 
pivotal role in Bank’s growth story by 
adhering to the mantra of  
‘Customer First’.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
89
Our Strategy

EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
Favourable 
Growth 
Landscape  
India’s stable political 
environment and supportive 
government policies created 
favourable conditions for the 
banking sector’s growth in 
FY2024–25. The strengthening 
of banks’ balance sheets 
over the past few years 
has enhanced their lending 
capacity, although deposit 
mobilisation remained a 
challenge during the year.
90
HDFC Bank Limited
While the banking system encountered 
liquidity constraints during the year under 
review, there was a growing realisation 
towards the end of the period that credit 
growth needed to be moderated. Overall, the 
sector’s proﬁtability improved in FY 2024–25.
Net Non-Performing Assets (NNPAs) reached 
record-low levels, signiﬁcantly improving 
the ﬁnancial health of banks. With a large, 
youthful, and tech-savvy population, 
there is increasing demand for digital-ﬁrst 
banking, personalised services, and faster 
customer support.
HDFC Bank Limited
90

The global economic outlook is 
marred by the lingering uncertainty 
from US tariffs, geopolitical 
tensions, ﬁnancial market volatility 
and inﬂationary risks. The 
International Monetary Fund has 
revised down its global growth 
forecast for 2025 by 50 basis points 
to 2.8 per cent, and by 30 basis 
points in 2026. Growth in the US is 
expected to slow down to 1.8 per 
cent in 2025 from 2.8 per cent in 
2024, while China is expected to 
grow at 4 per cent compared to 
5 per cent in 2024. 
Geopolitical frictions, in the Middle 
East and Russia-Ukraine, raise the 
risk of supply chain disruptions 
and volatility in commodity prices. 
At the same time, divergent and 
changing trade policies could 
increase ﬁnancial market volatility. 
Furthermore, the slower pace 
of disinﬂation and concerns 
around elevated public debt 
levels in key advanced economies 
pose headwinds to the global 
growth outlook.
Our Response
The Bank maintains a disciplined 
approach to governance and 
risk management which includes 
stress testing across geopolitical, 
macroeconomic, and sector-
speciﬁc scenarios to evaluate 
potential vulnerabilities. Insights 
from these assessments act as 
inputs for making appropriate 
adjustments to strategy and 
execution, strengthening the Bank’s 
preparedness and resilience. 
HDFC Bank continues to invest 
in talent, governance and future-
ready technologies to strengthen 
operational integrity and long-term 
value creation.
India is poised to maintain its 
position as one of the fastest-
growing economies globally in 
FY 2025-26. The Reserve Bank 
of India (RBI) anticipates GDP to 
grow by 6.5 per cent in FY 2025-
26, similar to FY 2024-25 GDP 
growth. Amidst global headwinds, 
India’s GDP growth is likely to be 
supported by domestic factors in 
FY 2025-26. Rural consumption 
demand is expected to improve 
on the back of healthy agricultural 
production. Moderation in inﬂation, 
tax cuts and interest rate cuts by 
the RBI are expected to support 
urban consumption. Government’s 
capital expenditure continues 
to support investments, while 
an expected improvement in 
consumption demand could also 
crowd-in private investments. 
Domestic inﬂation is projected to 
average 3.7 per cent in FY2025-
26, assuming a normal monsoon, 
compared to 4.6 per cent in 
FY 2024-25.
India Holds Steady Amidst Global Volatility
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
91
Our Strategy

EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
In recent years, the banking 
sector has undergone a profound 
transformation with the extensive 
integration of digitalisation and 
cutting-edge technologies. This 
transformation has brought forth 
not only numerous opportunities 
but also formidable challenges 
particularly in the realms of 
cybersecurity and data privacy.
The landscape of cyber threats 
has undergone rapid and complex 
changes fuelled by targeted attacks, 
the proliferation of Ransomware-
as-a-Service (RaaS) incidents, the 
utilisation of AI/ML to orchestrate 
sophisticated attacks as well as the 
prevalence of DDoS attacks and 
coordinated group cyber assaults. 
The repercussions of cyberattacks 
are profound, impacting not only 
ﬁnancial institutions' bottom lines 
but also their brand reputation and 
customer trust.
Our Response
Moreover, these incidents often 
result in attrition and signiﬁcant 
ﬁnancial losses. As the banking 
sector increasingly adopts cloud-
enabled services as part of IT 
modernisation initiatives and 
digital-ﬁrst business strategies, 
concerns regarding related threats 
have intensiﬁed.
Recognising securing the cloud 
entails a shared responsibility, 
organisations are actively 
implementing robust measures to 
safeguard their cloud infrastructure.
Regulators in India are also actively 
taking measures to ensure data 
privacy. This is evident through the 
Digital Personal Data Protection 
Act 2023, emphasising the nation's 
commitment to safeguarding data 
privacy rights.
Focus on Data Privacy and Cyber Security
At HDFC Bank, we are committed 
to robust cyber security and 
data privacy as part of our 
technology transformation 
journey. The Bank continues to 
enhance its information security 
posture through a range of 
strategic and technology-driven 
initiatives aimed at strengthening 
its information security and 
resilience against evolving cyber 
threats. These initiatives align 
with regulatory expectations 
and industry best practices 
to ensure the conﬁdentiality, 
integrity and availability of the 
Bank's digital infrastructure and 
applications. Key initiatives include the 
establishment of a Next-generation 
Cybersecurity Operations Center 
(CSOC), Advanced Security Incident 
and Event Management solutions 
augmented by AI and ML capabilities, 
24/7 defacement monitoring, Cyber 
Resiliency, creating Identity Fabric, 
Attack Surface Management (ASM), 
Vulnerability and Penetration testing 
program, robust patch management 
and email security measures, Red 
teaming activities, API Security using 
AIML, Cloud Posture and Access 
Security Tools (CSPM & CASB) for 
reducing cloud related risks, and a 
zero-trust architecture approach. 
Overall, the bank's cybersecurity 
measures are focused on ensuring 
the highest level of protection 
against cyber threats, with proactive 
monitoring and automated incident 
response capabilities, enhanced 
network visibility and a zero-trust 
approach to security. 
In addition, we also have a data 
privacy program which is led by the 
Data Privacy Ofﬁcer and overseen 
by the Board and Chief Data Ofﬁcer 
ensuring stringent compliance with 
relevant regulations.
HDFC Bank Limited
92

The escalating impact of climate- 
related events has prompted a 
heightened emphasis on resilience 
across sectors with the ﬁnancial 
sector playing a pivotal role in 
mobilising resources for green 
activities. Climate change and 
transition ﬁnance have become 
central to global discourse.
In addition, integrating climate and 
ESG related risks in underwriting 
policies and risk management 
framework is becoming increasingly 
important for ﬁnancial services 
companies. The increasing threat 
of climate change and consequent 
physical damage are signiﬁcant 
concerns that may impact portfolio 
performance. Shifting market 
perceptions and increasing demand 
for environmentally friendly products 
and services also have an impact 
on the cashﬂows of portfolio 
companies as the world transitions 
to a low-carbon economy. At 
COP29, India reiterated the 
importance of prioritising climate 
ﬁnance, signalling a shift towards 
more comprehensive approaches to 
managing climate-related ﬁnancial 
risks. Effective risk management is 
essential to manage and mitigate 
these impacts.
Moreover, inadequate information 
about climate-related ﬁnancial risks 
can lead to mispricing of assets and 
misallocation of capital emphasising 
the need for better, more consistent 
and comparable disclosures.
Regulators in India, along 
with counterparts globally, 
are mandating compliance 
with sustainability disclosure 
frameworks, with climate-related 
risks and opportunities emerging 
as a central focus
Growing Emphasis on Sustainable Financing and Climate Risk Management
Our Response
In line with its sustainability-focused 
vision and commitments, the 
Bank continues to develop several 
initiatives to manage climate-related 
risks at the project, portfolio, and 
organational levels. Further details 
on these initiatives can be found 
in the 'climate related disclosures' 
section of the report.
Additionally, we actively monitor 
and externally verify the carbon 
emissions resulting from the Bank’s 
operations to manage and reduce our 
environmental impact. We also comply 
with all relevant regulations including 
those related to the BRSR, mandated 
by SEBI.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
93
Our Strategy

EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
The Government of India has 
taken signiﬁcant steps and made 
considerable progress in promoting 
ﬁnancial inclusion. A key initiative in 
this regard has been the Pradhan 
Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) 
which envisages comprehensive 
ﬁnancial inclusion across 
the country. 
Leveraging the PMJDY accounts, 
the Government has effectively 
facilitated Direct Beneﬁt Transfers 
(DBTs), streamlining the distribution 
of subsidies and welfare beneﬁts. 
In FY 2024-25 transactions totalling 
H6.78 lakh crore were executed 
through DBT. Additionally, there 
is continued focus on affordable 
housing with the extension of the 
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban 
2.0). This Interest Subsidy Scheme 
(ISS) is a ﬂagship scheme under 
PMAY 2.0.
Simultaneously, the Reserve Bank 
of India (RBI) has pursued its 
commitment to promote ﬁnancial 
inclusion through the expansion of 
digital payment infrastructure as 
well as the introduction of innovative 
banking services. 
Regulatory Changes and Government Initiatives
Our Response
HDFC Bank is committed to 
take banking solutions to the 
remote areas of the country and 
enabling underbanked sections of 
the population to access formal 
ﬁnancial channels.
With over 50 per cent of our 
branches located in semi-urban 
and rural areas, we ensure banking 
solutions reach the remote areas 
of the country and provide formal 
banking channels to the under-
banked population. We are 
committed to the Government’s 
ﬂagship initiative, Pradhan Mantri Jan-
Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), Pradhan Mantri 
Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), 
Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana 
(PMSBY), Atal Pension Yojana (APY), 
PM SVANidhi, PM Vishwakarma 
and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana 
(PMMY). 
One of the Bank's CSR pillars - 
Skill Development and Livelihood 
Enhancement Initiative aligns with the 
RBI’s National Strategy for Financial 
Inclusion (NSFI). Through our Financial 
Literacy Programme, we focus on 
ﬁnancially excluded individuals and 
those at the bottom of the pyramid. 
We conduct ﬁnancial literacy 
camps through rural branches and 
designated Financial Literacy Centres. 
Additionally, we actively participate 
in the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana 
(Urban 2.0). We provide last-mile 
access through mobile applications 
such as UPI, Aadhaar and RuPay- 
enabled Micro-ATMs.
HDFC Bank Limited
94

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
95
Our Strategy

RISK MANAGEMENT
Strengthening 
Resilience 
HDFC Bank’s risk management 
framework is ﬁrmly embedded 
across all its operations 
and continues to evolve in 
response to a dynamic external 
environment supported by strong 
technology and governance. 
It has enabled us to navigate 
uncertain times while ensuring 
growth. The framework provides 
comprehensive coverage, 
including a well-deﬁned risk 
appetite, wherever applicable, 
to support prudent risk 
management.
Risk Governance
Risk governance at the Bank is led from the top, with the 
Board of Directors assuming responsibility for overseeing 
the full spectrum of risks across the organisation. To ensure 
effective implementation of the risk strategy, the Board has 
constituted the Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee (RPMC). 
The RPMC is responsible for steering the development of 
policies, procedures, and systems, and for continuously 
evaluating their adequacy in the context of the Bank’s evolving 
business landscape. The Risk Management Group (RMG), 
headed by the Group Chief Risk Ofﬁcer (GCRO), drives risk 
management centrally in the Bank. The GCRO reports directly 
to the Managing Director & CEO of the Bank with a dotted 
line reporting to the Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee. 
The RMG is responsible for executing the approved risk 
strategy, and for developing necessary policies, procedures, 
and systems to identify, measure, monitor, assess and 
manage risks effectively. It functions independently of the 
Bank’s operations, credit, and business units, and carries no 
business targets or responsibilities.
Internal Audit
Frameworks
Risk Appetite, Risk Policies, Procedures and Systems
Governance
Board of Directors   
Board Committees 
Management Committees
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process 
and Stress Testing
Assessment
Risk Identiﬁcation, 
Measurement, 
Approval as 
applicable
Control
Risk Limits, 
Monitoring, 
Mitigation
Reporting
Risk MIS & 
Actions
Compliance
HDFC Bank's Risk Management Framework
HDFC Bank Limited
96

Three Lines of Defence
Our organisation adopts the Three Lines of Defence model to uphold sound governance, effective risk management, and a 
resilient internal control environment across all operations.
Business and operational units torm the ﬁrst line, directly managing risks within their 
activities. They are responsible for identifying, assessing, mitigating, and monitoring risks, 
while embedding internal controls into day-to-day operations and decision-making to 
ensure alignment with organisational goals and regulatory standards.
The second line of defence comprises the Independent Risk Management Group and 
Compliance function, which develop policies and frameworks while overseeing and 
guiding the ﬁrst line in identifying and managing risks. They play a critical role in promoting 
a consistent and transparent risk environment, facilitating early risk identiﬁcation, and 
ensuring timely escalation and resolution of issues. Compliance is responsible for monitoring 
compliance with all applicable statutes, governance rules, regulations, codes, and 
policies. The Risk Management Group and Compliance have sufﬁcient authority, stature, 
independence, resources, and access to the Board.
The third line of defence comprises the Internal Audit function, which operates independently 
of management to deliver objective assurance over the effectiveness of governance, risk 
management, and internal control processes. Audit is responsible and accountable for 
providing independent review together with objective assurance on effectiveness of the bank's 
ﬁrst and second lines of defence. Through its audit activities and recommendations, Internal 
Audit supports the continuous enhancement of risk management practices and strengthens 
organisational resilience.
Risk Frameworks and their 
Implementation
Effective risk management is 
foundational to the Bank’s strategic 
resilience and long-term performance. 
Given the nature of our business and 
the regulatory landscape, we are 
exposed to a spectrum of risks—
including credit, market, liquidity, 
operational, model, cybersecurity, 
and technology risks as well as 
compliance and reputational risks. 
To manage these, we've instituted an 
overarching risk appetite framework. 
We have implemented speciﬁc 
policies, limits, and triggers tailored to 
each risk category to operationalise 
our risk appetite for individual 
risk types. Furthermore, we have 
established strong governance within 
our framework to accurately assess 
and manage the inherent risks. Our 
structured management framework, 
the Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process (ICAAP), is 
designed to identify, assess, and 
manage all risks that could signiﬁcantly 
affect our business, ﬁnancial position, 
or capital adequacy. It helps us 
systematically analyse and address 
these risks to ensure the stability 
and soundness of our operations, 
protecting our business and capital 
adequacy from potential threats.
To ensure informed decision-making, 
we regularly capture and report risk 
related MIS, initiating appropriate 
mitigation measures. Our risk 
models are continuously reﬁned 
to adapt to changing conditions. 
The Internal Audit Department 
operates independently to assess 
the adequacy and effectiveness 
of internal controls, risk practices, 
governance frameworks, and 
processes. We are intensifying our 
attention on non-ﬁnancial risks by 
amplifying discussions within our Risk 
Management and Board committees. 
These discussions encompass 
operational, outsourcing, compliance, 
personnel, technology, reputation risks 
and others. This involves enhancing 
our policies, procedures, and risk 
assessment frameworks to effectively 
manage these risks with an ongoing 
commitment to improvement.
Technology continues to play a 
critical role in enhancing our risk 
management capabilities.  
1st 
Line of 
Defence
2nd 
Line of 
Defence
3rd 
Line of 
Defence
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
97
Our Strategy

We are leveraging technology to 
automate our risk management 
processes, aiming to bring 
efﬁciencies, improving accuracy, 
enhancing user control and ensuring 
robust audit trails. These technological 
tools help strengthen our ability to 
monitor, assess, and respond to a 
wide range of risks in a timely and 
effective manner. At the same time, we 
remain acutely aware of the inherent 
risks posed by technology itself. 
Additionally, the Risk Management 
Group independently validates model 
fairness for relevant models across the 
Bank to ensure transparency, integrity, 
and compliance.
The Bank follows the Board approved 
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 
policy which serves as an overarching 
framework for the Risk Management 
Group across all risk areas managing 
various risks faced by the Bank in an 
integrated manner. ERM framework 
drives the formulation of the risk 
appetite, stress testing approaches, 
capital adequacy assessment, 
and capital planning. The Internal 
Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP), integral to the ERM 
framework, acts as a risk management 
tool that enables periodic review 
and challenge of risk assessment 
inputs provided by respective units. 
At an enterprise-wide level, the Bank 
conducts stress testing and ongoing 
scenario assessments, with a focus on 
emerging risks driven by geopolitical, 
macroeconomic, and sectoral trends, 
recognising the dynamic nature of 
these challenges to proactively identify 
vulnerable areas in the portfolio and 
initiate necessary actions.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Managing Key Risks
Credit Risk
The risk which arises from default by borrowers on 
their contractual obligations with the Bank -especially 
failure to make payments or repayments.
Mitigation
The Credit Risk Management formulates policies and 
procedures to handle credit risk and maintain portfolio 
quality. It sets risk limits and reviews portfolios 
regularly. It also maintains an oversight on certain 
aspects of credit strategy and underwriting functions 
of the Credit group, led by the Chief Credit Ofﬁcer.
Strategies
Maintaining healthy asset quality with optimal risk-
reward considerations.
Capitals Impacted:
N
SR
I
F
The risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, as a result 
of failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations 
and standards.
Mitigation
A Robust board-approved compliance policy in place 
which is reviewed annually. The Compliance function 
actively tracks and reviews adherence to regulatory 
guidelines in close coordination with business, 
support and operations teams. The focus is on 
identifying and mitigating Regulatory risk through well-
deﬁned internal control framework. This framework 
includes regular feedback from product, business 
and operation teams via self-certiﬁcations and on-
going monitoring. In addition, compliance testing of 
products / policies from Regulatory perspective is 
also undertaken to further strengthen the compliance 
culture within the organisation.
Strategies
Ensuring businesses work strictly within the contours 
of regulation
Capitals Impacted:
Compliance Risk
F
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
HDFC Bank Limited
98

Market Risk
The risk of potential loss on account of adverse 
changes in market variables which affect the value of 
ﬁnancial instruments that the Bank holds as part of 
its statutory reserves or trading/investment activity, 
such as, money market instruments, debt securities, 
equities, foreign exchange and derivative instruments.  
Mitigation
Detailed Board-approved policies related to 
investment, foreign exchange, derivatives etc. 
combined with strong controls, minimise risks across 
trading desks and securities. These policies along with 
Board approved limits package, set market risk limits 
in line with the Bank's risk tolerance. Also, portfolio-
level assessments and risk reduction measures are 
carried out.
Structured products and exotics are transacted with 
counterparties possessing adequate risk management 
capabilities and systems to manage such products. 
Counterparty exposures are regularly monitored, and 
a margining framework is established in agreement 
with counterparts.
Strategies
Optimising proﬁtability of marked-to-market products 
within the constraints of liquidity and market risk 
appetite of the Bank.
Capitals Impacted:
F
Operational Risk
Operational risk arises from inadequate or failed 
internal processes, people, and systems or 
from external events. It includes the risk of loss 
resulting from legal risk but excludes strategic and 
reputational risks.
Mitigation
The Bank follows a Board-approved Operational Risk 
Management Policy that outlines the governance and 
management of operational risks. It adopts a three-line 
defence system: the business line (including support 
and operations) constitute the ﬁrst line of defence; 
the Operational Risk Management Department 
(ORMD) serves as the second line, and the Internal 
Audit acts as the third line. These teams work in 
tandem to effectively manage, monitor, and reduce 
operational risks.
Strategies
Minimising operational losses through risk mitigation.
Capitals Impacted:
F
H
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
99
Our Strategy

Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank may not be able 
to meet its ﬁnancial obligations as they fall due without 
incurring unacceptable losses.
Mitigation
The Asset Liability Management policy of the 
bank details how liquidity and interest rate risks 
are managed. We've set up a strong system to 
watch cash ﬂow mismatches, in both normal and 
stressed situations, and key ratios, like Basel III 
ratios. Additionally, we have an extensive intraday 
liquidity risk management framework to track intraday 
positions throughout the day. Interest rate risk in 
the banking book is assessed at deﬁned intervals to 
ensure it remains within our acceptable limits.
Strategies
 −To maintain healthy liquidity buffer as evidenced 
in Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) / Net Stability 
Funding Ratio (NSFR) in line with our Balance sheet 
size to tide over any unforeseen stress scenarios.
 −Maintaining competitive cost of funds.
 −Transact in derivatives, if required, to maintain the 
interest rate proﬁle.
Capitals Impacted:
RISK MANAGEMENT
Climate Risk
At a broader level, risks from climate change are 
typically divided into:
Physical risks - Economic losses (physical damage 
to property and assets) from acute impacts on account 
of extreme weather events (ﬂoods, cyclones, droughts, 
landslides, etc) attributed to climate change, or long-
term chronic impacts on environment such as rise in 
sea levels, increased global temperature or irreversible 
precipitation changes. 
Transition risks - The possible process of adjustment 
to a low carbon economy and its possible effects on 
the value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities including the 
likelihood of formation of stranded assets.
Mitigation
We actively support the ﬁnancing and investment 
in environmentally friendly technologies and low-
carbon infrastructure projects. We leverage our 
product offerings and ﬁnancial expertise to assist 
our customers and clients in transitioning to a 
sustainable and a low-carbon economy. We are 
pursuing this through three thematic areas including 
ESG integration in products, sustainable ﬁnance and 
portfolio emissions. These aspects are discussed in 
detail in the chapter on the ESG strategy.
Strategies
The Bank is in the process of augmenting existing 
methodologies and frameworks to assess climate 
transition risk for the wholesale borrowers, in response 
to an ever changing and evolving risk environment. 
For retail portfolio, the Bank is exploring framework 
to assess potential portfolio-at-risk by mapping the 
location of exposures against Natural Catastrophic 
(NATCAT) scores with varying degree of severity. 
Additionally, the Bank conducts capacity-building 
programs to familiarise the Board and staff members 
with key developments in climate risk assessment as 
guided by regulatory landscape. Furthermore, the Bank 
continues to disclose ﬁnanced emissions for selected 
segments of its lending portfolio.
Capitals Impacted:
N
SR
M
F
SR
F
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
HDFC Bank Limited
100

Technology Risk
Risks associated with the use, ownership, operation, 
involvement, inﬂuence, vendor related and adoption of 
IT systems within an enterprise, Business Continuity 
management and Third-party Risk management.
Mitigation
Our Information Technology Risk framework, along 
with the policies, procedures, templates, and 
assessment methods manage technology risk, vendor 
risk and business continuity. The framework covers 
the evaluation of new IT solutions, third-party vendors, 
outsourced IT, related services (Third Party Risk). 
Additionally, we've created a Business Continuity 
Management framework and rolled out the Business 
Continuity Programme across the Enterprise.
Strategies
 −Ensure alignment of Business and IT Strategies 
to provide services availability and superior 
customer experience.
 −Making extensive progress on some of the 
key initiatives that are part of our technology 
transformation agenda.
Capitals Impacted:
Reputation Risk
Any adverse stakeholder and public perception about 
our Bank may negatively impact our ability to attract 
and retain customers and may expose us to litigation 
and regulatory actions.
Mitigation
We keep in regular contact with our stakeholders 
using suitable engagement methods to meet their 
expectations and handle any concerns they raise. 
The Bank recognises reputation risk as signiﬁcant in 
its ICAAP Policy, and we've set up an assessment 
framework to monitor it.
Strategies
 −Delivering superior customer experience.
 −Proactive risk assessment and monitoring
 −Continue to foster a culture of Ethics 
and Compliance 
 −Strengthening grievance handling mechanism
Capitals Impacted:
SR
I
SR
F
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
101
Our Strategy

RISK MANAGEMENT
Cyber and Data Risk*
Cyber Risk
Risk of cyber-attacks on our Bank’s systems through 
hacking, phishing, ransomware, and other means, 
resulting in disruption of our services or theft or leak of 
sensitive internal data 
Data Privacy Risk
Risk of breach of customer or employee data 
privacy due to inadequate controls, regulatory non-
compliance, or failure in embedding privacy principles 
across processes and technologies — potentially 
resulting in ﬁnancial penalties, operational disruptions, 
reputational damage, or loss of stakeholder trust. 
Risks arising from the adoption of new-age solutions 
are comprehensively assessed through the lenses of 
data privacy and data security. 
Mitigation
We assess each cyber threat, including data privacy 
concerns, based on the framework of Identify, Prevent 
/ Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover. 
To mitigate these risks, we have implemented various 
controls such as ﬁrewalls, anti-malware, data loss 
prevention (DLP) measures, Domain-based Message 
Authentication, Reporting and Conformance (DMARC) 
solution, intrusion prevention / detection systems, 
digital rights management, zero-trust architecture 
approach, Extended Detection and Response (XDR), 
File Integrity Monitoring (FIM), Data Activity Monitoring 
(DAM), central Patch Management, Email Security 
Measures, Cloud Posture and Access Security Tools 
(CSPM & CASB), Web Application Firewall (WAF), 24/7 
security operation center (SOC) etc. 
The Bank has established a robust cyber security 
governance framework comprising an Incident 
Management Procedure, Cyber Security Policy, 
and Cyber Crisis Management Plan, supported by 
regular tabletop exercises to ensure stakeholder 
preparedness. Advanced monitoring capabilities 
have been deployed through an AI-powered 
Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) 
solution, featuring machine learning, UEBA, and 
threat modelling for early detection and mitigation. 
These are complemented by Security Orchestration, 
Automation and Response (SOAR) tools that enable 
faster, automated triaging of incidents. The Security 
Operations Centre (SOC) is continuously updated 
with threat intelligence from government sources, 
service providers, and dark web monitoring. To 
strengthen cyber resilience, the Bank runs a dedicated 
Attack Surface Management (ASM) program with 
continuous scanning, patch management, penetration 
testing, and red team exercises. Identity and Access 
Management (IAM) protocols, zero-trust architecture 
approach and least-privilege principles, along with 
privileged access controls, safeguard critical systems 
from unauthorised access.
The Bank also complies with ISO 27001:2022, 
ISO 22301:2019 and PCI DSS standards, 
demonstrating our commitment to information security 
and safeguarding customer data.
The bank’s Data Privacy program is a highly regulated 
initiative managed by the Data Privacy Ofﬁcer (DPO) 
under the direct supervision of the Board and the 
Chief Data Ofﬁcer. Privacy by design approach 
is central to our data privacy program to address 
privacy related risk. Our privacy program embeds ten 
(10) privacy principles in the varied processes and 
technologies across bank’s products and services 
to protect this organisation from ﬁnancial, regulatory, 
operational, and brand damage.
Strategies
 −Robust governance over information and cyber 
security framework through various committees 
viz. IT Strategy Committee, Information Security 
Committee (ISC), Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process (ICAAP), Risk Policy and 
Monitoring Committee (RPMC) etc. 
 −Various mitigation measures including antivirus 
programme, network security management, 
vulnerability management, cyber security and data 
privacy measures
 −Continuous information security awareness for 
employees and customers
Capitals Impacted:
I
F
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
HDFC Bank Limited
102

Risk of spill-over from Subsidiaries
Risk arising from subsidiaries refers to potential 
uncertainties or adverse events that can impact 
the operations, ﬁnancial stability, reputation, or 
strategic objectives of holding company due to 
subsidiary operations.
Mitigation
The Board / Risk Management committees of each 
subsidiary is responsible for managing their respective 
risks. The Group Risk Management Committee 
(GRMC) and Group Risk Council (GRC) has been 
instituted in our Bank to periodically review the 
nature / quantum of material risks of the subsidiaries 
and provide guidance, as deemed ﬁt, on the risk 
management practices. Stress testing for the group 
is carried out by integrating the stress tests of the 
subsidiaries. Similarly, capital adequacy projections 
are formulated for the group after incorporating the 
business / capital plans of the subsidiaries.
Strategies
 −Establishing group level oversight to review key risks 
across subsidiaries.
 −Including stress test output of subsidiaries to 
conduct group level stress testing.
 −Including subsidiary business plans/capital 
projections in capital adequacy projections for 
the Group.
Capitals Impacted:
Model Risk
Risk arising from the use of models, which is the 
potential for adverse consequences from decisions 
based on incorrect or misused model outputs 
and reports. 
Mitigation
A well-deﬁned, Board approved Model Risk 
Management Policy, along with a robust framework 
including pre-deployment validation, and periodic 
monitoring, to capture, manage, and mitigate 
model risk.
Strategies
 −Bank has established an independent Model Risk 
Management Team within the Risk Management 
Group to manage Model Risk across the Bank.
Capitals Impacted:
SR
F
SR
F
I
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
103
Our Strategy

RISK MANAGEMENT
Growing Geo-Political 
Tensions
The geo-political backdrop 
continues to remain uncertain 
with shocks such as the 
Russia-Ukraine conﬂict have 
persisted and the Israel-Hamas 
war continues to fuel regional 
instability. Coupled with that, the 
recent tariff related measures 
have exacerbated uncertainties 
clouding the economic 
outlook across regions, posing 
headwinds for global growth 
and inﬂation. Tensions in 
the Middle East have further 
intensiﬁed following the Israel-
Iran conﬂict, adding to volatility 
in global energy markets and 
geopolitical risk perceptions. 
While we do not foresee 
a signiﬁcant direct impact 
on the Bank at present, we 
remain vigilant and are actively 
monitoring developments 
to respond swiftly to any 
emerging risks.
Trade Realignment
As part of our risk management 
strategy, we've broadly 
assessed the impact of 
recent developments of the 
imposition of reciprocal tariff 
measures by US administration 
and subsequent impact 
on the various sectors and 
industries. The Bank is closely 
monitoring the ongoing shift in 
global trade patterns to take 
necessary actions.
Volatility in Key Macro 
Economic Indicators
Monitoring volatility in macro 
economic indicators like inﬂation, 
interest rate trajectories, global 
currency ﬂuctuations, GDP 
growth projections etc. remains 
a key area of focus for the 
risk management group. We 
actively track any signiﬁcant 
developments in these indicators 
to assess potential implications 
on the Bank's portfolio. While no 
signiﬁcant direct impact on the 
portfolio is currently assessed 
due to these movements, we are 
closely monitoring the situations 
leading to such ﬂuctuations to 
ensure preparedness.
Managing Emerging Risks
Acknowledging the signiﬁcance of stress testing in risk management, the Bank conducts stress tests beyond standard 
scenarios. We focus on topical themes inﬂuenced by geopolitical, macroeconomic, and sectoral trends to pinpoint speciﬁc 
areas of our portfolio. This approach serves as an early warning system, prompting potential actions. Various stress tests 
have been conducted to evaluate their impact on our portfolio and identity affected borrowers. Furthermore, we implement 
various measures to mitigate global risks, as detailed below.
HDFC Bank Limited
104

Risks arising from geopolitical and macroeconomic 
factors include the following:
 −Global Instability and Trade Disruptions
 −Rising Protectionism and Economic Headwinds
 −Uncertain Policy Environment
Mitigation
At an enterprise-wide level, recognising the dynamic 
nature of these challenges, we remain committed to 
proactive risk identiﬁcation and continuous scenario 
assessment. We have been keeping a close watch 
on these macroeconomic developments to take 
necessary action as and when required.
Strategies
 −Conduct stress testing with focus on topical 
themes inﬂuenced by geopolitical, macroeconomic, 
and sectoral trends to pinpoint speciﬁc areas of 
our portfolio
 −Closely monitor the evolving risk landscape and 
ensure regular updates to the Board and senior 
management on any emerging threats. Where 
warranted, proactive portfolio resizing / limit 
adjustments are undertaken to mitigate potential 
headwinds and preserve portfolio resilience.
Capitals Impacted:
Emerging Risk - Geopolitical & Macroeconomic Risks 
F
F
  
Financial   
I
  
Intellectual   M
  
Manufactured    
H
  
Human    SR
  
Social and Relationship   
N
  
Natural
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
105
Our Strategy

BUSINESS CONTINUIT Y MANAGEMENT, INFORMATION & CYBER 
SECURIT Y PRACTICES AND DATA PRIVACY MEASURES
Safeguarding 
the Future 
In an era marked by 
a rapidly evolving 
technological landscape 
and emerging 
threats, HDFC Bank 
maintains a risk-averse 
approach, proactively 
safeguarding operations 
to ensure seamless and 
uninterrupted delivery of 
services. 
Our Business Continuity Management 
(BCM) Programme is ISO 22301:2019 
certiﬁed and is designed to reliably 
sustain critical services and operations 
in the face of any unforeseen 
circumstances. It also adheres to 
applicable regulatory frameworks 
(RBI, SEBI, NCIIPC, CERT-In, etc.) and 
undergoes rigorous reviews and audits 
to ensure its effectiveness. 
The programme is overseen by 
the Business Continuity Steering 
Committee, chaired by the Group 
Chief Risk Ofﬁcer. Our central 
Business Continuity Ofﬁce constantly 
enhances the Bank’s continuity 
capabilities through periodic testing, 
review and continual improvement.
The comprehensive framework 
governing our BCM programme 
enables us to pre-empt, prepare for, 
respond to and systematically recover 
from disruptions ensuring operational 
resilience and maintaining the trust of 
our customers and stakeholders. 
It focuses on:
Crisis Management
Our Crisis Management Plan is to 
address the strategic issues of a crisis 
impacting the Bank and to direct and 
communicate the corporate response 
to the crisis.
It focuses on strategic decision 
making and internal/external 
stakeholder (including RBI, customers, 
media) communication for managing 
catastrophic events e.g. natural 
disasters, geo-political conﬂicts, cyber 
attacks, etc. to protect our Bank's 
reputation and manage impact.
Business Continuity 
At HDFC Bank, Business Continuity 
Planning focuses on managing 
continuity of critical business 
operations and accelerated recovery 
of services after a disaster.
It primarily focuses on continuity 
planning for disruptive scenarios with 
regard to absence of critical staff, 
premises, technology and vendors.
Our BCPs are periodically tested 
at all levels through a well-deﬁned 
testing programme.
Disaster Recovery
Our Disaster Recovery Plan and 
Procedure focuses on recovery of 
essential IT services and data.
DR Planning involves identiﬁcation 
of critical systems, establishing and 
maintaining DR sites (alternate data 
centers) for these critical systems and 
periodically testing this setup. 
HDFC Bank Limited
106

DR practice also includes robust data 
backup, replication and restoration 
procedures to meet RPOs and RTOs 
crucial for digital banking services.
Emergency Response
Our Emergency Response Plan deals 
with site-level emergencies (at an 
ofﬁce or a branch) involving life and 
asset safety issues in the event of 
natural & man-made disasters such as 
ﬁre, bomb threats, earthquake, ﬂoods, 
amongst others.
It includes procedures for evacuation, 
medical aid and security.
Staff training and awareness including 
evacuation drills are part of Emergency 
Response preparedness.
Pandemic Response
This is a speciﬁc type of crisis 
management and business continuity 
plan addressing widespread health 
emergencies e.g. COVID-19.
It focuses on employee safety (e.g., 
remote work, health protocols), 
maintaining essential services with 
potentially reduced staff managing 
customer interactions safely and 
adapting to prolonged disruption 
as per health advisories and 
regulatory directives.
In essence, our BCM framework 
and programme revolves around the 
concept of being prepared (BC, DR), 
responding effectively to immediate 
threats (Emergency Response), 
managing the broader impact and 
communication (Crisis Management) 
and having speciﬁc plans for 
unique, widespread events like 
pandemics – all while meeting Indian 
regulatory expectations.
Safeguarding our 
Customers' Digital Journey
At HDFC Bank ensuring Information 
and Cyber Security is a priority for us. 
We are committed to safeguarding 
customer information and have 
implemented robust security controls 
and practices to strengthen data 
security. We continue to strengthen 
our systems and processes to protect 
sensitive customer information 
from unauthorised access. We 
maintain a strong security posture 
through measures such as Antivirus 
/ Anti-Malware Solution, Data Loss 
Prevention (DLP) Solution, Advanced 
Threat Prevention, Web Application 
Firewalls, DDoS Protection, IDS / IPS 
Technologies as well as Vulnerability 
Management and Penetration Testing. 
Oversight at the highest level ensures 
governance of our Information 
Security Practices. 
Governance Over Data
At HDFC Bank, Cyber Security 
and Data Privacy are of paramount 
importance to us. To manage risks 
associated with these areas we have 
constituted specialised committees 
– IT Strategy Committee, Information 
Security Committee – each with 
speciﬁc roles and responsibilities. We 
also have in place a Cyber Security 
Framework and an Information 
Security Programme to oversee these 
risks and mitigate them adequately 
to protect customer information. 
Our Information Security and Cyber 
Security policies lay down the 
guidelines for implementation of the 
security measures within the Bank. 
The Bank continues to enhance 
its information security posture 
through a range of strategic and 
technology-driven initiatives aimed at 
strengthening its information security 
and resilience against evolving 
cyber threats.
Our Next-generation Cybersecurity 
Operations Center (CSOC) has 
brought in signiﬁcant advancements to 
improve overall cyber security posture 
of the Bank by deploying a predictive / 
proactive security monitoring of Bank 
IT Infrastructure and Applications. 
We have developed the Incident 
Management Procedure (IM) and 
Cyber Crisis Management Plan 
(CCMP) to elaborate on types of cyber 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
107
Our Strategy

security related incidents and cyber 
resiliency framework which works 
on the prevent, detect and response 
mechanism to manage cyber security 
incidents. The Bank also conducts 
‘table-top exercises’ to assess 
the incident response readiness. 
Key initiatives covered by the Next 
Generation CSOC include:
a. AI Powered Security 
Monitoring: Deployment of next 
generation security incident event 
management (SIEM) solution 
augmented by Artiﬁcial Intelligence 
(AI) and Machine Learning (ML) 
capabilities along with strong User 
Entity Behavioral Analysis (UEBA) 
functionalities and built-in threat 
modelling. This helps in proactively 
identifying and addressing 
several potential threats before 
they proliferate.
b. Security Orchestration, 
Automation & Response 
(SOAR) to reduce incident 
response times by enabling 
automated triaging for better 
control, visibility and preparedness 
against sophisticated attacks 
like ransomware. 
Threat intelligence feeds and 
indicators of compromise received 
from government agencies, service 
providers and dark web monitoring 
vendors are logged in the security 
technologies deployed in our Security 
Operations Centre (SOC) which 
provides real-time information about 
emerging threats, helps in identifying 
potential breaches and proactively 
defends systems and data. Our 
robust Cyber Security Framework 
and Information Security Program 
are reinforced by various stringent 
measures such as a dedicated 
Attack Surface Management (ASM) 
Program. The programme is aimed 
at continuously identifying and 
addressing vulnerabilities across 
assets thereby ensuring a secure 
environment for the Bank and its 
customers. Additionally, vulnerability 
management of the Bank’s internet 
properties, antivirus / anti-malware 
program, patch management, 
penetration testing, etc. minimise the 
surface area for cyber security 
attacks and assist in fortifying 
the Bank's assets (infrastructure, 
applications, etc.).
We have implemented a 
centralised patch management 
tool that automates the discovery, 
management and remediation of 
endpoints and servers across various 
operating systems and environments 
for the available patches. It facilitates 
patching, software deployment and 
compliance with security standards 
thus reducing the risk of the 
introduction of vulnerability due to lack 
of timely patching.
With the growing use of cloud 
infrastructure, tools such as Cloud 
Posture and Access Security Tools 
(CSPM & CASB) are used to detect 
misconﬁgurations, enforce compliance 
requirements and proactively reduce 
cloud-related risks. Overall, the Bank's 
cybersecurity measures are focused 
on ensuring the highest level of 
protection against cyber threats with 
proactive monitoring and automated 
incident response capabilities, 
enhanced network visibility and 
a zero-trust approach to security.
BUSINESS CONTINUIT Y MANAGEMENT, INFORMATION & CYBER 
SECURIT Y PRACTICES AND DATA PRIVACY MEASURES
The Red Team of the Bank proactively 
assesses our cyber assets for 
vulnerabilities through various 
periodic tests which also include 
red team assessments. Any issues 
identiﬁed during the assessments 
are remediated in a timely manner 
to ensure that the banking services 
remain resilient and stay protected 
against the evolving threats. These 
dedicated efforts underscore 
our commitment to customer 
information security and a secure 
banking environment.
We strictly adhere to regulatory 
standards like the ‘Code of Bank’s 
Commitment to Customers’. Notably, 
FY2024-25 saw no data breaches, 
a testament to our vigilance.
Key measures undertaken 
by the Bank to mitigate 
information security related 
risks:
Logging and Monitoring
The logging and monitoring 
procedures at the Bank entail logging 
user actions, system activity and 
infrastructure changes and ensuring 
the logs are securely stored and 
protected against unauthorised 
access. Alerts are generated for audit 
log failures based on asset risk levels. 
Monitoring tools aggregate log ﬁles, 
automatically reporting suspicious 
activity to the Cyber Security 
Operations Centre (CSOC) team. 
HDFC Bank Limited
108

The CSOC team performs the 
following steps:
1.  Analysis and Incident 
Detection: 
 
The CSOC team conducts analysis 
and incident detection by gathering 
information from system-generated 
events and other sources to 
identify potential incidents.
2.  Event Tracking and Escalation 
 
Events are evaluated according 
to their risk level and escalated 
as per the guidance provided 
in the Bank’s Incident 
Management policy. This may 
involve referring incidents to the 
Cyber Incident Response Team 
(CIRT) for detailed analysis, 
forensics and management for 
situation awareness.
3.  Reporting: 
 
The CSOC team periodically 
reports the events and incidents 
to the senior management.
Endpoint Detection and 
Response (EDR) /Malware 
Programme 
The programme is designed to 
prevent, detect and respond to 
malicious code threats including 
viruses, worms and trojans by utilising 
a blend of proprietary tools and 
monitoring systems for mitigating 
these risks effectively. To ensure up-
to-date protection, antivirus signatures 
are updated multiple times daily 
covering workstations, servers, email 
gateways and web gateways.
Vulnerability Management
The Bank oversees a proactive 
vulnerability management process 
continuously scanning for security 
threats. The dedicated team tracks 
and addresses vulnerabilities, logging 
and prioritising them based on severity 
and assigning ownership. They 
diligently follow up until resolution, 
ensuring thorough remediation of 
identiﬁed issues.
Patch Management
The Bank implements patch 
management procedures and tools 
to evaluate and deploy operating 
system, network and application-
speciﬁc patches and updates. This 
includes assessing vendor-supplied 
patches, documenting procedures 
and ensuring timely deployment to 
safeguard the Bank's infrastructure.
Penetration Testing
To assess potentially exploitable 
vulnerabilities, the Bank conducts 
routine and ad hoc penetration tests 
on all critical networks and systems, 
both internally and externally. These 
tests are initiated by various events 
such as new releases or updates. 
They encompass Network/Host 
Penetration Testing and Application 
Penetration Testing.
Network Security
The Bank employs ﬁrewalls and proxy 
servers to manage and segregate 
network trafﬁc based on varying 
security needs and trust levels. 
Additionally, our intrusion detection/
prevention capabilities (IDS/IPS) 
swiftly identify and respond to known 
attacks in real-time. Regular updates 
to IDS/IPS signatures enhance 
detection accuracy for speciﬁc threats, 
intruder proﬁles and attack patterns. 
Conﬁgured to trigger alerts upon 
surpassing predeﬁned thresholds, 
these tools ensure proactive 
monitoring and rapid response to 
potential security breaches.
Minimised Surface Area for 
Cyberattacks
The Bank has implemented a 
comprehensive approach to 
cybersecurity featuring a dedicated 
Attack Surface Management 
programme (ASM) aimed at 
continuously identifying and 
addressing vulnerabilities across its 
assets. Signiﬁcant strides include the 
institutionalisation of a cyber threat 
exposure management solution and 
establishment of a next-generation 
Cyber Security Operations Center 
(CSOC) to predict and manage 
incidents proactively. Introduction of 
Security Orchestration, Automation 
& Response (SOAR) has notably 
reduced incident response times 
while network micro-segmentation 
enhances control and visibility 
particularly against ransomware 
threats. Notably, the Bank has 
upgraded its monitoring and detection 
systems, leveraging advanced Artiﬁcial 
Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning 
(ML) capabilities alongside robust 
User Entity Behavioral Analysis (UEBA) 
functionalities and threat modeling. 
This holistic strategy represents 
a pioneering industry approach, 
emphasising proactive threat detection 
and response.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
109
Our Strategy

IT Strategy Committee
This committee oversees various technology-
related matters. Its functions include formulating 
IT strategy and related policies, ensuring 
alignment with the business strategy. Comprising 
mainly of Independent Directors, the committee 
also includes an external IT expert.
Information Security Committee
Chaired by the CRO (Chief Risk Ofﬁcer), this 
committee is tasked with reviewing Information 
Security Policy dispensations, taking strategic 
and ﬁnancial decisions on Information Security 
plans, reviewing performance and monitoring the 
progress of the Information Security Program. It 
also discusses any signiﬁcant Information Security 
risks, determining actions for risk remediation 
and approves changes to the constitution and 
functioning of the Information Security Committee 
(ISC). The committee serves as a platform for 
discussing information security risks and oversees 
the enterprise security program. It convenes at least 
once every two months with representatives from 
Audit, Information Technology, Information Security 
Group, other enabling functions and relevant 
business units.
Cybersecurity Framework
Our cybersecurity framework encompasses 
the key components of Identify, Protect, Detect, 
Respond and Recover. The primary objectives of 
our information security programme include:
 −Documenting, disseminating, operating 
and reviewing information security policies 
and procedures.
 −Monitoring cybersecurity threats and 
assessing the risk proﬁle across critical assets, 
infrastructure components and business units/
departments.
 −Providing transparency into the information 
security programme and associated controls to 
senior management including the Board
 −Promptly responding to information security 
incidents and policy violations/exceptions in 
alignment with organisational policy.
 −Evaluating the effectiveness of actions taken to 
resolve incidents and documenting the learnings 
to improve process efﬁciency.
Information Security Programme
The Information Security Programme aligns with 
regulatory requirements outlined by RBI as well as 
industry standards such as ISO 27001:2022 and 
the NIST framework. The Bank has established 
the Information Security and Cyber Security policy 
which guides the execution of stringent processes 
and measures the implementation of relevant 
security standards to ensure data security and 
protect sensitive business information and data 
assets from unauthorised access. 
BUSINESS CONTINUIT Y MANAGEMENT, INFORMATION & CYBER 
SECURIT Y PRACTICES AND DATA PRIVACY MEASURES
Governance Over Data
HDFC Bank Limited
110

Our Approach to Ensuring Data Privacy
Ensuring Data Privacy
At HDFC Bank, we are committed 
to maintaining data privacy. We 
ensure stringent privacy governance, 
implement robust data protection 
measures and uphold transparency. 
Our approach is rooted in 
safeguarding personal information, 
respecting individual privacy rights 
and adhering to privacy laws and 
regulations. By maintaining these 
standards, we cultivate and preserve 
the trust and conﬁdence of our valued 
customers, partners and stakeholders. 
The bank is certiﬁed under ISO 
27001:2022 and complies with all the 
requirements mentioned in the ISO 
to maintain the highest level of data 
privacy. Our data privacy program 
headed by a Data Privacy Ofﬁcer 
Privacy Governance
At HDFC Bank, customer privacy is a priority. Our robust governance framework includes a designated 
privacy ofﬁcer, cross-functional privacy teams and clear responsibility chains for privacy matters. 
Through proactive measures, we protect personal information, cultivate privacy awareness and promptly 
address any privacy concerns or inquiries that may arise. 
 
Privacy Education and Awareness
At HDFC Bank, nurturing a culture that values privacy is a key commitment. We focus on educating 
and raising awareness among our employees through extensive privacy training programmes. These 
efforts highlight the signiﬁcance of their roles in protecting personal information. We keep our team well-
informed about privacy matters, emerging risks and best practices through regular updates and open 
communication channels.
Security and Data Protection
Safeguarding personal information against unauthorised access, disclosure or misuse is a primary 
concern for us. We implement a comprehensive multi-layered security strategy to achieve this goal. 
Our approach includes robust encryption protocols, strict access controls, reliable ﬁrewalls and regular 
security assessments. We are focused to remaining ahead of evolving threats by investing in state-of-
the-art technologies and adopting industry-leading best practices.
Privacy by Design
We make privacy a top consideration in crafting our products, services and systems. We completely 
embrace the principles of Privacy by Design, ensuring that privacy protections are woven into our 
processes right from the start. Our teams undergo privacy training to foster a culture that respects 
privacy and we conduct privacy impact assessments to detect and address any potential risks to 
individuals' privacy.
Data Collection and Use 
Transparency is fundamental to our privacy commitment at HDFC Bank. We prioritise open 
communication and responsible handling of personal information. Our data collection is purposeful, 
gathering only what's necessary for our services with clear explanations provided. Individuals receive 
straightforward privacy notices and have the opportunity to provide informed consent for data 
processing activities.
(DPO) under the direct supervision of 
the Board and the Chief Data Ofﬁcer is 
highly regulated. We adopt a privacy-
by-design approach, embedding 
10 privacy principles into various 
processes and technologies across 
the bank's products and services to 
protect against ﬁnancial, regulatory, 
operational, and brand damage.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
111
Our Strategy

ESG STRATEGY ENCOMPASSING 
SUSTAINABLE FINANCE
Regulations to 
Strategy
The global regulatory landscape for 
Environment, Social, and Governance 
(ESG) is evolving rapidly, inﬂuencing 
how banks assess risk, allocate 
capital, and deﬁne long-term value. 
As stakeholder expectations grow, 
regulatory momentum across globe 
is shifting from voluntary reporting 
towards mandatory frameworks, 
with increasing alignment to 
international standards such as IFRS 
Sustainability Disclosure Standards. 
The regulatory maturity and political 
orientation vary across jurisdictions, 
wherein some regimes are actively 
embedding ESG principles into 
ﬁnancial market development and 
risk oversight, while others are 
adopting a more cautious approach, 
highlighting the urgent need for 
harmonised ESG frameworks and 
strategy.
India’s ESG Reform
India’s ESG landscape is undergoing a signiﬁcant 
transformation, driven by a conﬂuence of domestic 
priorities and global shifts. As the country positions 
itself as a key player in sustainable development, 
regulatory and policy institutions have taken decisive 
steps to mainstream ESG principles across capital 
markets and the broader ﬁnancial ecosystem.
At the forefront of these reforms is the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI), which has steadily 
evolved its ESG disclosure - Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR). The latest 
enhancements to the BRSR requirements mark 
a strategic shift toward greater accountability and 
value chain transparency. By redeﬁning ‘value chain 
partners’ to include upstream and downstream 
entities accounting for 2% or more of a listed 
company’s purchases or sales, SEBI is deepening the 
scope of ESG disclosures. Additionally, recognising 
the generation or procurement of green credits as a 
leadership indicator under Principle 6 of BRSR signals 
a stronger push toward environmental performance, 
effective from FY 2024-25.
In parallel, SEBI is streamlining the ESG rating 
ecosystem to reﬂect the growing demand for credible 
and comparable sustainability assessments. Through 
its July 2024 circular, SEBI has enabled its registered 
ESG Rating Providers (ERPs) to operate within the 
International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) under 
the regulatory framework laid out by the International 
Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA). This 
move coincides with SEBI’s broader sustainable 
ﬁnance strategy, which includes the introduction of 
new ﬁnancial instruments such as Social Bonds, 
Sustainable Bonds, and Sustainability-linked 
Bonds, building upon the foundation laid by green 
debt securities.
Complementing these market-level measures, the 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has also bolstered its 
commitment to green ﬁnance. Key steps include 
raising Priority Sector Lending (PSL) limits for 
renewable energy to H35 crore and launching a 
dedicated ‘On Tap’ cohort focused on climate risk 
and sustainable ﬁnance innovation. These policy 
levers are intended to channel greater credit ﬂow 
toward green sectors and encourage ﬁnancial 
institutions to integrate climate considerations into 
their core operations.
HDFC Bank Limited
112
112
HDFC Bank Limited

However, India’s ESG journey 
is unfolding amidst growing 
geopolitical volatility. The global 
landscape of trade disruptions, 
supply chain realignments, and 
currency ﬂuctuations is reshaping risk 
dynamics for investors and ﬁnancial 
institutions. The RBI’s 2024 bulletin, 
“Geopolitical Risk and Trade and 
Capital Flows to India,” underscores 
how these tensions can disrupt trade, 
deter capital ﬂows, and undermine 
macroeconomic stability. For the 
banking sector, geopolitical shocks 
now intersect directly with ESG 
outcomes, inﬂuencing everything 
from clean energy ﬁnancing timelines 
to labour market resilience and 
regulatory governance.
Together, these developments 
represent maturing of India’s ESG 
ecosystem. From regulatory clarity 
and market infrastructure to risk 
resilience and ﬁnancial innovation, the 
country is laying the groundwork for a 
more robust and integrated approach 
to sustainable ﬁnance.
HDFC Bank’s Operating 
Philosophy
At HDFC Bank, we recognise the 
interconnected nature of geopolitical 
dynamics, sustainability goals, and 
ﬁnancial stability. We are actively 
aligning with the national ESG agenda 
while also strengthening our internal 
resilience to evolving externalities.
As India’s largest private sector bank, 
we remain deeply committed to 
positively impacting the environment, 
our customers, employees, and the 
wider community through responsible 
and inclusive growth. Guided by 
our core values, our ESG practices 
seek to drive growth and empower 
communities through our corporate 
decision-making processes. In 
FY 2014-15, sustainability was 
ofﬁcially included as our ﬁfth value, 
alongside customer focus, operational 
excellence, product leadership, 
and people. To operationalise this 
vision, The Bank has adopted a 
comprehensive ESG framework. This 
framework serves as a fundamental 
for all ESG-related initiatives across 
domestic operations and is either 
aligned or locally adopted by our 
overseas ofﬁces as per extant 
regulations as applicable. 
Sets targets and identiﬁes 
opportunities for improvement in 
areas of emissions, energy, water 
and waste.
Focuses on workplace policies 
including Code of Conduct, human 
rights, diversity, safety, stakeholder 
engagement and corporate 
governance policies.  
Integrates assessing Environmental 
& Social (E&S) risks, including climate 
risks in our existing portfolio and 
identify new business opportunities 
in the E&S space.
Environment  
Working Group
Social & Governance  
Working Group
Product Responsibility 
Working Group
Driving ESG through 
Structured Governance
HDFC Bank has instituted a robust, 
multi-tiered ESG governance 
structure to ensure that sustainability 
considerations are systematically 
embedded across the Bank’s 
operations, lending practices, risk 
frameworks, product development 
and reporting mechanisms. The 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
and ESG (CSR & ESG) Committee 
of the Board, inter alia, provides 
strategic oversight to the Bank’s ESG 
agenda—reviewing our sustainability 
roadmap, monitoring progress against 
targets, and ensuring alignment 
with stakeholder expectations and 
approving key disclosures in alignment 
with applicable regulatory and 
voluntary reporting standards. The 
Deputy Managing Director, leads the 
execution of ESG priorities across 
the Bank.
At the executive level, ESG 
implementation is driven by the ESG 
Apex Council, comprising senior 
leadership from across critical 
business and enabling functions. 
The Council is responsible for cross-
functional coordination and alignment 
and reports periodically to the CSR 
& ESG Committee of the Board. To 
enable focused execution of ESG 
priorities, the Bank has constituted 
dedicated ESG Working Groups. 
These groups are aligned with 
the key pillars of the Bank’s ESG 
agenda and are tasked with driving 
implementation, monitoring progress, 
and facilitating internal capacity-
building across departments.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
113
Responsible Business

Climate Change Strategy
We are committed to achieving carbon neutrality by FY 2031-32 and reducing 
our energy footprint through renewable energy adoption, energy-efﬁcient 
infrastructure, and automated energy management.
Energy, Emissions, and Operations: We externally verify and disclose GHG 
emissions annually and continuously improve resource efﬁciency across our 
operations and data centers.
Waste and Water Conservation: We adopt responsible waste disposal, minimise 
paper and plastic use and implement water-saving technologies across premises.
Environmental & Social 
Risk in Lending
The Bank has a board approved Environmental, Social Governance Risk 
Management (ESGRM) Framework to strengthen the integration of ESG & climate 
change risk assessment into the credit appraisal process, with thresholds guiding 
due diligence and third-party assessments.
Sustainable Finance
Our Sustainable Finance Framework provides guidance to the Bank for issuances 
of green, social, sustainable and sustainability linked ﬁnancing and elucidates the 
use, management, monitoring and reporting of such proceeds.
Value Chain and Procurement
We engage upstream and downstream partners on ESG disclosures, to 
ensure that our value chain partners meet sustainable disclosure standards 
in line with benchmark ESG practices of the Bank and in accordance with 
existing regulations.
Financed Emissions: We are expanding the scope of measurement of ﬁnanced 
emissions and engaging borrowers to support decarbonisation pathways.
Workforce Practices
We uphold non-discrimination, employee well-being, gender diversity and 
structured ESG learning and development.
Customer Engagement
We deliver responsible banking experiences through secure, customer-centric 
digital platforms and continuous feedback loops.
Community & Society
Guided by our board governed Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy, 
our umbrella of social initiatives ‘Parivartan’ drives impact in 6 distinct areas 
of intervention namely: Rural Development, Promotion of Education, Skill 
Development & Livelihood Enhancement, Healthcare & Hygiene, Financial 
Literacy & Inclusion, and Natural Resource Management.
Our Sustainable Livelihood Initiative (SLI) has been a key driver in pushing for 
ﬁnancial inclusion among families, especially women, in un-banked and under-
banked areas.
Transparency & Accountability 
to Stakeholders
We uphold transparency through the whistleblower mechanism and proactive 
stakeholder engagement. Over the years, the Bank has aligned its management 
approach with best practices and as guided by ESG reporting frameworks and 
guidelines of ESG rating agencies.
Governance and Compliance
Our governance model ensures regulatory compliance, ethics, cybersecurity 
and ESG-aligned board oversight. The Bank’s corporate governance framework 
complies with The Companies Act, the regulations and guidelines of the SEBI 
and the requirements of the listing agreements entered into with the Indian 
stock exchanges.
ESG STRATEGY ENCOMPASSING 
SUSTAINABLE FINANCE
Focus Area
ESG Focus Areas & Guiding Approach
Our Approach
HDFC Bank Limited
114

Commitment to Sustainability-related Disclosures 
The Bank is dedicated to maintaining transparency and accountability in its sustainability-related disclosures. Our approach 
to reporting adopts global frameworks in alignment with nationally available guidance and frameworks.
Assessment 
framework
The Bank actively reports to the Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP), on its strategy 
that integrates both the potential risks and 
opportunities presented by climate change.
The Bank has been participating in S&P Corporate 
Sustainability Assessment since FY 2018-19.
In FY 2024-25, the Bank was ranked in the 
85th percentile.
HDFC Bank achieved a leadership score of 71 in 
the CRISIL ESG Ratings Leadership Category for 
FY 2023-24 disclosures.
Reporting 
frameworks
We endeavor to align our climate risk 
related disclosures with the Task Force 
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) recommendations.
FY 2024-25 is the ﬁfth year of HDFC Bank’s 
reporting in line with TCFD framework.
We have been 
reporting on ESG 
KPIs in alignment with 
the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) since 
FY 2013-14.
FY 2024-25 is the 
twelfth year of HDFC 
Bank’s reporting in 
alignment with the GRI.
We comply and report in 
line with the SEBI-mandated 
BRSR Framework in our 
annual disclosures.
Assurance
The Bank has obtained Reasonable Assurance on BRSR Core Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and 
Limited Assurance on select non-core BRSR/GRI-aligned KPIs. 
Embedding ESG in Credit 
Risk and Due Diligence
At HDFC Bank, integrating ESG 
factors into our credit appraisal and 
due diligence processes is a strategic 
priority, given their growing inﬂuence 
on borrower performance and portfolio 
risk. In FY 2023–24, we developed 
an ESG Risk Management (ESGRM) 
Framework for as a part of the overall 
credit policy of the Bank to embed 
ESG and climate risk evaluation 
into our credit appraisal process for 
wholesale lending, with exposure-
based thresholds and industry risk 
categorisations. The assessment 
of ESG Risk in Credit Appraisals s 
covers borrower-level risks, statutory 
compliance and sectoral sensitivities. 
The ESG assessments are embedded 
into Credit Appetite Memorandums. In 
addition, loan documentation includes 
reps and warranties with regards to 
ESG risk and policies. This robust 
ESGRM Framework enables us to 
evaluate ESG risks systematically 
across our lending portfolio.
For exposures to borrowers beyond 
the pre-decided thresholds, the ESG 
RM framework mandates ESG due 
diligence that includes assessment 
of environmental impacts, labor and 
human rights practices, corporate 
governance, and climate risk exposure. 
For specialised or long-tenure project 
ﬁnance, a Lenders’ Independent 
Engineer (LIE) is appointed. In addition 
to a techno-commercial assessment 
of the project, one of the items of the 
scope of work of the LIE is to assess 
availability / requirement of environment 
clearances, pollution clearances, R & R 
requirements and such other aspects 
of the project. Suitable mitigants 
are built to address the risks around 
these aspects.
Mobilising Capital Responsibly
Sustainable ﬁnance is a natural 
extension of our ESG strategy, aligning 
business value with environmental 
and societal progress. Guided by our 
ESG Risk Management Framework 
and global sustainability principles, 
it supports India’s low-carbon and 
inclusive growth agenda. 
The Finance Ministry’s draft Climate 
Finance Taxonomy is a landmark 
step toward directing green capital 
to help achieve India’s NDCs. With 
eight guiding principles, the taxonomy 
prioritises sectors like energy, mobility, 
buildings, agriculture, and hard-to-
abate industries including steel and 
cement. Anticipating this shift, we 
have already made early investments 
in sustainable technologies and low-
carbon infrastructure. Our evolving 
approach integrates ﬁnancial expertise 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
115
Responsible Business

ESG STRATEGY ENCOMPASSING 
SUSTAINABLE FINANCE
and product innovation to support 
India’s climate goals.
Our Sustainable Finance 
Framework
Our Board-approved Sustainable 
Finance Framework (“the Framework”) 
serves to catalyse our sustainable 
ﬁnancing efforts. Developed in 
accordance with global standards 
including the International Capital 
Market Association (ICMA)- 
Sustainability Bond Guidelines (2021), 
Green Bond Principles, Social Bond 
Principles, and the Loan Market 
Association’s Green and Social Loan 
Principles, the Framework enables 
us to:
 −Identify and classify eligible green 
and social projects
 −Issue green, social, and 
sustainability bonds
 −Track and manage the allocation 
of proceeds
 −Report transparently on the impact 
of ﬁnanced projects
The Framework outlines a process 
by which proceeds will be tracked, 
allocated and managed. We are 
committed to reporting on allocation 
and impact of the use of proceeds 
including those contributing to the 
advancement of the UN SDGs 2, 3 ,4, 
6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13.
Aligned with the Framework, we 
issued USD 300 million in sustainable 
bonds in February 2024, advancing 
our green ﬁnance agenda and 
supporting impactful environmental 
and social initiatives.
Sustainable Bond Issuance
The total proceeds raised through the 
issuance of USD 300 million  
(H2,490.36 crore), were distributed 
across two key categories:
Green Category- Clean 
transportation (Electric Vehicles)
A total of USD 60 million (H498.07 
crore), representing 20% of the total 
issuance, has been allocated to clean 
transportation, speciﬁcally to support 
electric vehicles (EVs). 
Social Category- MSME ﬁnancing 
A larger portion of the proceeds, USD 
90 million (H747.11 crore), or 30% of the 
total issuance, has been dedicated to 
lending to MSMEs.
Use of Proceeds and Allocation 
Approach
Proceeds from our sustainable bond 
issuance are allocated in line with 
the Sustainable Finance Framework, 
which allows for both retrospective 
and forward-looking investments. 
A portion of the proceeds may be 
directed toward eligible projects that 
have been ﬁnanced in the recent 
past, within a deﬁned lookback 
period, while the remainder supports 
upcoming initiatives aligned with 
our green and social criteria. Each 
project is assessed against clear 
sustainability thresholds, with 
exclusions based on global norms, 
including the International Finance 
Corporation (IFC) Exclusion List. To 
ensure integrity and market alignment, 
project selection and fund allocation 
are independently veriﬁed and certiﬁed 
by a reputed third-party auditor. 
This rigorous approach reinforces 
our commitment to transparency, 
impact-driven ﬁnancing, and 
adherence to international sustainable 
ﬁnance standards.
We continue to steer investments across a diverse portfolio of green and social sectors, contributing meaningfully to India’s 
Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and broader Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Type of Finance
Total Outstanding 
(H crore)!
Total No of Transactions 
(Nos.)
% of total 
Sustainable Finance
% of total 
Finance
Green*
67,111
1,53,851
13.58
2.54
Social#
4,27,029
5,40,371
86.42
16.15
Total Portfolio
4,94,140
6,94,222
100
18.69
!Outstanding as of March 31, 2025
*Green Portfolio includes investments in renewable energy (such as solar, wind, and Bio-gas energy), electric mobility solutions (EV and Hybrid 
vehicles), and green buildings.
#Social Portfolio comprises ﬁnancing towards access to essential services (housing), micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), Food Security 
and sustainable food systems (infrastructure such as warehouses supporting food storage and security) and Impact Financing.  
HDFC Bank Limited
116

Catalysing ESG Maturity 
Across Our Portfolio
We see our borrowers as partners in 
India’s ESG transition. As India moves 
toward a net-zero future, banks must 
play a catalytic role in enabling ESG-
aligned business practices not just 
through ﬁnancing, but also through 
proactive engagement and capacity 
building. Our client engagement model 
is anchored in continuous dialogue. 
The Bank endeavours to actively 
engage with clients, particularly those 
in carbon-intensive sectors such as oil 
and gas, power, cement, and steel, to 
assess ESG maturity and encourage 
transition planning.
Strategic Collaborations for 
Scalable Impact
We’re strengthening ecosystem 
partnerships to address complex 
ESG challenges by pooling expertise, 
technology, and capital for greater 
collective impact. Our focus is on 
working with:
 −Solution providers for emissions 
tracking and climate risk modeling
 −Academic institutions and think 
tanks to guide ESG analytics and 
scenario planning
 −Civil society organisations 
to co-create inclusive 
community interventions
 −Industry coalitions and 
government agencies to 
shape policy and improve 
sectoral alignment
These collaborations enhance our 
ability to identify emerging ESG 
trends, close capacity gaps, and 
drive transformative outcomes 
across sectors.
Industry engagement/
Government/Public Policy 
Engagement
We believe that industry collaboration 
is key to advancing ESG outcomes. 
By working with peers, experts, and 
academic institutions, we stay aligned 
with evolving expectations and help 
shape the transition to a low-carbon 
economy. As active members of 
industry bodies and trade associations 
(refer BRSR FY 2024-25 Principle 
7, E1), we contribute to developing 
sectoral standards and emerging 
taxonomies. Our engagement ensures 
alignment between internal ESG 
ambitions and external policies. To 
maximise impact, we collaborate with 
solution providers, civil society, and 
government agencies—combining 
strengths to drive innovation and scale 
ESG initiatives effectively.
Engagement Across the 
Value Chain
We recognise that our environmental 
and social impact spans our entire 
value chain. In line with SEBI’s BRSR 
Core mandate, we actively engage 
value chain partners to drive shared 
sustainability outcomes, strengthen 
risk resilience, and create long-term 
value. Our engagement strategy 
focuses on collaboration, capacity 
building, and measurable progress.
Supplier Engagement: Beyond 
aspects of labour law compliance and 
adherence to statutory requirements, 
We aim to embed ESG performance 
criterion—covering emissions intensity, 
and safety standards, into supplier 
assessments. Additionally, we aim 
to support MSME suppliers through 
targeted training to strengthen their 
understanding of ESG principles and 
BRSR Core requirements, fostering 
a more responsible and resilient 
value chain.
Client Engagement: As a trusted 
ﬁnancial institution, we engage with 
large corporate clients to assess 
climate-related risks and opportunities. 
We encourage improved climate 
disclosures and aim to understand 
ESG priorities, identify industry best 
practices, and track initiatives from 
near-term emission targets to net-zero 
commitments, ESG reporting, and 
supply chain decarbonisation efforts.
Core Focus Areas in ESG 
Client Engagements:
 −Emissions disclosures and net-
zero targets
 −Waste management and 
pollution control
 −ESG-linked governance policies and 
board diversity
 −Supply chain sustainability and 
decarbonisation efforts
 −Human rights, labor, and gender 
inclusivity practices
Our efforts are aligned towards 
integrating emerging regulatory 
mandates across the value chain 
as a strategic lever for sustainability 
leadership. This integration enables us 
to strengthen risk management and 
build resilience across our operational 
ecosystem. It also positions us to 
engage with, inﬂuence and support 
the broader market transition towards 
more accountable, inclusive, and 
climate-conscious business. In 
doing so, we aim to embed stronger 
governance practices for responsible 
growth and long-term value creation in 
the banking sector.  
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
117
Responsible Business

ENVIRONMENT
Committing to 
Environmental 
Sustainability 
We believe that integrating 
environmental responsibility into 
our core business practices is key 
to creating long-term value. Guided 
by this belief, we continue to 
evolve our approach to managing 
and disclosing our environmental 
impacts. This year, we have further 
expanded and strengthened our 
environmental data and reporting 
systems as we introduce a 
broader set of environmental 
KPIs in our disclosures, aligning 
with evolving standards including 
BRSR Core and global climate-
related reporting frameworks. 
Our enhanced approach reﬂects a 
deeper, more holistic assessment 
of our environmental footprint 
across both our own operational 
and value chain boundaries.
To improve the completeness of our environmental 
data, we have broadened our reporting boundaries. 
This includes the expansion of our Scope 3 emissions 
inventory through the integration of new sources, such 
as the environmental impact of employee commute 
captured through a detailed commute survey. Building 
on the pilot study conducted in FY 2023-24, we 
continue to report on ﬁnanced emissions from a 
select segment of our portfolio, with plans to enhance 
the coverage and accuracy of ﬁnanced emissions 
reporting in future reporting cycles. 
We remain ﬁrmly committed to minimising our 
environmental footprint across our entire value chain, 
not only through improvements in our operations but 
also by embracing responsible ﬁnancing practices 
and supply chain engagement. Our efforts are 
guided by a strategic combination of time-bound, 
progressive, and measurable initiatives that drive 
meaningful reductions in our most signiﬁcant 
environmental impacts.
Governance
Strong governance forms the foundation of 
our approach to managing environmental risks 
and driving sustainable outcomes. The Bank’s 
environmental agenda is overseen at the highest 
levels to ensure accountability, strategic alignment, 
and continuous improvement.
The CSR & ESG Committee of the Board 
provides strategic oversight on environmental 
matters, including climate-related risks, emissions 
management, and resource efﬁciency. The 
environmental initiatives are executed under the 
leadership of the Deputy Managing Director, who 
oversees the Bank’s ESG function.
Our environmental efforts are guided by the 
Bank’s ESG Risk Management Framework, which 
is periodically reviewed and updated to ensure it 
remains aligned with regulatory expectations and 
best practices. This framework applies across our 
domestic operations, with overseas ofﬁces aligning 
as per local regulatory requirements.
118
HDFC Bank Limited

Metrics and Targets
In alignment with regulatory 
developments and evolving 
stakeholder expectations, we 
continuously reﬁne our approach to 
identifying and reporting material key 
performance indicators (KPIs) related 
to our environmental performance. 
Our KPIs cover key impact areas, 
including energy consumption, 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
water usage, and waste management.
We maintain a robust system for 
monitoring these indicators across our 
operations and the insights generated 
are leveraged for decision-making, 
performance evaluation, and target-
setting. As we continue expanding 
our footprint particularly through the 
opening of branches in unbanked 
semi-urban and rural areas, we are 
investing in infrastructure, personnel, 
and technology to strengthen the 
accuracy and completeness of 
environmental data collection across 
all locations.
Following the successful merger 
of HDFC Bank and HDFC Ltd. in 
FY 2023-24, the Bank undertook 
signiﬁcant systems transformation to 
integrate and streamline its expanded 
operations. Back in FY 2020-21, the 
Bank had committed to achieving 
carbon neutrality for Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions from its own 
operations by FY 2031-32 with 
FY 2020-21 as the baseline year 
for tracking year on year progress 
against the said target. In light of the 
merger and the resulting increase in 
operational scale, the Bank initiated a 
post-merger re-baselining of its GHG 
emissions. Accordingly, FY 2023-24 
was established as the new baseline 
year for monitoring progress towards 
both interim targets and long-term 
emissions reduction goals. 
Our Energy Performance
As a service-based organisation, 
energy consumption is a key aspect of 
our operational footprint. In FY 2024-
25, our total energy consumption 
was 2.06 million GJ, reﬂecting a 
decrease of 0.97 million GJ compared 
to FY 2023-24. This reduction is 
primarily attributed to a shift in our 
energy accounting methodology 
between FY 2023-24 and FY 2024-
25. We transitioned from a purely 
spend-based estimation approach 
to a more reﬁned system that 
integrates improved activity data with 
ﬁnancial data. This methodological 
enhancement led to a more accurate 
and signiﬁcantly lower estimate of 
electrical energy consumption.
Energy Consumption
GJ
Diesel: DG Set
224,058.91
Diesel: Company Cars
74,709.37
Petrol: Company Cars
286,947.80
Grid Electricity (no 
renewable attributes 
established)
1,410,725.08
Renewable Electricity (Solar 
Rooftop & Green Power)
66,436.61
Total
2,062,877.76
  Energy Consumed from purchased electricity     
  Energy Consumed from usage of fossil fuels
FY24
FY25
FY23
FY22
Total Energy Consumed 
(million GJ)
1.48 0.58
0.50
0.41
0.29
2.54
1.56
1.31
In FY 2024-25, our energy intensity stood at 
5.96 GJ/INR crore of Revenue from Operations, 
reﬂecting a signiﬁcant decrease compared to  
FY 2023-24.
FY24
FY25
FY23
FY22
Energy Intensity 
(GJ/H Cr Revenue from Operations)
10.15
5.96
9.87
10.24
Electricity accounts for the majority 
(68.39%) of our total energy 
consumption, amounting to 1.48 
million GJ. At present, most of this 
electricity i.e. 1.41 million GJ is 
sourced from the conventional grid 
and the remaining 0.07 million GJ is 
procured from renewable sources.
Through our continued efforts 
to transition towards cleaner 
energy, we have increased the 
share of renewable energy in our 
electricity mix from 0.39%  
in FY24 to 
3.22% 
in FY25.
Buildings Management and 
Green Building Initiatives 
To support our carbon reduction 
goals, we have implemented a 
comprehensive infrastructure 
efﬁciency program across our 
operations. Key initiatives in  
FY 2024-25 include:
 −Savings of about 623.84 MWh 
resulting from smart IOT systems 
installed at about 350 branches. 
 −Installation of Active Harmonic 
Filters for achieving unity power 
factor (UPF) at 84 locations that 
resulted in savings of 84.32 MWh.
 −Deployment of technologies such as 
elevator and equipment scheduling, 
occupancy sensors and capacitor 
banks to optimise energy use.
 −Standardisation of air conditioning 
systems in new premises to 
meet the latest Bureau of Energy 
Efﬁciency (BEE) standards.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
119
Responsible Business

In FY 2024-25 as well, the Bank 
continued to enhance the energy 
efﬁciency of its co-located data 
centers, accounting for a signiﬁcant 
portion of electricity consumption. We 
are implementing multiple initiatives 
aimed at improving cooling efﬁciency 
and reducing overall energy usage at 
these critical facilities.
Recognising the importance of 
environmental stewardship beyond 
energy management, we are adopting 
a holistic approach towards reducing 
our environmental footprint across 
all operating locations. As of March 
31, 2025:
 −2,507 branches and ofﬁces have 
been certiﬁed under the Indian 
Green Building Council (IGBC) 
Green Interiors Rating System, 
including 4 Platinum, 2,391 Gold, 
and 112 Silver certiﬁed locations. 
 −All new branches and ofﬁces 
are evaluated for green building 
certiﬁcation at the design stage.
We are committed to sustainable 
procurement practices, using Green 
Pro-certiﬁed materials such as 
plywood, laminates, ﬂooring tiles, 
ceiling tiles, paints, adhesives, and 
ﬁnishes at our select premises. 
Furthermore, we prioritise the 
use of low-VOC (Volatile Organic 
Compounds) ﬁnishes, which are 
incorporated into our Bills of Quantity 
and tendering processes for new 
infrastructure development.
ENVIRONMENT
1Includes Scope 2 emissions calculated as per market-based approach. 
2These include Category 3 (Fuel and Energy Related Activities), Category 5 (Waste Generated in Operations), Category 6 (Business Travel), Category 
7 (Employee Commute) and Category 8 (Upstream leased assets) 
GHG Emissions
We remain ﬁrmly committed to 
addressing climate change and 
promoting sustainable practices 
across our operations and value chain. 
Recognising the scale and diversity 
of our operations spread across tens 
of thousands of locations of varying 
size and nature, we acknowledge 
that collecting complete and accurate 
activity data presents a signiﬁcant 
challenge. Strengthening data quality 
and enhancing the completeness of 
our GHG inventory therefore remains 
a strategic priority action area for the 
Bank. We are continuously enhancing 
our data collection processes 
and exploring technological and 
automation-driven solutions to further 
improve data accuracy and build 
stakeholder conﬁdence.
In FY 2024-25, our total Scope and 
2  footprint stood at 0.36 million 
tCO2e, while Scope 3 emissions from 
ﬁve2  reported categories aggregated 
to 0.23 million tCO2e. 
Our Data Centre Emission 
Reduction Initiatives
Our Data centers 
use Hyper 
Convergence IT 
Technology for IT 
asset consolidation 
and virtualisation
All our data centers 
are TIA-942 
Rated-3 Certiﬁed
Our Bangalore Data 
center ‘Net magic· 
DC3B’ is certiﬁed 
green data center 
under the IGBC 
Green Data Center 
Rating System
HDFC Bank Limited
120

Scope 1: Direct Emissions
Scope 1 emissions refer to direct 
GHG emissions from sources owned 
or controlled by the Bank, including 
emissions from fuel consumption in 
company-owned vehicles (petrol, 
diesel) and company-owned diesel 
generator (DG) sets as well as fugitive 
emissions from leakage of refrigerants 
used in air conditioners and from 
GHG-based ﬁre suppressants used in 
ﬁre extinguishers. 
Scope 1 emissions have been 
calculated using a combination 
of the Bank’s operational data 
and internationally recognised 
methodologies. Emissions from 
company-owned vehicles and DG 
sets have been estimated by applying 
emission factors from the IPCC 2006 
Guidelines to fuel consumption data 
sourced from the Bank’s ﬁnancial 
management system.
Fugitive emissions from ﬁre 
extinguishers are calculated using 
operational assets data and public 
factors on leakage from USEPA 
guidance and Global Warming 
Potential (GWP) values sourced from 
the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report 
(AR6).
For ACs, emissions are estimated 
using India's refrigerant usage trends, 
vendor-provided average refrigerant 
capacities, leakage assumptions from 
Council on Energy, Environment and 
Water (CEEW), and GWP values from 
the IPCC AR6.
Our Scope 1 emissions reduced 
from 0.084 million tCO2e in 
FY 2023-24 to 0.078 million tCO2e 
in FY 2024-25. This decline is 
primarily due to two key measures: 
the gradual transition from high-GHG 
hydroﬂuorocarbon ﬁre extinguishers 
to low-GHG ﬂuoroketone variants, 
and routine upgradation to energy 
efﬁcient equipment.
FY24
FY25
FY23
FY22
Scope 1 Emissions 
(million tCO2e)
1.48 0.23
0.06
0.033
0.026
0.017
0.02
  Company-owned Vehicles       Gensets       HVAC      Fire Extinguishers
0.020
0.013
0.009
0.016
0.045
0.003
0.002
0.017
0.012
Scope 1 Emissions  
(tCO2e) 
  Diesel consumption in DG sets   
  Company owned vehicles  
  HVAC 
  Fire Extinguisher
21.36%
33.32%
2.51%
42.81%
Total Emissions 
(0.59 million tCO2e)
  Scope 1       Scope 2      Scope 3  
13.15%
48.02%
38.83%
  Scope 1       Scope 2      Scope 3  
FY24
FY25
FY23
FY22
Total GHG Emissions 
(million tCO2e)
0.23
0.06
0.05
0.04
0.50
0.31
0.29
0.28
0.08
0.09
0.03
0.02
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
121
Responsible Business

ENVIRONMENT
Scope 2 (Indirect GHG 
Emissions from Purchased 
Electricity)
Our Scope 2 emissions account 
for indirect GHG emissions from 
consumption of electricity purchased 
from the grid across all ofﬁces under 
the Bank’s operational control and 
co-located data centers. In FY 2024-
25, we enhanced our Scope 2 data 
management by expanding the 
use of actual monitored electricity 
consumption (kWh) data and 
adopted a spend-based estimation 
methodology wherever direct data 
was not available.  
In line with the GHG Protocol, we 
report Scope 2 emissions using 
both the location-based and market-
based approaches.
Under the location-based approach, 
emissions are calculated using 
actual activity data on electricity 
consumption, supplemented by 
estimates derived from electricity 
procurement costs and applicable 
state-level tariffs. 
For the market-based approach, we 
apply the grid emission factor from 
Version 20 of the Central Electricity 
Authority’s (CEA) CO2 database to 
calculate emissions.
We continue to implement measures 
to reduce our Scope 2 emissions 
through targeted interventions at our 
own facilities and by working closely 
with our data center service providers. 
In FY 2024-25, our Scope 2 emissions 
decreased by 0.22 million tCO2e 
compared to FY 2023-24. The 
reduction is primarily attributed to 
the deployment of 66,436.61 GJ 
of renewable electricity, sourced 
through rooftop solar installations and 
green power purchases. In addition, 
enhancements in the data collection 
system in FY 2024-25 allowed for 
us to shift to a mixed approach- 
consumption and spend based 
data- compared to spend based 
computation in FY 2023-24. This shift 
in methodology, driven by improved 
data accuracy, led to reduction in 
electricity consumption. 
We are continuously strengthening our 
data collection systems, processes, 
and governance mechanisms 
to enhance the accuracy and 
completeness of our GHG accounting 
process. Given that Scope 2 emissions 
constitute the primary source of our 
operational GHG emissions, we have         
prioritised the improvement of 
electricity consumption data 
collection across our operating 
locations. As part of a phased        
approach, we are initially focusing 
on high-consumption locations,                            
with a progressive rollout planned for 
other categories of locations thereafter.
FY24
FY25
FY23
FY22
Scope 2 Emissions 
(million tCO2e)
0.29
0.28
0.50
0.31
Note: In FY 2023-24, our scope 2 emissions 
increased signiﬁcantly due to an increase in 
the number of locations under our operational 
control on account of merger with eHDFC 
Limited
Scope 3 (Other Indirect 
Emissions) 
Scope 3 emissions represent 
indirect GHG emissions that occur 
in the Bank’s value chain but are 
not included in our Scope 1 or 
Scope 2. For FY 2024-25, Scope 
3 emissions reporting covers the 
following categories: 
Category 3: Fuel- and energy-
related activities- Emissions were 
estimated using activity data and 
corresponding emission factors. 
For fuel-related emissions (Well-to-
Tank), the quantities of diesel and 
petrol consumed in company-owned 
vehicles, as well as diesel used in 
DG generators, were considered. 
Emission factors were sourced from 
the latest DEFRA 2024 database to 
account for upstream emissions from 
extraction, reﬁning, and transportation. 
For electricity transmission and 
distribution (T&D) losses, consumption 
data for non-renewable electricity 
was obtained from internal electricity 
sheets. These losses were estimated 
using data from the Central Electricity 
Authority (CEA) Executive Summary 
on Power Sector 2025, which 
provides the average national T&D 
loss percentage. The emission factor 
applied to this lost electricity was 
taken from version 20 of the Central 
Electricity Authority’s (CEA) CO2 
database 2024.
Category 5: Waste generated in 
operations- Emissions for e-waste, 
battery waste, and paper are 
estimated using emission factors from 
the USEPA’s WARM Version 16.
Category 6: Business Travel- 
Emissions from cab hire are estimated 
based on distance travelled, derived 
from expense records, and applying 
emission factors from the India 
GHG Programme. Air and rail travel 
distances are derived from trip 
records in the ﬁnancial system and 
supplemented with public distance 
sources, with emissions calculated as 
per India GHG Programme standards.
Category 7: Employee Commute- 
A commute survey was conducted in 
the bank to collect commute data of 
the bank employees. Annual commute 
distances per employee were 
calculated based on the survey and 
mode-speciﬁc emission factors from 
the India GHG Programme were used 
to calculate emissions. Emissions 
were averaged by RBI classiﬁcation 
and scaled-up to reﬂect the total 
commute emissions of the entire bank.
HDFC Bank Limited
122

Category 8: Upstream Leased 
Assets (Electricity at Offsite 
ATMs) – Purchased electricity at 
offsite ATMs was calculated using a 
similar methodology as Scope 2 but 
for locations outside the operational 
control boundary of the Bank.
As part of our commitment to 
capturing value chain impacts, we 
are progressively strengthening the 
breadth and accuracy of Scope 
3 emissions reporting through 
standardised methodologies and 
expanded category coverage.
For ﬁnanced emissions estimation 
methodology, please refer 
to the section titled Climate-
related Disclosures.
In FY 2024-25, our Scope 3 emissions increased signiﬁcantly compared to FY 2023-24 owing to accounting of additional 
Category 3 (Fuel and Energy related activities) and Category 7 (Employee Commute) emissions. Employee commute emerged 
the largest contributor to reported Scope 3 emissions. However, emissions from purchased electricity in other facilities 
marked substantial decline over FY 2023-24, reﬂecting ongoing energy efﬁciency improvements and optimisation efforts.
Emission Scope
Emission Source
Emissions (tCO2e)
Diesel consumption in DG sets
16,659.50
Company owned vehicles
25,988.69
HVAC
33,392.89
Fire Extinguisher
1,958.42
Total Scope 1 Emissions
77,999.50
Total Scope 2 Emissions 
(market-based)
Purchased Electricity
284,877.91
Category 3: Fuel and Energy relate activities (not in 
Scope 1 or 2)
Diesel Car
 1,290.85 
Diesel DG
 3,871.34 
Petrol Car
 5,256.77 
Non-Renewable Electricity (T&D Losses)
 57,029.17 
Category 5: Waste generated in operations
E-Waste
 0.70 
Paper Waste
 3,998.04 
Category 6: Business Travel
Cab hire
 8,771.94 
Air travel
 6,930.94 
Rail travel
 6.00 
Category 7: Employee Commute
Travel by different modes of transportation
119,512.77
Category 8: Upstream leased assets
Purchased electricity in other facilities
23,641.52
Total Scope 3 Emissions 
230,310.04
Total GHG Emissions
593,187.45
Scope 1 + 2 GHG Emission Intensity 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
(tCO2e/JCr Revenue from operations)
1.05
1.91
1.75
1.94
(tCO2e/FTE)
1.69
2.74
1.94
2.18
Notes:
•  Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity has been computed based on Total Revenue, including "Interest Earned" under Schedule 13 and "Other Income," 
excluding "proﬁt/(loss) on sale of buildings & other assets (net)" under Schedule 14 of the Bank’s Audited Standalone Financial Statements.
• Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity per FTE has been calculated based on number of full-time employees at the end of March 31, 2025
Scope 3 Emissions 
(million tCO2e)
Category 3:  
Fuel and Energy  
related activities 
not in Scope 1 
or Scope 2 
0.067
Category 5:  
Waste generated 
in operations
0.004
0.004
0.004
0.003
Category 6:  
Business travel
0.016
0.014
0.013
0.007
Category 8:  
Upstream leased 
assets
0.024
0.044
0.032
0.033
Category 7:  
Employee 
Commute
0.12
  FY25       FY24       FY23       FY22
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
123
Responsible Business

ENVIRONMENT
Measures to reduce GHG emissions
We are focused on driving system-level changes within the organisation to reduce the GHG intensity of our operations. 
In FY 2020-21, we set an ambitious goal of achieving carbon neutrality for our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 
FY 2031-32. To advance towards this goal, we have established ﬁrm-level guidelines for operational and procurement 
practices, incorporating both supply-side and demand-side interventions within a structured carbon neutrality pathway.
We have set an ambitious goal of 
achieving carbon neutrality for our 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 
FY 2031-32.
As our operational footprint 
continues to expand, we recognise 
the evolving challenges associated 
with achieving our carbon neutrality 
objective. The merger with 
erstwhile HDFC Limited resulted 
in a signiﬁcant expansion of our 
organisational and operational 
boundaries. In response, we 
undertook a comprehensive 
baseline recalibration exercise 
in FY 2023-24, establishing 
FY 2023-24 as the new baseline 
year in accordance with the 
WRI GHG Protocol’s base year 
recalculation guidance.
While our overall target to 
achieve operational carbon 
neutrality by FY 2031-32 remains 
unchanged, the recalibration has 
prompted a strategic review of 
our interim milestones, emission 
reduction levers, and operational 
interventions. We are adopting a 
more holistic approach to emissions 
management, ensuring that our 
growing footprint is matched by 
enhanced decarbonisation efforts 
and strengthened environmental 
governance across all levels of 
the Bank.
Despite an expanded operational 
scope, we achieved a notable 
reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions in FY 2024–25 compared 
to the baseline. This was driven 
by climate-conscious initiatives, 
increased use of renewable 
electricity through rooftop solar 
and green power procurement, 
and improved accuracy and 
completeness of our data 
collection systems.
Our Carbon Neutrality Pathway
HDFC Bank Limited
124

Actions taken in FY 2024-25
Focus Areas for Future
Active 
Harmonic Filter
84
Locations
84.32 MWh
Locations
61.30 tCO2e
Emissions avoided
Installed solar panels in 
our ofﬁce building
743 kWp
Cumulative solar power 
generation capacity 
commissioned*
(*as of March 31, 2025)
25
Ofﬁces with rooftop solar 
plants installed
609.02 tCO2e
Emissions avoided
Automated Energy 
Management 
System
350
Branches
623.84 MWh
Units Saved
453.53 tCO2e
Emissions avoided
Demand Side
Supply Side
Transition of select 
ofﬁces and branches 
to 100% Green Power
19
Premises covered
17,616.90 MWh
Units Saved
12,807.48 tCO2e
Emissions avoided
Increasing renewable power 
as a cleaner energy source for 
selected ofﬁce premises.
Expand the installation of 
Active Harmonic Filters 
across branches to achieve 
unity power factor (UPF) and 
improve electrical efﬁciency.
Auto Control and Monitoring 
System across select branches 
nationwide to automate energy 
management and optimise 
electricity usage across 
critical assets.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
125
Responsible Business

ENVIRONMENT
As a responsible institution, we recognise that our environmental impact extends beyond our direct operations. While 
we continue to focus on reducing emissions within our operational boundary, we also acknowledge the need to address 
emissions across our broader value chain. In this context, we have prioritised following key initiatives with direct relevance to 
value chain GHG emissions reduction:
GHG emission reduction initiatives across value chain
Paper Waste 
Reduction 
through 
Digitalisation
 −Expansion of digital 
products, services, 
and automation 
of internal and 
customer-facing 
processes to reduce 
paper consumption.
 −In FY 25, 86% 
of our customer 
acquisitions 
were digital.
Tree Plantation 
Program
 −The Bank has 
an extensive 
tree plantation 
programme as part 
of Parivartan.
 −Over 80 Lakh trees   
have been planted 
till date, contributing 
to GHG emissions 
reduction and 
enhancing social and 
relationship capital.
Procurement 
of Recycled 
Paper in 
Stationary
In FY 2024-25, the 
Bank procured a total 
of 537 metric tonnes 
of recycled stationery 
paper, replacing the 
use of virgin paper. 
The recycled paper 
constituted 24% 
of our total paper 
procurement.
Resource 
Efﬁciency 
Initiatives
 −During FY 2024–25, 
the Bank allocated 
a total of 0.51% of 
the Bank’s overall 
capital expenditure 
to promote 
resource efﬁciency.
 −The spend was 
directed towards 
initiatives like the 
installation of 
resource efﬁciency 
equipment such as 
BEE 5-star rated air 
conditioners, and 
CPCB IV compliant 
diesel generator sets; 
implementation of 
renewable energy 
solutions like 
solar panels and 
installation of sewage 
treatment plants 
(STPs).
HDFC Bank Limited
126

Waste Management
Responsible waste management 
forms a critical pillar of our broader 
environmental stewardship efforts. Our 
approach focuses on minimising waste 
generation, promoting responsible 
disposal practices, and ensuring proper 
segregation, handling and recycling of 
waste streams. We are progressively 
advancing towards the sustainable 
management of waste generated from 
our operations. As part of this effort, 
we have formalised internal Standard 
Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the 
systematic monitoring, reporting, and 
management of both waste generated 
and waste avoided. These SOPs have 
clearly deﬁned roles and responsibilities 
across relevant functional departments 
to strengthen data governance, 
enhance accountability and drive 
minimisation of waste generation 
alongside improvements in 
recycling rates.
S.No Category of Waste
Total Collected 
Quantity (tonnes)
Total Waste recovered 
through recycling, re-
using or other recovery 
operations
(tonnes) 
Total Waste Diverted to 
Disposal
(tonnes)
1
Plastic waste 
105.91
11.77
94.14
2
E-waste
165.39
133.77
31.62
3
Battery waste 
34.13
34.13
0.00
4
Other Hazardous waste (DG Oil)
69.06
1.90
67.16
5
Other Non-hazardous waste generated 
297.02
48.36
248.66
6
Paper waste (Other Non-hazardous waste)
3,401.59
191.89
3,209.70
Total
4,073.11
421.82
3,651. 29
Note:
•  Waste quantities mentioned here include waste generated in our owned facilities where waste segregation and recycling have been implemented, 
except for e-waste which includes IT e-waste and paper from other locations as well. The waste generated is estimated by collecting data from 
select locations which is then extrapolated using employee count as the operational proxy.
•  E-Waste generated, recycled and disposed, includes IT related e-waste and datacenter e-waste which is centrally managed and recycled through 
authorised vendors.
•  Paper waste majorly constitutes paper procured for the Bank’s own use and is shown as sector-speciﬁc paper waste. The quantity of waste 
generated is assumed to be disposed through other disposal operations.
We manage six categories of non-
hazardous waste generated from our 
operations: e-waste, battery waste, 
paper waste, food waste, plastic 
waste, and other non-hazardous 
waste. Recognising our responsibility 
to minimise environmental impact, 
we ensure that all dry waste from 
our ofﬁces is collected and disposed 
through authorised vendors, with a 
strong emphasis on recycling and 
responsible disposal.
In FY 2024-25, we diverted 
approximately 421.82 tonnes of waste 
from disposal through recycling 
initiatives. Total waste intensity for 
the reporting year stood at 0.012 
tonnes per INR crore of revenue from 
operations. E-waste and battery waste 
management remained key focus 
areas during the year. We achieved 
signiﬁcant progress in responsible 
e-waste recovery, recycling 
approximately 133.77 tonnes of 
e-waste and 34.13 tonnes of batteries 
from our IT assets, all handled 
exclusively by authorised recyclers.
We have established partnerships 
with authorised recycling vendors 
across categories to ensure safe 
and compliant processing of waste. 
Looking ahead, we are actively 
expanding our internal waste tracking 
program. Through structured 
consultations and collaboration with 
vendors, we plan to progressively 
extend waste monitoring — including 
e-waste — across a larger number 
of facilities over the coming years. 
Additionally, at certain locations, 
waste materials — including those 
classiﬁed as hazardous are collected 
and disposed of through approved, 
authorised vendors in accordance with 
applicable environmental regulations.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
127
Responsible Business

ENVIRONMENT
Climate Risk Transparency 
and Reporting
HDFC Bank acknowledges the 
escalating risks posed by climate 
change, particularly in a climate-
vulnerable country like India. The Bank 
has been undertaking signiﬁcant steps 
to integrate climate considerations 
into its governance, risk management, 
and strategic operations. Increasing 
frequency of extreme weather 
events and socio-economic 
consequences of unmitigated global 
warming present substantial risks 
to economies, businesses, and 
communities worldwide. 
In FY 2024–25, HDFC Bank 
proactively aligned its climate-related 
disclosures with evolving ESG 
regulatory landscape and global 
standards. The Bank reports in 
accordance with the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) recommendations, to 
provide comprehensive insights 
into governance, strategy, risk 
Water Management
Reﬂecting the nature of our business, 
water consumption across our 
operations is primarily for domestic 
and drinking purposes. We source 
water from municipal supplies or 
third-party vendors at most of our 
facilities. Recognising that effective 
water management requires a robust 
understanding of usage patterns, 
we prioritise the measurement and 
monitoring of water consumption 
across all locations. To strengthen 
this capability, we have installed 
water meters at select larger facilities 
as part of a phased rollout. This 
approach enables us to gather more 
accurate consumption data, reﬁne 
our water management strategy, and 
progressively expand monitoring 
coverage across additional sites in 
the coming years.
Alongside improved measurement 
systems, we are implementing 
water-saving technologies and 
practices aimed at reducing overall 
water consumption. All our IGBC 
certiﬁed branches and ofﬁces are 
equipped with sensors and low ﬂow 
ﬁxtures to control water usage. These 
interventions have contributed to 
estimated water savings of 27–30% 
compared to industry baselines at 
our green-certiﬁed locations. Our 
total estimated water consumption for 
FY 2024-25 stands at approximately 
520,540.73 kilolitres.
Wastewater generated at our 
facilities is primarily domestic in 
nature, originating from restrooms 
and kitchens. To ensure responsible 
management of this discharge, 
wastewater is discharged directly 
into municipal collection networks 
or facility-owner treatment systems, 
where it is treated in accordance with 
applicable local standards.
Beyond our operational boundaries, 
we are also contributing to water 
conservation and water body 
rejuvenation efforts through 
community engagement programs. 
Further details of these initiatives are 
provided in the Social - Communities 
section of this Report.
Water Intensity 
(kl/H Cr Revenue from Operations)
FY24
FY25
FY23
1.50
1.57
2.07
  FY25       FY24       FY23  
HDFC Bank Limited
128

internal and external stakeholders, 
to drive the ESG agenda including 
managing, mitigating and reporting 
on climate metrics. The Deputy 
Managing Director of the Bank has 
direct oversight on the ESG function 
and reports to the Board on such 
matters. The CSR & ESG Committee 
of the Board reviews the Bank’s 
ESG roadmap, climate targets 
and disclosures. 
The Risk Policy and Monitoring 
Committee (RPMC)—another Board-
level committee formed as per the 
guidelines of Reserve Bank of India 
on Asset Liability Management/Risk 
Management Systems—oversees the 
Bank’s enterprise-wide risk strategy. 
As part of its mandate, it reviews 
the enterprise-wide risk frameworks 
viz. Risk Appetite framework (RAF), 
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP), and the stress 
testing framework for the Bank’s 
borrowers. The independent Risk 
Management Group (RMG), headed 
by the Chief Risk Ofﬁcer maintains 
regular communication with RPMC 
members and is primarily responsible 
for executing the risk strategy 
approved by the Board. This entails 
developing policies, procedures, 
and systems to identify, measure, 
monitor, assess, and manage risks 
including climate risks effectively. 
The Bank has made an effort to 
operationalise climate risk evaluation 
within its credit assessment process 
through the Board-approved 
Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Risk Management Framework. 
The Bank has adopted this 
framework with the aim of integrating 
assessment of environmental, social 
and governance risks associated 
with borrowers into its internal credit 
risk assessment and management 
framework.  
The framework has helped the Bank 
adopt global ESG / Climate change 
assessment standards / practices for 
its portfolio. As part of the framework, 
ESG and Climate Change Assessment 
is mandatory in all Credit Appetite 
Memorandums (CAMs) where 
aggregate credit appetite is above a 
certain threshold.  The objective of 
the framework is to assess corporate 
borrowers in terms of their current 
position with regard to ESG & Climate 
change, their transition plans and their 
initiatives on mitigation of risks related 
to ESG and Climate change.
management, and metrics related 
to climate risks and opportunities. 
Recognising the growing concerns 
of regulators, investors, and clients 
regarding climate risks, particularly 
for banks and ﬁnancial institutions, 
the Bank has continued to advance 
its approach to identifying, managing, 
and disclosing climate-related risks 
and opportunities over the past ﬁve 
years.  
Governance
Oversight on climate related matters 
resides with the CSR & ESG 
Committee of the Board, which, inter 
alia, is responsible for monitoring 
of the Bank’s ESG strategy and 
associated climate initiatives. The 
Committee oversees and monitors the 
ESG Policy Framework, Environmental 
policy, actionables and initiatives 
strategised and executed basis 
updates from the management level 
ESG Apex Council, which coordinates 
actions across the ESG Working 
Groups. The CSR & ESG Committee 
also oversees and monitors the 
Bank’s ESG disclosures, highlighting 
the Bank’s ESG performance and 
prioritisation of material topics. The 
Bank has a dedicated ESG Function 
that works in conjunction with several 
ESG Policy Framework
Environmental, Social & 
Governance Risk Management 
(ESGRM) Framework
Sustainable Financing  
Framework
Guides all ESG and climate initiatives 
across operations, procurement, 
workforce, and governance.
Embeds ESG and climate change 
assessment in loans above a 
deﬁned threshold. 
Enables green/social/sustainability 
bond issuances; aligned with ICMA 
principles; SPO obtained.
CSR & ESG Committee, ESG 
Apex Council
Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee, 
ESG Apex Council
CSR & ESG Committee, ESG 
Apex Council
Framework
Purpose in Climate Risk 
Governance
Responsible Committees / 
Bodies
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
129
Responsible Business

Strategy
At HDFC Bank, we are committed 
to proactively managing risks and 
leveraging opportunities arising 
from the transition to a low-carbon 
economy. We endeavor to build our 
capability to manage risk from climate 
change and deliver our regulatory 
commitments, thereby demonstrating 
to our investors that the Bank is 
effectively managing climate-related 
risks and opportunities.
Additionally, we have also identiﬁed some climate-related risks and opportunities that the banking sector may face over the 
short, medium, and long term, as well as their corresponding impacts including:
Risk
Type of risk
Description
Current 
regulation
Transition risk 
Banks are highly regulated in the country and mandates as part of current regulations 
are always integrated into the overall risk planning and assessment process. Current 
regulations are also factored in the credit assessment process, especially through the 
comprehensive ESG and Climate Change assessment framework, under the auspices 
of the ESG-Risk Management Framework, for its wholesale corporate borrowers.
ENVIRONMENT
Training and Capacity Building on ESG and Climate Risk
We are committed to fostering a 
comprehensive understanding of 
climate change throughout our 
organisation, ensuring that every 
function and employee is equipped 
with functional and role-appropriate 
knowledge and skills to address 
its challenges. 
During the year, the Bank conducted 
Board Familiarisation Programmes, 
including presentations and deep-
dive sessions covering key strategic 
and risk areas. As part of these 
efforts, a dedicated session was 
held to provide the Board with an 
overview of climate risks, aligned with 
the evolving regulatory landscape. 
This session aimed to enhance the 
Board’s understanding of climate-
related challenges and opportunities, 
enabling effective oversight of climate 
risk integration into business strategy 
and decision-making.
Additionally, as part of our internal 
training agenda, we have e-learning 
modules on climate change and 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
instilling a shared understanding 
of climate-related risks and 
opportunities across all levels of 
our organisation. Through these 
comprehensive training and capacity-
building efforts, we empower 
our employees to become active 
contributors to our sustainability goals 
and resilient to the challenges posed 
by climate change.
We classify climate-related 
risks into:
 −Physical Risks: acute risks (e.g., 
cyclones, ﬂoods) that may cause 
asset damage, interrupt operations, 
and impair collateral, and chronic 
risks (e.g., rising sea levels, long-
term temperature shifts) that may 
affect asset life, credit exposure, 
and economic stability. For retail 
portfolio, the Bank is exploring 
framework to assess potential 
portfolio-at-risk by mapping the 
location of exposures against 
Natural Catastrophic (NATCAT) 
scores with varying degree 
of severity.
 −Transition Risks: Including 
regulatory changes, shifts in 
market demand, legal compliance 
failures, technological disruptions, 
and reputational impacts as 
the economy moves toward 
decarbonisation. The Bank is in the 
process of evaluating appropriate 
methodology and frameworks to 
assess climate transition risk for the 
wholesale borrowers.
HDFC Bank Limited
130

Risk
Type of risk
Description
Emerging 
regulation
Transition risk 
Transition risk can impact the Bank's credit portfolio resulting from changes in the 
climate policy, technology, consumer and market sentiment during the transition to a  
low-carbon economy. This is particularly relevant for policy changes that can result in 
loan defaults from certain sectors like coal, thermal and certain infrastructure sectors. 
The Bank’s ESGRM framework addresses climate transition and mitigation plan and 
includes a prohibition list criterion along with ‘Category-A’ tagging of climate risk 
vulnerable sectors namely, thermal & nuclear power generation; crude oil extraction 
& production; mining of ores, fossil fuels; manufacturing of metals, cement, fertilers, 
chemicals, pesticides; and tanneries.
Technology
Transition risk 
While our digital environment and information security standards are the foundation of 
our business today, as ﬁnancial services professionals, we do not anticipate technology 
to have a signiﬁcant impact on climate risk. Our low-carbon digital banking products use 
technology to enable business.
Legal
Transition risk 
For large loans, we verify whether the project complies with all applicable environmental 
rules, and failing to do so could result in the loan becoming a non-performing asset, if the 
project goes into litigation. This, however, is not a claim against the Bank. There are no 
other circumstances in which the Bank can be held liable for a climate-related lawsuit. 
Market
Transition risk 
In the context of climate change, markets could play a key role in market repricing or 
shifting the demand and supply for certain products like green loans or bonds, or in 
low-carbon digital products. However, the Bank recognises the relevance of change in 
consumer preferences, and hence, the need to evaluate this risk. 
Reputation
Transition risk 
Reputation risk from community/customer perception is a primary risk to our business. 
We thus invest in community and customer involvement through surveys and structured 
engagements to educate and enlighten them on climate risks and mitigation. Further, 
ESG performance measures are increasingly being used by the global investor 
community, especially sovereign wealth funds and pension funds, to assess long-term 
proﬁtable growth. We strive to implement environment-friendly measures throughout our 
operations. We further show our commitment to ESG, particularly climate change, by 
including ESG elements in regulatory reporting such as the annual report. In addition, in 
our annual integrated report, we publish details on our carbon emissions and footprint 
(third-party assured).
Acute 
physical
Physical risk 
Acute physical hazards such as cyclones, ﬂoods, and water stress can have a negative 
inﬂuence on the credit portfolio by causing bad debts, impairing assets or collaterals due 
to damage to property, infrastructure, and land, and interrupting operations. This is also 
relevant for climate disasters destroying assets (that serve as collaterals). The Bank’s 
Disaster Response and Business Continuity teams conduct business impact analyses 
and have rapid response procedures in place in the event of natural disasters such 
as ﬂoods. 
Chronic 
physical
Physical risk 
Rise in global temperature more than 1.5 degree Celsius may cause changes in climate 
patterns and sea level, impacting the economy and operations of the Bank, thus 
impairing assets or causing early replacement of assets. Given that climate risk is an 
emerging and long-term risk for the Bank, a suitable methodology/pathway, guided by 
regulatory landscape, shall be considered for adoption, to analyse the Bank’s exposures 
under different climate scenarios.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
131
Responsible Business

Building a Climate-Resilient 
Strategy
By integrating climate risk 
considerations into ﬁnancial planning 
processes, the Bank is building a 
more resilient strategy. This includes 
evaluating the potential impact of 
climate change on the Bank’s lending 
practices, customer base, and 
operational costs. The Bank believes 
that this proactive approach will help 
navigate the evolving landscape 
of climate change while seizing 
opportunities for sustainable growth.
We understand that climate change 
provides both risks and potential 
opportunities for our business. 
From the perspective of climate risk 
assessment, we plan on assessing the 
impact of physical and transition risks 
as guided by regulatory landscape in 
the near to medium term. 
We have a three-pronged strategy 
to adapt to climate change: 
decarbonising our operations, 
managing climate risk and ﬁnanced 
emissions, and ﬁnancing the transition. 
Decarbonising Our Operations
 −Minimising our operational carbon 
footprint is a key focus area for the 
Bank's Climate Change Strategy. 
 −Our comprehensive 'Scope 
1+2' cabon neutrality strategy 
encompasses various initiatives, 
reﬂecting our commitment to 
becoming climate resilient.
Managing Climate Risks and our 
Financed Emissions
 −The Bank's credit exposure is 
well diversiﬁed across numerous 
industries, with no speciﬁc industry/
sector having a high concentration. 
 −We assess climate risks as part 
of credit diligence, particularly in 
project ﬁnancing above a certain 
threshold under the aegis of our 
ESG Risk Management Framework. 
 −We endeavour to develop more 
robust frameworks to measure 
and assess material climate risks 
related to our lending operations, as 
guided by regulatory landscape and 
apply a climate lens to more of our 
business decisions. Furthermore, 
we are ﬁrming up an internal 
strategy on conducting climate 
ENVIRONMENT
The Bank has also envisaged climate-related opportunities over the short, medium, and long term:
Opportunity
Description
Timeframe
Green services
Expansion in demand for lower-emissions goods and services is expected 
to continue to scale in the medium to longer term. Notably, the Bank has 
implemented use of recycled paper for stationery and increased adoption 
of renewable energy sources such as rooftop solar at 25 locations and 
green power at 19 locations to meet operational electricity needs.
Medium
Lowering carbon 
emissions
Resource and energy efﬁciency in own business operations that help 
lower carbon emissions while also potentially strengthening operational 
efﬁciency is expected to scale up. Several green initiatives have been 
introduced by the Bank to improve energy efﬁciency of operations. Active 
Harmonic Filters were installed at 84 locations, saving approximately 
84.32 MWh of electricity and avoiding 61.30 tCO2e emissions.   
Short
Greening of 
portfolio
The diversiﬁcation of the Bank’s ﬁnancial portfolio and growth of green 
portfolio is expected to scale up. In FY 2024-25, the Bank disbursed 
green and social loans totaling H4,94,140 crore, representing 18.69% of its 
total ﬁnancing as sustainable ﬁnance.
Medium
HDFC Bank Limited
132

risk assessments and tracking our 
ﬁnanced emissions. The Bank shall 
continue to expand the scope of 
overall climate risk assessment, 
and reﬁne the methodologies basis 
the ﬁnalisation of the disclosure 
frameworks in India, including the 
guidelines and timelines put forth by 
the RBI.
 −We have a Business Continuity Plan 
to address and manage continuity 
of critical business operations 
ensuring accelerated resumption of 
services after a disaster.
Risk Management
Risk Identiﬁcation
Effectively managing climate risk 
requires proactive identiﬁcation, a 
thorough understanding of the domain, 
as well as comprehensive inputs 
from stakeholders. At the Bank, risk 
identiﬁcation is an ongoing process 
that includes the consideration of 
climate-related factors such as physical 
(acute and chronic) and transition risks 
in the lending portfolio. We are actively 
seeking opportunities to enhance our 
capabilities in identifying these risks 
and their impacts on our business and 
endeavour to incorporate additional 
climate risk considerations related 
to sector, product, and geography, 
aligning speciﬁc perils and transition 
categories, linking new and existing 
risks to other sustainability categories, 
and identifying the applicable time 
horizons for impacts.
Climate-related Risk 
Management
In line with its sustainability-focused 
vision and commitments, the 
Bank continues to develop several 
initiatives to manage climate-related 
risks at the project, portfolio, and 
organational levels.
Project risk
At a project level, credit risk 
assessment focused on social and 
environmental aspects is integrated 
into the Bank’s overall credit approval 
framework. The Bank’s ESG & Climate 
Change Assessment framework, 
ensures thorough environmental 
and social due diligence of various 
loan proposals above deﬁned credit 
exposure thresholds, including direct 
customer loans, wholesale loans, 
supply chain ﬁnance, offshore, and 
capital market loans, as well as loans 
to banks, ﬁnancial institutions, or 
NBFCs. For speciﬁc sectors, this 
assessment will eventually help the 
Bank evaluate the borrower's current 
position regarding ESG and climate 
change considerations and analyse 
their transition plans and initiatives 
for mitigating risks associated with 
these factors. 
Portfolio risk
The Bank is in the process of evaluating 
appropriate methodology and 
frameworks to assess climate transition 
risk for the wholesale borrowers. For 
retail portfolio, the Bank is exploring 
framework to assess potential portfolio-
at-risk by mapping the location of 
exposures against Natural Catastrophic 
(NATCAT) scores with varying degree 
of severity. Furthermore, the Bank 
will continue to estimate ﬁnanced 
emissions for select segments of 
its portfolio. 
Climate Risk Measurement 
(Portfolio level)
The development of methodologies 
and tools to link climate risk to 
traditional ﬁnancial risk parameters, 
economic impact modeling, scenario 
analysis, and stress testing is still 
being progressively explored through 
global collaborations. Addressing 
challenges such as the availability of 
climate-related data (including the 
frequency of climate events at good 
spatial resolution, and regional and 
global sector impacts), regional climate 
impact scenarios, and comprehensive 
climate risk assessment tools and 
methodologies remains crucial. The 
Bank is committed to staying ahead 
of the curve and building capacity and 
understanding the ﬁnancial and non-
ﬁnancial impact of climate change.
Sustainable Finance
 −HDFC Bank's Sustainable Financing 
Framework aligned to International 
Capital Market Association (ICMA) 
Green Bond Principles 2021, 
Social Bond Principles 2023, and 
Sustainability Bond Guidelines 
2021], serves as a basis for HDFC 
Bank’s future Sustainable Financing 
Transactions (SFTs), including green, 
social and sustainability bonds & 
originate loans. The Framework 
deﬁnes the eligibility criteria in ten 
distinct ‘green’ categories. The policy 
is available on the Bank's website. 
Our approach to Climate 
Resilience
In addition to our three-pronged 
strategy, we actively engage with 
larger corporate clients, industry 
associations and regulators to 
deepen our understanding of climate-
related risks, opportunities and 
policy developments. This enables 
us to strengthen our strategy while 
ensuring a well-rounded approach 
to implementation of our climate 
change strategy.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
133
Responsible Business

ENVIRONMENT
Policy 
developement
Transition risk
Credit Loss
Credit 
Loss
Physical risk
Financial impact 
to borrowers
Climate hazard
Launch of carbon 
price market
Technology risk in high 
carbon emitting assets
Impairment 
costs
Type of risk involved
Impact
Captured by stress testing and scenario analysis
The Bank undertakes stress testing and scenario analysis to assess the potential impact of geopolitical, macroeconomic, and 
sectoral trends on its portfolio and subsequently build its climate resilience.
Type of risks and impact captured through stress testing and scenario analysis
At the Bank, stress testing involves the 
use of various techniques to assess 
the potential vulnerability to extreme 
but plausible stressed business 
conditions. The changes in the levels 
of Pillar I risks and select Pillar II risks, 
along with the changes in the on and 
off-Balance Sheet positions of the 
Bank are assessed under assumed 
‘stress’ scenarios and sensitivity 
factors. The suite of stress scenarios 
includes topical themes as well as 
historically observed geopolitical/
macroeconomic/sectoral and 
other trends. 
We intend to integrate our climate 
strategy and the impact of climate-
related issues into our ﬁnancial 
planning processes, and to that 
effect, are developing processes and 
tools that will inﬂuence our business 
activities. We aim to:
 −decarbonise our operations
 −expand our green and sustainable 
banking products
 −enhance the scope and accuracy 
of our climate scenario analysis and 
stress testing, applicable for the 
bank’s lending portfolio.
 −monitor and estimate portfolio 
related ﬁnanced emissions. 
As disclosure requirements and 
regulations continue to evolve, we 
expect to take these into consideration 
as we develop our ﬁnancial strategy.
Metrics and targets 
We have set an ambitious target 
to achieve carbon neutrality for 
our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 
FY 2031-32 and are aligning our 
operations to progressive internal 
performance benchmarks focused 
on energy efﬁciency and integration 
of renewable energy. In parallel, we 
are strengthening our commitment 
to enable climate change mitigation 
and adaptation by ﬁnancing solutions 
across sectors such as clean energy 
transition, renewables, energy 
efﬁciency, sustainable transportation, 
green buildings, among others. 
We have commenced an assessment 
of our ﬁnanced emissions and 
carbon-related exposures, with 
the objective of developing key 
performance indicators (KPIs) and 
tracking progress in supporting our 
clients’ transition to a low-carbon, 
climate-resilient economy.
Measurement of Financed 
Emissions 
Financed emissions refer to the 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
associated with the lending and 
investment activities of ﬁnancial 
institutions. As per the Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) Protocol, these emissions 
fall under Scope 3 (Category 15) 
and represent indirect, downstream 
emissions that are crucial for 
HDFC Bank Limited
134

understanding the ﬁnancial sector’s 
contribution to climate change. 
The accurate assessment of these 
emissions is essential for integrating 
climate considerations into capital 
allocation decisions. 
Approach to Calculation
As a responsible ﬁnancial institution, 
the Bank acknowledges its role in the 
environmental impacts associated 
with its lending activities. In line with 
emerging global best practices, 
we have voluntarily initiated the 
measurement of ﬁnanced emissions 
across our lending portfolio. Building 
on the pilot study conducted in 
FY 2023–24, the Bank continues to 
reﬁne its methodology for estimating 
ﬁnanced emissions, with a focus on 
enhancing data quality and coverage. 
Our approach aligns with the PCAF’s 
guidance for business loans, which 
attributes borrower-level Scope 1 and 
2 GHG emissions to the Bank based 
on its share of ﬁnancial exposure. 
Financed emissions from loans and 
credit facilities extended to corporate 
clients are calculated using an 
attribution factor, which reﬂects the 
Bank's ﬁnancial stake in a company:
Financed Emissions= 
∑c(Attribution Factor) X 
(Borrower’s Emissions) 
The attribution factor is calculated by 
dividing the Bank’s total outstanding 
loan amount by the borrower’s 
Enterprise Value Including Cash 
(EVIC)3
3EVIC = Market Capitalisation + 
Total Debt
Study Scope and Key Insights
In FY 2024-25, the Bank has 
undertaken a comprehensive 
assessment of ﬁnanced emissions 
for its business loan portfolio. The 
exercise evaluated a signiﬁcantly 
expanded set of exposures, reﬂecting 
the growth in the Bank’s lending 
footprint and increasing availability 
of entity-level GHG data. The Bank’s 
ﬁnanced emissions assessment 
evaluated 170 listed entities across 
34 sectors. This includes hard-to-
abate sectors, as deﬁned by the 
Reserve Bank of India, such as Metals 
and Mining, Minerals, Petroleum, 
Automotive, and Electricity, Gas, and 
Steam Supply.
The exposure of such entities to 
the tune of INR 1.90 lakh crore was 
assessed, marking an increase of 25 
% over the previous year. This portfolio 
is linked to an estimated 23.8 million 
tonnes of CO2e emissions.
The entities assessed represent a 
meaningful share of the portfolio, 
with the majority of the emissions 
data sourced from publicly disclosed, 
independently veriﬁed reports, 
enhancing the reliability of the 
estimates. The resulting average data 
quality score of 1.03 underscores the 
credibility and robustness of the data 
set used.
The analysis offered critical insights 
into the variation between actual 
reported emissions versus modeled 
sectoral averages, allowing for a 
more reﬁned baseline to support 
future target-setting. While this study 
marks a signiﬁcant step forward, 
the Bank acknowledges certain 
limitations, including constrained 
PCAF guidance across select asset 
classes and the limited availability of 
India-speciﬁc emission coefﬁcients. 
Nonetheless, we remain committed to 
continuously reﬁning our methodology, 
broadening the scope of assessment, 
and strengthening the integration of 
emissions data into lending decisions 
and ESG risk evaluation. Through this 
evolving approach, the Bank seeks to 
enable transition ﬁnance, and support 
sectoral decarbonisation.
The Bank has adopted the 
Partnership for Carbon Accounting 
Financials (PCAF) Standard—a 
globally recognised methodology 
that facilitates consistent and 
transparent disclosure of 
ﬁnanced emissions across 
various asset classes. PCAF 
offers a structured framework 
to assist ﬁnancial institutions in 
quantifying and reporting the 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
associated with their lending and 
investment portfolios.
While PCAF’s guidance is tailored 
for different asset classes, the 
core approach for corporate loans 
involves calculating ﬁnanced 
emissions using an ‘attribution 
factor’. This factor represents 
the proportion of a company’s 
emissions attributable to the 
ﬁnancial institution’s exposure 
and is applied to the estimated 
emissions of the underlying 
company or sector.
To ensure transparency and 
reliability, the PCAF methodology 
assigns data quality scores 
ranging from Score 1 to Score 5. 
Score 1 data is where emission 
factors of the underlying entity has 
been veriﬁed by an independent 
third party. Score 2 data entails 
emissions that are reported by 
companies but have not been 
externally veriﬁed. Score 3 to 
5 data is where emissions are 
calculated based on production 
level activity or sectoral /proxy data.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
135
Responsible Business

CUSTOMER CENTRICIT Y
Customers at 
the Heart of 
Everything
Customer centricity lies at the 
heart of HDFC Bank’s philosophy. 
It drives the Bank to anticipate 
needs and deliver innovative, 
personalised ﬁnancial solutions 
that foster trust, enhance 
satisfaction, and build lasting 
relationships with customers.
Service Quality Initiatives and 
Grievance Redressal
Customer Focus is one of the ﬁve core values of 
the Bank. Given a highly competitive business 
environment, especially with diverse lines of 
businesses, we continuously strive to enhance 
customer experience. Delivering exceptional product 
quality and customer service is a prerequisite for 
sustained growth. The Bank strives to achieve this by 
seeking customer feedback, benchmarking with best-
in-class business entities and implementing customer-
centric improvements. We have adopted a well-
deﬁned three-step strategy towards Customer Service 
- Deﬁne, Measure and Improve. Towards improving 
customer experience, the Bank has adopted industry 
best practices and continuously acts on customer 
feedback secured across multiple channels
HDFC Bank has adopted a multi-pronged approach 
to provide an omnichannel experience to its 
customers. On the one hand, it has traditional 
touchpoints like branches, email care and 
PhoneBanking. On the other hand, it has state-of-
the-art platforms like NetBanking, MobileBanking, 
WhatsApp Banking, the chatbot Eva and the 
Bank’s exclusive social care handles. The Bank 
also has a Virtual Relationship Management (VRM) 
programme to cater to various ﬁnancial needs in a 
personalised manner. 
One of the key strategies adopted by your Bank is to 
leverage the beneﬁts of Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) and 
Automation in providing better customer service – 
which entails (a) Speed of response (b) Accuracy of 
response (c) Response being In line with regulatory 
prescriptions and (d) In-depth root cause analysis to 
reduce/eliminate recurrence of customer grievances.
Customer service performance and grievance 
redressal are regularly assessed at various 
levels, including Branch Level Customer Service 
Committees, Virtual Level Customer Service 
Committees, Standing Committee on Customer 
Service and Customer Service Committee of 
the Board. HDFC Bank has implemented robust 
processes to monitor and measure service quality 
levels across touchpoints, including at product 
and process level through the efforts of the Quality 
Initiatives Group.
The service quality team conducts regular reviews 
across various products, processes and channels, 
HDFC Bank Limited
136
136
HDFC Bank Limited

focusing on improving the customer 
experience. A unique Service Quality 
Index (SQI) has been developed 
to measure the performance of 
key customer facing channels 
based on critical customer service 
parameters. This SQI enables 
customer facing channels to identify 
improvement areas, thereby raising 
service standards. 
One of the basic building blocks 
of providing acceptable level of 
customer service is to have an 
effective Internal Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism / Framework. HDFC Bank 
has developed a comprehensive 
Grievance Redressal Policy, Customer 
Rights Policy, Customer Protection 
Policy and a Customer Compensation 
Policy duly approved by the Board 
which outline a framework for 
resolving customer grievances in an 
effective manner. These policies are 
accessible to customers through the 
Bank’s website and branch network.
HDFC Bank has created multiple 
channels for customers to provide 
feedback and register grievances 
facilitating a transparent and 
accessible system. As a pioneer in 
innovative ﬁnancial solutions and 
digital platforms, the Bank has 
witnessed an increased utilisation 
of its digital channels. Keeping 
customer interest in focus, the 
Bank has formulated a Board 
approved Protection Policy which 
limits the liability of customers in 
case of unauthorised electronic 
banking transactions. 
This Bank is compliant with the RBI 
Internal Ombudsman Scheme of 
RBI. At the apex level, as a part of 
the Internal Grievance Redressal 
mechanism, the Bank has appointed 
seasoned-retired bankers as Internal 
Ombudsmen to independently 
review any customer grievance 
which is partly/wholly rejected by 
the Bank before the ﬁnal decision is 
communicated to the customer.
HDFC Bank is on a journey to 
measure customer loyalty through a 
high velocity, closed loop customer 
feedback system. This customer 
experience transformation programme 
helps employees to empathise 
better with customers and improve 
turnaround times. Branded as 
‘Inﬁnite Smiles’, the programme helps 
establish behaviours and practices 
that result in customer-centric actions 
through continuous improvement 
in products, services, processes 
and policies.
The Bank remains committed to 
placing the customer at the centre 
of its operations. By consistently 
improving customer experience, 
adopting an omnichannel approach 
and implementing robust service 
quality and grievance redressal 
mechanisms, it aims to build and 
nurture lasting relationships.
Building a Customer - 
Centric Culture using Net 
Promoter System (NPS) - 
‘Inﬁnite Smiles’
We, at the Bank, believe that 
delivering an outstanding customer 
experience is a strong differentiator 
for a great product and is key to a 
sustained competitive advantage. 
The primary aim of the Inﬁnite Smiles 
programme is to establish employee 
behaviour and practices which lead 
to customer- centric actions and 
continuous improvements.
In March 2020, through our 
'Inﬁnite Smiles’ programme we 
initiated measurement on key 
journeys, identiﬁed action areas to 
improve customer experience and 
implemented several key initiatives. 
This has led to a steady improvement 
of our NPS over the years. In FY25, we 
continued to build on our commitment 
to our customers by scaling the 
coverage of the Inﬁnite Smiles 
programme – we introduced ﬁve new 
channels / digital platforms / products 
ensuring a much wider coverage. 
Over 150 actions were identiﬁed and 
tracked through regular cadence with 
key stakeholders and rigorous follow-
ups. This has been the cornerstone of 
Inﬁnite Smiles.
The programme now encompasses 
over 140 episodes. Around 10 crore 
customers have been contacted 
in Financial Year 2024-25 securing 
around 28 lakh feedback.
Our ‘Inﬁnite Smiles’ program rests on 
three meticulously designed pillars 
– ‘Listen’, ‘Learn’ and ‘Act’ which 
enables us to embed customer- 
feedback led transformation as a 
discipline into our systems, challenge 
what is considered as the standard 
and offer a customer experience 
that places us amongst the best 
service brands.
This well-deﬁned system builds on 
the score and requires every level of 
the organisation to be consistently 
focused on the quality of customer 
and employee relationships. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
137
Responsible Business

In order to foster individual learning 
and inspire front-line employees to do 
right by customers, we have created 
an advocacy organisation that ensures 
the following:
1.  Sustained Leadership 
Commitment
 
Embraced the goal of creating 
more promoters and fewer 
detractors as a mission to building 
Service First culture.
2. Building Greater Focus on 
Understanding Customer 
Needs
 
Operationalising customer 
empathy through detractor 
engagement; front-line employees 
hear positive and constructive 
feedback directly from customers 
enabling them to support actions 
that improve customer experience.
 3. Robust Operational and 
Analytical Infrastructure
 
Customer Experience 
Transformation team leads the 
effort and is responsible for 
maintaining rigour. It rallies across 
departments to drive the mission 
of serving the customer and 
CUSTOMER CENTRICIT Y
Transforming Score To Systems
Listen 
Feedback of customers
Learn 
Review and follow up 
to better understand
Act 
Resolve the issue in the 
near and long term
28 lakh
feedback captured 
across key channels, 
critical episodes and 
key product journeys
1.6 lakh+
huddles conducted; 
150+ actions identified
70
BU NPS Score* 
*Bottom Up NPS score
bringing voice of the customer into 
decision making.
4. Reliable and Trusted Metric
 
We use Net Promoter Score 
(NPS) branded as Smile Score - a 
simple and easy to understand 
metric which is reliable and valued. 
We have now embedded the 
score and customer feedback 
as an outside-in perspective for 
measuring process efﬁciency.
 
Inﬁnite Smiles programme is 
a practical framework to grow 
by enriching the lives of our 
customers and employees. It is the 
business equivalent of the Golden 
Rule: Treat others as you would 
want to be treated.
 
Guided by our aspiration to move 
from score to systems, we have 
been working to institutionalise the 
process for addressing customer 
issues that transcend beyond 
measurement and create a culture 
of customer-centricity and agility. 
 
We would not only like to 
anticipate and react to changing 
customer expectations but also 
like to provide a proposition 
to our customers that makes 
us more attractive than 
competitive alternatives.
HDFC Bank Limited
138

Driving Customer-Centric Initiatives Through Innovation
HDFC Bank’s foundation is built on three pillars: technology, innovation and providing excellent customer experience. 
This philosophy has guided the Bank’s marketing journey over nearly three decades in driving key campaigns that 
focus on consumer awareness and education offering innovative and tech ﬁrst products and continually enhancing 
customer experience.
HDFC Bank introduces 
PIXEL: A new generation of 
Digital Credit Cards
Pixel is the Bank's ﬁrst 
comprehensive digital credit card 
range with customisable and fully 
app-based offering, built on a start-
to-ﬁnish DIY platform. It is tailored 
for a generation characterised by 
digital ﬂuency, unique preferences 
and distinct ﬁnancial behaviours.
Furthermore, through PIXEL 
the Bank gives the power of 
customisation and choice to 
customers, by enabling them to 
select their preferred categories 
and favourite merchants/
platforms such as Zomato, Myntra, 
BookMyShow, MakeMyTrip, Amazon 
and Flipkart among others. By doing 
so, customers can earn attractive 
accelerated cashbacks on their 
spends from these merchants/
platforms. Both current and new 
customers can apply for PIXEL credit 
cards through the PayZapp mobile 
application of the Bank. 
The digital nature of the card allows 
the customer to customise various 
beneﬁts on the card – colour of the 
card, billing date and also the type of 
products / merchants on which they 
wish to avail of the special cashback 
offer thus making it a truly digital 
card made for the digital natives and 
customisable to their needs.
HDFC BANK Xpressway – 
Encouraging employees and 
customers to go digital even 
at our physical outlets
The Bank launched HDFC 
Bank Xpressway, a platform 
that encompasses all its digital 
journeys in one place. It aims to 
simplify customer experience while 
buying new products, onboarding, 
accessing offers or availing the 
Bank's services digitally.
The platform delivers a 
personalised experience by tailoring 
offers and imagery for each 
customer based on pre-approved 
eligibility and analytical insights. 
It also prioritises recommended 
service options and now includes 
access to the Bank’s top mobile 
apps, encouraging customers to 
explore services digitally. In FY2024-
25, the platform played a key role in 
driving digital adoption at branches 
through the rollout of Xpressway 
with personalised QR codes for 
each employee. This enabled 
staff to offer customers seamless 
access to their personalised offers 
and simpliﬁed digital journeys for 
product onboarding. The initiative 
saw strong engagement, with over 
60,000 monthly active employees 
and more than 4 lakh customer 
logins—resulting in enhanced digital 
experience for customers and 
improved productivity across the 
Bank’s frontline teams.
Key Highlights For the Financial Year 2024-25
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
139
Responsible Business

Leveraging Social Media to 
create positive sentiment
1. Employee Advocacy:
 
The Bank introduced Employer 
Advocacy initiatives under 
HDFC Bank #WowPlaceToWork 
in social media. The aim is to 
drive positive sentiment for 
the brand through employee 
engagement and ampliﬁcation 
of Employee Connect initiatives 
on Social media. Starting 
June 2024, the Bank launched 
various Intellectual Properties 
(IPs) like Behind the Role, Clash 
of Cubicles, culture-ﬁrst reels 
and ampliﬁcation of employee 
connect events like Hunar and 
Josh. This has resulted in growth 
of positive Share Of Voice (SOV) 
by 20 per cent and engagement 
doubling organically. 
2. Online Reputation 
Management (ORM) & 
Creative Engagement:
 
With over 12 lakh conversations 
handled on ﬁve social media 
platforms, the Bank has 
maintained an average ﬁrst 
response time of 16 mins (best 
in the banking space) with 
positive sentiment 2x higher 
than competition banks. We 
have gained additional 3.45 
lakh engagement via proactive 
responses through contextual 
engagement with various 
brands and trendspotting 
moments .
Vigil Aunty – Taking the 
lead in increasing customer 
awareness on frauds
Nearly three years after the launch 
of the Vigil Aunty campaign, her 
inﬂuence within the Indian social 
media landscape remains strong 
with a considerable presence 
on platforms like Facebook and 
Instagram. Her fan base has grown 
signiﬁcantly, reaching 23 lakh 
citizens in India.
On WhatsApp she provides real-time 
updates on ﬁnancial frauds and has 
built a community on the platform 
known as the Vigil Army, where the 
latest fraud awareness updates are 
provided to about 10 lakh people. 
This active community not only stays 
informed but also participates in 
spreading the message and amplifying 
the reach of our campaign.
Our efforts extend beyond mere 
awareness creation. We actively 
monitor and track online frauds and 
modus operandi, with a primary 
focus on safeguarding the Bank's 
customers. Utilising robust tools, 
we have swiftly identiﬁed and 
removed fake customer care 
numbers, social media proﬁles, 
Twitter handles and career pages 
falsely associated with HDFC Bank. 
Impressively, our response time 
for taking down these fraudulent 
accounts and handles has been 
between 24-48 hours. 
In the Financial Year 2024-25, Vigil 
Aunty's overall reach has been 
about 23 lakh followers and over 
50 crore views. The stellar work 
by Vigil Aunty was also recognised 
at the global level in the form of 
an award – A Cannes Silver Lion 
for a pathbreaking campaign 
idea in the CSR space. In the 
coming year, Vigil Aunty is all set 
to further strengthen her position 
as a trusted, iconic digital guardian 
delivering culturally rooted, 
multilingual messaging on fraud 
awareness across 33 cities in 10 
regional languages.
CUSTOMER CENTRICIT Y
HDFC Bank Limited
140

PayZapp – Providing 
customers with a safe, 
trusted payments partner 
giving them the choice of 
payments
PayZapp by HDFC Bank is the 
Bank's ﬁrst direct-to-customer 
(D2C) offering, launched through 
a high impact brand campaign 
featuring celebrities like Tiger 
Shroff, Prabhu Deva and 
Kapil Sharma. 
PayZapp is a comprehensive payment 
app that gives customers the "Choice 
to Pay" how they want. With the app, 
users can send money, make bill 
payments, recharge, shop, book travel 
and do much more. They can pay 
with PayZapp for in-store or online 
purchases using Scan QR, Tap to 
Pay or Swipe to Pay feature or send 
money to any app.
To strengthen PayZapp's 'Choice of 
Payments' brand positioning and build 
a higher recall, PayZapp participated 
in the IPL 2024 with a high-decibel 
brand campaign on Start Sports and 
Jio Cinema.
PayZapp also partnered with 
Royal Challengers Bengaluru as 
their ofﬁcial payment partner to 
drive engagement and create 
visibility. The brand's success has 
been remarkable, with PayZapp 
registrations soaring to over 1.6 
crore. Since its launch, PayZapp's 
ranking has improved signiﬁcantly, 
moving from 42nd to 14th position in 
the UPI category. As a testament 
to customer trust and conﬁdence, 
PayZapp is also amongst the top-
rated app, rated 4.8 on the App 
Store and 4.6 on PlayStore. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
141
Responsible Business

FUTURE READY DIGITAL BANK
Beyond 
Digital: 
Towards an 
AI-Ready 
Future
Technology and Digital – 
An Integrated Shift
The Financial Year 2024-25 marked a deﬁning 
phase in HDFC Bank’s technology and digital 
evolution. As India continues to lead global 
conversations on digital ﬁnancial inclusion, the 
Bank remains focused on delivering future-
ready, secure and inclusive banking powered by 
technology. At the core of this transformation lies a 
clear vision: to build digital journeys that are simple, 
intuitive and powered by modern platforms—
bringing together customer expectations, 
regulatory alignment and enterprise resilience.
This year’s progress reﬂects the successful 
execution of the Bank’s ‘Shift Right’ strategy—a 
multi-pillar transformation roadmap that places 
customer journeys, scalable platforms, intelligent 
data usage and embedded security at the heart 
of banking. By shifting the centre of gravity from 
backend systems to user-centric experience 
design, the Bank has moved decisively towards 
a platform-led, customer-ﬁrst approach.
HDFC Bank has evolved from using technology 
as an enabler to positioning it as a core strategic 
driver. It powers every digital interaction, enabling 
seamless integration and shaping customer 
experiences across channels – be it on mobile 
apps, through business correspondents, 
via embedded APIs or at the branch. From 
modernising lending platforms to scaling merchant 
ecosystems and from deploying AI-led customer 
support to digitising internal workﬂows, the Bank’s 
investments have converged around a single goal: 
to deliver banking experiences that are contextual, 
convenient and consistent at scale.
142
HDFC Bank Limited
142

The Shift Right Framework: A Pillar-Based Approach to Transformation
Launched in the Financial Year 2024, the Shift Right framework was conceptualised to reimagine the 
Bank’s operating model—by anchoring transformation on five strategic pillars: Journeys, Channels, 
Core, Data and Security.
In FY 2025, this framework matured 
from blueprint to execution engine. 
Each pillar translated into platform-
level changes and customer-facing 
outcomes. Importantly, the Bank 
focused not just on launching 
new journeys but also on unifying 
disconnected experiences, improving 
time-to-market and enabling 
embedded ﬁnance models. Shift Right 
is now ﬁrmly embedded in the Bank’s 
execution across business lines and 
product teams.
Reimagining Journeys: 
Seamless, Digital and Scalable
The Journeys pillar remains the most 
visible part of the Bank’s technology 
transformation. The focus in FY 2025 
was to design journeys that are not 
just digital-ﬁrst but also outcome-
ﬁrst—built around customer needs 
rather than system ﬂows. Across retail, 
SME, rural and corporate segments, 
several enhanced digital journeys were 
delivered - many with STP (Straight 
Through Processing), assisted 
onboarding or embedded servicing.
The Bank continued to scale its 
Xpress Car Loan (XCL) platform, 
now the largest fully digital car loan 
journey in the country. The platform 
processed over 1.3 lakh car loans 
digitally in FY 2025, disbursing nearly 
H13,110 crore. This represents 36 per 
cent by volume and 27 per cent by 
value of car loan origination. This has 
been enabled through a zero-paper, 
zero-touch model, even for new-to-
bank customers.
Digital journeys were also 
expanded for gold loans, personal 
loans, consumer durables and 
business loans with features such 
as automated underwriting, bank 
statement analytics and biometric 
Know Your Customer (KYC).
The Bank digitalised both Virtual 
Relationship Manager (VRM)-assisted 
and unassisted savings account 
journeys, introduced eKYC-based FD 
onboarding and launched journeys 
for minor-to-major transitions, salary 
family account conversions and 
standalone card and asset servicing. 
These journeys contributed to 89 per 
cent of all new account acquisitions 
being completed digitally, up from 82 
per cent in FY 2024.
Customers were offered Group 
Health and Group Term insurance 
through digital channels. This reﬂects 
the Bank’s growing focus on wealth 
protection journeys being integrated 
into savings and lending ﬂows.
In FY 2025, the Bank increased its 
digital service journey coverage to 
89 per cent of all servicing needs, up 
from 73 per cent in FY 2024. Some of 
the journeys launched include:
 −Address update (for cards and 
assets)
Journeys: Frictionless, straight-through
Channels: Digital – 
where the customer is
Core: Always ON, 
perform @ scale
Data: Insights, driving 
experience & growth
Security: For customers & data
C
h
a
n
n
e
l
s
A
P
I
s
D
a
t
a
Core 
Banking
P
a
r
t
n
e
r
s
h
i
p
s
P
r
o
d
u
ct
 
C
e
n
t
ri
c
Data 
powered 
by AI/ML
M
i
c
r
o
s
e
r
v
i
c
e
s
 
b
a
s
e
d
 
C
o
r
e
A
P
I
 
O
r
c
h
e
s
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
 
L
a
y
e
r
C
h
a
n
n
e
l
s
B
a
n
k
i
n
g
 
a
s 
a
 
S
e
r
vi
c
e
 (
B
a
a
S
)
C
u
s
to
m
e
r 
C
e
n
tr
i
c
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
143
Responsible Business

 −Digital Re-KYC (for standalone asset 
customers)
 −FD with external funding
 −Service ticket generation through 
SmartHub and WhatsApp
Each journey was designed to support 
both self-service and assisted modes 
with real-time updates, automated 
validation and fallback to alternate 
channels in edge cases.
The Bank digitalised Working 
Capital loan journeys for Business 
Banking Group (BBG), Emerging 
Enterprises Group (EEG) and Small 
and Agri Business (SAB) segments—
introducing features such as:
 −Digital KYC Veriﬁcation
 −Automated Statement Analysis
 −Bureau Score Integration
This allowed in-principle approvals 
within 30 minutes and fully digital 
onboarding for New-to-Bank entities.
As part of its customer service 
redesign, the Bank strengthened 
its self-service journeys across 
Interactive Voice Response (IVR), 
Chat Banking and NetBanking. More 
than 55 per cent of support requests 
were resolved digitally with over 30 
per cent of these journeys being 
straight-through resulting in reduced 
turnaround times, lower call volumes 
and improved customer satisfaction.
Expanding Reach through 
Digitally Empowered Channels
The Financial Year 2024-25 saw 
signiﬁcant progress in the Bank’s 
omni-channel strategy, with 
enhancements across NetBanking, 
MobileBanking, conversational 
interfaces, merchant platforms and 
embedded journeys. The overarching 
FUTURE READY DIGITAL BANK
objective has been to deliver a 
consistent, secure and simpliﬁed 
experience regardless of where or 
how customers choose to engage.
A major milestone this year was 
the phased rollout of HDFC Bank’s 
new Net and MobileBanking 
platforms designed with a modern 
tech architecture, intuitive UX and 
enhanced security protocols. 
These platforms aim to improve 
performance, accessibility and 
customer engagement by offering:
 −Personalised dashboards and 
dynamic menus
 −Uniﬁed views across deposits, 
loans, cards and investments
 −Real-time alerts, contextual nudges 
and smart navigation
The phased deployment approach 
ensures minimal disruption while 
enabling feedback loops from early 
users for continuous reﬁnements.
The Bank’s Pixel Credit Card, a 
digitally native offering built on a 
microservices architecture, gained 
strong traction during the year. With 
features like customisable rewards, in-
app controls and contextual nudges, 
Pixel was positioned as a next-
generation credit card experience. Its 
digital onboarding journey contributed 
to a sharp increase in activation 
rates supported by focused brand 
campaigns across social, app and 
ecosystem partners.
The Bank’s conversational AI 
platform, HDFC Bank One 
(Customer Experience Hub), 
continued to see strong adoption. 
Supporting IVR, WhatsApp, SMS 
and live agent transitions the platform 
handled over 3.7 crore customer 
engagements monthly.
The platform achieved a 65 per cent 
year-on-year growth in WhatsApp 
Banking interactions indicating 
that chat banking is an increasingly 
preferred engagement channel 
for customers. Additionally, the 
introduction of intelligent nudges and 
transaction veriﬁcation for cards and 
payments signiﬁcantly enhanced 
the user experience. The Bank 
also succeeded in reducing email 
resolution time by 50 per cent.
The platform has become the ﬁrst 
line of support for a growing share of 
the Bank’s customer base—providing 
proactive, personalised service with 
human fallback only when needed.
In March 2023, the Bank relaunched 
PayZapp 2.0, its new-age mobile 
payments and commerce app. 
Multiple new features such as Swipe 
to Pay were launched. By March 2025, 
the platform:
 −Reached over 1.6 crore registrations
 −Became ﬁrst app enabled with 
RuPay credit cards for UPI 
payments at Online merchants
 −Secured 4.5+/5 average app 
store rating
The Bank’s merchant-facing app, 
SmartHub Vyapar, continued its 
strong growth trajectory. By March 
2025, it had:
 −Onboarded 19.3 lakh merchants
HDFC Bank Limited
144

 −Disbursed over H850 crore in loans 
(on an average monthly basis) 
through embedded journeys
To serve digital-ﬁrst merchants, HDFC 
Bank also launched the SmartHub 
Payment Gateway—an online 
collection platform integrated with over 
150 payment instruments.
Modernising the Core for Scale 
and Resilience
As digital adoption accelerates and 
customer interactions increase across 
channels, HDFC Bank continued its 
strategic investment in strengthening 
its core technology backbone. The 
aim has not just been to perform at 
unparalleled scale but also to build 
systems that are robust, adaptive and 
cloud-native—capable of powering 
real-time and secure transactions.
Lighten the Core: Modularising 
Legacy Systems
The Bank’s Lighten the Core initiative 
is a multi-year programme designed 
to gradually decouple complex 
legacy core systems and move 
towards a microservices-led, event-
driven architecture.
This approach enables:
 −Scalability through 
containerised deployment
 −Faster change cycles and 
development agility
 −Better failure isolation and 
business continuity
The Financial Year 2024-25 saw a 
key deployment of this framework 
in the IMPS Inward module of the 
Payments Hub allowing more efﬁcient 
processing and real-time settlement 
with minimal latency. This milestone 
sets the foundation for broader 
modularisation across key banking 
systems in the coming phases, viz., 
a centralised Customer Information 
(eCIF)Ecosystem, a digital-ﬁrst 
module for customer onboarding 
(e-Origination) among others. The 
Payments Hub module is also being 
extended to IMPS Outward, NEFT and 
RTGS transactions.
As part of its infrastructure 
transformation, the Bank undertook 
a signiﬁcant system upgrade by 
migrating its Core Banking System 
(CBS) to a next generation engineered 
platform, aimed at enhancing 
performance, reliability and scalability. 
This migration was designed to 
support the Bank’s rapidly growing 
customer base of about 9.7 crore.
With this initiative, HDFC Bank 
became one of the largest banks 
in the country to host its CBS on a 
modern, high-performance platform 
– positioning itself to meet future 
growth demands while delivering an 
enhanced customer experience.
Several critical backend systems were 
modernised or re-engineered during 
FY 2025:
 −Rollout of Active-Active 
conﬁgurations across key data 
centres, ensuring continuous 
availability with near-zero recovery 
time objective (RTO)
 −Backend upgrades for major 
platforms including Payments Hub, 
Credit Engine, Pricing Engine and 
Home Loan Origination
Leveraging Data for Smarter 
Decisioning
HDFC Bank is developing a 
centralised Data Lake House 
platform to manage structured 
and unstructured data across the 
enterprise. This platform will serve as 
a uniﬁed source of truth, reduce data 
duplication, and improve accessibility 
for analytics and decision-making. 
Built with modern, hybrid architecture, 
it supports regulatory alignment with 
BCBS 239 and DPDPA, while enabling 
better governance, lineage, and 
reference data management. Initial 
system onboarding has begun in a 
phased manner, laying the foundation 
for scalable, secure, and insight-led 
growth across the Bank.
Digitalised Corporate and 
Wholesale Banking
In FY 2025, the Bank continued to 
advance its digital transformation 
agenda within Corporate and 
Wholesale Banking by streamlining 
trade, payments and treasury 
operations through modern platforms 
and seamless integrations.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
145
Responsible Business

TradeFlow, is our cloud-native trade 
ﬁnance platform designed to centralise 
processing, improve visibility and 
enable automation across import 
and export services. TradeFlow is 
integrated with multiple banking 
systems and external networks 
and supports:
 −Real-time dashboards and MIS
 −API-based transaction processing
 −STP journeys for outward 
remittances and import payments
Multiple APIs were deployed between 
TradeFlow and the Bank’s core 
system, enabling straight-through 
processing for key trade ﬁnance 
products and signiﬁcantly reducing 
end-to-end turnaround times.
On the Payments side, corporate 
platforms were enhanced with 
improved UI/UX, contextual help 
dashboards, ERP integrations via 
APIs and Host-to-Host modes and 
ﬂexible authorisation workﬂows. The 
consolidated Corporate Banking 
eXchange (CBX) portal processed 
over 2.75 crore transactions monthly 
(on an average basis), with over 
15 per cent of volumes routed via 
APIs, reﬂecting increased adoption 
of self-service digital channels by 
enterprise clients.
These initiatives collectively enabled: 
(1) Improved transaction efﬁciency
(2) Reduced manual interventions 
(3) Deeper integration into 
client ecosystems
This has positioned the Bank 
as a digitally agile partner to 
India’s enterprises.
Extending Financial Access 
Through Digital Inclusion
HDFC Bank continued to strengthen 
its reach in the semi-urban and 
rural markets through assisted 
digital journeys and decentralised 
platforms. Business correspondents, 
local partners and ﬁeld teams were 
equipped with simpliﬁed, mobile-ﬁrst 
tools to serve customers with limited 
formal documentation and limited 
digital literacy.
New onboarding journeys made 
possible: Biometric Authentication, 
Aadhaar Seeding and Assisted 
Savings Account Opening in remote 
areas. The use of geotagging, eKYC 
and ofﬂine-ready applications enabled 
ﬁnancial access in regions with 
limited connectivity.
Several rural-facing journeys were 
enhanced with real-time decisioning, 
biometric veriﬁcation and pre-qualiﬁed 
offers—helping customers to secure 
small-ticket credit without going to 
a branch. These journeys covered 
needs across sustainable livelihood, 
agriculture, dairy ﬁnance and small 
enterprise working capital.
Lead management tools and 
performance dashboards were 
also deployed across ﬁeld teams, 
improving visibility, efﬁciency and 
turnaround times. Over the year, these 
digitally assisted journeys contributed 
to a more balanced customer footprint 
and reinforced the Bank’s mission to 
drive inclusive growth.
Complementing retail inclusions, the 
Bank also strengthened its support 
for SMEs and business customers 
through digitised onboarding and 
credit journeys.
Empowering Enterprises and 
Small Businesses Digitally
Digitalisation of enterprise and SME 
workﬂows remained a strategic 
priority. In the Financial Year 2024-25, 
the Bank enabled fully digital sourcing 
journeys for business banking 
segments across working capital, term 
loans and trade services.
Customers could complete 
onboarding with digital KYC, 
automated bank statement validation 
and real-time eligibility checks. A 
rules-based decisioning engine 
enabled in-principle approval within 30 
minutes supported by a streamlined 
documentation process.
Merchant ecosystems also beneﬁtted 
from platform enhancements including 
embedded payment acceptance, 
marketing tools and integrated service 
request modules. A gateway platform 
launched during the year supported 
multi-instrument online payments 
giving businesses a uniﬁed dashboard 
for sales and reconciliation insights.
This digital enablement not only 
reduced onboarding friction but also 
allowed businesses to access capital 
and banking services in a seamless, 
self-service manner—regardless of 
location or scale.
FUTURE READY DIGITAL BANK
HDFC Bank Limited
146

Banking as Infrastructure: 
Embedded and API-Driven 
Delivery
With digital ecosystems maturing and 
customer expectations moving toward 
seamless, contextual experiences, 
HDFC Bank expanded its Banking-
as-a-Service (BaaS) strategy 
through embedded ﬁnance and 
API integrations.
Partnerships with leading consumer 
platforms such as PhonePe, Swiggy, 
Tata Neu and others enabled users 
to access savings accounts, loans 
and credit cards directly through their 
preferred apps. These journeys were 
digitally powered by 100 per cent 
straight-through processing and real-
time onboarding offering frictionless 
access to banking services eliminating 
the need to visit a branch.
In parallel, the Bank continued to 
scale its co-branded credit card 
portfolio offering curated product 
features, rewards and partner-speciﬁc 
beneﬁts through integrated programs 
with platforms like IRCTC, Swiggy 
and Tata Neu. These partnerships 
strengthened customer experience 
and expanded access to digitally 
native users.
Last mile remittance ﬂows accounted 
for over 20 per cent of India’s inbound 
remittances through over 115 global 
arrangements. Strategic tie-ups with 
partners such as Lulu Exchange, 
Flywire and PayMyTuition have 
enabled secure, efﬁcient cross-border 
transfers-especially for purposes such 
as education, family support and 
medical needs. These have enhanced 
the reach and convenience.
Underpinning these journeys is a 
robust orchestration framework 
and a growing library of secure, 
reusable APIs. These enable real-time 
decisioning, partner onboarding and 
seamless integration across front-
end systems.
This approach marks a clear evolution 
towards accelerating the BaaS 
offerings on scale. Through this the 
Bank’s capabilities are embedded at 
the point of need enabling it to reach 
new customer segments and tap 
digital-natives .
Security and Digital Risk: A 
Balanced Approach
HDFC Bank recognises that trust is 
the foundation of all digital progress. In 
FY 2025, investments in security and 
risk infrastructure focused on control, 
observability and compliance ensuring 
that digital expansion is backed by 
robust security.
24x7x365 Cybersecurity Operations 
Centre (CSOC) evolved with AI-
enabled threat detection, enhanced 
Security Information and Event 
Management (SIEM), User and Entity 
Behaviour Analytics (UEBA) and 
Security Orchestration, Automation 
and Response (SOAR) tools that 
enable swift triage and containment.
The Bank further strengthened its 
Zero Trust Architecture, enforcing 
identity-aware access policies across 
systems, endpoints and APIs—shifting 
from perimeter-based defences to a 
posture of continuous validation.
To protect customer data and ensure 
secure system access, it implemented 
a range of targeted security tools and 
controls, including:
 −PRISMA Cloud Infrastructure 
Entitlement Management (CIEM) 
to enforce least-privilege access in 
cloud environments and manage 
entitlements effectively
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
147
Responsible Business

FUTURE READY DIGITAL BANK
 −Accops secure gateway to 
enable Multi-Factor Authentication 
(MFA)-based secure access to 
critical internet-facing applications
 −Zscaler Private Access (ZPA) to 
support zero-trust based, secure 
remote connectivity for employees 
and partners
 −Cloud Web Application Firewall 
(WAF) for enhanced real-time 
threat mitigation across digital 
banking interfaces
 −Cloud Security Posture 
Management (CSPM) and 
Cloud Workload Protection 
Platform (CWPP) for continuous 
cloud conﬁguration monitoring, 
workload scanning and 
automated remediation
 −Cloud Access Security Broker 
(CASB) and DNS security controls 
to secure SaaS usage and detect 
anomalies in trafﬁc patterns
 −CI/CD automation with browser 
isolation for secure application 
development and deployment
 −Attack Surface Monitoring 
(ASM) to discover and secure 
externally exposed digital assets in 
real-time
As part of the HDFC Limited and 
HDFC Bank merger, the Bank 
also completed:
 −Risk mitigation measures 
across cloud, server and 
network infrastructure, ensuring 
adherence to HDFC Bank’s 
cybersecurity policies
 −Data assessment and migration 
from HDFC Limited, aligned with 
the Bank’s information security and 
data protection standards.
 −Integration of identity and access 
governance including User Access 
Management (UAM), privileged 
access controls and secure 
VDI rollout
Other key initiatives included:
 −Extended Detection and 
Response (XDR): Deployed on 
servers to detect and mitigate 
zero-day malware threats in real 
time. On endpoints, detection is 
active, and prevention features are 
being implemented.
 −File Integrity Monitoring 
(FIM): Continuously checks for 
unauthorised ﬁle or conﬁguration 
changes across core systems
 −Data Activity Monitoring (DAM): 
Tracks real-time database activity to 
ensure sensitive data is accessed 
and used appropriately
 −Application Control and Patch 
Management: Ensures endpoints 
run only trusted applications 
and stay updated against 
known vulnerabilities
 −Email Security Measures: 
Domain-based authentication 
(DMARC) systems help guard 
against spooﬁng and unauthorised 
communication attempts.
 −Microsegmentation: Granular 
segmentation limits access across 
internal systems, minimising 
lateral movement in case of 
breach attempts
 −Web Application Firewall (WAF): 
Protects banking applications from 
online threats while maintaining 
consistent performance 
and availability
HDFC Bank Limited
148

Together, these initiatives reinforce 
HDFC Bank’s commitment to 
preserving customer data integrity 
ensuring secure access and 
maintaining robust operational 
continuity—even as digital complexity 
continues to evolve.
Building at Scale: Factory-
Led Delivery and Execution
The digital transformation across all 
fronts is being driven by the agile 
delivery construct known as the 
Factory Model. Each factory is a 
dedicated capability unit focused on a 
speciﬁc technology layer or customer 
segment. These include areas 
such as experience design, mobile 
engineering, cloud, core banking 
transformation, APIs, data engineering 
and cybersecurity.
Throughout FY 2025, this construct 
enabled parallel development of a 
multitude of high-impact initiatives 
while maintaining architectural 
consistency and alignment with 
business priorities. The Bank’s digital 
delivery model increasingly reﬂects the 
principles of continuous integration, 
scalability and reusable engineering.
Dedicated teams in Bengaluru, 
Mumbai and Gurugram worked 
across use cases such as the new 
MobileBanking / NetBanking, uniﬁed 
credit platforms, cloud orchestration 
and data lake integration. The model 
has matured to include specialised 
units for next-gen capabilities including 
Generative AI and secure-by-design 
engineering laying the foundation for 
future-facing innovation.
This structure also facilitated deeper 
collaboration between product, 
technology and business teams, 
helping reduce time-to-market and 
bring a consistent experience layer 
across channels.
With the delivery engine in place, 
HDFC Bank is now poised to tap into 
the potential emerging technologies 
that can shape the future of banking.
Looking Ahead: The Next 
Chapter of AI-Readiness
As industries globally embrace the 
possibilities of Generative AI, the 
Bank is preparing for a calibrated and 
structured adoption. 
HDFC Bank is evaluating the 
transformative potential of Generative 
AI (GenAI) to enhance efﬁciencies and 
customer experiences. It is assessing 
GenAI capabilities across key 
processes while ensuring responsible 
and secure implementation through 
a platform-driven approach. While 
still in the exploratory phase, GenAI 
is expected to play a meaningful 
role in shaping future-ready 
banking experiences.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
149
Responsible Business

SOCIAL - PEOPLE
In today’s dynamic ﬁnancial 
landscape, our competitive 
advantage lies in Strategy, People 
and Technology. As we look ahead, 
strengthening leadership, enabling 
continuous capability development 
and fostering a culture of trust and 
resilience are central to how we 
grow.
Our people strategy is anchored in cultivating strong 
leadership by equipping our workforce with future 
ready skills and fostering a culture of care. These 
initiatives are geared towards building a sustainable 
and high-performing institution of the future.
The Financial Year 2024-25 marked a pivotal year 
for organisational learning as we accelerated our 
Capability Building efforts. We stepped up strategic 
investments in expanding leadership development, 
functional expertise and digital learning initiatives. 
The outcomes reﬂect the effectiveness and alignment 
of our talent strategy. 
Key Highlights for the 
Financial Year 2024-25
 −Recognising the pivotal role of leadership 
in driving organisational transformation, 
we signiﬁcantly expanded our leadership 
development initiatives in the Financial Year 
2024-25 achieving exponential increase in 
coverage year on year, enabling a cultural 
shift towards agility, customer-centric 
innovation and people-centric leadership.
 −There has also been a sustained investment 
in building culture capability in over 27,000 
managers across all levels, equipping 
them to lead with an inner compass and 
leadership impact.
 −Recognising the transformative opportunities 
presented by GenAI, we established a 
comprehensive GenAI Academy featuring 
role-relevant curricula across differentiated 
proﬁciency levels.
 −Our wide range of functional capability 
enhancement initiatives clocked over 70 lakh 
learning hours this year.
 −We also made strategic investments in 
physical and digital learning infrastructure to 
elevate learner experience and impact.
Our Learning and Development initiatives are 
aligned with our Talent Management strategy. An 
institutionalised approach towards talent management 
enables the identiﬁcation of high potential employees, 
establishing a match between individual career 
aspirations and organisational needs. This robust 
learning and talent framework ensures availability 
of capable talent across all levels in the Bank. We 
maintain a healthy mix of internal and external talent. 
Role elevation opportunities are ﬁrst made available 
to existing talent and employees are encouraged to 
explore the same.
Learning and Development  
Through Learning and Development (L&D) initiatives, 
we strive to create a robust learning ecosystem 
tailored to individual roles and aligned with 
organisational goals. This encompasses customised 
onboarding, functional capability building, compliance 
and regulatory training, leadership development and 
digital learning. Emphasising the vital connection 
between ongoing learning and sustained success, 
L&D aims to foster a proactive, adaptive learning 
SOCIAL - PEOPLE
Growing 
Together with 
our People
150
HDFC Bank Limited

culture empowering employees 
to excel in their current roles while 
contributing effectively to the Bank’s 
strategic objectives.
Building a World-Class and 
Scalable Learning Ecosystem
We continue to invest in creating a 
world-class and scalable learning 
ecosystem. Our digital learning 
platform ‘MPower’ consisting of a 
Learning Management System (LMS) 
and AI-driven Learner Experience 
Platform (LXP) complements the 
physical infrastructure. Our physical 
infrastructure was expanded 
this year with the addition of two 
residential facilities: Aranyam (Palava, 
Maharashtra) and Anantham (Kolkata) 
taking the total to 22 training centres.
This learning ecosystem is vital to our 
geographically dispersed workforce 
with diverse learning styles and offers a 
wide array of content formats—videos, 
podcasts, simulations, e-books and 
self-paced modules. This multi-modal 
approach ensures learning remains 
relevant, accessible and impactful 
by providing rich, contextual and 
personalised learning.
Capability-Building for Growth
Our enterprise-wide learning initiatives 
are closely aligned with business 
needs, enabling employees to adapt 
to a rapidly evolving environment. 
With a focus on technical, functional 
and behavioural upskilling, these 
programmes have strengthened our 
ability to scale operations despite 
increasingly complex market dynamics. 
We recorded a signiﬁcant increase in 
participation year on year with total 
learning hours exceeding 1.25 crore, 
marking an 88 per cent growth over 
the last year.
Leadership and Professional 
Development (LPD)
Our Leadership and Professional 
Development (LPD) framework 
nurtures internal talent and builds 
leadership capacity to drive 
performance and transformation. 
Programmes are carefully designed to 
address role-speciﬁc needs, enhance 
leadership capabilities and support 
career growth within the Bank.
Notable Initiatives in Financial 
Year 2024-25:
The Alchemist: A new offering for 
senior leaders focusing on leadership 
excellence, executive presence 
and cross-functional collaboration- 
promising substantial personal and 
professional growth.
Executive Edge: A curated 
Leadership Resource Pack with 
thought leadership articles, interviews 
and insights from global experts 
anchored around themes relevant to 
the Bank.
Aranyam Residential Training Centre
Anantham Residential Training Centre
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
151
Responsible Business

SOCIAL - PEOPLE
Executive Gravitas for  
Women Leaders
In line with our strong Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion (DE&I) agenda and in 
addition to the well-established Career 
Accelerator Programme (CAP) for mid 
level women leaders, we launched 
a new leadership programme – 
‘Executive Gravitas’ for women 
leaders at senior levels to help them 
navigate their leadership journey.
Advanced
Intermediate
Beginner
Gen AI Transformation Series
Gen AI Innovater | Gen AI Specialist | Gen AI Architect
Gen AI Exploration Series
Gen AI Proﬁcient | Gen AI Practitioner | GenAI Catalyst
Gen AI Foundation Series
Gen AI Enthusiast | Gen AI Discoverer | Gen AI Pathﬁnder
Gen AI Academy
GenAI being the key focus area for 
today and tomorrow, our strategy 
has been to build GenAI skills 
through an academy structure with 
a comprehensive curriculum and 
differentiated proﬁciency levels. 
The entire organisation can tap 
into this. The proﬁciency levels are 
divided into Beginner, Intermediate 
and Advanced with an aim to equip 
everyone with essential GenAI skills. 
The curriculum consists of content from 
experts, certiﬁcations and, practice 
with AI Coach providing the much-
needed ﬂexibility to learn at their own 
pace. The GenAI academy enables 
the employees to be future-ready, 
agile and empowered to sustain our 
organisation’s growth and success.
HDFC Bank Limited
152

HDFC Bank Care Initiatives
HDFC Bank’s Care Initiatives 
demonstrate our commitment to 
building a compassionate organisation 
and reaching out to the families of our 
employees. This entails continuing 
the support to retiring employees and 
their families, engaging with children 
through age-appropriate interventions 
and skill development programmes 
to empower the next of kin of the 
deceased employees.
Programme for 
Retiring Employees
Programme for 
Skill Development 
of Kin Hires
Personal 
Effectiveness 
for Teens
Pathway to 
Financial Planning
Wellness 
Programme 
for Parents of 
Employees
Measuring the Learning Impact
While providing these diverse learning 
and development offerings for building 
our human capital, we regularly 
assess the impact of these efforts. 
This is done through a range of ROI 
indicators such as improvement in 
productivity, operational efﬁciency and 
customer experience amongst others. 
These help us consistently ensure 
relevance and effectiveness. 
A few examples of ROI evaluations are:
 −Improvement in customer 
experience ratings of 67 per 
cent learners through multiple 
focused assessments and learning 
interventions conducted for over 
8,800 Relationship Managers 
between September 2024 to 
February 2025
 −46 per cent of over 3,000 Sales 
Resources showed improvement 
in productivity post a structured 
learning intervention called ‘Score to 
Soar’, between September 2024 to 
January 2025. The content of these 
sessions focused on tracking and 
enhancing productivity using various 
tools and methodologies 
Average Hours of Training by Category and Gender**
Men
Women
Total
Senior Management
24.93
29.86
25.43
Middle Management
41.88
45.53
42.36
Junior Management
53.23
54.42
53.42
Non-Supervisory Staff
54.60
73.69
60.11
Total
53.67
71.18
58.25
** In the Financial Year 2024-25, 1.25 crore learning hours were clocked, registering an increase of over 88 per cent in per employee hours over the 
previous year.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
153
Responsible Business

SOCIAL - PEOPLE
Talent Management    
In the Financial Year 2024-25, the 
Bank continued its journey of building 
a strong talent pipeline across various 
leadership and critical roles in the 
organisation by leveraging technology 
and using digital platforms.
We used 'Development Centres' for 
people managers at various levels 
to assess their potential on multiple 
leadership competencies. Over 5,200 
managers participated in this exercise. 
Similarly, rigorous Talent Reviews were 
conducted for more than 7,900 Junior, 
Mid and Senior Level employees 
to review their overall potential and 
readiness for future roles. Basis Talent 
Reviews, a development plan was 
created at an individual employee level 
for the identiﬁed talent. Additionally, 
the Bank launched a psychometric 
proﬁling instrument. More than 1.2 
lakh employees took the assessment 
during the year. The objective was 
to better understand the behavioural 
proﬁle of employees and assist 
them in their career planning as well 
as development.
The Bank continued to strengthen its 
succession planning at senior and 
mid-levels to ensure the mitigation of 
Business Continuity Risk. Succession 
planning process focuses on 
providing employees with relevant 
role exposures, speciﬁc mentoring as 
well as coaching opportunities and 
addressing their identiﬁed learning 
needs. By doing so, the Bank ensures 
that employees are prepared to take 
up senior responsibilities when the 
opportunity arises.
Sustaining Growth with a Stable Workforce
Categorisation
2024-25
2023-24
Men
Women
Total
Men
Women
Total
Permanent Employees
Headcount
Headcount
Employees By Category
Senior Management
222
25
247
178
21
199
Middle Management
7,959
1,200
9,159
6,940
1,053
7,993
Junior Management
28,666
5,499
34,165
25,902
4,813
30,715
Non Supervisory Staff
1,21,602
49,348
1,70,950
1,24,897
49,723
1,74,620
Total
1,58,449
56,072
2,14,521
1,57,917
55,610
2,13,527
Categorisation
Permanent
1,58,449
56,072
2,14,521
1,57,917
55,610
2,13,527
Contract
24
7
31
31
7
38
Total
1,58,473
56,079
2,14,552
1,57,948
55,617
2,13,565
By Region
Abroad
178
90
268
154
83
237
East
18,808
5,004
23,812
17,899
4,823
22,722
West
59,121
20,800
79,921
59,036
20,721
79,757
South
35,956
16,025
51,981
36,617
16,097
52,714
North
44,386
14,153
58,539
44,211
13,886
58,097
Total
1,58,449
56,072
2,14,521
1,57,917
55,610
2,13,527
By Age
<30
51,950
30,176
82,126
57,462
32,598
90,060
30-50
1,03,042
25,327
1,28,369
97,850
22,557
1,20,407
>50
3,457
569
4,026
2,605
455
3,060
Total
1,58,449
56,072
2,14,521
1,57,917
55,610
2,13,527
HDFC Bank Limited
154

Talent Acquisition 
Financial Year 2024-25 was the year 
of consolidation for Talent Acquisition 
(TA) as the Bank accelerated its efforts 
on building a scalable, inclusive and 
future-ready hiring engine. Our focus 
was on optimising TA efﬁciency and 
cost, embedding intelligent selection 
methods through AI and most 
importantly investing in a sustainable  
talent pipeline. A key strategic priority 
was the expansion of job-ready 
models, designed to align fresh talent 
with business requirements from 
day one. 
Our commitment to gender diversity 
remains deeply embedded in our TA 
strategy. We ran focused diversity 
initiatives including dedicated women 
hiring drives aimed at strengthening 
New Hires in FY 2024-25
Categorisation
2024-25
New Hire Rate 2024-25
Men
Women
Total
Men
Women
Total
By Employee Category
Senior Management
7
-
7
3.2%
- 
2.8%
Middle Management
212
39
251
2.7%
3.3%
2.7%
Junior Management
3,126
658
3,784
10.9%
12.0%
11.1%
Non Supervisory Staff 
32,588
13,083
45,671
26.8%
26.5%
26.7%
By Region
Abroad
19
8
27
10.7%
8.9%
10.1%
East
4,423
1,232
5,655
23.5%
24.6%
23.7%
West
12,652
4,690
17,342
21.4%
22.5%
21.7%
South
8,749
4,376
13,125
24.3%
27.3%
25.2%
North
10,090
3,474
13,564
22.7%
24.5%
23.2%
By Age
<30
20,084
9,874
29,958
38.7%
32.7%
36.5%
30-50
15,792
3,896
19,688
15.3%
15.4%
15.3%
>50
57
10
67
1.6%
1.8%
1.7%
Total
35,933
13,780
49,713
22.7%
24.6%
23.2%
outreach with colleges in deep 
geographies, ensuring a more 
inclusive and representative talent 
pipeline. As a result, we sustained 
a gender hiring ratio of 27.7 per 
cent in the Financial Year 2024-25, 
demonstrating consistent progress on 
our diversity commitments.
The Future Banker 2.0 – A curated 
diploma programme for entry level 
revenue roles in Branch Banking 
continued its upward trajectory 
witnessing a substantial increase 
in participation and conversion 
compared to the previous year. 
Ace Banker Program - Our ﬂagship 
initiative was successfully launched 
this year and has quickly emerged 
as a critical lever for fulﬁlling entry 
level role requirements. What sets 
the program apart is its emphasis 
on practical banking knowledge, job 
readiness and an industry-relevant 
learning journey.
Prime Minister’s Internship 
Scheme (PMIS) - An initiative 
launched by Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs (MCA), Government of 
India aimed at providing internship 
opportunities to youth. HDFC Bank 
has been actively partnering with the 
Government on this initiative. 
These collective efforts underscore 
our strategic intent to build a resilient, 
inclusive and future-ready workforce 
which is powered by innovation, 
partnerships and a strong foundation 
in capability development.
Talent Retention
Attrition across the BFSI Sector in 
the Financial Year 2024-25 has seen 
a decline and getting back to the 
pre-pandemic levels. Over the last 24 
months, the Bank has been sharply 
focusing on attrition across all levels 
especially among new joiners and 
women employees. As a result, overall 
attrition and that of new joiners and 
women employees has been lower in 
the year under review.
Attrition is also getting measured as 
part of the performance scorecard of 
the leaders and is being shared with 
supervisors across levels. Various 
initiatives arising out of the insights 
drawn from our listening instruments- 
Culture Pulse (Organisation Sentiment 
Survey) and Vibes (Team Sentiment 
Survey) has also helped address areas 
that needed attention.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
155
Responsible Business

SOCIAL - PEOPLE
26.9
34.2
25.5
22.6 
FY24
FY25
FY23
FY22
Employee Turnover Rate (%)
22.6 
HR Tech
The Bank implemented a 
comprehensive and fully integrated 
HRMS system for frontline sales staff 
thereby consolidating the overall 
Human Resources Tech Architecture. 
The Bank for the ﬁrst time 
implemented Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) 
based on Large Language Models in 
the Human Resources function. This 
has been implemented to facilitate 
responding to standard policy 
related queries. 
The Bank continued its journey 
of making signiﬁcant process 
improvements and adding new 
modules to its existing HR Tech 
Suite. The most signiﬁcant being 
the introduction of the Disciplinary 
Action Module.
Driving Scalable Impact 
through AI
 −To strengthen our talent acquisition 
process we have implemented 
a Touchless Hiring model. By 
automating resume screening, 
assessments and interviews using 
AI tools we achieved faster, more 
efﬁcient and unbiased hiring for 
high-volume roles. 
 −Simultaneously, the iCube 
Chatbot, our AI-based 
conversational interface, streamlined 
employee interactions across HR 
functions by offering 24/7 real-time 
support on queries related to policy, 
payroll, learning, amongst others. 
This has improved service delivery 
and freed up HR capacity for 
strategic initiatives.
Attrition in FY 2024-25 
Categorisation
2024-25
Attrition Rate 2024-25
Men
Women
Total
Men
Women
Total
By Employee Category
Senior Management
20
5
25
10.0%
21.7%
11.2%
Middle Management
380
74
454
5.1%
6.6%
5.3%
Junior Management
2,664
582
3,246
9.8%
11.3%
10.0%
Non Supervisory Staff 
32,060
12,575
44,635
26.0%
25.4%
25.8%
Total
35,124
13,236
48,360
22.2%
23.7%
22.6%
By Region
Abroad
7
8
15
4.2%
9.2%
5.9%
East
3,563
1,011
4,574
19.4%
20.6%
19.7%
West
12,406
4,556
16,962
21.0%
21.9%
21.2%
South
9,331
4,453
13,784
25.7%
27.7%
26.3%
North
9,817
3,208
13,025
22.2%
22.9%
22.3%
Total
35,124
13,236
48,360
22.2%
23.7%
22.6%
By Age
<30
16,353
8,740
25,093
30.4%
28.0%
29.53%
30-50
18,580
4,457
23,037
18.3%
18.4%
18.30%
>50
191
39
230
7.1%
8.4%
7.33%
Total
35,124
13,236
48,360
22.2%
23.7%
22.6%
1.38
1.30
1.84
1.40
FY24
FY25
FY23
FY22
Absentee Rate (%)
1.40 
HDFC Bank Limited
156

 −To deepen employee engagement 
and feedback, we adopted 
an AI powered Listening 
Platform, enabling us to capture 
employee sentiment and derive 
actionable insights across the 
employee lifecycle. This system 
empowers leadership with data-
driven decisions to improve 
employee experience, culture and 
organisational performance. 
 −We enhanced the learning 
experience for our employees 
through the AI-powered learning 
platform MPower enabling hyper-
personalised learning journeys. 
These combined AI-driven 
interventions represent our strategic 
commitment to transforming HR into 
a proactive, insight-led function based 
on technology and data.
Collective Bargaining 
Agreements  
The Bank has an employee 
association. As on March 31, 2025, 
0.10 per cent of our permanent 
employees are members of this 
association. These employees are 
covered under the Bipartite Settlement 
Provisions. The Bank typically 
implements operational changes in 
accordance with internal or Bipartite 
Settlement agreements which do not 
require notice under the Industrial 
Disputes (ID) Act. However, if the 
Bank makes any operational changes 
outside of these settlements, a 21-day 
notice is required under Section 9A of 
the ID Act. 
Rooted in Culture, Rising 
in Strength
In a dynamic environment where 
agility and resilience are key, culture 
becomes the enduring force that 
shapes behaviours and drives 
performance. Over the past year, 
we have sustained the momentum 
of our culture transformation by 
consistently integrating elements of 
culture in our people practices, setting 
standards of leadership behaviours 
and curating everyday employee 
experiences to reinforce the Culture 
Framework - HDFC Bank Way.
The HDFC Bank Way comprises six defined Culture pillars
Integrity
Collaboration
Execution
Inclusion
Innovation
Humility
Each pillar represents elements that the Bank stands for and believes in. 
Reinforcement of the HDFC Bank Way continues to be a key focus area 
of the Bank.
Evolve 2.0: This is a ﬂagship people 
leadership intervention aimed at 
supporting the Bank's ongoing culture 
transformation journey. It is designed 
for over 27,000 people managers 
across India. The second edition 
was built on the success of phase 
one with a sharper focus on bridging 
generational gaps, use of Appreciative 
Inquiry, Performance Coaching and 
Collaboration. By fostering self-
awareness and a people-ﬁrst mindset, 
Project Evolve equips leaders to 
navigate complexity, inspire teams and 
drive sustainable impact. The initiative 
reﬂects our commitment to cultivating 
leadership that not only achieves 
results but also nurtures a thriving and 
inclusive workplace culture.
Project Elevate: This is a strategic 
leadership initiative aimed at 
strengthening the capabilities of 
people managers by anchoring 
leadership in empathy, resilience 
and accountability. Focused on 
enabling deep self-awareness the 
programme provides managers with 
the frameworks, tools and coaching 
support needed to strengthen their 
leadership impact. 
Key Culture Interventions:
 −Evolve 2.0 – A reﬂective 
leadership development journey 
for high-potential leaders to 
explore their inner compass and 
leadership impact.
 −Project Elevate – A structured 
initiative aimed at empowering 
people managers to drive 
performance, engagement and 
cultural alignment.
 −Sustained Communication 
on Nurture-Care Collaborate 
(NCC) Framework - A 
storytelling- led movement to 
bring our core cultural ethos 
to life through real experiences 
and everyday actions.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
157
Responsible Business

SOCIAL - PEOPLE
9 NCC Practices
Collaborate
Build Network
 −Know the Person beyond 
the Position
 −Genuine Curiostity of 
role functionalities
 −Have authentic 
interpersonal relationships
Work Across Boundaries
 −Generate cross-teams 
effciency partnerships
 −Understand Self & Others' 
impact of role
 −Resonance - Whole is 
greater than sum of parts
Manage Conﬂict
 −Think Win - Win
 −Build Bridges 
beyond barriers
 −Work on distilled issues 
beyond personalities
Care
Speak Respectfully
 −Use positive & 
afﬁrmative language
 −Use polite & 
respectful language
 −Maintain conversational 
tone of voice
Listen to Understand
 −Receive before Respond 
 −Attentive listening over 
Distracted Hearing
 −Exclude bias for 
intentional inclusion
Care for Me as a Person
 −Have their back/Be 
their pillar
 −Praise publicity, 
Prepare privately
 −Person beyond the 
persona/behaviour
Nurture
Performance 
Coaching
 −Plan for Performance
 −Coach/Guide as 
you Review
 −Step into the trenches
Create Positive 
Environment
 −Celebrate individuals/teams/
small wins
 −Easy Space for Comfort and 
easy fun & humour
 −Safe Space for honest & 
free expression
Development and  
Growth Conversation
 −Know & Respect 
personal contexts
 −Career focus from 
job focus
 −Contribute to persoral 
growth & aspirations
Sustaining the Momentum: 
Embedding Culture Through 
Intentional Reinforcement
As we progress on our NCC journey to 
becoming a future-ready organisation, 
we understand that a strong, adaptive 
culture is our greatest enabler. In the 
Financial Year 2024-25, we focused on 
sustaining momentum by intentionally 
reinforcing the behaviours, mindsets 
and values that shape our organisational 
identity. Recognising that culture must 
be continuously nurtured we have 
embedded the NCC principles into 
everyday practices—through leadership 
alignment, purposeful communication 
and integrating it into key people 
processes such as onboarding, 
performance reviews and recognition. 
By spotlighting cultural role models, 
encouraging candid dialogue and 
aligning actions with aspirations 
we are not only preserving our 
core but also preparing our people 
to lead with agility, empathy and 
accountability in an ever-evolving 
environment. This deliberate cultural 
reinforcement is foundational to our 
ability to navigate change and thrive 
in the future.
HDFC Bank Limited
158

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
(DE&I)
An inclusive organisation is a stronger 
organisation. At HDFC Bank, we 
remain deeply committed to fostering a 
culture of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
(DE&I) across all levels. We believe 
that embracing diverse perspectives, 
backgrounds and experiences not 
only strengthens our decision making 
and fosters innovation but also builds 
a more resilient and responsive 
organisation. Over the last few years, 
the Bank has formalised its DE&I 
philosophy and we have been making 
conscious efforts in this direction. 
By creating a workplace where 
every individual is valued, respected 
and empowered to contribute, we 
continue to drive sustainable growth 
while upholding the responsibility 
to reﬂect and serve the diverse 
communities we operate in.  
The Three Tenets of The Diversity-Equity-Inclusion Charter
"Build an Inclusive work environment where every individual is Respected and Differences are Valued" 
Merit 
Competence demonstrated, 
performance outcome and capability 
will always be the threshold 
requirement for all Talent decisions
Character 
Alignment to the HDFC BANK WAY 
and adherence to the ethos of the 
Bank will be the selection criteria for 
Career advancement at the Bank
Inclusion 
We will strive to be an equal 
opportunity organisation 
where everyone can excel 
and thrive, irrespective of our 
inherent differences
In the Financial Year 2024-25, the 
Bank continued to make strong 
strides in advancing gender diversity 
achieving 26.1 per cent women 
representation across the workforce 
and improving the women supervisor 
ratio from 1:10 to 1:7—demonstrating 
focused effort in this space. Purpose-
led hiring initiatives, returnship 
programmes and AI-powered fair 
hiring practices contributed to building 
a more inclusive talent pipeline. 
The Bank has been able to 
institutionalise the DE&I Framework in 
all major people practices including 
Talent Acquisition, Talent Management 
and growth. 
Over the last 3 years, about 290 
high-potential women participated 
in the ﬂagship Career Accelerator 
Programme, reinforcing the Bank’s 
commitment to nurturing future 
women leaders. 
Return to work and retention rates of permanent emIoyees and workers that took parental leave
2024-25
No. of employees 
entitled to parental 
leave
No. of employees 
that took parental leave 
No. of employees 
who returned to work 
after leave ended
Return to 
work rate
Maternity Leave
All eligible employees  
are covered*
2,762
2,687
97.28%
Paternity Leave
7,478
7,457
99.72%
Retention rates of permanent empIoyees and workers that took parental leave
2024-25
No. of employees entitled 
to parental leave
No. of employees that 
took parental leave
No. of employees who 
returned to work after 
leave ended
No. of employees
who returned to work after 
leave ended and were still 
employed after 12 months
Retention 
Rate
Maternity Leave
All eligible employees  
are covered*
1,873
1,820
1,300
71.43%
Paternity Leave
5,796
5,785
4,520
78.13%
* All the permanent employees (2,14,521 as on March 31, 2025) were eligible for parental leave, subject to Government Regulations and Bank’s 
Policy.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
159
Responsible Business

SOCIAL - PEOPLE
Inclusion Month
Each year, June is celebrated as 
Inclusion Month by the Bank. The 
objective is to take stock of the 
progress we are making in our DE&I 
journey and to recommit ourselves 
to this cause. The theme for 2024 
Diversity Breakdown 
Representation 
of women in top 
management positions, 
i.e. maximum two levels 
away from the CEO or 
comparable positions 
(as % of total top 
management positions)
Representation of 
women in junior 
management positions, 
i.e. ﬁrst level of 
management (as % of 
total junior management 
positions)
Representation 
of women in all 
management positions, 
including junior, middle 
and top management 
(as % of total 
management positions)
Representation 
of women in total 
workforce (as % of total 
workforce)
Representation of 
women in management 
positions in revenue- 
generating functions 
(e.g. sales) as % of all 
such managers (i.e. 
excluding support 
functions such as HR, IT, 
Legal, etc.)
Representation of 
women in STEM-related 
positions (as % of total 
STEM positions)
10.1%
Female 
representation 
in Employee 
Headcount, Junior 
Management, Top 
Management, 
Revenue generating 
roles and 
STEM-related 
positions
14.0%
26.0%
26.1%
15.4%
16.1%
was “Allyship: Better Together”. Over 
58,000 employees participated 
through various events across the 
country. The highlight of the event 
was the Flame of Equity being ﬂagged 
off by our Deputy Managing Director- 
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha in Mumbai. 
This ﬂame travelled to 13 major 
locations across the country 
symbolising our collective 
commitment to building an 
inclusive organisation.
HDFC Bank Limited
160

Leadership Conclave and 
Paying It Forward
The inaugural Leadership Conclave, 
themed “Rooted & Rising – Deep 
connections, limitless growth,” brought 
together senior women leaders 
to reﬂect on their journeys, share 
insights and chart the path forward 
for the Bank. The conclave fostered 
meaningful dialogue around self-
agency, global and local DE&I trends 
and the importance of community and 
mentorship—laying the groundwork 
for an ecosystem where leaders are 
encouraged to pay it forward.
Employee Wellness- Building a Resilient and Healthy Workforce
In our pursuit of creating a workplace that truly values all our employees, the Bank places a profound emphasis on holistic 
well-being by focusing on four interconnected pillars - Physical, Emotional, Social and Financial Wellness.
Physical Well-being
HDFC Bank is committed to 
promoting employee's physical health 
through structured wellness programs 
and initiatives.
 −Health Programs: Regular medical 
check- ups, health screening, and 
preventive care services.
 −Fitness Initiatives: A few on-site 
or partnered gym facilities, ﬁtness 
challenges and wellness activities.
 −Nutrition and Healthy Living: 
Awareness programs on healthy 
eating and lifestyle habits. Access 
to dietary guidance and healthy 
eating plans.
 −Workplace Ergonomics: Safe and 
comfortable workspaces to prevent 
physical strain.
 −Preventive Health Measures: 
First aid support and access to 
healthcare resources.
 −Discouraging Unhealthy Habits: 
Through ongoing communication, 
we actively discourage unhealthy 
habits like tobacco use and promote 
a culture of well-being.
Emotional Well-being
HDFC Bank is dedicated to fostering 
a supportive and emotionally healthy 
work environment. To help employees 
manage stress and enhance their 
emotional well-being
 −Employee Assistance Program 
(EAP): Conﬁdential counselling and 
support services for personal and 
work-related challenges.
 −Stress Management Programmes: 
Programs and sessions on 
mindfulness, resilience and 
coping strategies.
 −Work-Life balance Initiatives: Flexible 
work arrangements.
Social Well-being
HDFC Bank promotes a positive and 
inclusive workplace by fostering strong 
social connections among employees. 
The Bank supports social well-
being through
 −Employee Engagement Activities: 
Team building events, gatherings, 
sports and recreational activities.
 −Supportive Work Culture: 
Encouraging collaboration, open 
communication, and inclusivity.
 −Inclusive Work Culture: Encourage 
inclusion, respect and diversity in 
the workplace.
 −Peer Support Networks: 
Networks that provide guidance 
and encouragement.
 −Community Involvement: 
Volunteering opportunities and 
CSR initiatives
 −Recognition and Appreciation: 
Programs that celebrate employee 
contributions and achievements.
Financial Well-being
HDFC Bank offers programs that 
promote ﬁnancial literacy.
 −Financial Education Programmes: 
Financial sessions on budgeting, 
saving and ﬁnancial planning.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
161
Responsible Business

SOCIAL - PEOPLE
Support for Deceased Employees' Families
The Bank extends support to the kin of deceased employees by proactively reaching out and offering wellness resources and 
assistance to help them navigate through difﬁcult times. HDFC Bank helps families avail beneﬁts, assist with documentation 
and extend support as required. By addressing both emotional and practical needs, we strive to ease the burden on the 
families of our departed colleagues while reinforcing our commitment to employee well-being.
Speciﬁc Wellness Programs and Initiatives in the Financial Year 2024-25   
Awards and Recognition
As a testament to our efforts in 
driving impactful and innovative 
learning and development 
practices, the Bank has won the 
prestigious Golden Peacock 
Award – National Training 
Award 2025. 
This recognition afﬁrms the 
dedication, creativity and 
collaboration embedded in our 
people development initiatives. 
Healthy Workplace Award 2024 
(Gold Level)
Healthy Workplace Award 2024 (Gold Level) by 
Arogya World India Trust in partnership with the 
Public Health Foundation of India.
HDFC Bank Limited
162

GRACE Campaign
ET Award
The Bank Won Allyship Award as part of the 1000 Women Leaders Program by Jombay
HDFC Bank recognised as one of the 
Best Organisation to Work 2025
HDFC Bank's HR team's GRACE campaign, 
has been honoured at the Digies Awards 2025 
in the Best Internal Communications Campaign 
category. We have secured the Silver Awards.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
163
Responsible Business

Employee Connect 
Initiatives
Employee Connect, our dedicated 
platform for employee engagement 
and well-being, organises a diverse 
range of initiatives throughout the year 
offering employees opportunities to 
connect beyond work. These initiatives 
span across areas such as sports, 
arts, music, wellness and interests like 
photography, cooking, story writing 
amongst others. These are quite 
popular especially among the younger 
workforce. Over the last few years, 
we have been inviting family members 
also emphasising the importance of 
inclusive engagement.
Over one lakh employees 
actively participated in over 20 
different initiatives conducted 
throughout the year indicating the 
widespread enthusiasm for these 
engagement activities.
Josh Unlimited 
The Bank’s multi-sports and multi-
discipline event was conducted in 
several cities across India sparking 
excitement and a high level of 
engagement from our employees. 
Family carnivals were also arranged 
with various fun-ﬁlled activities. 
SOCIAL - PEOPLE
HDFC Bank Limited
164

HUNAR
The Bank’s talent hunt initiative 
provides a platform for employees 
and their families to showcase 
their talent in various performing 
art forms. Employees across 
India enthusiastically participate in 
this activity.
Both the above events, Josh and 
Hunar are conducted across the 
country with the participations of 
various regional teams. The above 
events concluded with a Grand Finale 
at Mumbai.
Funtakshari
An activity centred around popular 
Bollywood songs was a huge success 
with employees and their families 
enjoying the fun competition through 
audio-visual quiz rounds. The initiative 
garnered widespread popularity 
and appreciation.
Digital Voice Hunt
The annual singing competition was 
organised for the children, spouses 
and parents of the employees. This 
received positive feedback.
Syahi
The Bank’s annual online story and 
poem writing contest for employees 
to showcase their creativity through 
captivating ﬁctional and non-ﬁctional 
content. Winning stories and poems 
are published in an e-book format on 
the Bank’s internal platform.
Summer Camp
The annual summer camp for children 
of the Bank’s employees featuring 
activities like science experiments, 
ﬁre-free cooking, talent showcase 
and behavioural learning received 
positive feedback from participants 
and parents.
Corporate Photography Contest
Bank employees participated in an annual inter-corporate photography contest 
conducted by Sony India. The best photographs were featured on the Channel’s 
online platforms. The Bank secured 1st place for the ‘Highest Upload Award’
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
165
Responsible Business

International Women’s Day Celebration
This event featured a range of activities across multiple ofﬁces in the Bank including national-level webinars which addressed 
various themes of importance for women employees along with life-skill building workshops.
AnalytIQ
AnalytIQ is an online annual 
brainteaser contest. Employees 
were invited to play Chess, Sudoku 
and Scrabble following a round-
robin format with multiple levels of 
shortlisting. This competitive event 
evoked excitement among employees 
leading to a high level of engagement 
and participation.
Xpressions
Xpressions is the Banks annual 
art contest. This included canvas 
painting and sketching competition for 
employees, spouses and children. The 
event witnessed a display of creative 
artwork by our employees and their 
talented family members. These were 
showcased as wallpapers on the 
Bank's laptops and desktops leading 
to Bank wide visibility and recognition. 
SOCIAL - PEOPLE
HDFC Bank Limited
166

Take-a-Break
This weekly initiative encourages 
short fun breaks for employees at the 
workplace. It included brainteasers 
on general knowledge, famous 
personalities, logical reasoning, visual 
puzzles amongst other. The initiative 
garnered signiﬁcant interest and 
participation from employees offering 
a refreshing stress buster.
Wanderers
This is an outdoor event providing 
employees with a chance to 
participate in a one-day monsoon trek, 
adventure sports like river rafting and 
an invigorating breakfast cycle ride. 
The participants explored enchanting 
nature trails and rediscovered the joy 
of the outdoors.
Festival Celebrations
Various festival celebrations across 
the country were organised along 
with engagement activities such as 
captivating magic shows, unique DIY 
art and craft sessions amongst others. 
The activities witnessed enthusiastic 
participation from various ofﬁces 
nationwide giving employees and 
their families an opportunity to come 
together and celebrate.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
167
Responsible Business

SOCIAL - PEOPLE
At HDFC Bank, we believe 
resilient and inclusive 
economies are built 
on the foundation of 
thriving communities. 
Our Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) 
efforts reﬂect this belief 
through diverse initiatives 
aimed at creating 
measurable impact. By 
empowering individuals, 
strengthening institutions, 
and promoting equitable 
development, we strive to 
drive meaningful change 
across geographies.
SOCIAL – COMMUNIT Y
Building Stronger 
Communities Together 
168
HDFC Bank Limited
2013 
 −HDFC Bank set a Guinness World 
Record for the largest single-day 
blood donation drive, collecting over 
61,000 units across 709 locations 
in India. 
2014 
 −HDFC Bank introduced ‘Parivartan’ 
as its umbrella CSR brand, focusing 
on rural development, education, 
healthcare, ﬁnancial literacy, and 
environmental sustainability. 
 −The bank published its inaugural 
Sustainability Report, outlining 
its commitment to responsible 
banking practices. 
2015 
 −HDFC Bank incorporated 
‘Sustainability’ as its ﬁfth core 
value, alongside Customer Focus, 
Operational Excellence, Product 
Leadership, and People. 
 −HDFC Bank’s scholarship 
programme to support students 
from economically weaker sections, 
ensuring continuity in education was 
brought under the CSR umbrella. 
 −The bank contributed to the Swachh 
Bharat Abhiyan by constructing 
sanitation facilities in schools 
and communities. 
10 years of Parivartan 
Our CSR programme, Parivartan, 
embodies this commitment by 
advancing sustainable, community-
led development. Through focused 
interventions, Parivartan enables 
underserved communities to 
overcome systemic barriers 
and participate actively in the 
nation’s progress. By addressing 
the root causes of poverty and 
marginalisation, we aim to build 
self-reliant, resilient communities and 
foster long-term social and economic 
transformation. This commitment 
extends to reaching disadvantaged 
areas including border villages, 
remote tribal belts, and geographies 
with limited access and shaping 
interventions that are aligned with 
the distinct socio-economic realities 
of each region, thereby deepening 
impact where it is needed most.
168
HD
HD
HD
HDF
HDFC B
C B
C B
C B
C B
C ank
ank
ank
an
an
ank LiLiLiLiLiL mit
mit
mit
mitit
mit
mit
mit
mit
mitit
mit
m t
mit
m ted
ed
ed
ed
ed
ed
ed
ed
ed
ed
ed
e
−H
‘S
va
O
L
−H
p
fr
e
b
−T
B
sa
a
of each region, thereby deepening 
impact where it is needed most.
Key Milestones 
HDFC Bank Limited
168

2016 
 −Launched the ‘Dhanchayat’ initiative, 
a ﬁnancial literacy program on 
wheels, educating rural communities 
about banking and ﬁnancial 
services through mobile vans and 
interactive sessions. 
 −Initiated the Zero Investment 
Innovations for Education Initiatives 
(ZIIEI) program to encourage 
grassroots-level innovations 
by teachers in government 
schools, aiming to improve the 
quality of education without 
additional investments. 
 −Started providing grants to 
incubators and accelerators 
to support social impact start-
ups, fostering innovation and 
entrepreneurship through Parivartan 
Start-up Grants Program.
2017 
 −Launched the ﬁrst Holistic Rural 
Development Programme (HRDP) 
project in Meghalaya, focusing 
on integrated rural development 
through infrastructure, livelihood, 
and community development.
2018 
 −Honored by the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs at the ﬁrst National 
CSR Awards for contributions 
to National Priority schemes in 
Agriculture and Rural Development. 
2020 
 −On its 25th anniversary, HDFC Bank 
set a goal to establish 2500 SMART 
classrooms across India and plant 
25 million trees. 
 −Forayed into public health by 
supporting communities during 
the COVID-19 pandemic, providing 
healthcare facilities, promoting 
hygiene practices and established 
around 20 oxygen plants. 
2022 
 −Launched a national awareness 
campaign for cyber fraud to 
promote safe digital banking 
practices among the public titled 
Vigil Aunty. 
2023 
 −Launched the Small Grants Program 
to support grassroots NGOs. 
 −Introduced the Parivartan 
Excellence Awards to recognise 
outstanding contributions by its 
partners and stakeholders in 
CSR initiatives. 
 −CSR Team transitioned from a 
centralised to a regional structure, 
empowering state-level teams 
to plan and implement context-
speciﬁc CSR strategies for better 
grassroot impact. 
2024 
 −Introduced a new pillar focusing 
on natural resource management, 
emphasising sustainable practices 
in water conservation, afforestation, 
and biodiversity. 
Under Parivartan, we have the 
following focus areas under which 
we carry out diverse interventions:
 −Rural Development 
 −Healthcare & Hygiene 
 −Natural Resource Management
 −Skill Development & 
Livelihood Enhancement
 −Education
 −Financial Literacy & Inclusion
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
169
Responsible Business

SOCIAL – COMMUNIT Y
Aligned with our identiﬁed focus areas, 
we have established seven goals and 
thirteen sub-goals to be achieved 
by FY 2025-26 with the intention of 
directing our community development 
activities. The Bank conducts CSR 
activities across India through 
various initiatives.
Every initiative is shaped through 
a participatory and consultative 
approach, ensuring relevance to 
local contexts. We collaborate with 
experienced implementation partners 
and involve our employees to uplift 
lives meaningfully.
Our Board-level CSR & ESG 
Committee formulates and 
recommends the annual action plan in 
line with the Bank’s CSR Policy. This 
policy serves as a guiding document, 
outlining the approach and direction 
set by the Board, based on the 
Committee’s recommendations.  
It deﬁnes the principles for selecting, 
implementing, and monitoring CSR 
activities, and for preparing the annual 
action plan.
A dedicated CSR department is 
responsible for administering and 
executing the policy. Both the CSR 
Committee and the department 
function under the Board’s oversight 
to ensure alignment with the policy 
and applicable regulations. The Board 
monitors the effective implementation 
of CSR initiatives, while the CSR 
Committee ensures a transparent 
monitoring mechanism and provides 
regular updates to the Board, 
including impact assessment reports.
Our CSR strategy provides a 
comprehensive framework for 
planning, executing, and evaluating 
community development efforts. The 
CSR & ESG Committee approves 
programmes and focus areas aligned 
to this strategy. For each approved 
initiative, detailed proposals are 
prepared, outlining implementation 
modalities, monitoring frameworks, 
and budget requirements. Projects 
are executed directly by the Bank or 
through empanelled implementation 
partners, following a rigorous due 
diligence process to evaluate their 
technical capabilities and the feasibility 
of proposed interventions.
Partner proposals include information 
on objectives, target communities, 
monitoring plans, impact indicators, 
and budgets. These are evaluated for 
alignment with community needs, the 
Bank’s CSR vision, and their potential 
for impact, sustainability, scalability, 
and resource efﬁciency.
Project progress is tracked through 
regular site visits, stakeholder 
engagement, interactions with 
government ofﬁcials, review of 
progress and ﬁnancial reports, and the 
use of digital platforms for real-time 
monitoring. Internal evaluations are 
carried out across all projects, while 
select large-scale initiatives undergo 
independent external assessments 
in accordance with applicable 
CSR Rules.
Our CSR programme is also subject 
to annual internal audits to assess 
the adequacy of internal controls and 
ensure compliance with regulatory 
requirements. A robust reporting 
framework supports transparency and 
accountability through disclosures in 
the Annual CSR Report, the Directors’ 
Report within the Integrated Annual 
Report, and mandatory ﬁlings on the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs website—
all in accordance with the format 
prescribed under CSR Rules.
This year, we conducted impact 
assessments for projects with 
budgets of H1 crore or more. 
These assessments were based 
on the Organisation for Economic 
Co-operation and Development's 
Development Assistance Committee's 
criteria, which evaluate relevance, 
coherence, effectiveness, efﬁciency, 
impact, and sustainability—widely 
recognised as a gold standard for 
programme evaluation. Frameworks 
such as the Standard Outcome 
Impact Framework were also used to 
trace changes since project inception 
and attribute causality.
In FY25, 78 projects underwent 
impact assessment. Based on the 
ﬁndings, recommendations were 
made to enhance their effectiveness, 
accessibility, and capacity to scale 
and sustain long-term outcomes.
In the following sections, we have 
showcased the results from select 
evaluations of our projects under each 
of the focus areas. A comprehensive 
repository of the impact assessments 
conducted during FY 2025 can be 
found here.  
https://v.hdfcbank.com/csr/our-
commitment.html
J1,068.03 Crore
Total CSR Spend in 
FY 2024-25 
10.56 Crore
Lives Impacted as 
of March 2025 
HDFC Bank Limited
170

Parivartan's 
alignment with 
UN's Sustainable 
Development 
Goals
Parivartan promotes 
food security by training 
farmers in sustainable 
practices and improving 
irrigation infrastructure. 
Initiatives like seed banks, 
kitchen gardens, and fair 
value chains help small 
producers increase yields 
and income. Kitchen 
Gardens Developed: 
65,119+
Health camps, medical 
equipment, and 
infrastructure support 
disease prevention in 
vulnerable areas. HDFC 
Bank also holds the 
Guinness World Record for 
the largest blood donation 
drive. Blood donated: 27 
lakh + units of blood
Parivartan enhances 
education access 
through remedial classes, 
scholarships, teacher 
training, and school 
infrastructure. Sports 
programs further support 
children’s physical and 
mental well-being. 
Scholarships Given: 
29,093
Smart Schools 
Created: 2,185
Parivartan reduces rural 
poverty by improving 
livelihoods through 
enhanced agricultural 
productivity, market 
access, and community 
enterprises. Financial 
literacy programs help 
underserved communities 
access services, save, and 
invest in income-generating 
activities. Villages 
covered under Holistic 
Rural Development 
Program: 6,000+
Parivartan empowers 
women through support 
for women-led businesses, 
access to credit, and 
revival of Self-Help 
Groups, enabling better 
livelihood opportunities 
and promoting equality. 
Women Enterprises 
Promoted: 10,725
Water structures like tanks, 
wells, and hand pumps 
improve hygiene and reduce 
child mortality. Sanitation 
units across India have 
helped eliminate open 
defecation and ensure 
dignity, especially for 
women. Household Toilets 
Constructed: 24,390+
Parivartan supports 
installation of solar lights, 
biomass stoves, and biogas 
plants to bring clean, 
reliable energy to remote 
communities, supporting 
schools, healthcare, and 
businesses. Solar Lights 
Installed: 61,000+
Parivartan promotes skill 
development and technical 
education, especially for 
women and youth. Support 
for small enterprises like 
dairy and poultry farming 
drives inclusive regional 
growth. Youth Trained: 
1,05,458
Parivartan advances 
sustainability through 
afforestation, water 
conservation, and clean 
energy use, building climate 
resilience while reducing 
environmental impact. 
Water Conservation 
Structures Constructed: 
14,520+
Parivartan supports 
ecosystems through 
reforestation and 
sustainable land use. 
It plays a key role by 
conserving biodiversity 
and maintaining 
ecological balance. 
Trees Planted: ~ 80 lakh
Parivartan, through its six strategic pillars, 
contributes to 10 of the 17 UN Sustainable 
Development Goals by addressing poverty, 
inequality, education, healthcare, and 
environmental sustainability.
With programs across 28 States and 8 Union 
Territories, Parivartan drives scalable impact 
while aligning with India’s 2030 agenda 
through integrated social, economic, and 
environmental initiatives.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
171
Responsible Business

Employee Engagement FY 2024-25
Under the ongoing Parivartan initiative, the Bank continued to foster a culture of employee engagement and community 
involvement throughout FY25. New activities included online sessions on ﬁnancial literacy, corporate culture, and 
management & sustainable living sessions to promote education and sustainability. In-ofﬁce events like mock interview 
sessions for marginal youth, sale exhibitions for SHG products, International Day on Persons with Disability were organised in 
collaboration with existing NGO Partners.
SOCIAL – COMMUNIT Y
Engaging Our Impact Makers
TATA Mumbai Marathon
Parivartan Volunteering Month
Blood Donation Drive
At HDFC Bank, we believe progress is reﬂected 
not just in ﬁnancial results, but in the communities 
we uplift. In FY 2025, employee volunteering 
strengthened our culture of empathy and 
responsibility. Employees contributed time and effort 
to initiatives promoting inclusion, well-being, and 
community development.
HDFC Bank Parivartan made a notable impact at 
the TATA Mumbai Marathon 2025. Employees united 
under the motto “Get Set Educate,” emphasising 
the importance of access to education. Additionally, 
the event featured the “Vigil Aunty” campaign, 
which promotes safe banking habits and fraud 
awareness. This initiative is part of our broader 
efforts to enhance ﬁnancial literacy and build public 
conﬁdence in digital banking.
Now in its second year, Parivartan Volunteering 
Month continued to drive inclusive community 
engagement. Employees across India participated in 
structured initiatives, including educational sessions, 
digital literacy, ﬁnancial awareness camps, donation 
drives and clean-up activities.
Parivartan in collaboration with HDFC Bank’s 
operations team organised the All India Annual Blood 
Donation Campaign. Over 3.39 lakh blood units 
were collected from individuals, college students, 
and employees through 5,533 camps across 
multiple states. This initiative supports healthcare 
and community engagement through voluntary 
blood donation.
12,000+
Participation in volunteering activities
1,500+ Employees
Participated making it the Bank’s 
largest ever corporate contingent 
1,843+ Hours
Contributed towards volunteering efforts 
354,177 participants 
Registered for blood donation camps
5,000+ 
Volunteer hours
2,144+ Employees 
Engaged in meaningful 
community service
1,500 blood banks/ hospitals/
medical centres 
Supported the campaign
HDFC Bank Limited
172

600+ employees participated 
in various awareness sessions 
related to environment, climate 
change and waste management.
3000+ employees engaged 
during Diwali Exhibitions across 
multiple ofﬁce locations.
300 seed balls including 
neem and chikoo were planted 
by employees.
22+ employees along with 
100+ students from govt 
schools participated in Science 
Day celebration with a visit to 
Spacelabs in Himachal Pradesh. 
They were given hands on 
experience towards space 
mission, ISRO advancement 
& demonstration of robots, 
rockets and observed sunspots 
with telescope.
20+ employees participated, 
volunteering 80+ hours in 
supporting an annual sports 
event for hearing and speech 
impaired students.
25+ employees participated, of 
which 5 senior employees as jury 
panels evaluated 13 young aspiring 
entrepreneurs who presented their 
pitches under enterprise support.
40+ employees contributed 
in imparting Financial Literacy 
to 1300+ community members 
through 8 Camps in 5 states. 
J10+ lakhs were raised in 
the SHGs /NGO product sale 
exhibition, supporting various 
causes on Women’s Day. Total 
9,100+ employees engaged 
across Pan India locations.
300+ employees donated 
gifts and placed them under 
Christmas Trees installed in 
corporate ofﬁces under the "Joy of 
Giving" programme.
160+ employees attended the 
online session on “Hour for Earth” 
creating awareness on climate 
change and took pledge on 
conserving energy. 
Over 50 Senior Executives 
volunteered to evaluate startups 
supported under the Parivartan 
Startup Grants.
Other Volunteering Initiatives:
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
173
Responsible Business

SOCIAL – COMMUNIT Y
Rural Development
HDFC Parivartan’s Holistic Rural 
Development Programme (HRDP) 
addresses rural challenges through 
an integrated approach spanning rural 
development, education, healthcare 
& hygiene, skill development, 
ﬁnancial inclusion, and environmental 
sustainability. Implemented over 
36–48 months in clusters of 15–20 
villages, HRDP fosters systemic 
change by tackling interlinked 
issues simultaneously.
Rather than isolated efforts, this 
comprehensive model builds resilient 
rural ecosystems where progress in 
one area reinforces gains in others—
boosting productivity, enhancing 
livelihoods, and promoting sustainable 
resource use. Collaboration with local 
communities, NGOs, and government 
bodies ensures long-term impact and 
ownership at the grassroots level.
Flood Resilience in Assam
Every year, Assam faces severe 
ﬂash ﬂoods, particularly affecting 
communities near the Subansiri, 
Ranganadi, and Hingora rivers. In 
response, HDFC Bank Parivartan, 
in collaboration with the Indo Global 
Social Service Society, launched 
an initiative under the Holistic Rural 
Development Programme. They 
established 11 High Raised Platforms 
(HRPs) and six animal rescue shelters 
in Telahi, elevated to seven feet to 
withstand ﬂoodwaters.
The HRPs are equipped with gender-
separate toilets and plantations to 
prevent soil erosion. Each village 
formed a Village Development 
Committee (VDC), and a trained 
taskforce equipped with microphones 
for early warnings, ensuring 
residents have time to evacuate and 
seek shelter.
Beyond their role during ﬂoods, 
HRPs function as ofﬁces for the 
VDCs and as Farmers’ Resource 
Centres, providing valuable support 
and resources to the local agricultural 
community. This dual functionality 
ensures that the HRPs remain a vital 
part of the community infrastructure, 
even outside of the ﬂood season.
1,200 
Families impacted, 
providing safe shelters 
and essential resources
HDFC Bank Limited
174

HDFC Bank Parivartan, in 
collaboration with FXB India 
Suraksha, is driving a transformative 
initiative in the districts of Udalguri, 
Darrang, and Kamrup in Assam to 
promote sustainable tourism and 
climate action. By integrating eco-
tourism, clean energy, and local 
craftsmanship, the project aims to 
rejuvenate rural economies while 
preserving the region’s natural and 
cultural heritage.
At the heart of this initiative are 
eco-friendly homestays constructed 
using bamboo and recycled 
materials, offering sustainable 
lodging options for visitors. 
Clean energy technologies—
such as solar power systems 
and rainwater harvesting—help 
reduce the environmental footprint 
of participating communities. A 
cycling centre with bike rental 
services promotes low-carbon 
travel, while a waste segregation 
200 
Families benefited 
from new employment 
opportunities
60 Solar-powered 
streetlights  
Installed, improving 
public safety
8 eco-homestays 
developed 
And projected to 
generate H4,00,000 
annually with ~H2,68,000 
profit each
system encourages responsible 
tourism practices. By blending 
sustainable infrastructure with active 
community engagement, the initiative 
fosters local resilience and long-term 
environmental stewardship.
To further enhance tourist experience, 
investments have been made 
towards infrastructure development 
at Bhairabkunda Eco-tourism Picnic 
Spot, including: 
 −Public Toilets
 −A Waste-to-Wonder Learning Center 
& Theme Park
 −A Cultural Heritage Center
 −A Rural Huts Market: Supporting 
the local economy and engaging 
women entrepreneurs
Additional facilities like trekking 
trails, camping sites, and cycling 
centers further promote eco-friendly 
tourism while creating new economic 
opportunities for the region.
Promoting Rural Tourism in the Northeast
Assam
In Umsaiprah village, located near 
the Umiam River in Ri-Bhoi district, 
subsistence agriculture and traditional 
practices face market and climate 
challenges that threaten their 
economic stability. This initiative thus 
integrates rural tourism with ongoing 
development efforts for sustainability 
and local empowerment.
Under the HRDP Meghalaya 
project, FXBIS and HDFC Parivartan 
introduced eco-tourism in 2023. 
The Umsaiprah Eco-Tourism 
Committee developed:
 −Riverside resort
 −Playgrounds and camping areas
 −Kitchens, toilets, and 
visitor infrastructure
These upgrades attract hundreds 
of tourists monthly, boosting local 
income and employment. Further 
developments include:
 −Waste-to-Wonder Park
 −Tourist cottages and dormitories
By December 2024, FXBIS 
handed over all facilities to the 
local community for management 
and ownership. Umsaiprah is 
now a model of eco-tourism-
driven sustainable development, 
balancing economic growth 
with environmental and 
cultural preservation.
Meghalaya
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
175
Responsible Business

SOCIAL – COMMUNIT Y
HDFC Bank Parivartan, in 
partnership with Arpan Seva 
Sansthan, is transforming agriculture 
in 20 villages of Sehore, Madhya 
Pradesh, through vertical farming—
an innovative approach that 
maximises crop yield on small land 
parcels and enables sustainable, 
year-round income for farmers.
The initiative provided farmers with 
training in integrated and organic 
farming, crop rotation, soil health 
management, and market-oriented 
practices. A diverse range of fruit 
trees and vegetables—such as 
Taiwan Pink Guava, Drumstick, 
Papaya, Lemon, Mango, Apple, 
Malabar Neem, and various gourds 
and tubers—were selected based 
on climate suitability, market 
potential, and nutritional value. 
Organic fertilisers and natural pest 
control methods were promoted to 
enhance sustainability.
Taiwan Pink Guava emerged as 
the most successful crop due to 
its high yield and market demand. 
Farmers were linked to the Budhni 
Guava Processing Plant and local 
markets, enabling direct sales, value 
addition, and better price realisation. 
The establishment of processing 
units and storage facilities helped 
reduce post-harvest losses and 
increase proﬁtability, while improved 
dietary diversity from fresh produce 
reduced dependency on market-
purchased food and boosted 
health outcomes. 
Jeevan Singh Dhurve from 
Ameerganj village shared, 
"With the support of HDFC 
Bank CSR, in collaboration 
with Arpan Seva Sansthan, 
I adopted multi-tier cropping 
on one acre of land. This 
innovative approach allowed 
me to harvest multiple crops 
and earn K2,51,150 in a 
single season. This initiative 
has not only improved 
my income but also 
strengthened my conﬁdence 
in sustainable farming 
practices."
The initiative has had a signiﬁcant 
impact on farmer incomes, livelihood 
stability, and local employment, 
though it faced challenges such as 
initial hesitation, climate variability, 
market ﬂuctuations, and limited 
credit access. Adoption of Taiwan 
Pink Guava and the multi-tier 
cropping system has enhanced land 
productivity and resilience. Looking 
ahead, efforts will focus on expanding 
guava orchards, forming farmer 
cooperatives, and strengthening post-
harvest infrastructure furthering HDFC 
Bank Parivartan’s mission to reshape 
rural farming and uplift agricultural 
communities across India.
Promoting Multi-Tier Cropping at Madhya Pradesh
65,400 plant 
saplings  
Facilitated by 436 
Multi-tier Cropping 
Systems 
Mrs. Henkunwar Bai 
from Manpura village 
stated, "I shifted from 
traditional farming to 
Multi-Tier Cropping with 
support from HDFC Bank 
Parivartan and Arpan Seva 
Sansthan. I planted 100 
Taiwan Pink Guava trees 
and various vegetables on 
one acre. In three years, 
I earned K1,05,600 from 
guavas and K8,11,290 
from vegetables, making 
a net proﬁt of K9,16,890. 
Seeing this success, 54 
more farmers adopted the 
technique, transforming 
our community’s farming 
practices."
HDFC Bank Limited
176

Empowering Single and 
Differently Abled Women 
in Kondagaon and 
Raigarh
challenges, including gender 
inequities and low agricultural 
productivity. To address these, the 
Bank partnered with PRADAN on 
a project to double the income of 
15,000 rural women by improving 
farming methods and promoting 
sustainable practices, especially 
supporting vulnerable groups.
Through improved farming 
techniques, resource management, 
and infrastructure support, the 
project signiﬁcantly increased 
crop yields and livelihood security. 
Women leaders played a key 
role in driving water conservation 
and promoting equitable usage. 
Participatory community planning 
further empowered women by 
enhancing their role in local 
decision-making.
Key Interventions  
by Region:
Kondagaon: 4,000 women 
participated. Activities included 
farm pond construction, pump 
set installation, trellis setup, tool 
bank creation, drip and sprinkler 
irrigation systems, land levelling, 
and adoption of improved 
agricultural practices.
Raigarh: 7,500 women beneﬁted from 
interventions such as vegetable shed 
net installation, pump sets with ﬂexible 
pipes, NADEP composting units, 
trellises, tool banks, backyard poultry 
sheds, drip and sprinkler irrigation 
systems, land levelling, and modern 
farming methods.
Lailunga: 3,500 women participated 
in initiatives like sprinkler systems, 
pump sets, farm pond construction, 
land levelling, drainage line 
treatment, and improved 
agricultural techniques.
This inclusive and community-
driven model has not only 
improved incomes and food 
security but also demonstrated 
the potential for replication in other 
regions. By placing women at the 
center of agricultural development, 
the project advances both 
gender equity and sustainable 
rural transformation.
In Kondagaon and Raigarh districts 
of Chhattisgarh, women—especially 
those who are single, differently 
abled, widowed, or divorced—face 
deep-rooted socio-economic 
Case 
Study
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
177
Responsible Business

SOCIAL – COMMUNIT Y
Harvest of Hope: Lal 
Bahadur’s New Future
Lal Bahadur, a 60-year-old farmer 
from Jamapur (Uttar Pradesh), 
struggled with poor yields and 
low income for years. "Farming 
was difﬁcult with deteriorating soil 
condition," he says.
In 2022, HDFC Bank’s Holistic 
Rural Development Programme 
Health & Hygiene
HDFC Bank is committed to improving 
health and hygiene through a multi-
faceted approach. We support 
health camps, mobile medical units, 
and critical health infrastructure, 
promoting health-seeking behaviour 
in communities. We facilitate access 
to healthcare services and assistive 
devices for persons with disabilities, 
promoting their dignity, inclusion and 
well-being.
Our interventions include improving 
sanitation, advancing waste 
management systems, and driving 
behaviour change around waste 
disposal, with a focus on plastic waste 
management through collection, 
recycling, and awareness initiatives. 
Additionally, we ensure access to 
safe drinking water by installing water 
puriﬁcation units and community 
water systems.
Case 
Study
Our Goals
Our Targets
Waste 
Management
Access to clean 
drinking water
Implement solid waste management systems 
in 1000 villages and establish material recovery 
facilities in 15 Urban Local Bodies
Provide clean drinking water access to 
1000 villages
Our projects under Healthcare and Hygiene
Parivartan on Wheels – 
Medical Care Units
HDFC Bank CSR, in partnership 
with Ramky Foundation, launched 
Parivartan on Wheels—a mobile 
healthcare initiative serving 
underserved communities in Tamil 
Nadu, Karnataka, and Kerala. Over 
three years, it will reach 1.2 lakh 
individuals through fully equipped 
Medical Care Units deployed in 
20 locations each in Chennai, 
Bengaluru, and Wayanad. Each unit 
conducts 528 annual health camps, 
offering free primary care, diagnostics, 
and essential medicines, supported by 
a medical team. Quarterly specialist 
camps address local health issues, 
while the program also promotes 
preventive care, maternal and child 
health, and connects beneﬁciaries 
to government schemes like 
Ayushman Bharat.
(HRDP) introduced sustainable farming 
methods, trellis farming, and modern 
equipment to his village. 
"My income tripled, and yields 
doubled," says Bahadur.
The formation of a Kisan Club helped 
farmers pool resources, access low-
interest loans, and share knowledge. 
Thanks to HRDP, Bahadur married 
off his sons, and his daughter is now 
pursuing vocational training and 
nursing studies.
For Bahadur, the change is not 
just ﬁnancial—it’s emotional. "I no 
longer work all day; I earn a good 
income, and my family is happy."
This initiative has treated over 3,800 
acres and helped 750 villages, 
empowering farmers, improving 
yields, and promoting sustainability.
HDFC Bank Limited
178

Case 
Study
Jaipur Foot
HDFC Bank Parivartan, in 
collaboration with Shree Bhagwan 
Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata 
Samiti, is enhancing mobility for 
marginalised individuals and Persons 
with Disabilities (PwD) by providing 
essential mobility aids. 
The initiative includes the distribution 
of 18,180 artiﬁcial limbs and callipers, 
1,413 crutches, 2,590 hand-pedalled 
tricycles, and 2,056 wheelchairs. 
To further extend reach, ﬁve special 
mobile workshops will be conducted 
over three years, bringing services 
directly to those in need.
Sh. Sachin Gupta’s 
Journey: From Struggle 
to Strength
Sh. Sachin Gupta, 41, from Jaipur, 
was a businessman running a tent 
house before a road accident in 
2006 left him amputated below 
the knee. The accident left him 
struggling with loss, unable to 
work, and feeling hopeless.
Everything changed when he 
learned about Shree Bhagwan 
Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata 
Samiti (BMVSS), Jaipur. There, he 
received a free artiﬁcial limb. After 
the ﬁtting and gait training, Sh. 
Sachin regained his ability to walk 
and returned to his business.
Now, he earns H15,000–20,000 per 
month and works conﬁdently in his 
tent house business. “I am deeply 
thankful to BMVSS and HDFC 
Parivartan for restoring my dignity,” 
he says. “With this artiﬁcial limb, I 
can support my family again and live 
with purpose.”
Behaviour Change Campaign – 
Waste Warriors
Between April 2022 and March 
2025, a solid waste management 
system was implemented across 10 
panchayats in Bir and Dharamshala 
to tackle growing waste from 
households, tourism, and commercial 
activity—posing serious environmental 
and health risks.
The project focused on behaviour 
change, door-to-door collection, waste 
segregation, and the establishment 
of Material Recovery Facilities (MRFs) 
through partnerships with local 
authorities. Community engagement 
tools such as art installations, 
murals, Chai Pe Charcha sessions, 
Swachhta Ki Pathshala, reverse 
vending machines, and clean-up 
drives, drove awareness and action. 
In FY 2024–25 alone, over 200 metric 
tonnes of dry waste were diverted 
from landﬁlls. Using a decentralised, 
community-led approach, the project 
ensures long-term sustainability 
through local capacity building, user 
fee collection, and recyclable sales. 
Despite challenges like tough terrain 
and socio-political hurdles, ongoing 
engagement and collaboration have 
helped establish a replicable rural 
waste management model.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
179
Responsible Business

SOCIAL – COMMUNIT Y
Combating Tuberculosis in 
Uttarakhand
Tuberculosis (TB) remains a signiﬁcant 
public health challenge in India, 
especially in rural and underserved 
areas. Early detection and treatment 
are crucial to control its spread and 
reduce mortality rates. However, 
inadequate healthcare infrastructure 
leads to delayed treatment, increased 
transmission, and higher rates of drug-
resistant TB.
To combat tuberculosis (TB) in 
Uttarakhand, we donated 13 portable 
X-ray machines to the 13 District 
TB Centres. This intervention aims 
to enhance early detection and 
diagnosis, beneﬁting approximately 
39,000 individuals. The portability of 
the X-ray machines allows healthcare 
workers to conduct screenings in 
various settings, including community 
health camps and mobile clinics, 
ensuring vulnerable populations 
receive necessary medical attention 
without traveling long distances.
Our project aligns with the National 
Tuberculosis Elimination Programme 
(NTEP), emphasising the pillars of 
Detect, Treat, Prevent, and Build 
(DTPB).
Natural Resource 
Management
In Financial Year 2024-25, we 
introduced Natural Resource 
Management as a new focus under 
Parivartan, to address climate 
vulnerabilities in rural communities. 
This aligns with global and domestic 
efforts to combat climate change and 
protect vital resources, deepening 
our commitment to building 
climate resilience.
Rural communities increasingly face 
climate related challenges such as 
water stress, declining soil health, 
and unpredictable weather which 
impacts income, health, and food 
security. We invest in solutions like 
water conservation, afforestation, 
solar-powered systems, and soil 
quality improvement. These efforts are 
integrated with our rural development 
initiatives, strengthening climate 
resilience and empowering farmers, 
women, and vulnerable households.
Our Goals
Our Targets
Bringing unirrigated 
land under irrigation 
and uncultivated land 
under cultivation
Reducing our carbon 
footprint
Promoting chemical 
free farming
 −Two lakh acres of unirrigated land to be 
brought under irrigation
 −One lakh acres of uncultivated land to be 
brought under cultivation
 −Support 1,000 villages with clean and 
renewable energy solutions
 −Plant 25 lakh trees
 −One lakh acres to adopt chemical-free 
farming practices
Goals to be completed under NRM include:
HDFC Bank Limited
180

Ladakh Ice Stupa Project
HDFC Bank Parivartan partnered 
with Himalyan Institute of 
Alternatives Ladakh (HIAL) on the 
Ice Stupa project in Ladakh to 
address critical water shortages 
due to climate change. Glaciers 
in the Drass basin, Ladakh, have 
thinned by 1.27 meters from 
2000 to 2020, leading to severe 
water shortages. Precipitation has 
dropped by nearly 50% in some 
areas over the last two decades, 
and rising temperatures have 
accelerated glacial melt as per an 
IIT Kanpur study, threatening water 
security and agricultural livelihoods.
Ice Stupas are artiﬁcial glaciers 
that divert stream water during 
winter, freezing it into cone-shaped 
structures. As they melt in spring, 
they provide a steady water supply for 
agriculture. Automation technology is 
being integrated to regulate water ﬂow, 
optimise ice formation, and monitor 
weather patterns, enhancing water 
management and scalability.
With support from HDFC Bank 
Parivartan, four new Ice Stupas 
serving seven villages were built for 
the winter season 2024-25, with a 
storage capacity of over 35 million 
liters of water. This project can beneﬁt 
nearly 200 more villages in Leh and 
Kargil districts, improving livelihoods 
and quality of life.
The Ice Stupa project offers a 
lifeline to Ladakh, ensuring a stable 
water supply, boosting agricultural 
output, and securing livelihoods. 
The evolving technology, with 
automation systems, helps regulate 
water ﬂow and improve efﬁciency. 
This partnership aims to make a 
signiﬁcant impact on the region's 
water security and set an example 
of sustainable innovation.
Solar Interventions in  
South India
Under its Natural Resource 
Management pillar, HDFC Bank 
Parivartan has installed 61,655+ 
solar lights across 22 states. Solar 
panels have been installed in 
government schools and hospitals 
to ensure uninterrupted power 
supply. Additionally, we have 
implemented innovative solar 
initiatives to enhance rural life by 
improving street safety, access to 
clean water, farming efﬁciency, food 
processing, and livelihoods.
The projects showcase the 
versatility and transformative 
potential of solar energy in diverse 
applications, improving livelihoods and 
sustainability in rural areas. Innovative 
Solar Projects include:
 −Karnataka: Solar streetlights in 
Raichur have made roads safer 
and extended working hours for 
small vendors.
 −Andhra Pradesh: In Karraguda, a 
solar-powered lift irrigation system 
supports year-round farming. In 
Peramvandlapalli, a solar-driven bio-
resource centre promotes natural 
farming. In Maniga, a solar-powered 
energy cart aids irrigation and post-
harvest processing.
 −Tamil Nadu: Solar fencing in 
Krishnagiri has reduced crop 
losses from wild animals. 
Solar pumps in the Nilgiris and 
Coimbatore enable year-round 
farming, raising yields by up 
to 30%. Terrain-speciﬁc solar 
irrigation systems in Pillur and 
Masinagudi support high-value 
crop cultivation.
 −Telangana: In Bheemraopally, 
a shared solar irrigation 
system has tripled income 
through crop diversiﬁcation. 
In Nagaram, solar insect traps 
have reduced pesticide use, 
enhancing productivity and 
health outcomes.
Solar Shiksha
India receives an average of 
seven hours of sunlight for over 
300 days a year, making it the 
world's third-largest solar power 
generator. This abundant resource 
can unlock H30 lakh crore in solar 
power generation.
The initiative addresses energy 
challenges in semi-urban communities 
by promoting awareness and 
adoption of solar solutions such 
as solar pumps, panels, cookers, 
stoves, streetlights, and water 
heaters. It provides education and 
practical demonstrations to overcome 
barriers and misconceptions about 
solar energy, and information on 
government schemes and 
subsidies. Educational materials 
are delivered in multiple regional 
languages for accessibility.
90+ awareness workshops have 
been conducted in eight states, 
empowering 3,000+ individuals 
across 450+ communities. 
Key Interventions
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
181
Responsible Business

SOCIAL – COMMUNIT Y
Outputs
Outcomes
 −Improved Water 
Access to households 
established nearby
 −Average daily income 
increased by H800– H900 
for smallholder farmers 
who shifted to vegetable 
cultivation and roadside 
marketing, reducing 
migration and enhancing 
family stability.
 −Construction of water 
harvesting structures 
and farm ponds.
 −Establishment of a 
community seed 
bank and Farmer 
Field School.
Shaping the Future through  
NRM Activities
The "SMART" (Sustainable Management of 
Agriculture with Resourceful Techniques in 
Tribal Area) project, led by Mahatma Gandhi 
Seva Ashram (MGSA) in partnership with 
HDFC Bank under the Parivartan initiative, 
focused on transforming the tribal agricultural 
ecosystem in the Ghatigaon block of Gwalior, 
Madhya Pradesh. Targeting 60 villages—15 
of which were situated in the historically 
signiﬁcant Chambal Ghati region—the project 
aimed to uplift marginalised tribal communities 
by promoting sustainable agriculture, 
enhancing natural resource management, and 
fostering inclusive livelihood development.
Skill Development and 
Livelihood Enhancement
India's economic growth and 
demographic dividend present a 
signiﬁcant opportunity, with over 65% 
of the population in the working age 
group. Under Parivartan, HDFC Bank 
empowers individuals through skill and 
livelihood initiatives. Our partners offer 
NSQF-aligned vocational courses to 
enhance employability and connect 
candidates to job opportunities. We 
also focus on future skills by training 
youth in digital technologies and 
green skills.
To promote self-reliance, we support 
entrepreneurship through capacity 
building, ﬁnancial literacy, and 
market linkages. Our partners work 
with farmers, artisans, and small 
entrepreneurs to strengthen value 
chains by building technical capacities 
and integrating technological solutions, 
improving productivity and income.
Sericulture Project
The Sericulture Focus Development 
Project aims to revitalise the sericulture 
sector by addressing key challenges 
faced by farmers—such as poor 
cocoon marketing, limited value 
addition, lack of advisory support, and 
inadequate access to capital assets. 
The primary goal is to empower 
1,415 farmers and strengthen rural 
economies through sustainable 
sericulture practices.
The project sets out to:
 −Increase farmer incomes
 −Establish two community enterprises
 −Bring 410 acres of unirrigated land 
under irrigation
 −Cultivate 100 acres of previously 
fallow land
HDFC Bank Limited
182

Mulberry Cultivation
To address low yields and 
improper fertiliser use, the project 
is introducing improved mulberry 
varieties to 100 farmers and 
promoting bio-fertilisers and drip 
irrigation systems.
Cocoon Production
Support includes the distribution 
of wooden rearing racks to 150 
farmers, expansion of Netrikae 
and Chandrikae units for 200 and 
150 farmers respectively, and the 
setup of compost pits for 240 
farmers to enhance soil health and 
waste management.
Silk Reeling
A dedicated reeling unit employing 15 
workers will be established to improve 
cocoon quality, enable value addition, 
and ensure better price realisation.
Expected Outcomes:
 −Increased cocoon yield from 80–90 
kg to 90–100 kg per half acre
 −Input cost reduction of 5–10% 
through efﬁcient fertiliser use
 −Additional farmer income of 
approximately H9,000 per cycle
 −Sustainable employment and 
monthly proﬁts of H60,000 through 
the reeling unit
Key Intervention include
By strengthening every stage of 
the sericulture value chain, the 
project enhances livelihoods 
and contributes to long-term 
rural development.
Support to Athletes and Para-Athletes
HDFC Bank Parivartan partnered with Olympic Gold Quest to empower Indian athletes and para-athletes, focusing on 
shooters and wrestlers. The project aims to enhance performances at national and international levels, providing professional 
training, health check-ups, nutrition guidance, and participation in tournaments. Over ﬁve years, 839 athletes and 74 para-
athletes have been supported. Project Leap aims to identify and nurture talented young shooters, providing them with 
comprehensive support to improve their performance at national and international levels.
 −8 medals won at 65th National Shooting 
Championship 2022 by Project Leap shooters.
 −153 international medals won by Project Leap 
shooters since 2016-17, with 40 in 2024-25.
 −12 out of 24 medals at ISSF Junior Shooting 
World Championship 2024 were by Project Leap 
shooters, including 9 Gold medals.
 −2 shooters from 10X Shooting Academy won 
medals at ISSF Junior World Championship 
2024, potential contenders for LA 2028 Olympics.
 −6 shooters from Project Leap are key medal 
prospects for LA 2028 Olympics.
 −4 out of 7 medal winners for India at Tokyo 2020 
Olympics were supported by HDFC and OGQ.
 −10 out of 19 medal winners at Tokyo 2020 
Paralympics were supported by HDFC and OGQ.
 −6 wrestlers from Virender Akhada won medals at 
the National level, with 2 parts of the Indian team 
at Senior Asian Wrestling Championship 2025, 
potential contenders for LA 2028 Olympics.
 −9 medals won by HDFC and OGQ supported 
athletes in World Championship 2019 across 
badminton, boxing, wrestling, and archery.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
183
Responsible Business

SOCIAL – COMMUNIT Y
Support to Women Athletes
The 'Unstoppable: Karke Dikhaungi' 
athlete scholarship program, 
supported by HDFC Bank and curated 
by GoSports Foundation, addresses 
barriers faced by female athletes. It 
supports athletes in archery, athletics, 
badminton, swimming, table tennis, 
and weightlifting, providing coaching, 
training, living expenses, competition 
costs, equipment, and sports 
science support.
Since 2022, the program has 
supported 38 female athletes, who 
have collectively won 204 medals, 
including 97 gold, 56 silver, and 51 
bronze. Among these, 36 medals were 
earned at international competitions. 
Notable achievements include 
Aishwarya Mishra's silver medal at 
the 2022 Asian Games and Tanisha 
Crasto's Olympic debut at Paris 2024.
Case 
Study
Case 
Study
Aishwarya Mishra – From 
Setback to Podium
After missing Olympic qualiﬁcation 
in early 2024 with a time of 
53.79 seconds, 400m athlete 
Aishwarya Mishra faced 
challenges in conﬁdence and 
clarity. Under the HDFC UKD 
programme, she received targeted 
support—physical training in 
Trivandrum, mental conditioning 
and technique reﬁnement 
under Olympian Dai Greene at 
Loughborough University.
By 2025, Aishwarya clocked a 
personal best of 51.12 seconds, 
won Gold and Silver at the National 
Games, and qualiﬁed for the 
Gyaneshwari Yadav – 
Lifting Beyond Limits
In June 2024, weightlifter 
Gyaneshwari Yadav was sidelined 
by a serious knee injury, disrupting 
her training and casting doubt over 
her competitive future.
With support from the 
HDFC UKD programme, she 
began rehabilitation at ABTP 
Bhubaneswar, followed by 
high-performance training.
The focus was on joint stability, 
muscle activation, and load 
management, complemented 
by mental conditioning and 
sustained physiotherapy.
World Athletics Championships. 
Her transformation was recognised 
with the “Sports Person of the 
Year” title and Maharashtra’s Shiv 
Chhatrapati Award.
Gyaneshwari returned stronger—
winning Gold at the National 
Championships, ﬁnishing 5th at 
the IWF World Championship, and 
lifting a personal best of 191 kg to 
secure Gold at the 38th National 
Games. Her steady rise positions 
her as a strong contender for the 
Asian Games and the Los Angeles 
2028 Olympics.
HDFC Bank Limited
184

Outputs
Outcomes
 −1,320 youth completed 
training, with 954 
successfully placed (72% 
placement rate)
 −Total annualised income 
generated by placed 
candidates (based on 
retention): H6.86 crore
 −1,460 youth enrolled 
in two NSQF-alligned 
trades - General Duty 
Assistant (460 trainees 
across 23 batches) & 
Retail Sales Associate 
(1,000 trainees across 
50 batches)
 −73 training batches 
conducted with 
integrated soft skills, 
IT skills, and career 
mentoring support
Skill Training and Livelihood 
Enhancement
The project aimed to enhance livelihoods and 
secure socio-economic empowerment for 
marginalised and unemployed youth across 
Bilaspur through market-relevant skill training 
and job placement. Special focus was given 
to female aspirants, youth from forest and 
hilly areas, those impacted by COVID-19, and 
individuals involved in hazardous or informal 
work. As part of the initiative, industry-
aligned skill training was provided under 
NSDC guidelines to ensure relevance and 
quality. The project also facilitated placement 
opportunities to help youth establish 
sustainable career paths. 
Promoting Education
India’s education system has evolved, 
shifting focus from access and equity 
to improving learning outcomes 
through quality education. While 
foundational goals have been met, 
schools still need better resources, 
teaching materials, and technology to 
prepare students for the future.
Our initiatives complement 
government efforts by addressing 
gaps in infrastructure, resources, and 
teacher training, aligning with the New 
Education Policy 2020.
Our projects aim to close the 
achievement gap through 
scholarships, mentorship, and 
learning resources. Strengthening 
infrastructure and resource access 
in underserved schools is essential 
for  holistic learning. Equally vital is 
teacher training to equip educators 
with the skills and tools to guide 
students effectively. We also prioritise 
digital literacy by ensuring access to 
Our Goals
Our Targets
Creation of 
Smart Schools
Education Crisis 
Scholarship 
Support
Improving 
Learning Level 
Outcomes
To convert 3,500 traditional schools to 
smart schools
To support 25,000 meritorious students with 
scholarships by 2025-26
To cover 20 lakh students in grade-appropriate 
learning levels in all intervention schools 
by 2025-26
technology and the internet, especially 
in remote areas. Inclusive education 
remains a key focus, addressing 
the needs of children with special 
requirements and promoting equality 
and diversity throughout the system.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
185
Responsible Business

SOCIAL – COMMUNIT Y
Improving Learning Outcomes 
through EdTech
HDFC Bank Parivartan, in 
collaboration with Khan Academy 
India, supported a four-year initiative 
aimed at improving foundational 
mathematics skills among middle 
school students through quality 
learning resources in regional 
Case 
Study
Jagruti's 
Scholarship Story
From a young age, Jagriti, from 
Roorkee Uttarakhand, witnessed 
her family's sacriﬁces for her 
welfare, particularly evident through 
her father's diligent management 
of a cotton and ﬂour mill business. 
Despite ﬁnancial constraints and 
health setbacks, her parents 
prioritised her education. She 
excelled academically with 
their support. 
However, Jagriti faced the stark 
reality of her family's health 
struggles - her father's respiratory 
issues and subsequent heart attack 
placed immense strain on her 
family. With limited external support, 
she sought opportunities and 
discovered HDFC Bank Parivartan's 
ECSS Program in 2023-24.
"Securing a scholarship of INR 
50,000 was a turning point for 
me, empowering me to ﬁnance 
my education independently and 
relieved my loved ones of monetary 
stress." shares Jagriti. Jagriti aims 
to join the corporate sector as a 
Computer Applications Specialist.
languages. The initiative reached 
nearly 2 lakh students in Grades 
6–8 across over 2,000 schools, and 
trained more than 5,000 teachers—
including active engagement with 
1,200+ educators from Jawahar 
Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs) and 
government schools such as KGBVs, 
ATS, Basic, and PM SHRI schools in 
Uttar Pradesh.
Following the positive outcomes 
of the program, the Government 
of Uttar Pradesh announced an 
expansion of the partnership in 2023. 
The extended initiative is expected 
to cover up to 65,000 schools and 
beneﬁt approximately 5 lakh students 
across the state over the next three to 
four years. 
HDFC Bank Limited
186

Educational Crisis Scholarship 
Scheme
Many students in India are forced to 
drop out due to unforeseen ﬁnancial 
hardships. To address this, HDFC 
Bank Parivartan, in partnership with 
Buddy4Study India Foundation, has 
launched a nationwide scholarship 
programme to support meritorious 
and needy students belonging to 
the underserved sections of society. 
The scholarship program is meant 
for school students from Class 1 to 
12 and those pursuing diploma, ITI, 
polytechnic, UG and PG (general and 
professional) program. Under the 
ECSS program, the students who are 
unable to bear the cost of education 
due to personal/family crises or any 
other ﬁnancial problems and are at a 
risk of dropping out are provided with 
monetary assistance of up to H75,000 
for their studies. The initiative aims 
to reduce dropout rates and ease 
the ﬁnancial burden of education. In 
FY 2024-25, the program provided 
over 7400 scholarships across India.
Teach for India Fellowship
HDFC Bank Parivartan supports the Teach for India Fellowship in Kolkata and 
Ahmedabad, enabling graduates and professionals to teach in low-income 
communities. The two-year programme includes recruitment, full-time teaching, 
student vision-setting, teacher training, assessments, and alumni engagement—
fostering leadership and addressing educational inequity.
Foundational Literacy and Numeracy Program
To improve primary education outcomes, HDFC Bank Parivartan partnered 
with Central Square Foundation to promote the FLN Mission in Telangana, 
Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Assam, and Odisha. The programme targets basic reading 
and math skills, beneﬁting around 70 lakh stakeholders across 150,000+ 
government schools. Key outcomes include reduced dropout rates, improved 
attendance, enhanced teacher training, and better learning experiences.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
187
Responsible Business

Parivartan Financial Literacy 
Camps 
Between August and September 
2024, HDFC Bank held ﬁnancial 
literacy camps featuring interactive 
sessions, product demos, and 
simulations. The initiative aimed to 
raise ﬁnancial awareness, improve 
money management, and promote 
inclusion. Facilitated by 40 HDFC 
Bank employees, it saw strong 
community engagement. Future 
plans include expanding to more 
states, customising content, and 
integrating microﬁnance and small 
business training.
Vigil Aunty
Vigil Aunty is a public awareness 
campaign focused on educating 
people about cyber fraud. It 
helps individuals recognise and 
avoid scams, addressing the 
growing threat of cybercrime in the 
digital age.
Money Made Easy
Money Made Easy is a program 
designed for the working-age 
population, offering practical 
knowledge on budgeting, saving, 
and navigating ﬁnancial challenges 
across different life stages. It equips 
individuals with the tools they need 
to plan and manage their ﬁnances 
more effectively.
As part of this initiative, Financially 
Ever After is an interactive quiz that 
helps couples assess their ﬁnancial 
compatibility and build a stronger 
ﬁnancial future together.
SOCIAL – COMMUNIT Y
Financial Literacy and 
Inclusion
According to SEBI’s Garg report, only 
27% of Indians are ﬁnancially literate—
signiﬁcantly lower than in advanced 
economies and among the top ﬁve 
emerging markets. To address this 
gap, we aim to implement ﬁnancial 
literacy initiatives that equip individuals 
with the knowledge and tools to make 
informed ﬁnancial decisions and 
promote long-term ﬁnancial well-being.
Financial literacy and inclusion are 
critical for enabling individuals to 
understand ﬁnancial products, 
manage money effectively, and 
build ﬁnancial conﬁdence. Despite 
the growing availability of ﬁnancial 
services, many lack the awareness to 
use them efﬁciently. Financial literacy 
programs help bridge this gap through 
targeted education.
Financial inclusion complements these 
efforts by ensuring access to essential 
services such as banking, credit, 
and insurance, encouraging broader 
participation in the formal ﬁnancial 
system and empowering individuals to 
take control of their ﬁnancial futures.
HDFC Bank Limited
188

Small Grants Program 
FY 24-25 A Year of Local 
Action, Lasting Impact
At HDFC Bank, we recognise that 
meaningful change often stems from 
quiet, sustained efforts that respond 
to real needs on the ground. Our 
Small Grants Program reﬂects this 
philosophy by supporting grassroots 
organisations working at the forefront 
of India’s development landscape. In 
FY 2024–25, the program enabled 
62 community-led projects across 20 
states, addressing diverse, localised 
challenges—from enhancing digital 
learning and healthcare access in 
remote regions to water conservation 
and inclusive infrastructure for 
persons with disabilities. Anchored 
by Bharat Cares, these initiatives 
remain aligned with our commitment 
to inclusive, need-based and human 
centric development.
Education
984,000 children and youth 
beneﬁtted from bridge learning, 
school enhancements, and 
digital tools.
Environmental Sustainability
94,000 people beneﬁtted with 
advancing solar access, water 
conservation, and eco-literacy.
Healthcare
306,000 individuals beneﬁtted via 
mobile clinics, cancer treatment 
support, and maternal care in 
underserved communities.
Accessibility, Inclusion, 
Gender Rights, and Sports 
Project reached a combined 59,000 
individuals, helping build a more 
equitable social fabric.
Livelihood and Skilling
125,000 youth and women 
equipped with vocational 
training and pathways to 
income generation.
At its core, the true impact of 
the Small Grants Program lies in 
everyday transformations—renewed 
access to education, livelihoods, and 
essential services. Going forward, it 
remains our commitment to enabling 
grassroots changemakers through 
trust, ﬂexibility, and community-
led progress.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
189
Responsible Business

SOCIAL – COMMUNIT Y
Parivartan Start-up Grants
Under the ﬂagship, Parivartan Start-
up Grants, HDFC Bank launched its 
eighth edition, supporting sustainable 
development aligned with the UN 
SDGs. The program focuses on AI 
for social good, climate innovation, 
ﬁnancial inclusion, and agricultural 
sustainability, with targeted support 
in areas like assistive tech, circular 
economy, green life sciences, and 
electric mobility. Key partnerships 
with DPIIT-Start-up India and India AI 
are advancing AI-driven solutions in 
banking, agriculture, SME ﬁnancing, 
and credit assessment. Notable 
initiatives include TDCA grants with 
IIT Madras and Swanari Techsprint for 
women-focused ﬁntech.
HDFC Bank’s Parivartan initiative 
continues to drive positive change 
across India by empowering 
communities, promoting inclusive 
growth, and fostering sustainable 
development. Through a broad 
range of impactful interventions, the 
Bank addresses key issues such 
as poverty, education, healthcare, 
gender equality, and environmental 
sustainability, aligning its efforts with 
global Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs). By actively engaging 
employees and collaborating with 
trusted partners, Parivartan is not just 
transforming lives but also building a 
future where every individual has the 
opportunity to thrive. As we move 
towards our 2025-26 goals, HDFC 
Bank remains committed to creating a 
lasting, meaningful impact on society, 
ensuring that no one is left behind in 
the journey toward a more equitable 
and prosperous India.
Supported 20 incubators and 
87 startups in the Financial 
Year 2024-25
HDFC Bank Limited
190

A Decade of Strengthening 
Partnerships, Deepening 
Impact
As HDFC Bank Parivartan marks 
its 10th anniversary, we reﬂect on 
the transformative journey shaped 
by robust partnerships and shared 
purpose. Over the past decade, our 
collaboration with more than 150 
implementing agencies, government 
bodies, and diverse stakeholders 
has enabled us to drive systemic 
change and deliver long-lasting impact 
across communities.
Project NAMAN
Among our initiatives is Project 
NAMAN, launched in partnership 
with the Indian Army and CSC 
e-Governance. Renewed in 
FY 2024–25, the initiative now 
spans 26 Directorate of Indian Army 
Veterans (DIAV) locations, offering 
comprehensive service delivery 
through Common Service Centres 
operated by veterans and their 
families. These centres provide 
pension-related support, Government-
to-Citizen (G2C) services, and 
Business-to-Consumer (B2C) services 
within defence establishments, 
ensuring continued dignity and 
assistance for our nation’s heroes.
Project HAKK (Hawai Anubhavi 
Kalyan Kendra)
Extending our commitment to the 
defence community, Project HAKK 
(Hawai Anubhavi Kalyan Kendra), 
launched with the Indian Air Force and 
CSC Academy, focuses on easing 
administrative and ﬁnancial processes 
for Air Force veterans. Planned across 
25 Air Force units in major cities, these 
centres facilitate access to banking, 
pension services, and essential 
documentation. Further, targeted 
skilling and ﬁnancial literacy training 
aim to empower veterans and their 
families to navigate their post-service 
lives with greater conﬁdence.
In parallel, our collaboration with  
India AI, under the Ministry of 
Electronics and Information 
Technology (MeitY), advances national 
innovation goals. By supporting AI-
led solutions in digital infrastructure, 
agriculture, SME ﬁnancing, and credit 
assessment, we aim to contribute 
to India’s emergence as a global 
AI hub while fostering inclusive 
technological progress.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
191
Responsible Business

NATION BUILDING
Partnering in the 
Nation’s Progress
In the Financial Year 
2024-25, HDFC Bank 
strengthened its 
collaboration with multiple 
tiers of Government—
integrating systems, 
enhancing features and 
expanding its solution 
suite. The Bank also 
championed start-up 
growth and ﬁnancial 
inclusion, reinforcing its 
role as a trusted partner 
in driving innovation 
and accelerating India’s 
nation-building journey.
Mobilising Taxes and 
Deposits for Government 
of India 
HDFC Bank continues to be among 
the top agency banks for collection 
of Government taxes. To enable this, 
the Bank has integrated with various 
central Government systems including 
TIN 2.0 (Direct Tax), GSTN, ICEGATE 
(Custom Duties), FOIS and many state 
tax portals.
The Bank continues to drive growth in 
collection of taxes where it witnessed 
approximately 24 per cent growth 
as compared to FY24 and helped 
collect over H12.3 lakh crore in FY25. 
It also introduced additional modes 
of collections such as cards and UPI 
for paying GST and Customs Duty 
bringing convenience to customers 
and augmenting collections for 
the Government. HDFC Bank also 
continued its robust growth in 
collections of railway freight services. 
In FY25, freight collections witnessed 
more than 300 per cent growth 
over FY24.
The Bank completed integration with 
Rajasthan eGRAS during FY25 to 
enable collection of taxes in the state. 
Its leading position in the collection 
of taxes and support towards 
mobilisation of deposits from citizens, 
demonstrated its expanding customer 
base, wide distribution network and 
strong commitment to leveraging its 
strengths to contribute to the overall 
development of the nation.
Digitalising Local 
Administration
HDFC Bank continued to strengthen 
its collaboration with urban and 
rural bodies, playing a key role in 
accelerating revenue realisation by 
collecting taxes and fees digitally. This 
has helped provide convenience to 
citizens and increased efﬁciency in 
ﬁscal management. 
The Bank has facilitated the 
digitalisation of collections from leased 
and rented government properties 
and the auction-based sale of assets. 
Notably, institutions like the State Waqf 
Boards, Development Authorities and 
Housing Boards have beneﬁted from 
streamlined revenue collections. 
In addition, the Bank has enabled 
HDFC Bank Limited
192

local bodies for online collection 
of construction and development-
related fees and charges. This is 
complemented by a governance 
platform that enables effective 
monitoring of these activities 
transparently. Government entities 
have beneﬁted from such platforms 
by driving revenue growth through 
enhanced collections.
Supporting Infrastructure 
Development
The Bank partnered with the 
Government in digitalising activities 
pertaining to infrastructure 
development like ﬁnancial activities 
associated with land acquisition and 
project execution. Further, to enhance 
customer experience it has introduced 
a digital platform for submission and 
validation of bank guarantees which is 
integrated with National e-Governance 
Services Limited (NeSL). 
Across states, HDFC Bank has 
partnered with government 
organisations, industrial development 
authorities and airport authorities to 
advance infrastructure projects. These 
collaborations include digitalising 
the compensation process for land 
acquisition thereby contributing to 
faster project execution and improved 
beneﬁciary support. The Bank is 
also working with port authorities to 
provide solutions. These solutions 
are offered through a digital platform 
which enables online rent collection 
from various entities for utilising port 
infrastructure while handling freight. 
This has helped customers through 
faster revenue realisation and efﬁcient 
fund management. 
Disbursing 
Government Funds
HDFC Bank continues to be one of 
the leading banks to mobilise funds 
under the public welfare schemes. 
Reinforcing its commitment, the 
Bank has enhanced its systems and 
processes to adapt to the evolving 
public expenditure guidelines. It 
helped disburse over H90,000 crore 
by processing approximately 10 crore 
transactions, representing a volume 
growth of 12 per cent over 
FY 2023-24. 
The Bank’s FARSight Dashboard, 
offers a comprehensive and 
consolidated view across multiple 
accounts in the parent child construct. 
By offering in-depth analytics, the 
platform has empowered various 
government entities to analyse 
expenditure patterns better and make 
informed decisions. This has helped 
government organisations in effectively 
monitoring their ﬁnancial operations 
across locations.
HDFC Bank is also a key player in 
the implementation of District Mineral 
Foundation mandates by disbursing 
funds directly to the beneﬁciaries 
affected by mining related operations. 
Partnering with Institutions
The Bank is a preferred partner to 
a signiﬁcant number of societies, 
associations, NGOs, trusts, clubs, 
educational and religious institutions. 
In addition, it has been at the forefront 
of enabling the digital transformation 
of such entities by providing a 
comprehensive suite of customised 
banking services and solutions thus 
facilitating seamless management 
of fees, donations and operational 
transactions. Today, HDFC Bank 
partners with over 2.7 lakh institutions 
across the country supporting their 
end-to-end ﬁnancial requirements.
Leveraging its integrated ’CollectNow’ 
platform, the Bank has enabled 
payments and collections for large 
numbers of customers that include 
development authorities, housing 
societies, clubs amongst others. 
‘CollectNow’ is a one-stop solution 
and is a ﬁrst of its kind in the industry 
offering users convenient and efﬁcient 
digital banking options. The Bank 
has processed over H1,00,000 crore 
as collections in the Financial Year 
2024-25 for these users. It has helped 
the Government monetise over 20,000 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
193
Responsible Business

NATION BUILDING
assets worth more than H60,000 crore 
owned by 21 government entities.
CollectNow as part of its value-added 
services offer is also integrated 
with a few of the third-party service 
providers to deliver digital solutions 
to institutions offering education and 
healthcare services which constitute 
the social infrastructure of the country. 
Along with seamless and efﬁcient fee 
collections through these solutions, 
educational institutions can align with 
the NEP 2020, AICTE and NAAC 
certiﬁcation standards. Similarly, 
healthcare institutions can align with 
NABH certiﬁcation and accreditation 
standards and deliver on various 
government initiatives like Ayushman 
Bharat (AB-PMJAY)amongst others.
Serving our Nation Builders, 
our Pensioners 
HDFC Bank provides tailor made 
ﬁnancial products and services to 
assist pensioners. This includes 
specialised pension accounts, 
investment options and retirement 
planning services aimed at maximising 
the value of their pension funds.
The Garv Pension Saving Account 
from HDFC Bank is designed with 
a focus on the well-being of the 
pensioner. In addition to offering a 
secure avenue to park retirement 
funds, the product is bundled with 
a host of beneﬁts including health, 
travel and cyber insurance.This leads 
to all-round security and peace of 
mind. HDFC Bank provides dedicated 
services to pensioners across its 
branch network. The pension services 
for defence pensioners are further 
strengthened by the Bank’s integration 
with SPARSH, a portal by Ministry 
of Defence. The Pension offering is 
suitably complemented by the Senior 
Citizens Savings Scheme deposit, 
a government-sponsored ﬁnancial 
instrument to promote savings among 
pensioners and senior citizens which 
the Bank started collecting from 
January 2025. 
HDFC Bank has signed an MoU with 
the Indian Army under its ﬂagship 
initiative, Project NAMAN, with a 
focus on serving veterans. Through 
this partnership, the Bank helps Army 
veterans to easily access government-
Top 10 winners of HDFC Tech Innovators 2024 with Mrs. Renu Karnad, Non-Executive Director; Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director; 
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director; Mr. Parag Rao, Country Head – Payments, Liability Products, Consumer Finance & Marketing and 
Mr. Vipul Roongta, MD & CEO, HDFC Capital
related digital services. HDFC Bank 
also facilitates skill development 
through training sessions / awareness 
programme for defence pensioners 
thus empowering them in their post-
retirement journey.
Similarly, HDFC Bank has partnered 
with the Indian Air Force under its 
initiative, Project HAKK to extend the 
same set of services to veterans.
Building New Economy 
Businesses
Leveraging Government 
Partnerships to Fuel 
Entrepreneurship
HDFC Bank remains committed to 
fostering innovation by supporting 
India’s growing Start-Ups ecosystem 
by offering tailored banking solutions, 
access to loans through Credit 
Guarantee Scheme for Start-Ups 
(CGSS) and integrated digital 
platforms designed to meet the needs 
of Start-Ups. 
HDFC Tech Innovators 2024 was 
the ﬁrst HDFC BANK Group level 
initiative to promote innovations and 
HDFC Bank Limited
194

opportunities for Start-Ups across 
segments including PropTech, 
FinTech, Sustainability Tech, 
Consumer Tech and New Age Tech. 
This augmented engagement with 
the Start–Ups ecosystem to create 
mutual opportunities to do business, 
share platforms, provide ﬁnancing and 
investments, facilitate co-learning and 
co-creation of products / services. 
The Bank announced 10 winners 
from over 2,000 applicants who were 
selected by a grand jury comprising 
the HDFC Bank Group leadership, 
venture capitalists, senior industry 
executives and unicorn founders.
The Bank has strengthened its 
engagements with government nodal 
agencies and key incubators. It has 
signed an MoU with the Department 
for Promotion of Industry and Internal 
Trade (DPIIT), Government of India, 
the Start-up promotion councils/ 
incubators of various states and 
premier educational and technological 
institutes across the country.  
Leveraging HDFC Bank’s 
Parivartan Initiative for 
Start-Ups
In its eighth edition, HDFC Bank 
Parivartan Grants were provided to 
20 incubators and 87 Start-Ups. In 
addition, the Bank engaged with three 
nodal government partners with the 
objective of contributing to speciﬁc 
thematic areas namely -  
Reserve Bank Innovation Hub:
Identifying/developing a product/
process/policy to make banking 
inclusive for women
Startup India:
Strategic partnership to support 
manufacturing Start-Ups  
MEITY India AI Mission:
Strategic partnership towards 
nurturing AI solutions for large scale 
socio-economic impact
Serving the Underserved
HDFC Bank launched ‘GIGA’, a 
comprehensive suite of ﬁnancial 
products and services to meet the 
manifold needs of various freelancer 
segments and gig workers. It’s a 
digital-ﬁrst offering with customised 
products like savings and current 
accounts which comes with a 
business debit and credit card with 
curated offers, affordable health 
insurance, ﬂexible investment products 
and retail asset products.
Enabling Cross-Border 
Payments 
Dedicated to facilitating smooth 
cross-border transactions for 
Indian merchants, freelancers, 
MSMEs and exporters, HDFC 
Bank has collaborated with ﬁntech 
partners under RBI regulations. This 
partnership provides authorised dealer 
services, ensuring secure and hassle-
free cross-border trade settlements.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
195
Responsible Business

CONNECTING THE CAPITALS
A Holistic Approach to 
Value Creation
Finance
Manufactured In FY 2025, we expanded our distribution 
network by adding over 700 branches and 
200+ ATMs/CRMs, with 51% located in 
semi-urban and rural areas. Branch banking 
at HDFC Bank is evolving into a multi-format 
model, designed for micro-market needs, 
positioning branches as engagement centres 
to strengthen customer relationships and drive 
feedback-led service enhancements and long-
term deposit mobilisation.
Intellectual
In FY 2025, the Bank accelerated its digital 
transformation journey, expanding digital 
coverage across 89% of common retail service 
interactions—up from 73% the previous year. 
Anchored in the ‘Shift Right’ strategy, the Bank 
modernised its core systems and reinforced 
integration and resilience, laying the foundation 
for responsible GenAI deployment at scale. 
Flagship platforms such as PayZapp 2.0 and 
Pixel Credit Card saw strong adoption. The 
bank also commenced the phased launch 
of its new Mobile Banking and Net Banking 
platforms during the year. The platforms offer 
holistic, new-age banking experiences along 
with enhanced performance and advanced 
security which has garnered positive responses 
from customers.
Human
Strategic investments in capability-building 
and culture continue to drive productivity and 
performance. In FY 2025, employees logged 
over 1.25 crore learning hours—an 88% rise 
over the previous year. Institutionalised talent 
and succession frameworks ensure talent 
readiness, while tech-enabled HR systems 
enhanced efﬁciency and employee experience.
We maintain a safe, healthy workplace through 
updated safety policies, deployment of 
protective technologies and regular awareness 
sessions. Alongside physical and environmental 
safety, we have a wellness framework which 
has four pillars i.e. physical, emotional, social 
and ﬁnancial. This holistic approach ensures 
our people feel secure and supported.
We continued to scale digital-ﬁrst learning 
and HR systems to build workforce 
capability and enhance agility. The 
MPower platform, supported by 22 
training centres and the GenAI Academy, 
enabled personalised, modular learning at 
scale. AI tools streamlined hiring, service 
delivery and employee engagement—
automating responses, improving 
HR efﬁciency and capturing real-time 
employee insights.
Social and 
Relationship
The Bank remains committed to long-term 
value creation for its stakeholders. Under 
Parivartan, we continue to drive inclusive 
growth through focused community 
interventions. In FY 2025, we spent H1,068.03 
crore on CSR initiatives across priority themes, 
geographies and strategic partnerships.
The Bank’s physical infrastructure enables 
access to essential services in underserved 
regions. Rural branches, partner platforms 
and mobile interventions such as ‘Parivartan 
on Wheels’ support CSR intitatives of the 
Bank, while several branches also serve as 
touchpoints for ﬁnancial literacy and community 
engagement initiatives.
We continued to enhance customer 
engagement through AI-powered service 
platforms, managing 3.7 crore+ monthly 
interactions across IVR, WhatsApp and 
digital channels, improving accessibility, 
efﬁciency and experience consistency. In 
parallel, digital tools scaled our community 
initiatives, enabling remote water 
monitoring and expanding skilling access. 
Employee engagement remained integral 
to Parivartan initiatives. Our employees 
participated in structured volunteering across 
ﬁnancial literacy camps, SHG exhibitions and 
inclusion-focused events. Collaborations with 
NGO partners enabled ofﬁce-led and ﬁeld-
based programmes, while digital sessions on 
sustainability, corporate values and ﬁnancial 
education supported wider participation. 
Natural
As operations expand, we continue to invest 
in climate-aligned infrastructure to meet our 
Scope 1 and 2 carbon neutrality target by  
FY 2031–32. 
Sustainability is built into our infrastructure via 
energy-efﬁcient systems, green materials, and 
standardised eco-features. As of March 2025, 
we commissioned 25 rooftop solar plants and 
shifted 19 premises to 100% green power. Our 
Bangalore data centre is IGBC-certiﬁed as a 
Green Data Centre.
The Bank continues to leverage digital 
systems and data analytics to monitor 
energy usage patterns, supporting 
emission reduction and operational 
efﬁciency. Additionally, digital products 
and services, combined with automation, 
have further contributed to lowering 
paper consumption and minimising 
environmental impact.       
The Bank continues to embed environmental 
consciousness across employee 
engagement and learning initiatives. In 
FY 2025, over 5,000 volunteering hours were 
recorded for initiatives promoting inclusion, 
well-being, and community development. 
Under Parivartan, the Bank’s community-led climate 
initiatives are designed to respond to local environmental 
challenges while supporting resilient livelihoods. In 
FY 2025, these efforts included planting over 17.63 lakh 
trees (80 lakh trees planted since inception), enabling clean 
energy access through 61,000+ solar lights across 22 
states and strengthening water security through context-
speciﬁc solutions such as artiﬁcial glaciers in Ladakh and 
ﬂood-resilient community infrastructure.
Finance
Manufactured
Intellectual
Human
Social and Relationship
Natural
Value creation at the Bank is guided by the 
understanding that capitals are interdependent. 
Strategic outcomes—whether growth, resilience or 
inclusion—require thoughtful trade-offs and synergies 
across ﬁnancial, human, intellectual, manufactured, 
social and natural capital. By embedding integrated 
thinking across our operations, we aim to strengthen 
long-term outcomes for all stakeholders.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
HDFC Bank Limited
197
196
Responsible Business

10 YEAR FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Creating 
New Milestones
H Crore
2015-16
2016-17
2017-18
2018-19
2019-20
2020-21
 2021-22 
 2022-23 
 2023-24 
 2024-25 
Interest income 
 60,221.45 
 69,305.96 
 80,241.35 
 98,972.05 
 1,14,812.65 
 1,20,858.23 
 1,27,753.12 
 1,61,585.54 
 2,58,340.58 
 3,00,517.04 
Interest expense
 32,629.93 
 36,166.74 
 40,146.49 
 50,728.83 
 58,626.40 
 55,978.66 
 55,743.53 
 74,743.32 
 1,49,808.10 
 1,77,846.95 
Net interest income 
 27,591.52 
 33,139.22 
 40,094.86 
 48,243.22 
 56,186.25 
 64,879.57 
 72,009.59 
 86,842.22 
 1,08,532.48 
 1,22,670.09 
Other income  
 10,751.72 
 12,296.49 
 15,220.31 
 17,625.87 
 23,260.82 
 25,204.89 
 29,509.90 
 31,214.83 
 49,241.00 
 45,632.28 
Net revenues 
 38,343.24 
 45,435.71 
 55,315.17 
 65,869.09 
 79,447.07 
 90,084.46 
 1,01,519.49 
 1,18,057.05 
 1,57,773.48 
 1,68,302.37 
Operating costs 
 16,979.69 
 19,703.32 
 22,690.36 
 26,119.37 
 30,697.53 
 32,722.63 
 37,442.19 
 47,652.08 
 63,386.02 
 68,174.88 
Operating result 
 21,363.55 
 25,732.39 
 32,624.81 
 39,749.72 
 48,749.54 
 57,361.83 
 64,077.30 
 70,404.97 
 94,387.46 
 1,00,127.49 
Provisions and contingencies 
 2,725.61 
 3,593.30 
 5,927.49 
 7,550.08 
 12,142.39 
 15,702.85 
 15,061.83 
 11,919.66 
 23,492.15 
 11,649.43 
Loan loss provisions 
 2,133.63 
 3,145.30 
 4,910.43 
 6,394.11 
 9,083.32 
 11,450.19 
 10,119.38 
 11,783.25 
 10,764.66 
 12,803.11 
Others
 591.98 
 448.00 
 1,017.06 
 1,155.97 
 3,059.07 
 4,252.66 
 4,942.45 
 136.41 
 12,727.49 
(1,153.68)
Proﬁt before tax 
 18,637.94 
 22,139.09 
 26,697.32 
 32,199.64 
 36,607.15 
 41,658.98 
 49,015.47 
 58,485.31 
 70,895.31 
 88,478.06 
Provision for taxation
 6,341.71 
 7,589.43 
 9,210.57 
 11,121.50 
 10,349.84 
 10,542.46 
 12,054.12 
 14,376.60 
 10,083.03 
 21,130.70 
Proﬁt after tax 
 12,296.23 
 14,549.66 
 17,486.75 
 21,078.14 
 26,257.31 
 31,116.52 
 36,961.35 
 44,108.71 
 60,812.28 
 67,347.36 
Funds :
Deposits
 5,46,424.19 
 6,43,639.66 
 7,88,770.64 
 9,23,140.93 
 11,47,502.29 
 13,35,060.22 
 15,59,217.44 
 18,83,394.65 
 23,79,786.28 
 27,14,714.90 
Subordinated debt
 15,090.45 
 13,182.00 
 21,107.00 
 18,232.00 
 18,232.00 
 17,127.00 
 21,795.25 
 33,956.00 
 34,133.12 
 34,362.69 
Stockholders’ equity
 72,677.77 
 89,462.38 
 1,06,295.03 
 1,49,206.32 
 1,70,986.03 
 2,03,720.83 
 2,40,092.94 
 2,80,199.01 
 4,40,245.81 
 5,01,424.64 
Working funds
 7,40,796.07 
 8,63,840.19 
 10,63,934.32 
 12,44,540.69 
 15,30,511.26 
 17,46,870.52 
 20,68,535.05 
 24,66,081.47 
 36,17,623.09 
 39,10,198.94 
Loans
 4,64,593.96 
 5,54,568.20 
 6,58,333.09 
 8,19,401.22 
 9,93,702.88 
 11,32,836.63 
 13,68,820.93 
 16,00,585.90 
 24,84,861.52 
 26,19,608.62 
Investments
 1,95,836.29 
 2,14,463.34 
 2,42,200.24 
 2,93,116.07 
 3,91,826.66 
 4,43,728.29 
 4,55,535.69 
 5,17,001.43 
 7,02,414.96 
 8,36,359.67 
Key Ratios :
Earnings per share (H)1
 24.42 
 28.59 
 33.88 
 39.33 
48.01
 56.58 
 66.80 
 79.25 
 85.83 
 88.29 
Return on equity
17.97%
18.04%
18.22%
16.30%
16.76%
16.60%
16.90%
17.39%
16.1%
14.56%
Tier 1 capital ratio
13.22%
12.79%
13.25%
15.78%
17.23%
17.56%
17.87%
17.13%
16.79%
17.69%
Total capital ratio
15.53%
14.55%
14.82%
17.11%
18.52%
18.79%
18.90%
19.26%
18.80%
19.55%
Dividend per share (H)1
4.75
5.50
6.50
7.50
Nil3
6.504
 15.50 
 19.00 
 19.50 
 22.005
Dividend payout ratio
23.51%
23.32%
23.26%
23.36%
NA3
11.54%4
23.28%
24.07%
24.38%
25.00%5
Book value per share as at March 31 (H)1
143.74
174.56
204.80
273.94
311.83
369.54
 432.95 
 502.17 
 579.51 
 655.27 
Market price per share as at March 31 (H)2
535.58
721.28
964.50
1,159.45
 861.90 
1,493.65
 1,470.35 
 1,609.55 
 1,447.90 
 1,828.20 
Price to earnings ratio 
 21.93 
 25.23 
 28.47 
 29.48 
 17.95 
 26.40 
 22.01 
 20.31 
 16.87 
 20.71 
H1 Crore = H10 Million                                                                                                   
The Proﬁt and Loss Account for the year ended March 31, 2025 include the operations of eHDFC Limited which amalgamated with and into HDFC 
Bank on July 01, 2023 and hence are not comparable with the Proﬁt and Loss Account for the year ended March 31, 2024. 
 
 
1  Figures for the years prior to 2019-2020 have been adjusted to reﬂect the effect of split of equity shares from nominal value of H 2 each into two 
equity shares of nominal value of H1 each 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 Source : NSE (prices for years prior to 2019-2020 have been divided by two to reﬂect the sub-division of shares)  
 
 
 
 
3 Basis RBI notiﬁcations dated April 17, 2020 and December 4, 2020  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 Basis RBI notiﬁcation dated April 22, 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 Proposed  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
HDFC Bank Limited
199
198
Responsible Business

AWARDS & ACCOL ADES
The Asian Banker Global 
Excellence in Retail Finance 
Awards 2025 
Best Retail Bank in India
2nd ICC Emerging Asia Banking 
Conclave and Awards 2024 
Best Performance on Growth 
(Private Sector - Large Bank)
Golden Peacock National 
Training Award 2025 
Winner in ‘Financial Sector - 
Banking’ Category
Kantar BrandZ 2025 
Most Valuable Global Brands 
Only Indian Bank in the 
Top 100 Most Valuable 
Brands Globally
Euromoney Private Banking 
Awards 2025 
India's Best for HNW
The Economic Times Infra 
Leadership Awards 2024 
Infra Financer of the Year
CSR Journal Excellence 
Awards 2024 
Best Project Award in the 
Education and Skill training
PWM & The Banker Global 
Private Banking Awards 2024 
Best Private Bank in India
Dun & Bradstreet BFSI & 
FinTech Summit 2025 
India's Leading Private Bank 
(Large)
Doing Good for Bharat 
Awards 2024 
Winner in ‘Doing Good Through 
Business for Women and 
Inclusion’ category
Recognised for Excellence
Listings
HDFC Bank Limited
200

ASSURANCE STATEMENT 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
201
Responsible Business

ASSURANCE STATEMENT
HDFC Bank Limited
202

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
203
Responsible Business

GRI INDEX 
GRI Standard
Disclosure Description
Page Number(s)
URL(s)/ Section
General Disclosures
GRI 2: General 
Disclosures
2-1
Organizational details
529
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
2-2
Entities included in the organization's 
sustainability reporting
529
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
2-3
Reporting period, frequency and contact point
04; 529
About the Report; Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report
2-4
Restatements of information
04
About the Report
2-5
External assurance
04
About the Report
2-6
Activities, value chain and other business 
relationships
48
Re-Imagining Value Creation
2-7
Employees
154-156
Social-People
2-8
Workers who are not employees
154
Social-People
2-9
Governance structure and composition
280-282
Report on Corporate Governance
2-10
Nomination and selection of the highest 
governance body
283
Report on Corporate Governance
2-11
Chair of the highest governance body
18
Board of Directors
2-12
Role of the highest governance body in 
overseeing the management of impacts
113; 282
ESG Strategy Encompassing 
Sustainable Finance; Report on 
Corporate Governance
2-13
Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts 96
Risk Management
2-14
Role of the highest governance body in 
sustainability reporting
113; 282
ESG Strategy Encompassing 
Sustainable Finance; Report on 
Corporate Governance
2-15
Conﬂicts of interest
541
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
2-16
Communication of critical concerns
305-306
Report on Corporate Governance
2-17
Collective knowledge of the highest governance 
body
284
Report on Corporate Governance
2-18
Evaluation of the performance of the highest 
governance body
250-251
Directors’ Report
2-19
Remuneration policies
388-403
Schedules to Standalone Financial 
Statements
2-20
Process to determine remuneration
388-403
Schedules to Standalone Financial 
Statements
2-21
Annual total compensation ratio
269-270
Annexure 4 to Directors’ Report
2-22
Statement on sustainable development strategy
528
Statement by the Director Responsible 
for the Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
2-23
Policy commitments
305-306
Report on Corporate Governance
2-24
Embedding policy commitments
305-306; 536-
538
Report on Corporate Governance; 
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
2-25
Processes to remediate negative impacts
56-59; 532-534
Stakeholder Engagement; Business
Responsibility and Sustainability Report
2-26
Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising 
concerns
56-59; 136-138
Stakeholder Engagement; Customer
Centricity 
2-27
Compliance with laws and regulations
540; 303-305
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report; Report on 
Corporate Governance
2-28
Membership associations
570
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
2-29
Approach to stakeholder engagement
56-59; 552-555
Stakeholder Engagement; Business
Responsibility and Sustainability Report
2-30
Collective bargaining agreement
157
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
HDFC Bank Limited
204

GRI Standard
Disclosure Description
Page Number(s)
URL(s)/ Section
Material Topics
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-1 
Process to determine material topics
60
Materiality
3-2 
List of material topics
61
Materiality
3-3 
Management of material topics
62-73
Materiality
GRI 200: Economic
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
62, 63, 67
Materiality
Economic 
Performance
201-1 
Direct economic value generated and distributed
40-41; 198-199; 
211, 215-216
Financial Performance; 10 Year 
Financial Highlights; Directors' Report
201-2
Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change
128-133; 238-
239
Environment; Director’s Report
201-3
Deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations and other 
retirement plans
547
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
62, 66, 69
Materiality
Market Presence
202-1
Ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender 
compared to local minimum wage
556
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
202-2
Proportion of senior management hired from the 
local community
NA
NA
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
66, 71
Materiality
Indirect Economic 
Impacts
203-1
Infrastructure investments and services 
supported
168-191
Social - Community 
203-2
Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts
168-191
Social - Community 
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
67
Measuring What Matters: Impact and 
Value
Procurement 
Practices
204-1
Proportion of spending on local suppliers
571
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
62, 64
Materiality
Anti-corruption
205-1
Operations assessed for risks related to 
corruption
64; 305
Materiality; Report on Corporate 
Governance
205-2
Communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and procedures
64
Materiality
205-3
Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions 
taken
64; 540-541
Materiality; Business
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
62, 64
Materiality
Anti-competitive 
Behaviour
206-1
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-
trust, and monopoly practices
570
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
GRI 300: Environment
Energy
302-1
Energy consumption within the organization
119
Environment
302-3
Energy intensity
119
Environment
302-4
Reduction of energy consumption
119-120
Environment
302-5
Reductions in energy requirements of products 
and services
NA
NA
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
205
Responsible Business

GRI Standard
Disclosure Description
Page Number(s)
URL(s)/ Section
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
67, 72
Materiality
Emissions
305-1
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 
121
Environment
305-2
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
122
Environment
305-3
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 
122 - 123
Environment
305-4
GHG emissions intensity 
123
Environment
305-5
Reduction of GHG emissions 
122, 124-126
Environment
305-7
Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and 
other signiﬁcant air emissions
562-563
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
Waste
306-3 
Waste generated 
127
Environment
306-4 
Waste diverted from disposal
127
Environment
306-5 
Waste directed to disposal
127
Environment
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
67
Materiality
Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment
308-1
New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteria
568-569
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
308-2
Negative environmental impacts in the supply 
chain and actions taken
568-569
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
GRI 400: Social
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
70
Materiality
Employment
401-1
New employee hires and employee turnover
155-156
Social - People
401-2
Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that 
are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employees
161-162, 546-
547
Social – People; Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report
401-3
Parental leave
159
Social - People
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
62, 64, 70
Materiality
Labor/
Management 
Relations
402-1
Minimum notice periods regarding operational 
changes
157
Social - People
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
70
Materiality
Occupational 
Health and Safety
403-3
Occupational health services
549-552
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
403-4
Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and 
safety
NA
NA
403-6
Promotion of worker health
NA
NA
403-7
Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 
and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationships
NA
NA
403-10
Work-related ill health
NA
NA
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
70
Materiality
Training and 
Education
404-1
Average hours of training per year per employee
153
Social - People
404-2
Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programs
150-153
Social - People
404-3
Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviews
154; 548-549 
Social – People; Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report
GRI INDEX
HDFC Bank Limited
206

GRI Standard
Disclosure Description
Page Number(s)
URL(s)/ Section
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
64,70
Materiality
Diversity and 
Equal Opportunity
405-1
Diversity of governance bodies and employees
19; 159 – 161; 
530-531
Board of Directors; Social -People; 
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
405-2
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women 
to men
556-557
Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
64,70
Materiality
Non-
discrimination
406-1
Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 
taken
557-559
Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
70
Materiality
Security Practices 410-1 
Security personnel trained in human rights 
policies or procedures
306; 556
Report on Corporate Governance; 
Business Responsibility and
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
62, 64, 70
Materiality
Human Rights 
Assessment
412-1
Operations that have been subject to human 
rights reviews or impact assessments
306,556
Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
412-2
Employee training on human rights policies or 
procedures
556
Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
412-3
Signiﬁcant investment agreements and contracts 
that include human rights clauses or that 
underwent human rights screening
558
Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
71
Materiality
Local 
Communities
413-1
Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development 
programs
170-171
Social - Community
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
67
Materiality
Supplier Social 
Assessment
414-1
New suppliers that were screened using social 
criteria
558
Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
414-2
Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 
actions taken
558
Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 
Management of material topics
68
Materiality
Customer Privacy 418-1
Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 
of customer privacy and losses of customer data
578
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
207
Responsible Business

Dear Shareholders, 
Your Directors take great pleasure in presenting the 31st Annual 
Report on the business and financial operations of HDFC Bank 
Limited (“HDFC Bank” or “Bank”), together with the audited 
accounts for the year ended March 31, 2025.
The Bank’s key financial parameters continued to be healthy, 
due to its robust credit evaluation of targeted customers and a 
well-diversified loan book across sectors, customer segments 
and products. Its performance is an outcome of its disciplined 
approach to managing risk and return. 
The Indian economy is expected to remain one of the fastest 
growing economies in 2025-26. RBI has forecast GDP growth 
of 6.5 per cent. Rural demand is expected to be healthy on 
account of robust agricultural output, lower food inflation and 
easing input costs. Urban consumption is also likely to benefit 
from tax cuts announced in the Budget, reduction in interest 
rates by the RBI and moderating inflation. 
Global growth stood at 3.3 per cent in 2024, which was below 
the historical average. The growth in countries like the US 
remained strong at 2.8 per cent, while the growth contracted 
or remained muted in the Eurozone, Japan and UK.
For more details, please refer to the Macroeconomic and 
Industry section on page no. 214.
In this changing environment, your Bank continued to 
prioritise growth while strengthening its focus on governance, 
sustainability and inclusive development.
Financial Parameters
The results for the year ended March 31, 2025 include the 
operations of Housing Development Finance Corporation 
Limited (“HDFC Limited”) and its subsidiaries (which became 
subsidiaries of the Bank on amalgamation) effective from July 
01, 2023 and hence are not comparable with results for the 
year ended March 31, 2024.
Based on Standalone Financial Statements
The income statement reflected a growth in revenue comprising 
Net Interest Income and Non-Interest Income. While the former 
grew by 13.0 per cent, the latter fell by 7.33 per cent year-
on-year. On an overall basis, Total Net Revenue for the year 
ended March 31, 2025, reached ` 1,68,302.4 crore, reflecting 
an increase of 6.7 per cent over the previous year.
Net Revenue Distribution
FY 2023-24
in ` crore
80,000
6.7%
60,000
40,000
20,000
0
1,80,000
1,60,000
1,40,000
1,20,000
1,00,000
FY 2024-25
Net Interest Income
Non-Interest Income
49,241
108,532
45,632
122,670
-7.33%
13.0%
Net Profit increased by 10.7 per cent to ` 67,347.4 crore from 
` 60,812.3 crore. Return on Average Net Worth was 14.56 
per cent while Basic Earnings Per Share was ` 88.29 up from 
` 85.83.
Net Profit
60,812.3
FY 2023-24
70,000
60,000
50,000
40,000
30,000
20,000
10,000
0
FY 2024-25
67,347.4
80,000
10.7%
in ` crore
Total Advances grew by 5.4 per cent and Total Deposits grew 
by 14.1 per cent year-on-year. Net Interest Margin (NIM) was 
at 3.48 per cent.
HDFC Bank Limited
208
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
209
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Growth in Advances and Deposits
-
4,00,000
8,00,000
12,00,000
16,00,000
20,00,000
24,00,000
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
28,00,000
24,84,862
23,79,786
26,19,609
27,14,715
5.4%
Advances
Deposits
14.1%
in ` crore
Gross Non-Performing Assets (GNPAs) stood at 1.33 per 
cent as against 1.24 per cent. This is amongst the lowest in 
the industry.
Gross Non-Performing Assets (GNPAs)
1.33 per cent
Amongst the lowest in the industry
Net Revenue: 
H 1,68,302.4 crore  
(YoY: Up 6.7 per cent)
Total Deposits:  
H 27,14,714.9 crore  
(YoY: Up 14.1 per cent)
Return on 
Average Assets: 
1.91 per cent
Net 
Interest Margin:  
3.48 per cent
Net Profit:  
H 67,347.4 crore  
(YoY: Up 10.7 per cent)
Total Advances:  
H 26,19,608.6 crore  
(YoY: Up 5.4 per cent)
Capital 
Adequacy Ratio: 
19.6 per cent (Tier 
1: 17.7 per cent)
Gross NPA: 
1.33 per cent of 
Gross Advances
In a Snapshot (Standalone)
Net Profit 
per Employee: 
H 31,82,481.7
Earnings Per 
Share:H 88.3

HDFC Bank Limited
210
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
Merger
Two years into the merger, the integration of HDFC Limited’s 
home loan expertise with HDFC Bank’s scale and reach has 
solidified our position as a leading financial institution. Our 
enhanced capacity to support large-scale and infrastructure 
financing underscores our continued commitment to nation-
building and job creation. As our role expands, so does our 
emphasis on strong governance across the HDFC Bank 
Group. We remain steadfast in upholding ethical practices, 
transparency, and strong risk management—ensuring we 
retain the trust that defines our legacy.
Parivartan
Parivartan, HDFC Bank’s CSR initiative, is dedicated to 
supporting the inclusion of economically and socially 
disadvantaged groups by fostering growth, development and 
empowerment. With a commitment to creating sustainable 
ecosystems, it identifies and supports programmes that 
nurture and uplift communities.
Parivartan concentrates on six key areas: 
 
1. 
Rural Development
 
2. 
Promotion of Education
 
3. 
Skill Development & Livelihood Enhancement
 
4. 
Healthcare & Hygiene
 
5. 
Financial Literacy & Inclusion 
 
6. 
Natural Resource Management. 
Each of these pillars is designed to foster holistic growth and 
empower communities, ensuring sustainable and inclusive 
development.  Through Parivartan, your Bank has reached out 
to underserved communities in the tribal belt, border villages 
and locations with limited access. The Bank through its Holistic 
Rural Development Programme (HRDP), has worked towards 
creating self-reliant villages.
Your Directors are pleased to announce that the Bank 
successfully fulfilled its CSR obligation for the Financial Year 
2024-25.
CSR Spend
` 1,068.03 crore 
In the Financial Year 2024-25 
CSR Beneficiaries
Over 10.56 crore
Lives impacted cumulatively 
(including both immediate and 
extended beneficiaries)
For further details on Parivartan please refer to 
pages 168 to 191.
Summary
Indian GDP grew at 6.5 per cent in 2024-25. It had registered a 
healthy average growth of 8.8 per cent over the previous three 
years. This was due to moderation in urban demand as inflation 
and elevated interest rates weighed on discretionary spending. 
According to RBI, India is expected to grow at 6.5 per cent in 
2025-26. Consumption demand in the rural areas is expected 
to be supported on account of healthy agricultural output, 
lower food inflation and moderating input costs. Urban 
consumption demand will be supported by tax cuts, reduction 
in interest rates by RBI and moderating inflation. The RBI has 
reduced its policy rate by 100 basis points since February 
2025, bringing it to 5.50 per cent. This along with liquidity 
infusion is likely to help reduce borrowing costs and spur credit 
demand in the economy.
In the year under review, the Bank focused on expanding 
customer reach, maintaining balance sheet strength, and 
advancing post-merger integration across business lines and 
systems. As the scale and complexity of operations increased, 
a formal Group Oversight Framework was introduced 
to ensure alignment of governance and risk practices 
across subsidiaries.
The Bank continued to contribute to national development by 
enhancing access to financial services in underserved regions 
and supporting rural prosperity through both commercial 
and social initiatives. We remain committed to responsible 
corporate citizenship by contributing to the development of 
society and promoting sustainability.
These efforts are made possible by the resilience and 
dedication of over 2,14,000 employees whose contribution 
remains integral to the Bank’s progress. We continue to focus 
on attracting and retaining top talent, striving to be one of the 
industry’s premier employers.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
211
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Mission and Strategic Focus
Your Bank’s mission is to be a ‘World-Class Indian Bank’. Its 
business philosophy is based on five core values: 
 
• 
Customer Focus
 
• 
Operational Excellence
 
• 
Product Leadership
 
• 
People
 
• 
Sustainability
Sustainability should be viewed in unison with Environmental, 
Social and Governance performance. As a part of this your 
Bank, through its CSR initiative Parivartan, seeks to bring 
about change in the lives of communities mainly in rural India. 
During the year under review, HDFC Bank continued building 
a sound customer franchise across distinct businesses to 
achieve healthy growth in profitability consistent with its 
risk appetite. 
The Bank is focusing on: 
 
• 
 Delivering a better experience and greater 
convenience to customers 
 
• 
 Increasing market share in India’s growing banking 
and financial services industry
 
• 
Expanding geographical reach 
 
• 
Cross-selling  the broad financial product portfolio 
 
• 
 Sustaining  strong asset quality through disciplined 
credit risk management 
 
• 
Maintaining  low cost of funds 
Your Bank remains committed to the highest levels of ethical 
standards, professional integrity, corporate governance and 
regulatory compliance. Every employee affirms to abide by the 
Code of Conduct annually.
Summary of Financial Performance
(` crore)
Particulars
For the year ended 
/ As on 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended / 
As on 
March 31, 2024
Deposits and Borrowings
3,262,645.8
3,041,939.4
Advances
 2,619,608.6
        2,484,861.5
Total Income
346,149.3
307,581.6
Profit Before Depreciation and Tax
91,857.5
73,705.4
Profit After Tax
67,347.4 
60,812.3 
Profit Brought Forward
139,579.9
112,960.0
Additions on Amalgamation (net)
-
3,570.1
Total Profit Available for Appropriation
206,927.3 
177,342.4 
Appropriations
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
16,836.8
15,203.1
Transfer to General Reserve
6,734.7
6,081.2
Transfer to Capital Reserve
507.0
4,166.4
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve
- 
529.4 
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve
-
378.0
Transfer to Special Reserve 
3,200.0
3,000.0
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year
14,826.2
8,404.4
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet
164,822.4
139,579.9

HDFC Bank Limited
212
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
Dividend
The Board of Directors of the Bank, at its meeting held on April 
19, 2025, has recommended a dividend of ` 22.00 (Rupees 
Twenty-two only) per equity share of ` 1/- (Rupee One only), 
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025. This translates 
to a Dividend Payout Ratio of 25.00 per cent of the profits for 
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025.
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/?path=/Footer/About%20Us/
Corporate%20Governance/Codes%20and%20Policie/pdf/Dividend-Distribution-Policy.pdf
Ratings
Instrument
Rating
Rating Agency
Comments
Fixed Deposit 
Programme
CARE AAA (FD)
CARE Ratings
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
IND AAA
India Ratings
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
Fixed Deposit 
Programme
( Transferred 
from 
HDFC Limited)*
CRISIL AAA
CRISIL
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
ICRA AAA
ICRA
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
Certificate of Deposits
Programme
CARE A1+
CARE Ratings
Securities with this rating are considered to have very strong degree of safety 
regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
IND A1+
India Ratings
Securities with this rating are considered to have very strong degree of safety 
regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
Infrastructure Bonds
CARE AAA
CARE Ratings
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
CRISIL AAA
CRISIL
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
IND AAA
India Ratings
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
ICRA AAA
ICRA
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Additional Tier I 
Bonds
(Under Basel III)
CARE AA+
CARE Ratings
Securities with this rating are considered to have high degree of safety regarding 
timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry very low credit risk.
CRISIL AA+
CRISIL
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
IND AA+
India Ratings
Securities with this rating are considered to have high degree of safety regarding 
timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry very low credit risk.
In general, your Bank’s dividend policy, among other things, 
balances the objectives of rewarding shareholders and 
retaining capital to fund future growth. It has a consistent track 
record of dividend distribution, with the Dividend Payout Ratio 
ranging between 20 per cent and 25 per cent, which the Board 
endeavours to maintain. The dividend policy of your Bank is 
available on the Bank’s website.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
213
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Instrument
Rating
Rating Agency
Comments
Tier II Bonds
(Under Basel III)
CARE AAA
CARE Ratings
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
CRISIL AAA
CRISIL
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
IND AAA
India Ratings
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
ICRA AAA
ICRA
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Commercial Paper
(Transferred from 
HDFC Limited)*
CRISIL A1+
CRISIL
Securities with this rating are considered to have very strong degree of safety 
regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Bank Loans
(Transferred from 
HDFC Limited)*
CARE AAA
CARE Ratings
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
ICRA AAA
ICRA
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Unsecured NCD
(Transferred from 
HDFC Limited)*
CRISIL AAA
CRISIL
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
ICRA AAA
ICRA
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Subordinated Debt
(Transferred from 
HDFC Limited)*
CRISIL AAA
CRISIL
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
ICRA AAA
ICRA
Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
* The instruments / bank facilities have been transferred from Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (HDFC Limited) on account 
of amalgamation of HDFC Limited into HDFC Bank Limited with effect from July 01, 2023.
Issuance of Equity Shares and Employee Stock 
Option Scheme (ESOP)
As on March 31, 2025, the issued, subscribed and paid-up 
capital of your Bank stood at ` 7,65,22,21,674.00 /- comprising 
7,65,22,21,674 equity shares of ` 1/- each. Further, 5,53,11,012 
equity shares of face value of ` 1/- each were issued by your 
Bank pursuant to the exercise of Employee Stock Options 
(ESOPs) and Restricted Stock Units (RSUs).  
For information pertaining to ESOPs, please refer Annexure 1 
of the Directors’ Report.
Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)
As on March 31, 2025, your Bank’s total CAR, calculated as 
per Basel III Regulations, stood at 19.6 per cent, well above the 
regulatory minimum requirement of 11.7 per cent, including a 
Capital Conservation Buffer of 2.5 per cent and an additional 
requirement of 0.2 per cent on account of the Bank being 
identified as a Domestic Systemically Important Bank. Tier I 
Capital was at 17.7 per cent as of March 31, 2025.
Total CAR
19.6 per cent
Well Above Regulatory Minimum 
Requirement of 11.7 per cent

HDFC Bank Limited
214
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
Management Discussion and Analysis
Macroeconomic and Industry Developments
India’s GDP growth moderated to 6.5 per cent in 2024-25, 
after registering a healthy average growth of 8.8 per cent over 
the preceding three years. This was driven by a moderation in 
urban demand as inflation and elevated interest rates weighed 
on discretionary spending, growth in fixed investments 
remained muted and government spending was off to a slow 
start due to union and state elections in the first half of 2024-
25. Further, Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) flows remained 
weak as rising global uncertainty related to US tariff threats 
led to outflow of capital in second half of Financial Year 2024-
25. On the other hand, domestic growth was supported by 
an improvement in rural demand conditions on the back of 
healthy agriculture output. In addition, exports also added 
positively to growth increasing by 6.3 per cent. Export growth 
was led by strong momentum in net services exports, driven 
by the continued expansion of global capability centers and 
strong demand from large trading partners like the US.
From the supply side, manufacturing growth slowed in 2024-
25 with a rise in input costs and slower volume growth while 
service sector growth broadly held up above 7 per cent. 
Elsewhere, growth in the construction sector remained healthy 
at 9.4 per cent. The biggest support to growth came from 
above trend growth in the agriculture sector, as favourable 
monsoon conditions supported kharif output while healthy 
reservoir levels and soil moisture conditions supported 
rabi crops. 
On the external front, global growth stood at 3.3 per cent in 
2024 - below the historical average. While growth in countries 
like the US remained strong at 2.8 per cent, growth contracted 
or remained muted in the Eurozone, Japan, and UK. 
Looking ahead, India is widely expected to remain one of the 
fastest growing economies in Financial Year 2025-26, with the 
RBI forecasting GDP growth at 6.5 per cent. Consumption 
demand in the rural areas is expected to be supported by 
healthy agricultural output, lower food inflation and moderating 
input costs. Tax cuts, reduction in interest rates by RBI and 
moderating inflation are likely to support urban consumption 
demand. The RBI has reduced its policy rate by 100 basis 
points since February 2025 bringing it down to 5.5 per 
cent. This along with liquidity infusion is likely to help reduce 
borrowing costs and spur credit demand in the economy.
The government is expected to continue supporting growth 
through capital spending which is budgeted at `11 lakh crore 
for 2025-26. In addition, with an improvement in demand 
conditions, private capex is expected to also see some 
recovery. At the same time accommodative monetary policy, 
lower inflation and healthy balance sheets of financial institutions 
and corporates are likely to support private investments.
Inflationary pressures started to ease towards the end of 
Financial Year 2024-25, with headline Consumer Price Index 
(CPI) averaging at 4.6 per cent from 5.4 per cent in Financial 
Year 2023-24. Though inflation increased to a high of 6.2 per 
cent in October 2024, it has continuously moderated since 
then, reaching 3.3 per cent in March 2025. The moderation 
in headline inflation was led by moderating food price inflation 
in H2-2024-25. Core inflation (which excludes the volatile 
food and fuel prices) continued to remain below 4 per cent 
for most part of the fiscal year. Going forward, we expect 
headline inflation to moderate further to 3.7 per cent in 2025-
26, with a continued easing in food inflation, assuming a 
normal monsoon. The risk to inflation stems from weather-
related disruptions reigniting food inflation.
Tariff threats and related disruptions in global trade flows pose 
the biggest risks to global and India’s  growth prospects. The 
US had imposed reciprocal tariffs across all countries with 
India attracting a tariff of 26 per cent in early April, 2025. Higher 
tariffs were later put on pause for a 90-day period and replaced 
with a blanket tariff of 10 per cent on all countries except 
China which attracts a 30 per cent tariff for now. The final tariff 
imposed will depend on country specific trade agreements 
including between India and the US. The diversification and 
derisking of supply chains could open an opportunity for India 
to expand its exports to the US in sectors like electronics 
and textiles amongst others. Moreover, India could benefit 
from closer trade ties with the US depending on the final 
negotiations under the Bilateral Trade Agreement. That said, 
the risk of a sharp global growth slowdown, recession in the 
US and supply chain disruptions due to US tariffs and any 
retaliation by other countries poses a risk for India’s overall 
exports in Financial Year 2025-26. 
Geopolitical tensions in the Middle East, Russia and Ukraine 
or closer home with neighbours could impact domestic 
growth. The geopolitical tensions between India and Pakistan 
have currently subsided but need to be closely monitored. 
Similarly, a further escalation in Ukraine – Russia tensions 
could disrupt global trade and energy flows and negatively 
impact the domestic economy. Furthermore, financial market 
volatility and climate induced uncertainties continue to pose 
risks to growth.
Domestically, a slower than expected improvement in 
consumption demand due to weather related disruptions, 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
215
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
inflation spikes and any sharp corrections in the domestic 
equity market could also weigh on growth prospects. 
That said, India’s domestic economy remains resilient and 
its financial system sound to navigate global headwinds. 
Moreover, proactive monetary and fiscal support are likely to 
provide further support to growth in Financial Year 2025-26.
Financial Performance
The financial performance of your Bank during the year ended 
March 31, 2025 remained healthy with Total Net Revenue 
(Net Interest Income plus Other Income) rising 6.7 per cent 
to ` 1,68,302.4 crore from ` 1,57,773.5 crore in the previous 
year. Revenue growth was driven by an increase in Net 
Interest Income. Net Interest Income grew by 13.0 per cent 
to ` 1,22,670.1 crore. Net Interest Margin (NIM) stood 3.48 
per cent.
TOTAL NET REVENUE
` 1,68,302.4 crore
 6.7 per cent increase
Other Income fell by 7.33 per cent to ` 45,632.3 crore. 
Excluding prior year transaction gains of ` 7,341.42 crore 
from stake sale in subsidiary HDFC Credila Financial Services 
Ltd, Other Income grew by 8.91 per cent. The largest 
component was Fees and Commissions at ` 31,898.6 crore. 
Profit on Revaluation and Sale of Investments was ` 1,754.3 
crore. Foreign Exchange and Derivatives Revenue was 
` 4,919.04 crore and recoveries from written-off accounts 
were ` 3,785.0 crore. 
Operating (Non-Interest) Expenses rose to ` 68,174.9 crore 
from ` 63,386.0 crore. During the year, your Bank set up 
719 new branches and 201 ATMs / Cash Recycler Machines 
(CRMs). The addition in expenses includes HDFC Limited 
operating cost post-merger. This, along with higher spend 
on IT resulted in higher infrastructure and staffing expenses. 
Staff expenses also went up due to employee additions and 
annual wage revisions. Further, Deposit Insurance and Credit 
Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) premium cost increased due 
to deposit growth. Despite higher Staff and Infrastructure 
Expenses, the Cost to Income Ratio was 40.5 per cent as 
compared to 40.2 per cent during the previous year.
Total Provisions and Contingencies were ` 11,649.4 crore 
as compared to ` 23,492.2 crore in the preceding year. The 
decrease is mainly on account of floating provision created in 
the previous year of ` 10,900.0 crore. Your Bank’s provisioning 
policies remain more stringent than regulatory requirements.
The Coverage Ratio based on specific provisions alone 
excluding write-offs was 67.9 per cent and including general, 
floating and contingent provisions was 172.1 per cent. Your 
Bank made General Provisions of ` 198.4 crore during the 
year. Gross Non-Performing Assets (GNPAs) were at 1.33 
per cent of Gross Advances, as against 1.24 per cent in the 
previous year. Net NPA ratio stood at 0.43 per cent as against 
0.33 per cent in the previous year.
Profit Before Tax grew by 24.8 per cent to ` 88,478.1 crore. 
After providing for Income Tax of ` 21,130.7 crore, Net Profit 
increased by 10.7 per cent to ` 67,347.4 crore from ` 60,812.3 
crore. Return on Average Net Worth was 14.56 per cent while 
Basic Earnings Per Share (EPS) was ` 88.29 up from ` 85.83.
NET PROFIT
` 67,347.4 crore
10.7 per cent increase in FY2025
As on March 31, 2025, your Bank’s Total Balance Sheet 
stood at `  39,10,199 crore, an increase of 8.1 per cent over 
` 36,17,623 crore on March 31, 2024. Total Deposits rose by 
14.1 per cent to ` 27,14,715 crore from ` 23,79,786 crore. 
Savings Account Deposits grew by 5.3 per cent to ` 6,30,467 
crore while Current Account Deposits rose by 1.3 per cent to 
` 3,14,094 crore. Time Deposits stood at ` 17,70,155 crore, 
representing an increase of 20.3 per cent. CASA Deposits 
accounted for 34.8 per cent of Total Deposits. Advances stood 
at ` 26,19,609 crore representing an increase of 5.4 per cent. 
The Domestic Loan Portfolio at ` 25,73,450 crore grew by 5.2 
per cent over March 31, 2024. 
The Bank’s Debt Equity Ratio for the year ended March 31, 
2025 stood at 0.74 as compared to 1.21 in the previous year.

HDFC Bank Limited
216
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
HDFC Limited’s Borrowing Maturity Schedule
Of the HDFC Limited’s borrowings of ` 2,87,923 crore as at 
March 31, 2025, approximately 15 per cent is due for repayment 
in each of the two years up to FY27 and the balance 70 per 
cent is due thereafter.
Business Review 
Your Bank’s operations are split into Domestic and International.
A. 
Domestic Business comprises the following:
 
Retail Banking
 
 Your Bank’s Retail Assets are built on three key 
principles: Strong Digital Offering, Optimal Risk Pricing 
and Maintaining Pristine Portfolio Quality. Adherence to 
these principles combined with the strength of merger 
boosted your Bank’s Retail Advances to ` 13,75,769 
crore witnessing a growth of about 9 per cent year-on-
year.
 
Brief on segment performance:
 
 The Bank’s increased focus on top corporates and 
good credit score customers contributed to the overall 
pristine portfolio quality. Personal Loans segment has 
experienced strong growth with the overall portfolio 
touching ` 1,99,334 crore towards the end of the year. 
Nearly all applications (99.6 per cent) of this segment are 
originated digitally and 87 per cent of these applications 
are disbursed digitally. 
 
 The Xpress car loans, offering seamless end-to-end 
digital disbursement, has increased the digital origination 
to 36 per cent of the total New Car Loan business. 
 
 Two-Wheeler advances are close to ` 12,359 crore with 
nearly 100 per cent digital acquisition. 
 
 Your Bank has exhibited significant year-on-year growth 
of 28 per cent in Gold Loans capitalising on an expanded 
branch network.
 
 Post the merger, your Bank, has emerged as an 
institution with one of the largest mortgage loan portfolios 
in the country. The retail mortgage advances stood at 
` 8,35,656 crore compared to the previous year’s 
` 7,74,406 crore representing a growth of 8 per cent year 
on year.
 
 The payments business is one of the stated strategic 
pillars for the Bank.
 
 With over 7.5 crore cards issued (credit, debit and pre-
paid) and a widely distributed acceptance network 
across the online and offline merchant ecosystem, HDFC 
Bank continues to maintain a leadership position across 
multiple product offerings in the payments landscape.
 
 In the Financial Year 2024-25, HDFC Bank scaled up 
with a slew of new products launched across UPI, TATA, 
Swiggy in the Payments Business.
 
 The year ended March 31, 2025 saw 62 lakh new 
credit cards being issued covering retail and business 
segments. Of total cards in force in market, HDFC Bank 
crossed 2.38 crore cards in force which is the highest 
amongst all issuers. To provide better service to all card 
holders, the recently launched Mycards, emerged as a 
robust and comprehensive card servicing platform and 
currently has 3.45 crore registered customers availing 
several card related services.
 
 Further, the Bank launched PayZapp 2.0 a comprehensive 
mobile payment commerce app in March 2023. PayZapp 
not only supports a complete range of payments from 
credit cards, debit cards, wallet and UPI with customers 
getting the choice of form factor to make payments 
at merchant stores using Scan or Tap or at Online 
merchants with a Swipe action. The app has reached 
the milestone of 1.6 crore registrations in FY 2025 and 
over 50 lakh (on an average) active users per month.  
 
 To enhance and strengthen offerings to merchants, 
SmartHub Vyapar- an integrated payment, banking 
and business solution that caters to the daily needs of 
merchants and helps them drive business growth was 
formally launched in October 2022. The platform has 
witnessed widespread adoption ever since and has 
onboarded close to 19.3 lakh users across the country 
as on March 31, 2025.
 
 SmartHub Payment Gateway, a unified payment platform 
for online merchants was launched in February 2024 in 
line with the Bank’s endeavour to provide merchants a 
comprehensive platform to cater to their payments and 
banking needs and help drive their growth. This platform 
enables merchants to collect payments through 150 
plus methods and assists them in maximising sales 
with best-in-class success rate. SmartHub Payment 
Gateway provides an insightful dashboard powered by 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
217
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
smart analytics and empowers merchants to provide a 
frictionless check out experience for their customers. 
The platform has onboarded over 1,600 Merchants 
with projected March exit volume of approximately 
1,000 crore. 
 
 Lastly, in tune with the evolving payments landscape 
the business continues to transform itself with significant 
investments across Cloud Computing, Analytics, 
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Open APIs 
and Cyber Security. The objective is to manage large 
scale and continuously grow volumes while processing 
transactions in a safe and secure manner.
 
 Key digital initiatives in the Retail segment in 
FY 2024-25:
 
 In the Financial Year 2024-25, the Bank continued to 
expand and deepen its digital footprint across the retail 
segment, with a strong emphasis on simplifying customer 
journeys, scaling digital fulfilment, and embedding 
services across channels and platforms.
 
 Driven by the Bank’s broader Shift Right strategy, the 
focus this year was on developing end-to-end journeys 
that minimise friction, reduce paperwork and enhance 
speed-to-fulfilment—while ensuring security, regulatory 
alignment and accessibility.
 
Digital Origination and Fulfilment at Scale
 
 Retail customer acquisition through digital channels 
reached new milestones during the year. 86 per cent 
of all new retail products—including savings accounts, 
loans, credit cards and deposits—were sourced digitally, 
up from 82 per cent in the previous year. The bank now 
enables 97 per cent of all financial transactions through 
digital channels, highlighting the shift towards a self-
service ecosystem. Additionally, 79 per cent of servicing 
requests were fulfilled digitally, compared to 73 per 
cent in FY 2024. The Bank’s self-service and assisted 
journeys now support onboarding across a diverse 
customer base, from digitally native users to first-time 
users in semi-urban and rural markets. 
 
 The Bank’s Xpress Car Loan (XCL) platform continued 
to scale as India’s largest end-to-end digital auto loan 
journey. The platform processed over 1.3 lakh units, 
disbursing ` 13,110 crore digitally in FY 2025. This zero-
paper, zero-touch model is now the preferred channel 
for auto loans and extends full-service capabilities even 
to new-to-bank customers.
 
 Other digitally enabled loan products—such as personal 
loans, gold loans and business loans—saw increased 
adoption, supported by features like:
 
• 
Pre-qualified offer journeys
 
• 
Bank statement analytics
 
• 
Automated underwriting
 
• 
Real-time KYC and biometric authentication
 
 Digital journeys were also introduced for Group 
Health and Group Term insurance, embedded within 
account and loan offerings for existing-to-bank (ETB) 
customers—reflecting a growing focus on integrated 
protection products.
 
 Expanded Digital Journeys Across Liabilities 
and Cards
 
 In deposits and liabilities, the Bank launched new 
journeys for:
 
• 
Assisted and unassisted savings account onboarding
 
• 
 Minor-to-major conversions and salary 
family accounts
 
• 
Fixed deposits with external funding
 
• 
Standalone card and asset customer servicing
 
 Digital issuance and activation journeys for credit cards, 
including DSA-assisted and corporate card variants, 
were expanded during the year. These journeys were 
integrated with real-time bureau checks and document 
validations, reducing manual touchpoints and enabling 
faster disbursals.
 
 Enhanced Customer Service and Post-Sale 
Fulfilment
 
 Customer servicing continued to see strong digital 
adoption. The Bank now offers 89 per cent digital 
coverage across common retail service interactions—up 
from 73 per cent in FY 2024.
 
 Key services journeys rolled out during the year included:
 
• 
Address update (cards and assets)
 
• 
Re-KYC for standalone asset customers
 
• 
SmartHub and WhatsApp-based service ticketing

HDFC Bank Limited
218
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
 
 Over 55 per cent of support interactions were resolved 
through self-service channels, powered by intelligent 
routing, contextual nudges and fallback to live assistance 
where required.
 
 Embedded Retail Journeys and Ecosystem 
Integration
 
 Retail journeys were also extended beyond the Bank’s 
direct platforms through embedded finance partnerships 
with e-commerce, fintech and mobility platforms. 
Strategic tie-ups with platforms like Tata Neu, Swiggy 
and PhonePe enabled real-time, near 100 per cent 
digital fulfilment of savings accounts, personal loans and 
credit cards.
 
 Behind the scenes, these embedded journeys were 
powered by the Bank’s growing library of secure, 
reusable APIs and an orchestration framework that 
enabled straight-through processing (STP), verification, 
and activation at the point of need.
 
Inclusive and Assisted Digital Journeys
 
 The Bank continued to prioritise accessibility through 
assisted digital journeys, especially in semi-urban and 
rural markets. These journeys leverage field agents, 
business correspondents and biometric-ready apps to 
support onboarding and fulfilment.
 
Key features included:
 
• 
Aadhaar and biometric-based KYC
 
• 
Geo-tagged documentation
 
• 
Offline-ready functionality for low-connectivity areas
 
 Products such as gold loans, microcredit, and deposits 
were offered through assisted apps, ensuring financial 
inclusion while maintaining the speed and simplicity of 
digital fulfilment.
 
Our Distribution Channel:
 
 The virtual channels of the Bank were set up to enhance 
coverage across customer segments and to ensure a 
holistic service experience to all customers. This is one 
of the key engagement channels in the Bank.
 
 Virtual Relationship Banking is an integrated customer 
centric approach covering three pillars - Virtual 
Relationship, Virtual Sales and Virtual Care serving as 
a crucial component of the Bank’s sales and customer 
engagement strategy. This approach harnesses 
technology to connect with customers, build relationships 
and promote banking products and services. This helps 
the Bank to expand the managed customer base, 
generate leads and drive revenue growth.
 
 Recognising employees and customers as the 
capitals for this business, your Bank has invested 
heavily in training and development of its relationship 
managers. Training covers product knowledge, sales 
techniques, communication skills, compliance and 
regulatory requirements and customer relationship 
management skills.
 
 As we transition into the digital age, a banking experience 
characterised by digital ease and personalised 
conversations remains at the core of our Virtual 
Relationship Management (VRM) strategy. 
 
 As a part of this strategy, relationship managers reach 
out to customers through remote and digital platforms 
resulting in deeper and cost-effective engagement. As 
digital literacy and exposure increases exponentially, 
VRMs are gaining wider acceptance through deeper 
engagement and relationships backed by a strong 
product offering thereby constituting an important 
component of the Bank’s customer engagement strategy.
 
 With proper training, technology support, and adherence 
to compliance, this channel is a highly effective tool for 
the Bank to drive revenue growth, expand its customer 
base and provide excellent customer service.
 
Retail Banking – Mortgage Business 
 
 Post the merger, HDFC Bank, has emerged as an 
institution with one of the largest mortgage loan portfolios 
in the country. This brings together HDFC Limited’s 
segment expertise of over four and a half decades and 
in person customer connect with HDFC Bank’s extensive 
branch network and an ability to leverage technology 
platforms. The home loan business has opened a 
fresh pathway for future growth for the Bank due to a 
large customer base. This increases its ability to serve 
customers better due to a longer tenure engagement and 
enhances its ability to tap into opportunities for cross-
sell. The retail mortgage advances stood at ` 8,35,656 
crore compared to ` 7,74,406 crore in FY 2024. 
 
 Cross-sell remains a primary focus for both existing and 
new customers. The Bank leverages its digital channels 
to minimise acquisition costs. Post the merger, over 95 
per cent of the newly acquired home loan customers 
hold a liability account with the Bank. The home loan 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
219
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
customers also enjoy the benefit of a strong suite of 
financial products and solutions that the Bank offers, like 
credit cards, consumer durable loans, wealth products 
and insurance. This culminates in strengthening customer 
relationships and enables HDFC Bank to emerge as the 
primary banker for these customers.  
 
Third Party Products
 
 Your Bank distributes Life, General and Health Insurance 
as well as Mutual Funds (Third Party Products) to its 
customers. In the Financial Year 2024-25, the income 
from this business accounted for 24.7 per cent of the 
Bank’s Total Fee Income.
 
Life Insurance
 
 Your Bank has adopted an open architecture model 
for distributing insurance products from three trusted 
partners with a focus on offering customers a diverse 
array of options. For the year ended March 31, 2025, the 
Bank mobilised premium of ` 10,331 crore representing 
a year-on-year growth of 16 per cent. HDFC Bank’s 
extensive distribution network includes branches, virtual 
channels, NRI services and wealth management. The 
key focus would continue to be on staff training, robust 
quality and control processes uniformly implemented 
across all partners as well as offering integrated and 
seamless digital on-boarding journeys. Currently, the 
Bank’s NetBanking platform offers 66 insurance products 
across all partners accounting for over 49 per cent of the 
total policies.
 
Premium Earned
8,940
FY 2023-24
12,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0
16%
FY 2024-25
10,331
in ` crore
 
Non-Life Insurance
 
 Your Bank, in collaboration with its four General Insurance 
and two Standalone Health and Insurance partners, has 
introduced innovative non-life insurance products to 
expand the range of offerings and provide comprehensive 
coverage to customers. These products are accessible 
through both digital and physical platforms. Employees 
across channels have been trained in the new products 
and processes. To meet customer demands, additional 
manpower has been deployed across non-life insurers. 
As on March 31, 2025, premium mobilisation in General 
and Health Insurance reached a total of ` 4,381.6 crore 
representing a growth of 4 per cent over the previous year. 
 
Premium Earned
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
4,000
4,500
5,000
4,208.4
FY 2023-24
4%
FY 2024-25
4,381.6
in ` crore
 
Mutual Funds
 
 Your Bank follows an open architecture approach in 
distribution of Mutual Funds and is currently associated 
with 37 Asset Management Companies (AMCs). 
 
 The Bank’s Assets Under Management (AUM) grew by 
14 per cent to reach ` 1,56,321 crore for the year ended 
March 31, 2025. The Bank offers digital on-boarding 
platform to customers for Mutual Fund investments 
through Investment Services Account (ISA) and 
SmartWealth (app based). 
 
 During the same period, HDFC Bank and HSL 
(InvestNow) witnessed a significant growth of 40 per cent 
in Systematic Investment Plans (SIPs) mobilisation. 
 
Assets Under Management (AUM)
FY 2023-24
80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
0
1,80,000
1,60,000
1,40,000
1,20,000
1,00,000
FY 2024-25
1,37,343
1,56,321
14%
in ` crore

HDFC Bank Limited
220
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
 
Wealth Management
 
 In the Financial Year 2024-25, our team of over 1000 
Sales and Service experts have focused on extending 
Wealth services to clients ranging from Ultra-HNW to 
Mass Affluent client segments. 
 
 HDFC Bank was adjudged as “India’s Best for HNW” 
in the Euromoney Private Banking Awards 2025. In 
the Global Private Banking Awards 2024 organised by 
Professional Wealth Management (PWM), published by 
the Financial Times, HDFC Bank was adjudged the Best 
Private Bank in India.
 
 Your Bank made continuous and incremental efforts to 
generate as well as quantify the alpha delivered in each 
client’s portfolio. In 2025, 87 per cent of our clients had 
generated a positive alpha with the median client alpha 
at 2.6 per cent. Our aim is to incorporate alpha in all client 
reports and portfolio reviews.
 
 With a sales force of over 850 team members supported 
by 150+ service staff and over 100 Investment Analysts, 
we have the largest Wealth bankers in the country. With 
an increase in manpower, we’ve put in consistent efforts 
in providing the best education and training to our private 
bankers. By conducting intensive training sessions in 
collaboration with top-ranked business schools such 
as Indian Institute of Management at Ahmedabad and 
Bangalore, we have groomed our in-house talent.
 
 Service First culture is the central pillar for our business 
as we focus on service led sales by prioritising client 
delight and relationship banking. Service Quality is an 
essential part of RM scorecards and Supervisor KPIs. 
Client engagement, portfolio servicing and Net Promoter 
Score are key business performance assessment 
measures. Our Service First Culture has led to an NPS 
score of 87 in the Financial Year 2024-25 which is one of 
the highest in the industry.
 
 With this segment specific focus, we have been 
consistent in growing our market share and proving to be 
one of the largest Wealth Managers in the country. With 
the help of over 100 Investor Education Initiatives having 
fund managers as expert guest speakers, your Bank has 
been able to reach across the length and breath of the 
country, covering Tier II and III cities as well.
 
 Your Bank has endeavoured to become the market 
leader across all investor segments through curated 
offerings in each segment. For Ultra-HNW clients, we 
have more than doubled the number of products referred 
on our platform. Keeping our Super-Affluent clients in 
mind, we’ve introduced State-of-the-art Wealthfy reports 
that provide detailed portfolio diagnostics and analysis. 
 
 We have developed an advanced unassisted digital 
investment platform - SmartWealth that enables our clients 
to track their portfolios and make investments along with 
access to goal-based investment recommendations. 
With highly intuitive client experience and gamification of 
client journeys, this mobile first platform aims to provide 
access of our research to all mass affluent clients. It has 
more than six lakh downloads and nearly four lakh clients 
onboarded on SmartWealth.
 
 HDFC Bank’s wide range of investment offerings 
successfully adapt to the changing economic landscape 
to manage and create wealth for our clients, with “Protect, 
Manage, Grow.” being our brand identity.
 
Wholesale Banking
 
 The Wholesale Banking business focuses on institutional 
customers such as the Government, PSUs, Large and 
Emerging Corporates and SMEs. Your Bank offers a 
range of products and services encompassing working 
capital and term loans, trade credit, cash management, 
supply chain financing, foreign exchange and investment 
banking services.
 
 Wholesale Banking business constituted about 42 per 
cent of your Bank’s Gross domestic advances as per 
Basel II classification, with a book size of ` 10,82,413 crore.
 
 The Bank has continued making significant inroads into 
the banking consortia of a number of leading corporates. 
Corporate Banking, focusing on large, well-rated 
companies continued to be the biggest contributor to 
Wholesale Banking in terms of asset size.
 
 This business continued its attention towards engaging 
with Multi-National Corporations (MNCs) and capitalised 
on the increasing trend among large companies to 
consolidate their banking relationships. Your Bank 
strengthened its existing relationships and expanded its 
market share by leveraging its extensive array of product 
offerings. The Emerging Corporates Group focuses on 
the mid- market segment. Your Bank leveraged its vast 
geographical reach, technology backbone, automated 
processes, suite of financial products and quick 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
221
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
turnaround times to offer a differentiated service. The 
business continues to have a diversified portfolio in terms 
of both industry and geography. 
 
 In the year under review, the Bank continued its focus 
on the MSME sector. There has already been increased 
formalistion and digitalisation of the MSME sector owing 
to the implementation of the Goods and Service Tax 
(GST). Through MyBusiness, which offers comprehensive 
financial solutions like Business Banking, Easy Loans, 
Trade Services and Digital Solutions, MSMEs can 
conveniently access a suite of product / services tailored 
to meet the business requirements.
 
 Post the merger of HDFC Limited with HDFC Bank, the 
Bank inherited the realty finance business. During the 
year, the bank increased its focus to provide construction 
finance in the residential and commercial space as well 
as lease rental discounting to leading developers in the 
country. The Bank increased its market share in existing 
relationships and added new customers. it plans to 
increase its geographical presence in the coming year to 
cater to new customers in key growing markets. The Bank 
focuses on providing a gamut of banking services and 
customised solutions to its customers in this segment.
 
 The Investment Banking business further cemented its 
prominent position in the Debt Capital Markets, Equity 
Capital Markets and INR Loan Syndication. Your Bank is 
among the top three in the Bloomberg rankings of Rupee 
Bond Book Runners for the Financial Year 2024-25 with a 
market share of 11.61 per cent. Your Bank is amongst the 
top five in the Bloomberg rankings of Syndicated INR term 
loans for Financial Year 2024-25. The Bank has provided 
advisory services and actively assisted clients in equity 
fund raising through five Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) 
amounting to ` 17,250 crore (including one InvIT IPO) and 
one Institutional Placement of units of InvIT amounting to 
` 8,400 crore, aggregating to about ` 25,650 crore for 
the Financial Year 2024-25. Additionally, the Bank also 
assisted in a government. disinvestment through an Offer 
for Sale amounting to about ` 3,450 crore.
 
 In the Government Business, your Bank sustained its 
focus on tax collections, collecting direct tax (CBDT) of 
` 6,08,278.22 crore and Indirect tax - CBIC (Custom duty 
+ GST) of over ` 5,15,558.20 crore during Financial Year 
2024-25. It continues to enjoy a pre-eminent position 
among the country’s major stock and commodity 
exchanges in both Cash Management Services and 
Cash Settlement Services.
 
 Your Bank has embarked on strategic digital 
transformation to enhance Customer Engagement and 
Employee Experience and create an ecosystem for 
seamless banking.
 
 It also leverages analytics to delve deeper into corporate 
ecosystems resulting in better product structuring, cross 
sell opportunities, improved yields thus improving the 
Bank’s share of Revenue Pools from Corporates.
 
 HDFC Bank provides a comprehensive suite of cutting-
edge platforms tailored to meet the diverse needs of 
corporate clients. Among these, our Corporate E-Net 
Banking platform stands out, offering both the reliable 
e-Net service and the more recently upgraded CBX 
platform. These platforms provide intuitive interfaces 
and robust functionalities empowering businesses 
with seamless control over their financial operations. 
Additionally, our Trade Platform - Trade on Net (TON) 
serves as a cornerstone for facilitating efficient trade 
transactions. Also, our Supply Chain Finance (SCF) 
transaction platform enables digital contract bookings 
and automated disbursements, streamlining end-to-
end SCF transactions for the corporates. Your Bank 
has integrated with all the three TReDS platforms. 
We are also collaborating with Fintechs to integrate 
with Corporate ERP and offer Embedded Banking in 
Corporate Ecosystems journeys.
 
Treasury
 
 The Treasury Department is the custodian of your 
Bank’s cash / liquid assets and handles its investments 
in securities, foreign exchange and cash instruments. 
It manages the liquidity and interest rate risks on the 
balance sheet and is also responsible for meeting 
reserve requirements. The vertical also helps manage 
the hedging needs of customers and earns a fee income 
generated from transactions customers undertake with 
your Bank while managing their foreign exchange and 
interest rate risks.
 
 Revenue accrues from spreads on customer transactions 
based on trade and remittance flows and demonstrated 
hedging needs. Your Bank recorded a revenue of 
` 4,919.04 crore from foreign exchange and derivative 
transactions in the year under review.  
 
 As a part of its prudent risk management, your Bank 
enters into foreign exchange and derivatives deals with 
counterparties after it has set up appropriate credit limits 
based on its evaluation of the ability of the counterparty 

HDFC Bank Limited
222
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
to meet its obligations. Where your Bank enters into 
foreign currency derivatives contracts not involving the 
Indian Rupee with its customers, it typically lays them off 
in the inter-bank market on a matched basis. For such 
foreign currency derivatives, your Bank primarily carries 
the counterparty credit risk (where the customer has 
crystallised payables or ‘mark-to-market’ losses) and 
may carry only residual market risk, if any. Your Bank 
also deals in derivatives on its own account including for 
the purpose of its own balance sheet risk management.
 
 HDFC Bank is also a nominated agent for the 
bullion imports and has a significant market share in 
that business.
 
 Your Bank maintains a portfolio of Government securities 
in line with the regulatory norms governing the Statutory 
Liquidity Ratio (SLR). A significant portion of these SLR 
securities are in ‘Held-to-Maturity’ (HTM) category, while 
some are ‘Available for Sale’ (AFS). The Bank is also a 
primary dealer for Government Securities. As a part of 
this business, your Bank holds fixed income securities 
as ‘Held for Trading’ (HFT). 
 
 In the year under review, your Bank continued to be a 
significant participant in the domestic exchange and 
interest rate markets. It also capitalised on falling bond 
yields to book profits and is now looking at tapping 
opportunities arising out of the liberalisation in the foreign 
exchange and interest rate markets.
B. 
International Business 
 
 During the year, your Bank stayed on course to cater 
to NRI clients and deepen its product and service 
proposition. HDFC Bank’s international operations 
comprise five branches, located in Hong Kong, Bahrain, 
Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC), Singapore 
and an IFSC Banking Unit in Gujarat International Finance 
Tec-City. Additionally, it has four representative offices 
in Kenya, Abu Dhabi, Dubai and London respectively, 
catering to Non-Resident Indians and Persons of 
Indian Origin.
 
 The Bank’s product strategy in International Markets is 
customer centric and it has products to cater to client 
needs across asset classes. GIFT City branch offers 
products such as trade credits and foreign currency 
term loans (including external commercial borrowings). 
It is gradually widening the product offerings to cater 
to the needs of Resident and Non-Resident clients and 
capitalise on the growth in the financial centre.
 
 As on March 31, 2025, the Balance Sheet size of 
International Business was US $ 10.83 billion. Advances 
constituted 1.75 per cent of the Bank’s advances. 
The Total Income contributed by Overseas Branches 
constituted 1.44 per cent of the Bank’s Total Income for 
the year.
International Business Balance Sheet
US $ 10.83 billion
C. 
 Partnering with Government, Institutions and 
Start–Ups
 
 It has been another year of steady progress for 
Government, Institutional Business and Start–Ups 
within your Bank. Some of the key highlights and new 
initiatives include:
 
1. 
 Increased focus on the retail Government deposits 
resulted in your Bank acquiring over 10 per cent of 
the market share in 201 districts.
 
2. 
 Your Bank continues to rank among the top three 
leading Government Agency Banks for collecting 
Central Government taxes. Substantial market 
shares were acquired in collections of Direct Tax, 
GST and Custom Duty as per tax collection data 
reported through PIB & CGA, Government of India. 
Your Bank has now started sourcing accounts 
under the Senior Citizens Savings Scheme on 
behalf of the Central Government. 
 
HDFC Bank’s Market Share:
 
3. 
 Your Bank facilitated the transfer of funds flowing 
from the Central Government to various beneficiaries 
under the aegis of the Centrally Sponsored 
Schemes, Central Sector Schemes, and the 15th 
Finance Commission. The total flows processed 
grew by 11 per cent year on year.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
223
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
4. 
 Your Bank continues its initiatives on digitalisation 
of financial operations of government entities. 
For example, it has enabled online collection of 
revenues from wayside amenities for National 
Highway Logistics Management Limited.
 
5. 
 On disbursements, your Bank has helped digitalise 
payments to beneficiaries against land acquisition 
activities undertaken by various authorities for 
development of national infrastructure.
 
6. 
 Your Bank is now integrated with National 
e-Governance Services Limited (NeSL) enabling 
online access and validation of electronic Bank 
Guarantees (eBGs) to serve customers better.
 
7. 
 Your Bank is now integrated with treasury 
systems across six states to enable beneficiary 
account validation, payments, transaction and 
balance reporting.
 
8. 
 Your Bank has successfully harnessed the granular 
business opportunity at District-level, Block-level 
and Gram Panchayat-level. It has introduced a new 
bundled offering called “Panchayat Kavach” where 
complimentary non-life insurance of ` 5 lakh and 
several exclusive benefits are provided to secure 
the Gram Panchayats from various calamities.
 
9. 
 Your Bank has also driven digitalisation at district 
level through solutions that enable expenditure 
reporting and associated payments through 
integration with the Bank’s payment channels.
 
10.  Your Bank has intensified its efforts to engage with 
pensioners implementing the following measures: 
 
 
a. 
 Enhancing pension product for defence 
pensioners, with personal accidental death 
coverage of ` 50 lakh till the age of 80.
 
 
b. 
 In the Financial Year 2024-25, we ensured that 
99 per cent of pensioners (our customers) 
successfully submitted their digital life 
certificates in the Pension Processing System 
of the Bank through a hassle-free experience. 
 
 
c. 
 Further, your Bank has extended its pension 
disbursement services to non-HDFC 
Bank accounts thus servicing a wider 
pensioner population.
 
11.  Your Bank continues to expand its presence in 
the education sector and has successfully on-
boarded approximately 42 per cent of universities 
nationwide. Some of the marquee additions during 
the year include IIM Kozhikode, IIM Visakhapatnam, 
AIIMS Jammu, Mahadevappa Rampure (MR) 
Medical College, Shekhawati University and 
Central Sanskrit University. Additionally, your Bank 
onboarded notable religious organisations, including 
Dwarkadhishji Mandir, Thakur Shri Bankey Bihari 
Ji Maharaj Vrindavan, Shri Digamber Jain Atishay 
Teerth Kshetra Chandragiri Dongargarh, Sri Rajapur 
Jagannath Mandir, Catholic diocese of Kottayam, 
Shri Bhimakali Temple, Haryana Wakf Board and 
the chain of ISKCON temples.
 
12.  Your Bank has received positive customer feedback 
for its recent digital products and solutions:
 
 
a. 
 FarSight Dashboard: Building on the 
existing solution, your Bank has further 
enhanced the FARSight Dashboard to provide 
visibility across accounts and offer cashflow 
forecasting capabilities for customers to plan 
their finances.
 
 
b. 
 GIGA: Your bank launched GIGA – an industry 
first banking programme tailored specifically 
for gig/platform workers. GIGA addresses an 
underserved demographic, by understanding 
the unique challenges faced by them such as 
irregular income, lack of financial security and 
limited access to traditional banking services.
 
 
 GIGA Program includes a specialised savings 
account with relaxed quarterly balance requirements, 
debit and credit cards with value added offers, 
affordable health insurance for themselves and their 
family, unique flexible investment products which 
enables them to ‘invest when they can and how 
much they can’ instead of a traditional systematic 
investment plan. Additionally, a range of loans to 
meet their borrowing needs are also offered.
 
13.  Your Bank is committed to enabling smooth 
cross-border transactions for Indian merchants, 
freelancers, MSMEs and exporters. In line with 
RBI’s regulations on online payment gateway 
service providers/ payment aggregators – cross 
border, your Bank is collaborating with fintech 
partners for providing authorised dealer services 
to enable secure and hassle free cross–border 
trade settlements.

HDFC Bank Limited
224
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
 
14.  Start–up Banking: Your Bank provides a 
comprehensive range of banking products specially 
curated for the start-up ecosystem. In furtherance 
of its objective to support the banking and financial 
needs of start-ups, your Bank signed MoUs with 
prominent start-up ecosystem partners. Most 
of them are government nodal agencies and 
incubators located at educational institutions. Some 
of the partners are: 
 
 
a. 
 Department for Promotion of Industry and 
Internal Trade (DPIIT), Government of India
 
 
b. 
 Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship 
(SINE), IIT Bombay
 
 
c. 
Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM)
 
 
d. 
Startup Odisha
 
 
e. 
Startup Assam
 
 
f. 
Hyderabad University
 
 
g. 
 Manipal University, Jaipur–Technological 
Incubation Centre
 
 
h. 
Chitkara University
 
15.  HDFC Tech Innovators 2024: Your Bank along 
with HDFC Capital Advisors spearheaded HDFC 
Tech Innovators 2024, a joint initiative of HDFC 
Bank group companies - HDFC AMC, HDFC Ergo, 
HDB Financial Services, HDFC Life, and HDFC 
Securities to promote innovations and opportunities 
for technology related start-up ventures. Over 2,000 
applications were received across five categories - 
Fintech, Proptech, Sustainability Tech, Consumer 
Tech and New Age Tech. The top 10 winners 
were selected by a grand jury comprising HDFC 
Bank Group leadership, venture capitalists, senior 
industry executives and unicorn founders.
 
16.  Parivartan Start–Up grants: Your Bank 
supported 20 incubators associated with reputed 
academic institutions and 87 start-ups through the 
eighth edition of the Parivartan Start-Up Grants. 
This year, your Bank partnered with three nodal 
government agencies, each contributing to specific 
thematic areas:
 
 
a. 
 Reserve Bank Innovation Hub: Identifying/
developing a product/process/policy to make 
banking inclusive for women
 
 
b. 
 Startup India: Strategic partnership for 
access to startup ecosystem 
 
 
c. 
 MeitY India AI Mission: Strategic partnership 
towards nurturing AI solutions for large scale 
socio-economic impact.
d. 
Semi-Urban and Rural 
 
 Your Bank has traditionally focused on the Semi-Urban 
and Rural (SURU) markets. As rural incomes and 
aspirations rise, your Bank’s focus on this market has 
only increased as it caters to the demand for better 
quality financial products and services. The Bank has 
been increasing its presence in Semi-Urban and Rural 
markets through various groups in the Bank with the 
objective of increasing lending. 
 
 Apart from meeting its statutory obligations under PSL 
(Agri and Allied activities, Small and Marginal Farmers and 
Weaker Sections), your Bank has been offering a wide 
range of products on the asset side, such as Auto, Two-
Wheeler, Personal, Gold, Light Commercial Vehicle (LCV) 
and Small Shopkeeper Loans in these markets. Having 
expanded the rural footprint to more than 2.35 lakh 
villages, HDFC Bank now plans to increase its coverage 
in existing villages and deepen the relationships. The 
Semi-Urban and Rural push has been backed by the 
Bank’s digital strategy. Your Bank’s operations in Semi-
Urban and Rural locations are explained below:
 
Agriculture and Allied Activities
 
 Your Bank’s assets in Agriculture and Allied activities 
(PSL + Non PSL) stood at  ` 3,73,863.65 crore as on 
March 31, 2025.
 
 The Key to HDFC Bank’s success in the existing market has 
been its ability to leverage various opportunities through: 
 
 
1. 
A diverse product range
 
 
2. 
Faster turnaround time
 
 
3. 
Distribution strength
 
 
4. 
Innovative digital solutions

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
225
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 HDFC Bank’s extensive product portfolio encompasses 
pre and post-harvest Crop Loans, Farm Development 
/ Investment Loans, Two-Wheeler Loans, Auto Loans, 
Tractor Loans, Small Agri Business Loans, Loan Against 
Gold, Loan to landless labourers and more. This 
comprehensive offering has enabled the Bank to establish 
a robust presence in rural areas with its asset products. 
Additionally, it has been a prominent participant in the 
Agri Infrastructure Fund Scheme consistently achieving 
allocated targets set by the Government.
 
 HDFC Bank is increasingly involved in facilitating various 
Government / Regulatory Schemes to other Non-crop 
Segments, including Agri-allied and Small Agri-Business 
Enterprises, as well as Rural MSMEs. A unique business 
model encompassing a wide variety of products and 
services driven by a relationship management approach 
ensures suitable solutions as well as financial literacy 
to farmers. The Bank has tailored a range of crop and 
geography-specific products to align with harvest cycles 
and address the specific needs of farmers across diverse 
Agro-climatic zones. This customer-centric approach 
has transformed the rural banking services, enabling the 
delivery of personalised offerings to meet the evolving 
needs of rural customers effectively.
 
 Products such as post-harvest cash credit and 
warehouse receipt financing facilitate faster cash flows to 
farmers, while credit is also extended for Allied Agricultural 
Activities such as Dairy, Pisciculture, and Sericulture. 
Moreover, HDFC Bank’s targeted branch expansion in 
SURU regions coupled with digital interventions aims to 
create a superior customer experience and position it as 
a future-ready institution.
 
Participation in Government Schemes 
 
 As a part of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the Government 
of India has announced several schemes/enablers across 
several sectors, particularly in the Agriculture sector. Your 
Bank is implementing almost all such initiatives / schemes 
targeting multiple stakeholders in the Agri ecosystem.
 
 Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) Scheme: 
Through this scheme, the Bank is offering medium to 
long-term debt for investment in viable projects pertaining 
to post-harvest management and infrastructure 
development like construction of warehouses/silos. As 
of March 31, 2025, under the AIF scheme, your Bank has 
sanctioned ` 6,359 crore covering 8,859 projects and 
disbursed ` 4,642 crore covering 7,494 projects. During 
the year under review, your Bank has sanctioned ` 1,991 
crore for 3,529 projects and disbursed ` 1,843 crore for 
3,363 projects.
 
• 
 The Project Monitoring Unit, AIF, Ministry of 
Agriculture and Farmer Welfare has set specific 
targets through various campaigns. Your Bank 
achieved 106 per cent of assigned target by 
approving ` 688 crore against target of ` 650 crore 
in AIF PRAGATI Campaign conducted between 
January 1 and February 15, 2025. 
 
• 
 In the ARISE Campaign conducted between 
June 18 and July 31, 2024, your Bank has secured 
second position amongst all Scheduled Commercial 
Banks (SCBs) by approving 1,421 applications.
 
 Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Food and 
Micro Enterprises (PMFME):
 
 Your Bank is actively implementing the scheme and 
passing the benefits to all eligible borrowers in the food 
processing sector. 
 
 In the year under review, loans worth ` 549 crore were 
sanctioned for 2,929 projects and ` 567 crore has been 
disbursed for 3,319 projects.
 
 Other Agri schemes, where your Bank has significantly 
contributed include Agri Marketing Infrastructure Fund 
(AMIF), Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Fund (AHIDF), 
Credit Guarantee Fund for Micro Units, National 
Livestock Mission (NLM) as well as state-specific 
Government schemes.
 
 To address high volume and low-value ticket loans in 
Agri-Business with a digital optimisation strategy, your 
Bank plans to onboard AgriTech-BCs with differentiated 
business models. These BCs will help source and service 
small and marginal farmers.
 
Funding Small and Marginal Farmers (SMFs):
 
 Your Bank views lending to the agriculture sector, 
including to small and marginal farmers, as a huge 
opportunity and not just a regulatory mandate to meet 
priority sector lending requirements. The Bank has 
leveraged its extensive knowledge of rural customers 
to create as well as deliver products and services at 
affordable price points with a quick turnaround time. This 
has enabled HDFC Bank to establish a strong footprint 
in the rural geographies which it has now leveraged to 
increase its penetration of liability products.

HDFC Bank Limited
226
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
 
 In the Financial Year 2023-24, your Bank serviced 
customers in about 2.25 lakh villages. Through a plethora 
of interventions, the number of villages grew to over 2.35 
lakh in the Financial Year 2024-25. Your Bank has put in 
place a strategy to further penetrate these villages and 
add more customers through a variety of products for 
farmer financing. 
 
 HDFC Bank has financed and supported 35 lakh Small 
and Marginal Farmers. This was achieved through a 
strategy to engage closely with small and marginal farmers 
through customised agriculture loans. Leveraging the 
government schemes it has launched various secured/
unsecured loan products including Loan Against Gold as 
security, targeting small and marginal farmers in Agri and 
Allied segments.
 
Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs):
 
 For agriculture productivity and incomes to grow, 
aggregation of farm holdings in the form of FPOs is the 
key strategy to double farmers’ income. Leveraging the 
government scheme for formation and promotion of 
10,000 new FPOs (Credit guarantee is available from 
NABARD / CGTMSE), your Bank has funded eligible 
FPOs for working capital and term loan requirements. As 
of March 31, 2025, your Bank was able to reach 249 FPOs 
covering about one lakh small and marginal farmers.
 
Digital Interventions
 
 Some of the digital interventions made by your 
bank include:
 
Digitalising Milk Procurement:
 
 This initiative brings transparency in the milk procurement 
and payment process which benefits both farmers and 
dairy societies. Multi-function Terminals (MFTs), popularly 
known as Milk-to-Money ATMs, are deployed in dairy 
societies. The MFTs link the milk procurement system  of 
the dairy society to the farmer’s account to enable faster 
payments. MFTs have cash dispensers that function 
as standard ATMs. Payments are credited without the 
hassles of cash distribution. Further, this process creates 
a credit history which can then be used for accessing 
bank credit. So far, the Bank has digitalised payments 
at various milk cooperatives across two states also 
279 milk cooperatives actively serving and benefitting 
more than 1.66 lakh dairy farmers and facilitated 41.72 
lakhs transactions. Apart from dairy and cattle loans, 
customers gain access to the Bank’s products including 
digital offerings such as 10 Second Personal Loan, Kisan 
Credit Card and Bill Pay.
  
Gold Loans:
 
 Your Bank is making inroads into a market dominated 
by the unorganised sector, moneylenders and pawn 
brokers. The Bank is keen on making the gold loan 
facility available across the length and breadth of the 
country. As on March 31, 2025, the Bank is offering gold 
loans through 4,617 branches, with 46 per cent of these 
branches in Semi-Urban and Rural location. HDFC Bank 
ended the year with a Gold Loan Portfolio of ` 18,716 
crore with growth of 28 per cent over the previous year.
 
 Your Bank is implementing its blueprint of making gold 
loans available in most of its branches and thereby taking 
this product within the reach of otherwise untapped 
customer segments
 
Social Initiatives in Farm Sector
 
 The farm sector faces threats arising out of climate 
change as evident from the growing number of extreme 
weather events. In addition, factors like soil health, input 
quality (seeds and fertilisers), water availability and 
Government policy have significant impact, along with 
price realisations and storage facilities. All this has an 
impact on farm yield and income.
 
 Given the vulnerabilities, it is critical to strengthen climate 
resilience and adaptability of the agri-food sector. In this 
context, your Bank has launched a variety of initiatives 
such as Holistic Rural Development Programme 
(HRDP), Crop Residue Management Project amongst 
others. Within regulatory guidelines, your Bank has also 
been providing relief to impacted farmers. It also has 
put in place systems designed to enable Direct Benefit 
Transfers in a time-bound manner.
 
 Lending to the agriculture sector, including to small 
and marginal farmers, is a regulatory mandate as part 
of priority sector lending requirements. The Bank has 
leveraged its extensive knowledge of rural customers 
to create as well as deliver products and services at 
affordable price points and with a quick turnaround 
time. This has enabled it to establish a strong footprint 
in the rural geographies which has now been leveraged 
to increase penetration of liability products. Further, 
your Bank has been working with a segment-specific 
approach like funding to horticulture clusters, supply 
chain finance, agri business, MSMEs and dairy farmers. It 
also continues to engage closely with farmers to mitigate 
risks and protect portfolio quality.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
227
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME)
 
 The MSME sector serves as an important engine for 
economic growth and is one of the largest employers in 
the economy. 
 
 As on March 31, 2025, your Bank’s assets in the MSME 
segment stood at ` 5,24,101.10 crore. 
 
 The Micro Enterprises assets alone stood at   
`  1,54,028.51 crore. 
 
 The Union Government and the Reserve Bank of India 
(RBI) have been providing support for lending to MSME 
segment on an ongoing basis. Apart from various 
schemes to support MSMEs during the pandemic, the 
Government has also launched a revamped CGTMSE 
scheme with an increased limit threshold for guarantee 
cover and reduction of guarantee fee. Many other 
schemes like Credit Guarantee to Start Ups (CGSS), 
eNWR guarantee scheme have been rolled out. 
 
 Your bank emerged as one of the leading contributors to 
CGTMSE in the Financial Year 2024-25 also, supporting 
the MSME sector with guarantee-covered credit facilities. 
This has further supported the growth of MSME loans 
which have shown a year-on-year growth of 4.07 per cent. 
 
 The pace of digitalisation among MSMEs has accelerated, 
which has helped to speed up the pace of disbursement 
and increase transparency in the sector. Customers can 
now apply online and submit required documents digitally 
and they can also execute post-sanction agreements 
digitally to avail of facilities quickly with straight-through 
disbursement. The Government’s digitalisation push, 
the adoption of GST and reforms in return filings, such 
as income tax have made it easier to access customer 
cash flow and financial data, which can be used to 
support decision making and portfolio monitoring. Your 
Bank’s SME portal continues to offer ad hoc approvals 
and pre-approved Temporary Overdrafts (TODs) on a 
simplified and faster basis to existing customers. They 
can request a top-up of loans and submit the required 
documents online. The SME portal also allows customers 
to access your Bank’s services related to sanctioned 
credit facilities 24/7 from anywhere. Customers can 
download various certificates and statements as needed 
on an ongoing basis.
 
 On the trade side, your Bank focuses on customer 
engagement to increase the penetration of Trade on Net 
applications. Trade on Net is a complete enterprise trade 
solution for customers engaged in domestic and foreign 
trade. It enables them to initiate and track requests online 
seamlessly, reducing time and costs.
 
 Financial Inclusion and Financial Literacy to 
educate and empower the under-banked
 
 The philosophy of financial inclusion is about seamless 
delivery of financial services. This includes opening of 
savings bank accounts to inculcate the savings habit/
transactions, extending credit for productive, personal 
and other purposes and offering value added services 
such as micro-insurance, pension products among 
others. The Bank, through its wide network of branches 
and business correspondents coupled with enhanced 
digital offerings such as BHIM UPI as well as Aadhaar and 
RuPay-enabled Micro-ATMs ensures a wide coverage 
pan-India.
 
 HDFC Bank is committed to extending banking services 
to deeper geographies in the country to educate, 
empower and enable citizens to be a part of the formal 
financial system. The bank believes that financial literacy 
is an important tool for promoting financial inclusion and 
has adopted an integrated approach, wherein its efforts 
towards Financial Inclusion and Financial Literacy go 
hand in hand.
 
 Through Financial literacy and education, the Bank 
disseminates information on the general banking 
concepts to diverse target groups, including students, 
women, rural and urban poor, pensioners and senior 
citizens to enable them to make informed financial 
decisions as well as to make people understand the 
benefits of linking with the banking system.
 
 Your Bank has been actively committed to offering a 
multitude of Government schemes across diverse 
geographies. Below are key highlights:
 
• 
 Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana and Social 
Security Schemes (PMJJBY, PMSBY and 
APY): To enhance financial inclusion coverage. 
 
 
 Support: Opened more than 50 lakh PMJDY 
accounts and enrolled 90.97 lakh customers in 
Social Security Schemes (PMJJBY, PMSBY and 
APY) since inception.
 
• 
 Financial Literacy Camps (FLCs): To educate 
and empower citizens to understand the benefits 
of joining the formal financial system. 

HDFC Bank Limited
228
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
 
 
 Support: The Bank has cumulatively covered 
over 1.84 crore customers through its FLCs. 
During the Financial Year 2024-25, the bank has 
conducted 4.97 lakh FLC camps covering 30.65 
lakh participants.
 
• 
 Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY): To 
enable small borrowers to borrow upto ` 20 lakh 
for non-farm income generating activities. 
 
 
 Support: Since the launch of the scheme, the Bank 
has extended loans amounting to ` 88,664 crore to 
1.32 crore beneficiaries.
 
• 
 Stand Up India (SUPI): To empower Scheduled 
Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Women borrowers.  
 
 
 Support: Your Bank has extended loans amounting 
to ` 3,720 crore to 16,115 beneficiaries since 
inception of the scheme.
 
• 
 Prime Minister’s Employment Generation 
Programme (PMEGP): A special scheme aimed 
at generating employment opportunities in rural 
and urban areas through establishment of new 
self-employment ventures, projects and micro-
enterprises. 
 
 
 Support: The Bank has disbursed funding of ` 390 
crore since inception to micro-enterprise units in 
manufacturing and service sectors.
 
• 
 PM-Street Vendors AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM-
SVANidhi): Special scheme under micro-credit 
facility for street vendors providing collateral-free, 
affordable term loans of ` 10,000 for one year in the 
1st tranche. 
 
 
 Support: Your Bank has provided loans to 40,302 
Street Vendors since inception and educated and 
encouraged them to adopt digital transactions 
through the “Main Bhi Digital” campaign. 
 
• 
 Aadhaar Seva Kendras (Aadhaar enrolment 
and updation service): Your Bank provides 
Aadhaar enrolment and update services at branches 
that are designated as Aadhaar Seva Kendras. 
 
 
 Support: More than 65.8 lakh enrolments and 
updates undertaken since inception basis explicit 
customer request.
Sustainable Livelihood Initiative
Our Sustainable Livelihood Initiative (SLI) is a holistic approach 
that aims to deliver financial support to that section of the 
population who lack access to formal banking services.
For details click on https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/
borrow/other-loans/sustainable-livelihood-initiative 
E. 
Environmental Sustainability
 
 Sustainability is one of the core values of the Bank. The 
details are covered in pages 112 to 135.
F. 
Business Enablers
1. 
People
 
 People is one of the core values of the Bank. Through 
continuous reinforcement and alignment with our 
strategic objectives, the HDFC Bank Culture Framework 
ensures that over 2.14 lakh employees are equipped to 
succeed in an ever-evolving landscape. Our supervisory 
behaviour framework - Nurture, Care, Collaborate 
(NCC) - empowers our workforce with the knowledge 
and guidance needed to lead transformation. We focus 
on acquiring diverse talent and prioritise their well-
being, safety and development, fostering an inclusive 
environment where they can thrive and grow.
 
For details please refer to pages 150 to 167.
2. 
 Leveraging 
Technology 
for 
Growth 
and 
Technology Absorption
 
 In the Financial Year 2024-25 HDFC Bank advanced 
its long-term technology strategy with an integrated 
approach to digital, data, and risk transformation. Our 
ambition to build a future-ready, inclusive financial 
institution continued to gain ground—guided by the belief 
that technology must serve the customer, not complexity.
 
The year saw the convergence of three key forces:
 
• 
A pivot towards platform-led architecture,
 
• 
 A sharp focus on digitalising every meaningful 
journey, and
 
• 
 A proactive stance on resilience and responsible 
AI exploration.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
229
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 Our “Shift Right” strategy, launched in FY 2024., served 
as the compass—anchoring transformation around five 
pillars: Journeys, Channels, Core, Data, and Security.
 
Reimagining the Banking Experience
 
 Across customer segments—retail, SME, and 
enterprise—we reengineered critical touchpoints to be 
more responsive, inclusive and insight-led.
 
• 
 86 per cent of new account acquisitions and 79 
per cent service requests were fulfilled digitally, 
supported by simplified onboarding, real-time 
validations, and assisted journeys where needed.
 
• 
 High-volume lending products like Xpress Car 
Loans, Business Loans and Gold Loans saw scale 
through straight-through processing and biometric 
KYC flows.
 
• 
 In rural and semi-urban India, digitally assisted 
journeys enabled credit and deposit access via local 
business correspondents—reducing onboarding 
time and improving branch capacities.
 
 Our customer-first design philosophy enabled us to deliver 
outcome-based journeys, not just digital workflows—
focused on speed, intuitiveness and self-resolution.
 
Scaling Digital Interfaces with Intelligence
 
 Our newly upgraded Mobile and NetBanking platforms—
rolled out in phases—have ushered in a cutting-edge 
experience, featuring unified views, smart navigation and 
enhanced security protocols that elevate every interaction.
 
 Conversational interfaces through HDFC BankOne 
handled over 3.7 crore customer engagements monthly, 
while WhatsApp Banking emerged as the preferred 
channel of our customers. Over half of all service 
requests now flow through digital self-service channels, 
with fallback to agents only when required.
 
 The launch of Pixel, a fully digital, app-native 
credit card, saw strong traction. It is built on the 
principles of configurability, real-time servicing and 
contextual engagement.
 
 Deepening Ecosystem Play: Embedded and API 
Banking
 
 Our embedded banking model evolved into an 
anchoring capability:
 
• 
 We scaled integrations with partners like Tata Neu, 
PhonePe and Swiggy enabling seamless API-led 
journeys for retail lending and cards.
 
• 
 Over one lakh products were sourced monthly 
through these ecosystems.
 
• 
 Our co-branded cards portfolio expanded 
with curated benefits, contextual offers and 
intelligent onboarding.
 
We also enhanced our cross-border offering:
 
• 
 HDFC Bank now handles over 20 per cent of India’s 
inbound remittances through tie-ups with Lulu 
Exchange, Flywire and PayMyTuition, supported by 
over 115 correspondent arrangements.
 
 A robust API-first orchestration layer continues to 
drive plug-and-play capability for partners, enabling 
secure, real-time access to banking infrastructure 
across platforms.
 
 Modernising the Core for Real-Time, Resilient 
Scale
 
 Financial Year 2024-25 marked a major milestone with 
the migration of our Core Banking System to a next-gen 
engineered platform—making HDFC Bank one of the 
largest banks in the country to host its core ecosystem 
on a modern, scalable architecture.
 
This was complemented by:
 
• 
 The first deployment under our “Lighten the Core” 
strategy-Payments Hub-which modularised IMPS 
processing with reduced latency.
 
• 
 Active-active data center configurations and 
infrastructure upgrades across payments, 
origination and loan management platforms.
 
 These foundational shifts allow us to handle 
exponential digital growth while preserving availability 
and performance.
 
Harnessing Data for Insight-Led Decisions
 
 The Bank initiated a Data Lake House programme to 
centralise data from across systems, enabling scalable 
analytics, improving accuracy and regulatory compliance. 

HDFC Bank Limited
230
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
Built on modern open-stack technologies, the platform 
supports better decision-making, standardises  master 
data, and strengthens governance through unified 
controls, lineage tracking and reduced duplication.
 
 Cybersecurity and Digital Risk: A Measured 
Approach
 
 As the Bank expands its digital footprint, safeguarding 
customer data and ensuring system integrity remain 
paramount. In FY 2025, HDFC Bank strengthened its 
cybersecurity architecture with a comprehensive suite of 
tools and governance frameworks designed to manage 
evolving risks, ensure regulatory alignment and preserve 
operational continuity.
 
 The Bank continued to enhance its Zero Trust 
Architecture, reducing reliance on perimeter defences 
and embedding verification at every access point—
across users, systems and APIs. These principles now 
underpin access controls, policy enforcement and cloud 
governance across business-critical environments.
 
 The Bank protects its customer data and digital services 
through a range of advanced security measures. By 
deploying PRISMA Cloud Infrastructure Entitlement 
Management (CIEM), the Bank effectively manages and 
restricts cloud permissions based on least-privilege 
principles. The integration of Accops Secure Gateway 
provides MFA-protected access to crucial internet-
facing applications while Zscaler Private Access (ZPA) 
ensures secure, policy-driven remote connectivity in 
line with the Bank’s Zero Trust roadmap. Additionally, 
the Cloud Web Application Firewall (WAF) safeguards 
against application-layer threats across digital channels. 
Continuous monitoring, detection and remediation of 
cloud misconfigurations and vulnerabilities are achieved 
through the Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM) 
and Cloud Workload Protection Platform (CWPP). The 
Bank also employs Cloud Access Security Broker 
(CASB), Browser Isolation and CI/CD Security Controls 
to secure SaaS usage and development pipelines. Lastly, 
Attack Surface Monitoring (ASM) continuously scans and 
secures exposed digital assets throughout the enterprise.
 
 Collectively, these investments reinforce the Bank’s 
commitment to secure-by-design architecture ensuring 
that innovation, scale and resilience go hand in hand with 
responsible risk management.
 
 Serving Enterprises and SMEs with Speed and 
Simplicity
 
 Our Corporate and Wholesale Banking business saw 
strong digital adoption through:
 
• 
 Rollout of fully digital onboarding journeys for 
working capital and trade finance.
 
• 
 Enhancements to CBX (Corporate Banking 
Exchange), which now processes large volume of 
transactions  monthly, with API share steadily rising.
 
 In parallel, our SmartHub suite scaled across SME and 
merchant communities with embedded finance, payments 
and loan origination stitched into a single interface.
 
Building at Scale: Agile Tech Delivery
 
 The Factory model continues to be the nucleus of 
digital execution at HDFC Bank—with dedicated units 
focused on:
 
• 
Experience design
 
• 
Mobile and cloud engineering
 
• 
APIs and orchestration
 
• 
Data and GenAI
 
• 
Secure-by-design architecture
 
 Various high-impact programmes were executed 
in FY 2025 using this construct—ranging from core 
modernisation to next-gen servicing platforms.
 
 The Next Chapter: Responsible GenAI and 
Platform-Led Innovation
 
 Financial Year 2024-25 served as the foundation year for 
AI-readiness. A structured platform approach is being 
developed with focus on:
 
• 
 Secure, reusable models and components 
for scalability 
 
• 
 Built-in observability and compliance 
 
 
 The Bank is exploring a Class of Problems 
methodology—prioritising high-impact, enterprise-
wide opportunities over isolated use cases. This 
approach ensures scalability, consistency and 
measurable business outcomes.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
231
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 Early pilots in documentation, support, underwriting 
and productivity workflows have validated the potential 
for GenAI to augment decision-making and reduce 
operational friction.
 
What Lies Ahead
 
 Financial Year 2024-25 was a year of bold action, 
modernisation and simplification. In FY 2026, our focus 
sharpens towards:
 
• 
Scaling digital platforms with embedded capabilities
 
• 
Operationalising responsible GenAI
 
• 
Delivering contextual experiences at the edge
 
• 
Sustaining resilience while enabling agility
 
 HDFC Bank’s technology and digital strategy remains 
focused not just on keeping pace with change—but on 
shaping the future of customer-centric, inclusive and 
intelligent banking in India.
Cybersecurity
 Cybersecurity is at the heart of the technology transformation 
journey and the Bank is deeply committed to ensuring robust 
cyber security with substantial advancements being made to 
further fortify its infrastructure and applications. Key initiatives 
in this regard include:
• 
 Significant advancements to consolidate cyber security 
through initiatives such as the foundation of a next-
generation Cybersecurity Operations Center (CSOC) 
for predictive security and incident management, 
introduction of Security Orchestration, Automation and 
Response (SOAR) to reduce incident response times and 
network micro-segmentation for better control, visibility 
and preparedness against ransomware. 
• 
 The initiative and approach to leverage AI and ML as an 
entire suite to proactively detect and respond to threats 
is managed through the deployment of next generation 
Security Incident Event Management (SIEM) solution 
augmented by Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine 
Learning (ML) capabilities along with strong User Entity 
Behavioral Analysis (UEBA) functionalities and built-in 
threat modelling.
• 
 24/7 defacement monitoring and vulnerability 
management of the bank’s internet properties, antivirus 
/ malware program, patch management, penetration 
testing, etc. for minimising the surface area for cyber 
security attacks and fortifying the Bank’s assets like 
infrastructure and applications.
• 
 Dedicated program for attack surface management 
(ASM) that includes continuous attack surface discovery 
and probing for weaknesses on the discovered assets. 
There has been a continuous effort to ensure that 
all significant weaknesses are remediated within a 
reasonable timeframe.
• 
 Adopting a zero-trust architecture approach to ensure 
protection against cyber-attacks.
• 
 Implementation of Anti-Advanced Persistence Threat 
(Anti-APT) system agent on all endpoints in the Bank 
to protect from zero-day malware attacks. All network 
elements such as email, web as well as endpoint 
computers are protected by the anti-APT system.
• 
 Enterprise solutions such as Data Loss Prevention (DLP) 
to monitor sensitive data stored, transmitted and shared 
by users, and to prevent and detect data breaches. All 
endpoints have proxy agent configured to ensure that 
only authorised websites are accessed. All outgoing 
e-mails are monitored through DLP solution. 
• 
 Laptop Encryption: Data encryption ensures that 
business-critical and sensitive data is not misplaced, 
thereby preventing any reputational damage and 
curtailing monetary losses. Hard disk encryption is 
implemented on all laptops. 
• 
 Implementation of Domain-based Message 
Authentication, Reporting and Conformance (DMARC) 
system for protecting the Bank’s domain from 
unauthorized use, commonly known as ‘email spoofing’.
Technology related challenges over the past few years have 
only made the Bank’s resolve stronger to consolidate and 
fortify its technology environment. Focused technology / 
digital investments and programs in technology are pivotal to 
the Bank in the new age of digital banking and experiences 
for its customers.
Service Quality Initiatives and Grievance Redressal
Customer Focus is one of the five core values of the Bank. 
Given a highly competitive business environment, especially 
with diverse lines of businesses, we continuously strive to 
enhance customer experience. Delivering exceptional product 

HDFC Bank Limited
232
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
quality and customer service is a prerequisite for sustained 
growth. The Bank strives to achieve this by seeking customer 
feedback, benchmarking with best-in-class business entities 
and implementing customer-centric improvements. We have 
adopted a well-defined three-step strategy towards Customer 
Service - Define, Measure and Improve. Towards improving 
customer experience, the Bank has adopted industry best 
practices and continuously acts on customer feedback 
secured across multiple channels.
HDFC Bank has adopted a multi-pronged approach to 
provide an omnichannel experience to its customers. On 
the one hand, it has traditional touchpoints like branches, 
email care and PhoneBanking. On the other hand, it has 
state-of-the-art platforms like NetBanking, MobileBanking, 
WhatsApp Banking, the chatbot Eva and the Bank’s exclusive 
social care handles. The Bank also has a Virtual Relationship 
Management programme to cater to various financial needs 
in a personalised manner. 
One of the key strategies adopted by your bank is to leverage 
the benefits of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Automation in 
providing better customer service – which entails (a) Speed 
of Response (b) Accuracy of Response (c) Response being In 
line with regulatory prescriptions and (d) in-depth root cause 
analysis to reduce/eliminate recurrence of customer grievances.
Customer service performance and grievance redressal are 
regularly assessed at various levels, including Branch Level 
Customer Service Committees, Virtual Level Customer 
Service Committees, Standing Committee on Customer 
Service and Customer Service Committee of the Board. HDFC 
Bank has implemented robust processes to monitor and 
measure service quality levels across touchpoints, including 
at product and process level through the efforts of the Quality 
Initiatives Group.
The service quality team conducts regular reviews across 
various products, processes and channels, focusing on 
improving the customer experience. A unique Service Quality 
Index (SQI) has been developed to measure the performance 
of key customer facing channels based on critical customer 
service parameters. This SQI enables customer facing 
channels to identify improvement areas, thereby raising 
service standards. 
One of the basic building blocks of providing acceptable 
level of customer service is to have an effective Internal 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism / Framework. HDFC Bank 
has developed a comprehensive Grievance Redressal Policy, 
Customer Rights Policy, Customer Protection Policy and a 
Customer Compensation Policy duly approved by the Board 
which outline a framework for resolving customer grievances 
in an effective manner. These policies are accessible to 
customers through the Bank’s website and branch network.
HDFC Bank has created multiple channels for customers 
to provide feedback and register grievances facilitating 
a transparent and accessible system. As a pioneer in 
innovative financial solutions and digital platforms, the 
Bank has witnessed an increased utilisation of its digital 
channels. Keeping customer interest in focus, the Bank has 
formulated a Board approved Protection Policy which limits 
the liability of customers in case of unauthorised electronic 
banking transactions. 
This Bank is compliant with the RBI Internal Ombudsman 
Scheme of RBI Guidelines. At the apex level, as a part of 
the Internal Grievance Redressal mechanism, the Bank has 
appointed seasoned-retired bankers as Internal Ombudsmen 
to independently review any customer grievance which is 
partly/wholly rejected by the Bank before the final decision is 
communicated to the customer.
HDFC Bank is on a journey to measure customer loyalty 
through a high velocity, closed loop customer feedback 
system. This customer experience transformation programme 
helps employees to empathise better with customers and 
improve turnaround times. Branded as ‘Infinite Smiles’, 
the programme helps establish behaviours and practices 
that result in customer-centric actions through continuous 
improvement in products, services, processes and policies.
The Bank remains committed to placing the customer at the 
centre of its operations. By consistently improving customer 
experience, adopting an omnichannel approach and 
implementing robust service quality and grievance redressal 
mechanisms, it aims to build and nurture lasting relationships.
Risk Management and Portfolio Quality
Your Bank’s historical focus on Pillar 1 risks, including Credit 
Risk, Market Risk and Operational Risk has been expanded 
in response to the evolving banking landscape. Liquidity 
Risk, Information Technology Risk, Information Security Risk, 
Group Risk and Model Risk have also emerged as critical 
considerations. These risks not only impact your Bank’s 
financial strength and operations but also its reputation. To 
address these concerns, your Bank has established Board-
approved risk strategy and policies overseen by the Risk Policy 
and Monitoring Committee (RPMC). RPMC is a Board level 
committee, which supports the Board by supervising the 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
233
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
implementation of the risk strategy. It guides the development 
of policies, procedures and systems for managing risk. It 
ensures that these are adequate and appropriate to changing 
business conditions, the structure and needs of the Bank and 
the risk appetite of the Bank. It ensures that frameworks are 
established for assessing and managing various risks faced 
by the Bank, systems are developed to relate risk to the 
Bank’s capital level and methods are in place for monitoring 
compliance with internal risk management policies and 
processes.  
The hallmark of your Bank’s risk management function is that it 
is independent of the business sourcing unit with convergence 
only at the CEO level.
The gamut of key risks faced by the Bank which are 
dimensioned and managed include:
• 
Financial Risks:

y 
Credit Risk,
 
y Market Risk
 
y 
Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book
 
y 
Liquidity Risk
 
y Intraday Liquidity Risk
 
y Intraday Credit Risk
 
y Credit Concentration Risk
• 
Non-Financial Risks

y Operational Risk

y 
Information Technology and Information 
Security Practices
 
y Technology Risk

y 
Third Party Products Risk

y 
Outsourcing Risk
• 
Group Risk (various risks pertaining to subsidiaries)
• 
Model Risk
• 
People Risk
• 
Business Risk
• 
Strategic Risk
• 
Compliance Risk
• 
Reputation Risk
Financial Risks:
Credit Risk
Credit Risk is the possibility of losses associated with 
diminution in the credit quality of borrowers or counterparties. 
Losses stem from outright default or reduction in portfolio 
value. Your Bank has a comprehensive credit risk architecture, 
policies, procedures and systems for managing credit risk 
in its retail and wholesale businesses. Wholesale lending 
is managed on an individual as well as portfolio basis. In 
contrast, given the granularity of individual exposures, retail 
lending is managed largely on a portfolio basis across 
various products and customer segments. Robust front-end 
and back-end systems are in place to ensure credit quality 
and minimise default losses. The factors considered while 
sanctioning retail loans include income, demographics, 
credit history, loan tenure and banking behavior. In addition, 
multiple credit risk models are developed and used to assess 
different segments of customers based on portfolio behavior. 
In wholesale loans, credit risk is managed by capping 
exposures based on borrower group, industry, credit rating 
grades and country, among others. This is backed by portfolio 
diversification, stringent credit approval processes, periodic 
post-disbursement monitoring and remedial measures. Your 
Bank has ensured strong asset quality through volatile times 
in the lending environment by stringently adhering to prudent 
norms and institutionalised processes. Your Bank also has a 
robust framework for assessing Counterparty Banks, which 
are reviewed periodically to ensure interbank exposures are 
within approved appetite.
As on March 31, 2025, your Bank’s ratio of Gross Non-
Performing Assets (GNPAs) to Gross Advances was 1.33 per 
cent. Net Non- Performing Assets (Gross Non-Performing 
Assets Less Specific Loan Loss provisions) was 0.43 per cent 
of Net Advances.
Your Bank has a conservative and prudent policy for specific 
provisions on NPAs. Its provision for NPAs is higher than 
the minimum regulatory requirements and adheres to the 
regulatory norms for Standard Assets.

HDFC Bank Limited
234
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
Credit Risk emanating from digital lending
Driven by rapid technological advancements, the banking 
sector is witnessing the increasing importance of digitalisation 
as a critical differentiator for customer retention and service 
delivery. Digital lending has emerged as a convenient and 
quick method for customers to secure loans with just a 
few clicks, often in minutes. However, addressing the risks 
associated with digital lending is crucial, and your Bank has 
implemented appropriate measures to manage these risks 
effectively. Digital loans are sanctioned primarily to your Bank’s 
existing customers. Often, they are customers across multiple 
products, thus enabling the Bank ready access to their 
credit history and risk profile. This accessibility facilitates the 
evaluation of their loan eligibility. Moreover, the credit checks 
and scores used by your Bank in process-based underwriting 
are replicated for digital loans. This ensures consistency in the 
evaluation process. 
Market Risk
Market Risk arises primarily from your Bank’s statutory reserve 
management and trading activity in interest rates, equity 
and currency market. These risks are managed through a 
well-defined Board approved Market Risk Policy, Investment 
Policy, Foreign Exchange Trading Policy and Derivatives Policy 
that caps risk in different trading desks or various securities 
through trading risk limits/triggers. The risk measures include 
position limits, tenor restrictions, sensitivity limits, namely, 
PV01, Modified Duration of Hold to Maturity Portfolio and 
Option Greeks, Value-at-Risk (VaR) Limit, Stop Loss Trigger 
Level (SLTL), Scenario-based P&L Triggers, Potential Loss 
Trigger Level (PLTL), YTD Trigger for AFS book. These limits 
are monitored on an end-of-day basis by treasury mid office. 
In addition, forex open positions, currency option delta and 
interest rate sensitivity limits are computed and monitored 
on an intraday basis. This is supplemented by a Board-
approved stress testing policy and framework that simulates 
various market risk scenarios to measure losses and initiate 
remedial measures. Your Bank’s Market Risk capital charge is 
computed daily using the Standardised Measurement Method 
applying the regulatory factors.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank may not be able to 
meet its financial obligations as they fall due without incurring 
unacceptable losses. Your Bank’s liquidity and interest rate 
risk management framework is spelt out through a well-
defined Board approved Asset Liability Management Policy. 
As part of this process, your Bank has established various 
Board-approved limits for liquidity and interest rate risks in 
the banking book. The Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) is a 
decision-making unit responsible for implementing the liquidity 
and interest rate risk management strategy of the Bank in line 
with its risk management objectives and ensures adherence 
to the risk tolerance/limits set by the Board. ALCO reviews 
the policy’s implementation and monitoring of limits. While 
the maturity gap, Basel III ratios, and stock ratio limits help 
manage liquidity risk, Net Interest Income impact and Market 
Value of Equity (MVE) impact help mitigate interest rate risk 
in the banking book. This is reinforced by a comprehensive 
Board-approved stress testing programme covering both 
liquidity and interest rate risk.
Your Bank conducts various studies to assess the behavioural 
pattern of non-contractual assets and liabilities and 
embedded options available to customers, which are used 
while managing maturity gaps and repricing risk respectively. 
Further, your Bank has the necessary framework to manage 
intraday liquidity risk.
The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) is one of the Basel 
Committee’s key reforms to develop a more resilient banking 
sector. The LCR, a global standard, is also used to measure 
your Bank’s liquidity position. LCR seeks to ensure that the 
Bank has an adequate stock of unencumbered High-Quality 
Liquid Assets (HQLA) that can be converted into cash easily 
and immediately to meet its liquidity needs under a 30-day 
calendar liquidity stress scenario. The LCR helps in improving 
the banking sector’s ability to absorb shocks arising from 
financial and economic stress, whatever the source, thus 
reducing the risk of spillover from the financial sector to the 
real economy. 
Average Liquidity Coverage Ratio
119.04  per cent
On a Consolidated Basis for the Financial Year 
2024-25
Above the regulatory threshold of 100 per cent
The Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR), a key liquidity risk 
measure under BCBS liquidity standards, is also used to 
measure your Bank’s liquidity position. The NSFR seeks to 
ensure that your Bank maintains a stable funding profile in 
relation to the composition of its assets and off-balance sheet 
activities. The NSFR promotes resilience over a longer-term 
time horizon by requiring banks to fund their activities with 
more stable sources of funding on an ongoing basis. The RBI 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
235
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
guidelines stipulated a minimum NSFR requirement of 100 per 
cent at a consolidated level and your Bank has maintained 
the NSFR well above 100 per cent since its implementation. 
Based on guidelines issued by RBI, your Bank’s NSFR stood 
at 119.80 per cent on a consolidated basis at March 31, 2025.
Non-financial Risks: 
Operational Risk
This is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
processes, people and systems or from external events. It also 
includes risk of loss due to legal risk but excludes strategic 
and reputational risk.
Given below is a detailed explanation under four different 
heads: Framework and Process, Internal Control, Information 
Technology and Information Security Practices and Fraud 
Monitoring and Control.
A. 
Framework and Process
 
 To manage Operational Risks, your Bank has established 
a comprehensive Operational Risk Management 
Framework, whose implementation is supervised by the 
Operational Risk Management Committee (ORMC) and 
reviewed by the RPMC of the Board. An independent 
Operational Risk Management Department (ORMD) 
is responsible for implementing the framework. The 
framework incorporates, three lines of defence to 
ensure implementation. 
  
* In order to achieve the aforesaid objective pertaining 
to operational risk management framework, the ORMC 
guides and oversees the functioning, implementation, and 
maintenance of operational risk management activities of 
Bank, with special focus on:
• 
 Identification and assessment of risks across the Bank 
through the Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) 
and Scenario analysis
• 
 Measurement of Operational Risk based on the actual 
loss data
• 
 Monitoring of risk through Key Risk Indicators (KRI)
• 
 Management and reporting through KRI, RCSA and 
operational risk losses of the Bank
B. 
Internal Control
 
 Your Bank has implemented sound internal control 
practices across all processes, units and functions. It has 
well laid down policies and processes for the management 
of its day-to-day activities. Your Bank follows established, 
well-designed controls, which include traditional four eye 
principles, effective segregation of business and support 
functions, segregation of duties, call back processes, 
reconciliation, exception reporting and periodic MIS. 
Specialised risk control units function in risk- prone 
products/ functions to minimise operational risk. Controls 
are tested as part of the SOX control testing framework.

HDFC Bank Limited
236
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
C. 
 Information 
Technology 
and 
Information 
Security Practices
 
 Your Bank operates in a highly automated environment 
and makes use of the latest technologies available on 
cloud or on-premises Data Centres to support various 
business segments. With the advent of new technology 
tools and increased sophistication, your Bank has 
improved its efficiency, reduced operational complexities, 
aided decision making and enhanced the accessibility of 
products and services. This results in various risks such 
as those associated with the use, ownership, operation, 
redundancy, involvement, influence, and adoption of IT 
within an enterprise, as well as business disruption due 
to technological failures. Additionally, it can lead to risks 
related to information assets, data security, integrity, 
reliability, and availability, among others. Your Bank 
has put in place a governance framework, Information 
Security Practices, Business Continuity Plan, Disaster 
Recovery (DR) resiliency, Public Cloud and Cloud Native 
Services Adoption and Enhanced Automated Monitoring 
mechanisms to mitigate Information Technology and 
Information Security-related risks. Our Bank continues 
to enhance its information security posture through a 
range of strategic and technology-driven initiatives aimed 
at strengthening its information security and resilience 
against evolving cyber threats. 
 
a. 
 The Next-generation Cybersecurity Operations 
Center (CSOC) has brought in significant 
advancements to improve overall cyber security 
posture of the Bank by deploying a predictive 
/ proactive security monitoring of Bank IT 
Infrastructure and Applications. We have deployed 
next generation Security Incident Event Management 
(SIEM) solution augmented by Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) and Machine Learning (ML) capabilities along 
with strong User Entity Behavioral Analysis (UEBA) 
functionalities and built-in threat modelling. 
 
b. 
 The Bank’s dedicated Attack Surface Management 
(ASM) program is aimed at continuously identifying 
and addressing vulnerabilities across its assets, 
thereby ensuring a secure environment for the Bank 
and its customers. 
 
c. 
 Additionally, vulnerability management of the Bank’s 
internet properties, penetration testing, antivirus / 
anti-malware program etc. minimize the surface 
area for cyber security attacks. 
 
d. 
 Our centralized patch management tool automates 
the discovery, management, and remediation of 
endpoints and servers across various operating 
systems and environments for the available patches. 
It further facilitates patching, software deployment, 
and compliance with security standards, thus 
reducing the risk of the introduction of vulnerability 
due to lack of timely patching.
 
e. 
 With the growing use of cloud infrastructure, 
tools such as Cloud Posture and Access Security 
Tools (CSPM & CASB) have been implemented 
to detect misconfigurations, enforce compliance 
requirements, and proactively reduce cloud-related 
risks.  
 
f. 
 Our Red Team proactively assesses our cyber 
assets for vulnerabilities through various periodic 
tests which also include red team assessments. 
Any issues identified during the assessments are 
remediated in a timely manner to ensure that the 
banking services remain resilient and stay protected 
against the evolving threats.  
 
g. 
 Our Bank has also adopted zero-trust architecture 
approach to ensure protection against cyber-
attacks.
 
h. 
 Bank’s comprehensive e-learning module, iSecurity 
Ambassador (iSA), a mandatory assessment-based 
course on information and cyber security, helps in 
promoting security awareness culture in the Bank. 
 
 Overall, the bank’s cybersecurity measures are focused 
on ensuring the highest level of protection against cyber 
threats, with proactive monitoring and automated incident 
response capabilities, enhanced network visibility and a 
zero-trust approach to security.
 
 The Bank has defined various policies and frameworks 
for managing the IT and Information Security risks 
including risks emanating from third party engagements 
and it follows the three lines of defence principle in 
managing these risks. With the evolving changes in the 
technology landscape, the Bank has been reviewing and 
enhancing the scope for monitoring and mitigating the 
risks through revision of frameworks and policies, tools, 
and governance. 
 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
237
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 Your Bank has a well-defined Business Continuity and 
Disaster Recovery plan that is periodically tested to 
ensure that it can meet any operational contingencies. 
Further, there is a well-documented crisis management 
plan in place to address the strategic issues of a crisis 
impacting the Bank and to direct and communicate the 
corporate response to the crisis including cyber crisis. 
In addition, employees periodically undergo mandatory 
business continuity awareness training and sensitisation 
exercises on a periodic basis.
 
 For details on Business Continuity Management, 
Information and Cyber Security Practices and Data 
Privacy Measures, please refer page 106 to 111 and 
231 & 239.
 
 An independent assurance team within Internal Audit 
acts as a third line of defence that provides assurance 
on the management of IT-related risks.
D. 
Fraud Monitoring and Control 
 
 Your Bank has defined a comprehensive Fraud Risk 
Management Policy encompassing the life cycle, i.e. 
prevention, detection, investigation, accountability, 
monitoring, recovery, analysis and reporting. Further, the 
Bank has Whistle Blower and Vigilance Policies and there 
are designated functions responsible for implementation 
of fraud prevention measures. Frauds are investigated to 
identify the root cause and relevant corrective steps are 
recommended to prevent recurrence.
 
 Fraud Monitoring committees at the senior management 
and Board level also deliberate on high value fraud 
events and advise preventive actions. Periodic 
reports are submitted to the Board and senior 
management committees.
Compliance Risk
Compliance Risk is defined as the risk of impairment of your 
Bank’s integrity, leading to damage to its reputation, legal or 
regulatory sanctions, or financial loss, as a result of a failure (or 
perceived failure) to comply with applicable laws, regulations 
and standards. Your Bank has a Compliance Policy to ensure 
the highest standards of compliance. A dedicated team of 
subject matter experts in the Compliance Department works 
with business, support and operations teams to ensure active 
Compliance Risk management and monitoring. The team 
also provides advisory services on regulatory matters. The 
focus is on identifying and reducing risk by rigorously testing 
products and also putting in place robust internal policies. 
Products that adhere to regulatory norms are tested after 
rollout and shortcomings, if any, are fully addressed till the 
product stabilises. Internal policies are reviewed and updated 
periodically as per agreed frequency or based on market 
actions or regulatory guidelines/ actions. The compliance 
team also seeks regular feedback on regulatory compliance 
from product, business and operation teams through self-
certifications and monitoring.
Group Risk
Your Bank has diverse set of subsidiaries including NBFC, 
AMC, Life Insurance, General Insurance, Venture Capital 
entities, amongst others. In order to manage the risk arising 
from subsidiaries with regard to potential uncertainties or 
adverse events that can impact the operations, financial 
stability, reputation of the Group, your Bank has established 
Group Risk Management function within the Risk Management 
Group. Your Bank shall have a reasonable oversight on the 
Risk Management Framework of the group entities on an 
ongoing basis through Group Risk Management Committee 
(GRMC) and Group Risk Council (GRC). The Board / Risk 
Management committees of respective subsidiary shall be 
driving the day to day risk management in accordance with 
the requirements of the respective regulator. Stress testing 
for the group is carried out by integrating the stress tests of 
the subsidiaries. Similarly, capital adequacy projections are 
formulated for the group after incorporating the business/
capital plans of the subsidiaries. The Group Risk Management 
Committee reports to the Bank’s Risk Policy & Monitoring 
Committee (RPMC).
Group Oversight Framework:
As HDFC Bank continues to grow in scale and complexity as the 
parent of a diversified financial group, the need for coordinated 
oversight across group entities has become increasingly 
important. In April 2024, the Bank formally introduced a 
Group Oversight Framework to reinforce governance across 
subsidiaries. This initiative aligns with regulatory expectations 
set out in the inter-regulatory forum reports by the Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI), Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(SEBI) and Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
of India (IRDAI) on the monitoring of systemically important 
financial intermediaries.
The Framework applies to HDFC Bank and its group companies 
that are consolidated in the Bank’s financial statements, with 
the exception of entities where the Bank neither exercises 

HDFC Bank Limited
238
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
significant control nor qualifies as a significant beneficial 
owner—such as HDFC Mutual Fund, Alternative Investment 
Funds and Separately Managed Accounts managed or 
advised by HDFC Asset Management Company Limited and 
its international subsidiary.
The Framework establishes a defined structure for oversight, 
reporting and escalation across the Group. The Board of HDFC 
Bank exercises overall oversight through periodic information 
reported by various stakeholders. The Group Oversight 
Department reports critical matters to the Board, including 
critical overdue action items, material risks, exceptions in intra-
group transactions, material related-party transactions and 
significant governance concerns (if any). 
Enabling and control functions of the Bank report Group-level 
key metrics and any observed exceptions through designated 
channels. Oversight responsibilities and escalation protocols 
are set out in the framework and is illustrated as below. 
Model Risk
The use of models invariably presents model risk, which is the 
potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on 
incorrect or misused model outputs and reports. The Model 
Risk Management (MRM) under Risk Management Group 
is responsible for testing and verifying the accuracy and 
reliability of models used within the Bank. By establishing a 
dedicated MRM team, your Bank ensures that its models are 
independently evaluated before implementation and on an 
ongoing basis. 
There is an established Model Risk Management Policy 
(MRM Policy) which is a centralized, overarching policy whose 
objective is to provide comprehensive guidance on model 
risk management across the Bank. The policy defines the 
roles and responsibilities across stakeholders i.e., Model 
Owners, Model Users, Model Developers, and the Model Risk 
Management (MRM). 
There is Model Risk Management Committee (MRMC) 
which is an executive committee to govern the Model Risk 
Management Framework as defined in the MRM policy. It also 
oversees the development and implementation of MRM policy, 
governance structure and ensure that necessary processes 
and systems are put in place. The Committee reviews the 
results of the model validation/monitoring on a periodic basis. 
The MRMC shall report to the Bank’s Risk Policy & Monitoring 
Committee (RPMC). 
ICAAP
Your Bank has a structured management framework in the 
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) for 
the identification and evaluation of all material risks that the 
Bank is exposed to, which may have an adverse material 
impact on its financial position. Your Bank has identified 
material risks which include, in addition to Pillar 1, several 
Pillar 2 risks for which capital is primarily quantified using 
stress testing approach. The ICAAP framework is guided by 
the Board approved ICAAP Policy. The ICAAP encompasses 
assessment of capital adequacy for the base period and for 
the projected plan years.
Climate Risk 
The risks from climate change are divided into (i) Physical risk 
(acute and chronic) which captures economic losses from 
acute impacts on account of extreme weather events or long-
term chronic impact on environment and (ii) Transition risks 
which captures financial asset level losses due to the possible 
process of adjustment to a low carbon economy. 
 The CSR and ESG committee of the Board oversees your 
Bank’s sustainability and climate change initiatives. This 
Committee monitors the ESG framework, the Environmental 
Policy framework, actionables and initiatives strategised and 
executed by the management level ESG Apex Council and 
the ESG Working Groups.
The Committee also maintains an oversight over your Bank’s 
ESG disclosures, highlighting your Bank’s ESG performance 
and prioritisation of material topics. A dedicated ESG vertical 
works in conjunction with several internal and external 
stakeholders, to drive your Bank’s ESG agenda including 
managing, mitigating and reporting on climate metrics. The 
Deputy Managing Director of the Bank has direct oversight on 
the ESG function and reports to the Board on such matters. 
Further, your Bank has formulated its ESG policy framework 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
239
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
and ESG Risk Management (ESGRM) Framework, which are 
integrated into the Bank’s wholesale credit appraisal process. 
Specifically, your Bank’s ESGRM Framework addresses 
climate transition and mitigation plan and includes a prohibition 
list criterion and ‘Category-A’ tagging of climate risk-related 
vulnerable sectors. Your Bank’s commitment to enhance its 
portfolio from a climate and ESG perspective is reflected in the 
development of the Board approved Sustainable Financing 
Criteria Framework, which aligns with the overall sustainability 
strategy of the Bank.
Your Bank is in the process of evaluating appropriate 
methodology and frameworks to assess climate transition risk 
for the wholesale borrowers. Your Bank also estimates financed 
emissions in its lending portfolio and is firming up an internal 
strategy on tracking its portfolio-based financed emissions. 
Additionally, your Bank has taken initiatives to engage in 
capacity building programmes to familiarise the Board and 
its staff members on the key developments in climate risk 
assessment, considering this risk is continuously evolving.
Additionally, your Bank is  continuously striving to align itself 
to make increased climate risk related disclosures in line with 
domestic and global regulations. Your Bank endeavours to 
align with climate risk related disclosures as per Task Force on 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework and 
has been reporting on ESG KPIs in alignment with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) since FY2014, along with reporting 
in line with the SEBI-mandated Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) framework in its 
annual disclosures.
Stress Testing Framework
Your Bank has implemented a Board approved Stress 
Testing Policy and Framework which forms an integral part of 
the Bank’s ICAAP. Stress testing involves the use of various 
techniques to assess your Bank’s potential vulnerability 
to extreme but plausible stressed business conditions. 
The changes in the levels of Pillar I risks and select Pillar 
II risks, along with the changes in the on and off-Balance 
Sheet positions of your Bank are assessed under assumed 
‘stress’ scenarios and sensitivity factors. The suite of stress 
scenarios includes topical themes depending on prevailing 
geopolitical / macroeconomic / sectoral and other trends. 
The stress testing outcome may be analysed through 
capital impact and/or identification of vulnerable borrowers 
depending on the scenario.
Business Continuity Planning (BCP)
Your Bank has a strong BCP programme in place that 
enables operational resilience and continuity in delivering 
quality services across various business cycles. With our ISO 
22301:2019 certified Business Continuity Programme, we 
prioritise minimising service disruptions and safeguarding our 
employees, customers and business during any unforeseen 
adverse events or circumstances. The Programme is designed 
in accordance with the guidelines issued by regulatory bodies. 
Further, our programme undergoes regular internal, external 
and regulatory reviews. 
The Business Continuity Management function focusses 
on strengthening the Bank’s preparedness for continuity. 
Oversight over programme is provided by the Business 
Continuity Steering Committee (BCSC), chaired by the Group 
Chief Risk Officer and Risk & Policy Monitoring Committee 
(RPMC), a Board-level committee.
The programme is guided by an enterprise-wide Board 
approved BCM Policy, supported by comprehensive processes 
and procedures. These enable the Bank to effectively respond 
to, recover from, resume and restore critical business functions 
following disruptions caused by internal or external risk events. 
The framework clearly defines roles and responsibilities for 
teams involved in Crisis Management, Business Recovery, 
Emergency Response and IT Disaster Recovery, ensuring a 
coordinated approach.

HDFC Bank Limited
240
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
Some of the key roles in this programme are as follows:
Functional recovery plans  
Functional recovery plans ensure structured and expedited restoration of operations 
Crisis Management teams  
These work on effective management of recovery operations during disruptive events 
Disaster Recovery (DR) Site 
A dedicated DR site for recovery of critical core and customer facing applications 
Steering Committee 
It ensures centralised monitoring of your Bank's Business Continuity program implementation 
Periodic drills   
Periodic drills are conducted for testing the effectiveness of recovery plans. 
As a responsible Bank, these steadfast practices have enabled 
us to continue seamless service delivery to our customers 
through disruptive events and beyond.
Internal Controls, Audit and Compliance
Your Bank has put in place extensive internal controls and 
processes that are commensurate with the size and scale 
of the Bank to mitigate Operational and other allied risks, 
including centralised operations and ‘segregation of duty’ 
between the front and back-office. The front-office units 
usually act as customer touchpoints and sales and service 
outlets while the back-office carries out the entire processing, 
accounting and settlement of transactions in the Bank’s 
core banking system. The policy framework, definition and 
monitoring of limits is carried out by various mid-office and 
risk management functions. The credit sanctioning and debt 
management units are also segregated and do not have any 
sales and operations responsibilities.
Your Bank has set up various executive-level committees, 
with participation from various business and control functions, 
that are designed to review and oversee matters pertaining to 
capital, assets and liabilities, business practices and customer 
service, operational risk, information security, business 
continuity planning and internal risk-based supervision among 
others. The second line of defence functions set standards 
and lay down policies and procedures by which the business 
functions manage risks, including compliance with applicable 
laws, compliance with regulatory guidelines, adherence to 
operational controls and relevant standards of conduct. At the 
ground level, your Bank has a mix of preventive and detective 
controls implemented through systems and processes, 
ensuring a robust framework in your Bank to enable correct 
and complete accounting, identification of outliers (if any) by 
the management on a timely basis for corrective action and 
mitigating operational risks. 
Your Bank has put in place various preventive controls, including:
a) 
Limited and need-based access to systems by users
b) 
Dual custody over cash and near-cash items
c) 
 Segregation of duty in processing of transactions vis-à-
vis creation of user IDs
d) 
 Segregation of duty in processing of transactions 
vis-à-vis monitoring and review of transactions 
/ reconciliation
e) 
 Four eye principle (maker-checker control) for processing 
of transactions
f) 
Stringent password policy

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
241
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
g) 
 Booking of transactions in core banking system 
mandates the earmarking of line/limit (fund as well as 
non-fund based) assigned to the customer
h) 
 STP processes between core banking system and 
payment interface systems for transmission of messages
i) 
 Additional authorisation leg in payment interface systems 
in applicable cases
j) 
Audit logs directly extracted from systems
k) 
Empowerment grid
Your Bank also has detective controls in place:
l) 
Periodic review of user IDs and its usage logs
m) 
 Post-transaction monitoring at the back-end by way 
of call back process (through daily log reports) by an 
independent person, i.e., to ascertain that entries in the 
core banking system / messages in payment interface 
systems are based on valid/authorised transactions and 
customer requests
n) 
Daily tally of cash and near-cash items at end of day 
o) 
 Reconciliation of Nostro accounts (by an independent 
team) to ascertain and match-off the Nostro credits and 
debits (external or internal) regularly to avoid / identify 
any unreconciled/ unmatched entries passing through 
the system
p) 
 Reconciliation   of   all   internal/transitory accounts   and 
establishment of responsibility in case of outstanding
q) 
 Independent   and   surprise   checks   periodically 
by supervisors.
Your Bank has an Internal Audit Department which is 
responsible for independently evaluating the adequacy 
and effectiveness of internal controls, risk management, 
compliance with extant regulations, governance systems 
and processes and is manned by appropriately qualified and 
experienced personnel.
This department adopts a risk-based audit approach and carries 
out audits across various businesses i.e., Retail, Wholesale and 
Treasury (for India and Overseas books), Audit of Operations 
units, Audit of Control functions, Management and Thematic 
audits, Information Security audit, Revenue audit, Spot checks 
and Concurrent audit in order to independently evaluate the 
adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls on an ongoing 
basis and proactively recommending enhancements thereof. 
The Internal Audit Department, during the course of audit, also 
ascertains the extent of adherence to regulatory guidelines, 
legal requirements and operational processes and provides 
timely feedback to the management for corrective actions. A 
strong oversight on the operations is also kept through off-site 
monitoring by use of data analytics and automation tools to 
study trends/patterns to detect outliers (if any) and alert the 
management for due corrective action, wherever warranted.
The Internal Audit Department also independently reviews 
your Bank’s implementation of Internal Rating Based (IRB) - 
approach for calculation of capital charge for Credit Risk, the 
appropriateness of your Bank’s ICAAP, as well as evaluates 
the quality and comprehensiveness of your Bank’s disaster 
recovery and business continuity plans and also carries out 
management self-assessment of adequacy of the Bank’s 
internal financial controls and operating effectiveness of 
such controls in terms of Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) Act and 
Companies Act, 2013. The Internal Audit Department plays 
an important role in strengthening of the control functions by 
periodically reviewing their practices and processes as well as 
recommending enhancements thereof. Additionally, oversight 
is also kept on the functioning of the subsidiaries, related 
party transactions and extent of adherence to the licensing 
conditions of the RBI.
Any new product / process introduced in your Bank is 
reviewed by Compliance function in order to ensure adherence 
to regulatory guidelines. The Audit function may, if deemed 
necessary also proactively recommend improvements 
in operational processes and service quality for such new 
products / processes.
To ensure independence, the Internal Audit Function has a 
direct reporting line to the Audit Committee of the Board and 
an administrative line reporting to the Managing Director for 
administrative purposes. 
The Compliance function independently tracks, reviews and 
ensures compliance with regulatory guidelines and promotes 
a compliance culture in the Bank.
Your Bank has a comprehensive Know Your Customer (KYC), 
Anti Money Laundering (AML) and Combating Financing of 
Terrorism (CFT) policy (based on the RBI guidelines/provisions 
of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002) incorporating 
the key elements of Customer Acceptance Policy, Customer 
Identification Procedures, Risk Management and Monitoring 
of Transactions. The policy is subject to an annual review and 
is duly approved by the Board.

HDFC Bank Limited
242
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
Your Bank besides having robust controls in place to ensure 
adherence to the KYC guidelines at the time of account 
opening also has monitoring processes at various stages of 
the customer lifecycle including a continuous review process in 
the form of transaction monitoring carried out by a dedicated 
AML CFT monitoring team, which carries out transaction 
reviews for identification of suspicious patterns/trends that 
enables your Bank to further carry out enhanced due diligence 
(wherever required) and appropriate actions thereafter.
The Audit team and the Compliance team undergo regular 
training and certifications, both in-house and external to equip 
them with the necessary know-how and expertise to carry out 
the function.
The Audit Committee of the Board reviews the effectiveness 
of controls, compliance with regulatory guidelines as also the 
performance of the Audit and Compliance functions in your 
Bank and provides direction, wherever deemed fit. The Audit 
function is also subject to periodic external assurance reviews. 
Your Bank has always adhered to the highest standards of 
compliance and has put in place appropriate controls and risk 
measurement and risk management tools to ensure a robust 
compliance and governance structure.
Performance of Subsidiary Companies
Your Bank has five key subsidiaries, HDFC Life Insurance 
Company Limited (HDFC Life), HDB Financial Services Limited 
(HDBFSL), HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited 
(HDFC ERGO), HDFC Asset Management Company Limited 
(HDFC AMC) and HDFC Securities Limited (HSL). HDFC Life 
is a leading, listed, long-term life insurance solutions provider 
in India. HDBFSL is a leading NBFC that caters primarily to 
segments not covered by the Bank. HDFC ERGO offers a 
complete range of general insurance products. HDFC AMC is 
Investment Manager to HDFC Mutual Fund, one of the largest 
mutual funds in the country while HSL is among India’s leading 
retail broking firms. 
Amongst the Bank’s key subsidiaries, HDFC Life Insurance 
Company Limited and HDFC ERGO General Insurance 
Company Limited prepare their financial results in accordance 
with Indian GAAP and other subsidiaries do so in accordance 
with the notified Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind-AS’).
The detailed financial performance of the companies is 
given below.
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (HDFC Life)
Established in 2000, HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited 
(‘HDFC Life’ or the ‘Company’) is a leading provider of long-
term life insurance solutions in India. It offers a broad range 
of individual and group plans across the Protection, Pension, 
Savings, Investment, Annuity, and Health categories, with 
a portfolio comprising over 70 products and optional riders 
designed to meet the diverse needs of its customers.
The Financial Year 2024-25 was a year in which HDFC 
Life deepened its reach, continued sharpening its value 
propositions and demonstrated the resilience of its business 
model. The Company reported 18 per cent growth in Individual 
APE (Annualised Premium Equivalent) for FY2025, in line with 
the stated growth aspirations for the year. This growth was 
broad-based, driven in equal measure by an increase of 9 
per cent in policies written and an increase of 9 per cent in 
average ticket size.
Based on FY2025 industry data, HDFC Life outperformed 
both the private peers and the overall sector. HDFC Life’s 
overall industry market share expanded by about 70 bps to 
11.1 per cent and about 30 bps to 15.7 per cent in the private 
sector. Notably, the Company’s policy count grew faster than 
the overall industry and private sector. Almost 75 per cent of 
the Company’s new customers on-boarded in FY2025 were 
first-time buyers from HDFC Life, reflecting its expanding reach 
across Tier I, II and III markets. 
In FY2025, HDFC Life known for its innovative products and 
customer-centric approach has secured about 5 crore lives 
with an overall claim settlement ratio of 99.8 per cent. The 
company has over 650 branches across India.
For FY2025, HDFC Life reported New Business Margin of 
25.6 per cent, Value of New Business of ` 3,962 crore, an 
Embedded Value of ` 55,423 crore and delivered Profit After 
Tax of ` 1,802 crore. As of March 31 2025, HDFC Life had an 
AUM of ` 3,36,282 crore.
HDFC Life has consistently delivered positive and range-bound 
operating variance over the past nine years (excluding Covid), 
underscoring prudent risk management, disciplined execution 
and strong fundamentals. Moreover, aligning with the stated 
aspirations, the Company has nearly doubled all significant 
metrics between FY21 and FY2025. The Company was also 
recognised as a Great Place to Work and amongst the top 50 
companies in India for building a culture of innovation. 
As the Company steps into its 25th year of operations, the focus 
remains clear - to build a future-ready life insurer that grows 
sustainably, serves responsibly and innovates purposefully.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
243
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFSL)
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFSL) is a subsidiary of 
HDFC Bank and is a Non-Banking Finance Company (NBFC). 
HDBFSL has a comprehensive bouquet of products and 
service offerings that are tailor-made to suit its customers’ 
requirements including first-time borrowers and the 
underserved segments.
HDBFSL is engaged in the business of lending, fee-based 
products and BPO services.
The company’s Profit After Tax stood at ` 2,176 crore as on 
March 31, 2025 compared to ` 2,461 crore as on March 31, 
2024. The Total Loan Book stood at ` 1,06,878 crore as on 
March 31, 2025 compared to ` 90,218 crore as on March 31, 
2024, a growth of 18.47 per cent. The asset quality remained 
robust, with Gross Non Performing Asset (GNPA) ratio at 2.26 
per cent and Net Non Performing Asset (NNPA) ratio at 0.99 
per cent as on March 31, 2025. GNPA stood at 1.90 per cent 
and NNPA at 0.63 per cent for the year ended March 31, 
2024. Capital Adequacy Ratio stood at 19.22 per cent as on 
March 31, 2025. 
HDBFSL has continued to focus on diversifying its products 
and expanding its distribution while augmenting its digital 
infrastructure and offerings to effectively deliver credit 
solutions. The company has a strong network of over 1,771 
branches spread across 1,170 cities. As on March 31, 2025, 
your Bank held 94.32 per cent stake in HDBFSL.
HDBFSL has a diverse range of product offerings (secured 
and unsecured) to various customer segments. Given below 
are the key product as well as service offerings to various 
customer segments.
On October 19, 2024, the Board of Directors of HDFC Bank 
approved sale of such number of shares of HDBFSL equivalent 
to up to ` 10,000 crore in the Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) of 
HDBFSL, by way of Offer for Sale. The IPO also consists of a 
fresh issue of such number of shares of HDBFSL equivalent 
to up to ` 2,500 crore, and accordingly the IPO would be 
for an aggregate amount of ` 12,500 crore. The Red Herring 
Prospectus in relation to the IPO was filed on June 19, 2025 
and the price band for the issue has been fixed at ` 700 to 
` 740 per share. The anchor bidding date would be June 24, 
2025 and the public issue would open on June 25, 2025 and 
close on June 27, 2025.
Consumer Loans
Consumer Loans are provided to individuals for personal 
or household purposes to meet their short to medium term 
requirements. It comprises loans for consumer durables, 
lifestyle products and digital products, personal loans, 
auto loans for new and used cars, two-wheeler loans and 
gold loans.
Enterprise Loans
HDBFSL offers loans to businesses for their growth and 
working capital requirements. Various loans offered to 
enterprises include: Unsecured Business Loan, Enterprise 
Business Loan, Loan Against Property, Loan Against 
Securities. These loans cater to the financial requirements of 
enterprises for the purchase of new machinery, inventory or 
revamping the business.
Asset Finance
HDBFSL provides loans for the purchase of new and used 
commercial vehicles and provides refinance against existing 
vehicles for business working capital. It extends these 
offerings to fleet owners, first-time users, first-time buyers 
and captive use buyers. Construction equipment loans are 
offered for the procurement of new and used construction 
equipment. The company also facilitates refinancing on 
existing equipment. HDBFSL also offers customised tractor 
loans for the purchase of tractors or tractor-related implements 
to meet both agricultural and commercial needs.
Micro Lending
HDBFSL offers micro-loans to borrowers through the Joint 
Liability Group (JLG) framework to empower and promote 
financial inclusion for sustainable development. 
These loans were initiated in 2019 and are currently available in 
seven states including Maharashtra, Bihar, Rajasthan, Gujarat, 
Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Tamil Nadu 
covering 144 districts with more than 269 operational branches.
Fee-Based Products / Insurance Services
HDBFSL has a licence from the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority of India (IRDAI) and is a registered 
Corporate Insurance Agent certified to sell both life and 
general (non-life) insurance products. The company has tie-
ups with HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited and Aditya 
Birla Sun Life Insurance for life insurance products. HDBFSL 
has partnered with HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company 
Ltd, Tata AIG General Insurance Company Ltd and Go Digit 
General Insurance for general insurance products.

HDFC Bank Limited
244
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
BPO Services
The BPO service offerings include running collection call 
centres, sales support services, back office operations and 
processing support services. Under collection services, 
HDBFSL has a contract to run collection call centres for 
HDFC Bank. These centres provide collection services for 
the entire range of HDFC Bank’s retail lending products 
offering comprehensive end-to-end collection services. Under 
back office and sales support, HDBFSL offers sales support 
and back-office services like forms processing, document 
verification, finance and accounting operations and processing 
support for HDFC Bank.
Digital Presence
HDBFSL’s presence across digital channels enables it to offer 
a wide range of financial solutions to its customers. They can 
access and manage their loan account 24/7 through its new, 
upgraded version of Mobile Banking Application HDB-On-
the-Go with enhanced features, customer Service Portal to 
manage the loan account, missed call service, WhatsApp 
Account Management and the Chatbot #AskPriya.
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited 
(HDFC ERGO) 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (HDFC 
ERGO), is a subsidiary of HDFC Bank. It offers a comprehensive 
bouquet of general insurance products - such as Health, 
Motor, Travel, Home, Personal Accident and Cyber Insurance 
to its retail customers. It also offers products like Property, 
Engineering, Marine and Liability Insurance to its SME & 
Corporate Customers. For Rural Customers it offers Crop and 
Cattle Insurance. 
HDFC ERGO has a track record of consistent profitable 
growth. Over the past 17 years, it has grown faster than the 
industry – with a 28 per cent CAGR vis-à-vis 15 per cent CAGR 
for the General Insurance industry. As a result, HDFC ERGO 
has improved its market share from 0.8 per cent in FY08 to 
5.1 per cent in FY2025.
Profit After Tax for the year ended March 31, 2025 stood at 
` 500 crore as compared to ` 438 crore for the year ended 
March 31, 2024.
Distribution Network
HDFC ERGO has a pan-India presence and a multi-channel 
distribution network. This enables it to provide its customers 
flexibility while availing its products and services. 
Riding on the motto of ‘Customer First’, HDFC ERGO has 
a comprehensive distribution network of over 1,20,000 
individual agents including Point of Sales Personnel (POSPs), 
177 Banks / Corporate Agents and over 600 brokers with 299 
offices and over 600 digital offices spread across the country, 
enabling it to ‘Insure More, Serve More, Reach More’.  
Product Segments 
Accident & Health Insurance: As an important stakeholder in 
building a ‘Healthy India’, HDFC ERGO offers various products 
under Accident & Health Insurance – retail health insurance 
to those seeking individual or family floater health insurance 
plans, group health insurance to insured groups, top-up health 
insurance to those who seek to protect themselves from high 
medical expenses, mass health insurance to those interested 
in participating in Government schemes. The Company is the 
fourth largest retail health insurer in the industry as of March 
31, 2025.
Commercial Business: HDFC ERGO has a track record 
of providing customised insurance solutions to its corporate 
clients. Be it property, engineering insurance, marine insurance 
or liability insurance, the Company follows an advisory 
approach to its clients based on a thorough understanding of 
their requirement. It is the fourth largest insurer in the private 
sector in the Commercial segment in the Financial Year 2024-
25.
Motor Insurance: HDFC ERGO offers motor insurance for 
various segments – private cars, two wheelers, passenger 
vehicles, commercial vehicles, electronic vehicles as well as 
new and old vehicles. 
Rural and Agri Business: HDFC ERGO’s rural market 
development activities are spearheaded by crop insurance 
covering a large agrarian population which is frequently 
affected by crop losses attributable to an irregular climatic 
pattern. It is the second largest insurer in the private sector 
in the crop insurance segment in FY2025. HDFC ERGO also 
supports deepening insurance penetration in rural India via its 
Common Service Centre (CSC) channel.
Servicing
The Company continues to invest in developing robust digital 
capabilities supported by Artificial Intelligence. Be it unique 
insurance products, integrated customer service models, top 
in-class claim processes or a host of technologically innovative 
solutions, the Company strives to consistently enhance the 
customer / partner experience. It has ISO certified processes 
for Claims, Operations, Customer Services, Business 
Continuity Management System and Information Security 
Management System. 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
245
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
HDFC ERGO has a fair and robust claims management 
practice. The Company provides prompt response and quick 
claim settlement and equity of treatment to all its stakeholders, 
through its wide network of motor workshops and empanelled 
hospitals across the country. Customers are able to view and 
track claims status and provide feedback through HDFC 
ERGO’s website and mobile application thus bringing in 
transparency. Over 47 per cent of motor insurance claim 
surveys were conducted digitally in FY2025. About 92 per 
cent of motor insurance claims and about 69 per cent of health 
insurance claims were settled in cashless mode in FY2025.
HDFC ERGO issued more than 3.4 crore policies in FY2025, of 
which about 92 per cent were issued digitally. The Company 
has enabled multilingual support across digital platforms to 
service the customers in their preferred language. It Introduced 
“1UP”, an AI-driven application that provides advisors with AI-
powered contextual prompts for sales, retention, and daily 
planning, optimising their workflow. It also embedded an 
AI-enabled inspection technology on its WhatsApp chatbot, 
which allows the customers instant motor claim settlement 
feature for minor damages like dents, scratches among others. 
In line with its customer centric philosophy, the Company’s 
grievance resolution TAT is lower than industry average by 
about 5 days.
HDFC ERGO’s Here app is a one-of-a-kind ecosystem which 
aims to address consumers’ anxiety and provide convenience 
towards healthcare & mobility needs and helps them save 
cost on their daily healthcare and vehicles expenses. The app 
is free for use by all, irrespective of whether or not one is an 
HDFC ERGO policyholder, and has been well received, as 
evident by over 70 lakh downloads since launch. The app also 
includes features to help people manage their cyber and pets 
related requirements.   
The Company continues to invest in developing robust 
digital capabilities to ensure long-term success in the digital 
landscape. Its transition of the policy administration system 
to Duck Creek marks a significant stride towards future 
readiness and unlocking growth. The new core system 
facilitates dynamic product configuration, expediting product 
launches and enabling swift deployment of niche offerings and 
embedded insurance journeys. 
HDFC ERGO continues to be future-ready by innovating and 
focusing on new-age technologies like AI, VR, Robotics, etc. 
to continue to provide superior customer experience.
ESG
HDFC ERGO believes in building a sustainable ecosystem 
to ensure it can continue providing value to its customers 
and society at large. It has developed an ESG policy and 
framework, and has been undertaking a number of initiatives 
across Environmental and Social aspects and further 
strengthening its Governance related processes.
As an example, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) is a key 
part of the Company’s culture and embedded in various 
processes. The share of women in overall workforce has 
improved from 19 per cent in FY22 to 27 per cent in FY2025.
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (HDFC 
AMC)
Established in 1999, HDFC AMC offers a comprehensive 
suite of mutual fund and alternative investments across asset 
classes, including equity, fixed income, hybrid and multi-asset 
solutions. These offerings are available on both active and 
passive platforms, catering to a broad and diverse customer 
base. As of March 31, 2025, HDFC Bank held a 52.47 per cent 
stake in HDFC AMC.
As the investment manager to HDFC Mutual Fund – one of 
India’s leading mutual funds - HDFC AMC reported a closing 
AUM of over ` 7,54,453 crore, representing a market share 
of 11.5 per cent as on March 31, 2025. It serves over 1.32 
crore unique investors through 2.33 crore live accounts. With a 
strong nationwide presence across 280 offices and a network 
of over 95,000 distribution partners, HDFC AMC is further 
enabled by modern digital platforms, ensuring broad and 
efficient access for clients across India.
HDCF AMC extends Portfolio Management, Segregated Account Services, along with Alternative Investment Funds to high net-
worth individuals, family offices, domestic corporates, trusts, provident funds and domestic cum global institutions.
Financial highlights (` in crore)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Y-o-Y growth %
Total Income
4,058.3
3,162.4
28
Profit After Tax
2,461.1
1,945.9
26
Closing AUM
7,54,453
6,07,342
24

HDFC Bank Limited
246
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
Additionally, the company has a wholly owned subsidiary 
company - HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited in Gujarat 
International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City) offering investment 
management, advisory and related services.
HDFC Securities Limited (HSL) 
HDFC Securities Limited surpassed a key milestone of 25 years 
of existence in April 2025. The company has demonstrated a 
strong financial performance over the years underscored by 
a 31 per cent CAGR in total income and a 24 per cent CAGR 
in profit after tax, both over the last five years. As one of the 
long-standing bank-based stockbrokers and a key subsidiary 
of HDFC Bank, HDFC Securities Ltd. (HSL) leverages real-
time, data-driven insights and research-backed information to 
empower investors. HSL serves 68 lakh customers, offering a 
comprehensive range of investment and protection products. 
HSL’s distribution footprint stood at 134 branches across 106 
cities/towns as of March 31, 2025. Approximately, 96 per cent 
of its customers accessed its services digitally. HSL’s ranking 
in NSE active clients has improved to the 6th position with 
15.25 lakh customers from the 7th position last year. 
HDFC Bank held a 94.5 per cent stake in HDFC Securities 
Ltd. (HSL) as of March 31, 2025. Total equity raised, pursuant 
to the rights issue in fiscal 2025 aggregated to ` 996 crore. 
In FY 2024-25, HSL achieved a total income of ` 3,265 crore, 
reflecting a 23 per cent increase from ` 2,661 crore in the 
previous financial year. Net revenue (total income less finance 
costs) aggregated to ` 2,479 crore in the year ended March 
31, 2025, a 20 per cent year-on-year increase. Operating 
expenses were ` 983 crore, resulting in a cost-to-revenue ratio 
of 39.7 per cent. PAT for fiscal 2025 was ` 1,125 crore marking 
an 18 per cent rise year-on-year, and registering an earnings 
per share of ` 638. The average margin trading funding (MTF) 
portfolio increased significantly by 50 per cent year-on-year to 
` 8,343 crore, while equity trade volumes grew by 24 per cent 
year-on-year to ` 8 lakh crore. 
HSL launched its wealth advisory platform viz., HDFC TRU, 
in fiscal 2025. It has an aggregate of ` 10,000 crore assets 
under management. During the year under review, HSL has 
incorporated a Wholly Owned Subsidiary namely HDFC 
Securities IFSC Limited (HSIL) in the GIFT City-Gujrat. 
India’s financial markets in FY2025 reflected a clear duality—
marked by strong domestic investor participation in the 
first half, followed by a more subdued second half due to 
weaker corporate earnings, rupee depreciation, and global 
risk aversion. Foreign capital outflows also added to market 
volatility during this period. This economic environment created 
a stark contrast in market performance, with the strong gains 
achieved in the first half of the fiscal year largely erased in the 
second half, though a late recovery helped the Nifty 50 close 
with a modest 5 per cent annual gain.
Other Statutory Disclosures
Number of Meetings of the Board, attendance and 
constitution of various Committees
During FY 2024-25 the Board met 14 (Fourteen)  times. The 
details of Board Meetings held during the year, attendance 
of Directors at the Meetings and constitution of various 
Committees of the Board are included separately in the Report 
on Corporate Governance.
Annual Return
In accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 
(“Act”), the Annual Return of the Bank in the prescribed Form 
MGT-7 for FY 2024-25 is available on the website of the Bank 
at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/investor-
relations/annual-report.
Requirement for maintenance of cost records
The cost records as specified by the Central Government 
under Section 148(1) of the Act, are not required to be 
maintained by the Bank.
Details in respect of frauds reported by auditors 
under Section 143(12)
Pursuant to Section 143(12) of the Act and circular issued 
by National Financial Reporting Authority on Statutory 
Auditors’ Responsibilities in relation to fraud in a company dated 
June 26, 2023, there were 2 (Two) instances of fraud 
committed during FY 2024-25, by the employees of the Bank 
and reported by the Statutory Auditors to the Audit Committee. 
Details of the frauds are as under:

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
247
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Sr. 
No.
Nature of fraud with 
description
Approximate 
amount 
involved  
(Rs. in Lakh)
Remedial action taken
1
Cheating & Forgery
Case 
pertains 
to 
fraud 
perpetrated by borrowers in 
connivance with staff and third 
parties by processing gold 
loan in the name of dummy 
customers by pledging spurious 
gold.
265.17
At the time of sanction:
Various checks at the time of sanction of loan is conducted by evaluation of gold 
by a designated assayer and further dual valuation is carried out by an alternate 
independent assayer for higher value loans crossing certain threshold limits.
Post sanction of loan:
Increase in proactive sample checks of gold jewellery packets by an independent 
team, which will help in identification of suspected fraud cases.
2
Misappropriation of funds and 
criminal breach of trust
Pursuant 
to 
customer 
complaints received, a fraud 
was detected which involved 
a 
relationship 
manager 
in 
misappropriation of customer 
funds.
385.55
For mitigating such frauds, a revised process has been shared with Retail 
Branches.
1. 
 Process of Issuance Confirmation with the account holder by the 
Relationship Manager has been stopped and has been assigned to 
the staff processing the transaction. Issuance Confirmation details are 
annotated on the reverse of cheque.
2. 
 At the end of day, this is re-verified through a Callback Report by an 
independent staff. In event of miss-out, the staff will seek issuance 
confirmation from the account holder and annotate on reverse of the 
cheque.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(c) and Section 134(5) of the Act, 
and based on the information provided by the Management, 
the Board of Directors hereby confirm that:
• 
 In the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable 
accounting standards have been followed along with 
proper explanation relating to material departures;
• 
 Accounting policies have been selected and applied 
consistently. Reasonable and prudent judgments 
and estimates have been made so as to give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Bank as at 
March 31, 2025 and of the profit of the Bank for the year 
ended on that date;
• 
 Proper and sufficient care has been taken for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act, for 
safeguarding the assets of the Bank and for preventing 
and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
• 
 The annual accounts have been prepared on a going 
concern basis;
• 
 Internal financial controls have been laid down to be 
followed by the Bank and such internal financial controls 
are adequate and operating effectively; and 
• 
 Systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of 
all applicable laws are in place and such systems are 
adequate and operating effectively.
Compliance with Secretarial Standards
The Bank has complied with Secretarial Standards on Meetings 
of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and General Meetings (SS-2) 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
Statutory Auditors
The Members of the Bank at the 28th Annual General Meeting 
held on July 16, 2022 had approved the appointment of 
M/s. Price Waterhouse LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI 
Firm Registration No. 301112E/E300264) [“PW”], as the Joint 
Statutory Auditors of the Bank for a period of 3 (Three) years 
from FY 2022-23 till (and including) FY 2024-25. Further, the 
Members of the Bank at the 30th Annual General Meeting 
held on August 9, 2024 had approved the appointment of 
M/s. Batliboi & Purohit, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm 
Registration No. 101048W) [“B&P”] as the Joint Statutory 
Auditors of the Bank for a period of 3 (Three) years from 
FY 2024-25 till (and including) FY 2026-27.
In view of the completion of term of PW, the Board of Directors 
based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee has 
vide its resolution dated June 20, 2025 recommended the 
appointment of M/s. B S R & Co. LLP (ICAI Firm Registration 
No. 101248W/W-100022) [“BSR”] as the Joint Statutory 
Auditors of the Bank for a period of 3 (Three) years from 
FY 2025-26 till (and including) FY 2027-28, subject to approval 
of the Members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”).

HDFC Bank Limited
248
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
The said appointment shall also be subject to approval of 
Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) every year. Accordingly, RBI vide 
its letter dated May 16, 2025 has approved the appointment 
of BSR as the Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank along with 
B&P for FY 2025-26.
The resolution in this regard is being proposed at the ensuing 
AGM for approval of the Members.
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the fees paid to 
PW and B&P (“Joint Statutory Auditors”) as well as  their 
respective network firms, on aggregated basis, are as follows:
` in Crore
Fees (excluding taxes)*
HDFC Bank to 
Joint Statutory 
Auditor(s)
Subsidiaries of 
HDFC Bank to 
Joint Statutory 
Auditors and its 
network firms 
Statutory Audit
9.90
0.36
Certification & Other 
Audit / Attestation 
Services
1.76
0.02
Non-Audit Services
-
-
Outlays
1.28
0.01
Total
12.94
0.39
*No fees were paid to network firms of Joint Statutory Auditor(s) 
by the Bank.
The aggregate fees paid to Joint Statutory Auditors were 
within the limits approved by the Audit Committee.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The composition of CSR & ESG Committee, brief outline of 
the CSR policy of the Bank and the initiatives undertaken by 
the Bank on CSR activities during FY 2024-25 are set out in 
Annexure 2 to this report in the format prescribed in Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. 
The CSR & ESG  Committee confirms that the implementation 
and monitoring of the CSR Policy was done in compliance with 
the CSR objectives and policy of the Bank.
The Bank’s CSR Policy & Environmental Social & Governance 
(ESG) Policy Framework are available on the Bank’s website 
at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-
governance/codes-and-policies.
Particulars of Contracts or Arrangements with 
Related Parties
There were no contracts or arrangements entered into with 
related parties referred to in Section 188(1) of the Act during 
FY 2024-25 and hence Form AOC-2 as required under 
Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, is 
not enclosed.
Further, the Policy on Related Party Transactions of the Bank 
(“RPT Policy”) ensures that the related party transactions are 
based on principles of transparency and arm’s length pricing. 
RPT  Policy outlines the basis on which the materiality of related 
party transactions will be determined and the manner of dealing 
with the related party transactions by the Bank. Pursuant to 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2024, the RPT policy was amended 
to align it with all the applicable amendments. 
RPT Policy is available at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/
about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and-policies. 
Further, the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel who are 
interested in the related party transaction(s) do not participate 
in the discussion / abstain from voting on the said matter at 
Board / Audit Committee meetings. The Bank has engaged 
M/s. Vinod Kothari & Company as external consultant 
to advise the Bank on related party transactions and 
related compliances.
Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments
Pursuant to applicable provisions of Section 186 of the Act, 
the particulars of investments made by the Bank are disclosed 
in Note no. 9 of Schedule 18 of the standalone financial 
statements as per the applicable provisions of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949.
Material Development
There were no material developments / changes / commitments 
affecting the financial position of the Bank which occurred 
after March 31, 2025 till the date of this Report.
Financial Statements of Subsidiaries and Associates
In terms of Section 134 of the Act read with Rule 8(1) of 
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, the highlights of 
the performance of the Bank’s subsidiaries & entity over 
which control is exercised and their contribution to overall 
performance of the Bank during FY 2024-25 are enclosed 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
249
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
as Annexure 3 to this Report. The Bank does not have any 
associate companies or other joint venture companies.
Pursuant to amalgamation of HDFC Limited with and into 
the Bank and conditions as stipulated by RBI, on October 
18, 2024, the Bank sold 18,20,00,000 equity shares of face 
value of  ` 10 each of Edu Voyage Education Private Limited 
(formerly known as HDFC Education and Development 
Services Private Limited) (“Edu Voyage”), corresponding to 
91% of its paid-up share capital, to Vama Sundari Investments 
(Delhi) Private Limited (“Vama Sundari”). Accordingly, Edu 
Voyage ceased to be a subsidiary of the Bank with effect from 
October 18, 2024. Further, on December 20, 2024, the Bank 
completed the sale of balance 1,80,00,000 equity shares of 
face value of ` 10 each of Edu Voyage, corresponding to 9% of 
paid-up share capital of Edu Voyage to Vama Sundari. 
Accordingly, as on March 31, 2025, the Bank does not have 
any shareholding in Edu Voyage.
HDFC Securities Limited (“HSL”), a subsidiary of the Bank, 
incorporated a wholly owned subsidiary, namely “HDFC 
Securities IFSC Limited” on October 1, 2024. Accordingly, 
HDFC Securities IFSC Limited has become a step down 
subsidiary of the Bank with effect from October 1, 2024.
Further, during FY 2024-25, the Bank made the following 
investments in its subsidiaries:
• 
 In April 2024, pursuant to the rights issue of HSL, the 
Bank was allotted 16,13,176 equity shares amounting to 
` 9,53,22,56,984. The Bank held 94.55% shareholding 
in HSL as on March 31, 2025.
• 
 In August 2024, pursuant to the rights issue of HDFC 
ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (“HDFC 
ERGO”), the Bank was allotted 44,20,598 equity shares 
amounting to ` 2,89,10,71,092. The Bank held 50.33% 
shareholding in HDFC ERGO as on March 31, 2025.
• 
 In accordance with the Employee Stock Option Plan 
2021 of HDFC Capital Advisors Limited (“HCAL”), the 
Bank acquired 69,330 equity shares of HCAL amounting 
to ` 67,47,19,560 from the employees of HCAL. The 
Bank held 89.34% shareholding in HCAL as on March 
31, 2025.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 136 of the Act, 
the Integrated Annual report of the Bank including the annual 
financial statements and related documents of the Bank’s 
subsidiary companies are placed on the website of the Bank. 
Disclosure under Foreign Exchange Management 
Act, 1999 (“FEMA”)
During FY 2024-25 the Bank has complied with the applicable 
provisions of FEMA with respect to downstream investments 
made by it. Further, as required under the Foreign Exchange 
Management (Non-Debt Instruments) Rules, 2019, the 
Bank has obtained a certificate from M/s. Batliboi & Purohit, 
Chartered Accountants, one of the Joint Statutory Auditors of 
the Bank, to this effect.
Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism
The Bank encourages an open and transparent system of 
working and dealing amongst its stakeholders. 
While the Bank’s “Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy” directs 
employees to uphold Bank values and conduct business 
worldwide with integrity and highest ethical standards, 
the Bank has also adopted a “Whistle Blower Policy” 
(“WB Policy”) to encourage and empower the employees / 
stakeholders to make or report any Protected Disclosures 
as defined under WB Policy, without any fear of reprisal, 
retaliation, discrimination or harassment of any kind.
WB Policy has also been put in place to provide a mechanism 
through which adequate safeguards can be provided against 
victimization of employees who avail this mechanism. 
WB Policy covers and is applicable to the Protected 
Disclosures related to violation / suspected violation of the 
Code of Conduct including: 
(a)  breach of applicable law; 
(b)   fraud / criminal offence or corruption / misuse of office 
to obtain personal benefit / pecuniary advantage for self 
or any other person; 
(c)   leakage / suspected leakage of unpublished price sensitive 
information which are in violation of SEBI (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and internal code of 
the Bank i.e. Share Dealing Code of the Bank; 
(d)   wilful data breach and / or unauthorized disclosure of 
Bank’s proprietary data including customer data.
WB Policy does not cover the following types of complaints 
which if made, is not considered as Protected Disclosure 
under WB Policy:

HDFC Bank Limited
250
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
(a) 
 Matters relating to personal grievances on issues such as 
appraisals, compensation, promotions, rating, behavioral 
issues / concerns of the manager(s) / supervisor(s) / 
other colleague(s), complaint of sexual harassment at 
workplace, etc. for which alternate internal redressal 
mechanisms in the Bank are in place.
(b) 
 Matters which are pending before a court of law, tribunal, 
other quasi- judicial bodies or any governmental authority.
(c) 
 Anonymous / pseudonymous complaints will not be 
considered as Protected Disclosures under this Policy.
All Protected Disclosures made under WB Policy are made to 
the Whistle Blower Committee through the following modes:
(a) 
 By letter in a closed / sealed envelope addressed to the 
Whistle Blower Committee, or
(b) 
 by submission of the same on the information portal of 
the Bank, or
(c) 
 by way of an email addressed to whistleblower@
hdfcbank.com. In exceptional circumstances, the Whistle 
Blower may make such Protected Disclosures directly to 
the Chairperson of the Audit Committee of the Board.
 All Protected Disclosures received under WB Policy are 
examined by the Whistle Blower Committee and the 
investigation is further assigned to an appropriate investigating 
Officer(s) depending on the nature of the subject matter of the 
Protected Disclosure.
Details of whistle blower complaints received and subsequent 
action taken and the functioning of the whistle blower 
mechanism are reviewed periodically by the Audit Committee. 
During FY 2024-25, a total of 97 such complaints were 
received and taken up for investigation which has resulted in 
certain staff actions in 41 cases, post investigation. The broad 
categories of whistle blower complaints were in the areas of 
misappropriation of Bank / customer funds, forgery related 
cases, improper business practices and corruption.
WB Policy is available on the website of the Bank at 
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-
governance/codes-and-policies.
Statement on Declaration by Independent Directors
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Mr. M. D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep 
Parekh, Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari, Mrs. Lily Vadera, 
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala and Mr. Santhosh Keshavan 
are the Independent Directors on the Board of the Bank as 
on March 31, 2025.
The Independent Directors have submitted declarations 
that each of them meets the criteria of independence as 
provided in Section 149(6) of the Act, along with the Rules 
framed thereunder and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
During FY 2024-25 there has been no change in the 
circumstances affecting their status as Independent Directors 
of the Bank. In the opinion of the Board, the Independent 
Directors possess the requisite integrity, experience, expertise, 
skills, and proficiency required under all applicable laws and 
the policies of the Bank.
Evaluation of Board of Directors
The performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees 
and the individual members of the Board (including the 
Part-Time Chairman) for FY 2024-25, was carried out internally 
pursuant to the framework laid down by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee (“NRC”). A questionnaire for the 
evaluation of the Board, its Committees and the individual 
members of the Board (including the Part-Time Chairman), 
covering various aspects of the performance of the Board and its 
Committees, including composition, roles and responsibilities, 
board processes, boardroom culture, adherence to Code of 
Conduct and Ethics, quality and flow of information, as well 
as measurement of performance in the areas of strength as 
identified in the previous board evaluation, was sent out to 
the Directors. The Committees were evaluated inter-alia on 
parameters such as composition, terms of reference, quality 
of discussions, contribution to Board decisions and balance 
of agenda between the Committees and the Board.
The responses received to the questionnaires on evaluation 
of the Board, its Committees and Non-Independent Directors 
were then placed before the meeting of the Independent 
Directors for consideration. The assessment of performance 
of Non-Independent Directors on personal and professional 
attributes was also carried out at the meeting of Independent 
Directors. The assessment of performance of the Independent 
Directors on the Board (including Chairman) was subsequently 
discussed at the Board meeting. In addition to the above 
parameters, the Board evaluated and was satisfied that the 
Independent Directors of the Bank fulfill the independence 
criteria as specified in SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and was independent from 
the management. 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
251
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
The Board of Directors complimented the improved effective 
oversight on the group entities. Other areas such as code of 
conduct, board processes, board composition and boardroom 
culture demonstrated the best corporate governance 
practices adopted by the Bank. The Board appreciated the 
independent and transparent discussion at the meetings. 
The Board noted that it has been dedicating significant time 
in Strategic planning, Competitive positioning, Benchmark, 
talent management & Succession planning and the same will 
continue. The Board further realised the need to focus more on 
Gen AI and Cyber Security aspect considering that the same 
has become increasingly important. The Board also noted that 
while there has been positive development in the areas of focus 
identified in the previous evaluation, efforts need to continue in 
that direction. The appropriate feedback was conveyed to the 
Board members on their respective evaluation.
Policy on Appointment and Remuneration of 
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
The Bank has in place a Policy for appointment and fit and 
proper criteria for Directors of the Bank. This Policy lays down 
the criteria for identification of persons who are qualified as 
‘fit and proper’ to become Directors  such as academic 
qualifications, competence, track record, integrity, relevant 
skills, etc. which shall be considered by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) while recommending the 
appointment of proposed candidate as a Director of the Bank. 
This Policy also deals with the process for re-appointment of 
directors, annual affirmations, familiarization programme for 
Non-Executive Directors (“NEDs”), etc. and is available on the 
website of the Bank at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/
about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and-policies.
The remuneration of all employees of the Bank, including 
Whole Time Directors, Material Risk Takers, Key Managerial 
Personnel, Senior Management and other employees is 
governed by the Compensation Policy of the Bank. The same 
is available at the https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-
us/corporate-governance/codes-and-policies.
The Compensation Policy of the Bank, duly reviewed and 
recommended by the NRC has been articulated in line with 
the relevant Reserve Bank of India guidelines.
The Bank’s Compensation Policy is aimed to attract, retain, 
reward and motivate talented individuals critical for achieving 
strategic goals and long-term success. The Compensation 
Policy is aligned to business strategy, market dynamics, 
internal characteristics and complexities within the Bank. The 
ultimate objective is to provide a fair and transparent structure 
that helps the Bank to retain and acquire the talent pool critical 
to build competitive advantage and brand equity.
The Bank’s approach is to have a “pay for performance” 
culture based on the belief that the performance management 
system provides a sound basis for assessing performance 
holistically. The compensation system also takes into account 
factors such as roles, skills / competencies, experience and 
grade / seniority to differentiate pay appropriately on the basis 
of contribution, expertise and availability of talent on account 
of competitive market forces. The details of the Compensation 
Policy are also included in Note No. 18 of Schedule 18 forming 
part of the standalone financial statements.
During FY 2024-25 based on the recommendation of the 
NRC, the Compensation Policy of Bank was reviewed by the 
Board of Directors and necessary changes were made to 
the policy with respect to addition of clauses pertaining to 
‘Special Payouts’ and inclusion of ‘Guidelines to grant LTI to 
New Joiners’.
The NEDs including Independent Directors are paid 
remuneration by way of sitting fees for attending meetings of 
the Board and its Committees, which are determined by the 
Board based on applicable regulatory guidelines / circulars.
Further, expenses incurred by them, if any, for attending 
meetings of the Board and Committees in person are 
reimbursed at actuals. Pursuant to the relevant RBI guidelines 
and approval of the Members, the NEDs including Independent 
Directors, are paid fixed remuneration as detailed in the Report 
on Corporate Governance. 

HDFC Bank Limited
252
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
The following Directors of the Bank are also the director(s) of 
the Bank’s subsidiaries / step down subsidiaries as on the 
date of this report:
Name of Directors
Name of Subsidiary /
Step down Subsidiary 
Company
Designation
Mr. M D Ranganath
HDFC Pension 
Fund Management 
Limited (Subsidiary of 
HDFC Life Insurance 
Company Limited)
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
Mr. Keki Mistry
HDFC ERGO General 
Insurance Company 
Limited
Non-Executive 
Director (Chairman)
HDFC Life Insurance 
Company Limited
Non-Executive 
Director (Chairman)
HDFC Capital 
Advisors Limited
Non-Executive 
Director
Mrs. Renu Karnad
HDFC Asset 
Management 
Company Limited
Non-Executive 
Director
HDFC ERGO General 
Insurance Company 
Limited 
Non-Executive 
Nominee Director 
(HDFC Bank)
HDFC Capital 
Advisors Limited
Non-Executive 
Director
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
HDFC Life Insurance 
Company Limited
Non-Executive 
Nominee Director 
(HDFC Bank)
HDFC Capital 
Advisors Limited
Non-Executive 
Nominee Director 
(HDFC Bank)
HDFC Securities 
IFSC Limited 
(Subsidiary of HDFC 
Securities Limited)   
Non-Executive 
Nominee Director 
(HDFC Bank)
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri
HDFC Trustee 
Company Limited
Non-Executive 
Nominee Director 
(HDFC Bank)
HDFC Sales Private 
Limited
Non-Executive 
Nominee Director 
(HDFC Bank) 
[Chairman]
HDFC Securities 
Limited
Non-Executive 
Nominee Director 
(HDFC Bank)
Mr. V Srinivasa 
Rangan
HDFC Asset 
Management 
Company Limited
Non-Executive 
Nominee Director 
(HDFC Bank)
Note: As per the Bank’s Policy, no sitting fees were paid to the Executive 
Director(s) of the Bank nominated on the board of its subsidiary/ step 
down subsidiary.
Succession Planning
The NRC and Board reviews succession planning and 
transitions at the Board and Senior Management level. The 
Board composition and the desired skill sets / areas of expertise 
at the Board level are continuously reviewed and vacancies, 
if any, are reviewed in advance through a systematic process.
Succession planning at Senior Management level, including 
business and assurance functions, is continuously reviewed 
to ensure continuity and depth of leadership at two levels 
below the Managing Director. Successors are identified prior 
to the Senior Management positions falling vacant, to ensure 
a smooth and seamless transition.
Succession planning is a continuous process which is 
periodically reviewed by NRC and the Board.
Significant and Material orders passed by Regulators
There are no significant and material orders passed by the 
regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going concern 
status and operations of the Bank in the future.
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
In compliance with Section 152 of the Act and the Articles of 
Association of the Bank, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha and Mrs. Renu 
Karnad will retire by rotation at the ensuing AGM and are eligible 
for re-appointment. The resolutions for their re-appointment 
are being proposed at the ensuing AGM for the approval of 
the Members.  A brief profile of Mr. Bharucha and Mrs. Karnad 
is furnished elsewhere in the Integrated Annual Report and 
Notice of the AGM for the information of the Members.
During FY 2024-25 following were the changes in composition 
of the Board of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of 
the Bank:
1. 
 Re-appointment of Mr. Atanu Chakraborty 
(DIN: 01469375) as the Part-Time Chairman and 
Independent Director of the Bank for a period of 3 (Three) 
years with effect from May 5, 2024 to May 4, 2027 (both 
days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation, as approved 
by RBI and the Members through Postal Ballot on May 
3, 2024;
2. 
 Appointment 
of 
Mr. 
Santhosh 
Keshavan 
(DIN: 08466631) as an Independent Director of the 
Bank for a period of 3 (Three) years with effect from 
November 18, 2024 to November 17, 2027 (both days 
inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation, as approved by the 
Members through Postal Ballot on January 11, 2025;
3. 
 Resignation of Mr. Santosh Haldankar (ICSI Membership 
No.: A19201) as the Company Secretary and Compliance 
Officer of the Bank effective from July 20, 2024 (close of 
business hours); and

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
253
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
4. 
 Appointment of Mr. Ajay Agarwal (ICSI Membership 
No.: F9023) as the Company Secretary and Compliance 
Officer of the Bank with effect from July 21, 2024.
All the Directors of the Bank have confirmed that they satisfy 
the fit and proper criteria as prescribed under the applicable 
regulations and that they are not disqualified from being 
appointed as Directors in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
Particulars of Employees
In accordance with the provisions of Section 197(12) of the 
Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the 
requisite details are set out in Annexure 4 to this Report. 
Further, the statement containing particulars of employees as 
required under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) and 
Rule 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is given in an Annexure 
and forms part of this Report. In terms of Section 136(1) of 
the Act, the Integrated Annual Report including the financial 
statements are being sent to the Members excluding the 
aforesaid Annexure. The Annexure is available for inspection 
and any Member interested in obtaining a copy of the Annexure 
may write to the Company Secretary of the Bank.
Compliance on Maternity Benefit Act, 1961
The Bank has complied with the applicable provisions of 
Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 for female employees of the Bank 
with respect to leaves and maternity benefits thereunder.
Conservation of Energy and Technology Absorption
Please refer to page nos. 119 to 120 and 125 of this Integrated 
Annual Report for information on Conservation of Energy and 
page no. 228 of this Integrated Annual Report for information 
on Technology Absorption.
Foreign Exchange Earnings and outgo
During the year, the total foreign exchange earned by the 
Bank was ` 4,919.04 crore (on account of net gains arising 
on all exchange / derivative transactions) and the total foreign 
exchange outgo was ` 4,092.04 crore towards the operating 
and capital expenditure requirements.
Secretarial Audit
In terms of Section 204 of the Act and the Rules made 
thereunder, M/s. BNP & Associates, Company Secretaries, 
(ICSI Firm Registration No. P2014MH037400), were appointed 
as Secretarial Auditors of the Bank for FY 2024-25. The report 
of Secretarial Auditors is enclosed as Annexure 5 to this 
Report. There are no qualifications, reservations or adverse 
remarks in the report of the Secretarial Auditors.
Further, the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors of 
the Bank at their respective meetings held on April 12, 2025 
and April 19, 2025 have recommended the appointment of 
M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries 
(ICSI Firm Registration No. P1981MH043700), as Secretarial 
Auditors of the Bank at an overall audit fees of Rs. 15,00,000 
(Rupees Fifteen Lakh Only) per annum in addition to out of 
pocket expenses, outlays and taxes as applicable, to conduct 
secretarial audit of the Bank for a period of 5 (Five) years i.e. 
from FY 2025-26 till (and including) FY 2029-30. 
The resolution in this regard is being proposed at ensuing 
AGM for approval of the Members.
Corporate Governance
In compliance with applicable provisions of SEBI Listing 
Regulations, a separate report on Corporate Governance 
along with a certificate of compliance from the Secretarial 
Auditors, forms an integral part of this Annual Report.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
The Bank’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
forms an integral part of this Report.
Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual 
Harassment of Women at the Workplace
The relevant information is included in the Report on 
Corporate Governance.
Customer complaints and grievance redressal
Details of customer complaints and grievance redressal is 
enclosed as Annexure 6 to this Report.
Unclaimed Deposits of HDFC Limited
The Bank is a private sector bank registered with RBI and in 
terms of applicable RBI norms, deposits remaining unclaimed / 
unpaid for a period of 10 (Ten) years, need to be transferred by 
the Bank to Depositor Education and Awareness (DEA) Fund 
maintained by RBI.

HDFC Bank Limited
254
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
In accordance with applicable provisions of the Act read with 
Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, 
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, as amended, HDFC 
Limited, has transferred deposits remaining unclaimed for a 
period of 7 (Seven) years upto June 30, 2023,  to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) established by the 
Central Government. The deposit holders of HDFC Limited 
can claim their respective unclaimed deposits from IEPF. The 
process of claiming the deposits from IEPF is uploaded on 
the website of the Bank. Post merger of HDFC Limited with 
and into the Bank i.e. effective July 1, 2023, the Bank has 
been transferring all the unclaimed deposits of HDFC Limited 
(remaining unclaimed for more than 10 years) to the DEA Fund.
Acknowledgement
The Directors of the Bank would like to place on record their 
gratitude towards the guidance and co-operation received 
from the Reserve Bank of India, Securities and Exchange 
Board of India, Stock exchanges, Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs and other Government and Regulatory Agencies. The 
Directors of the Bank would like to take this opportunity to 
express their appreciation for the hard work and dedicated 
efforts put in by the Bank’s employees and look forward to 
their continued contribution. 
Conclusion
After two years of the merger, the integration of HDFC 
Limited’s home loan expertise with HDFC Bank’s extensive 
scale and reach has strengthened our position as a 
leading financial institution. The merger has resulted in 
a much stronger Bank that is now poised to capitalise 
further on the growth opportunities in the market. 
In FY 2024-25, the Bank reported healthy growth while 
maintaining pristine asset quality. There is immense 
opportunity for offering banking services in India as the 
economy grows. HDFC Bank is well positioned to capitalise 
on this due to its strong balance sheet as well as established 
brand name. While pursuing growth, the Bank will not 
compromise on high corporate governance standards and 
will continue focusing on its five core values: Customer 
Focus, Operational Excellence, Product Leadership, People 
and Sustainability. 
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Atanu Chakraborty                     Sashidhar Jagdishan
Part-Time Chairman
Managing Director 
and Independent Director
and Chief Executive Officer
Place : Mumbai 
Date : June 20, 2025

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
255
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
ANNEXURE 1 TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The ESOP and RSU Schemes of the Bank are in compliance with SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 (“the 
Regulations”) and the details as per the Regulations and as required to be disclosed pursuant to sub rule (9) of Rule 12 of the Companies (Share Capital 
and Debentures) Rules, 2014, are as under:
Schemes
Date of Shareholders 
Approval
Total No of 
Options/Units 
Approved Face 
value (FV) of 
Re. 1/- each
Grant Price 
(Rs.) 
Options/
Units 
Opening 
balance FV 
Re. 1/
Options, 
Units 
Granted / 
Options, 
Units 
Reinstated 
FV Re. 1/-
Options/
Units Vested 
FV Re. 1/-
Options/Units 
Exercised 
& Shares 
Allotted of FV 
Re. 1/-
Options/
Units 
Forfeited
Options / 
Units Lapsed
Total Options /
Units in Force 
as on March 
31, 2025
Plan F-ESOS 27
27th June, 2013
20,00,00,000
716.60
30,18,118
0
0
29,90,718
0
27,400
0
Plan F-ESOS 28
27th June, 2013
20,00,00,000
731.08
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Plan G-ESOS 29
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,030.60
25,99,650
0
0
25,81,050
0
18,600
0
Plan G-ESOS 30
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,003.03
66,910
0
0
66,910
0
0
0
Plan G-ESOS 31
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,045.23
83,400
0
0
83,400
0
0
0
Plan G -ESOS 32
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,107.18
58,100
0
0
21,800
0
7,900
28,400
Plan G -ESOS 33
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,229.00
1,66,54,400
0
0
1,02,11,400
0
39,000
64,04,000
Plan G -ESOS 34
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
882.85
4,40,400
0
0
3,10,000
0
0
1,30,400
Plan G -ESOS 35
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,235.80
3,60,82,300
0
1,11,60,100
1,53,96,200
4,89,500
1,42,300
2,00,54,300
Plan G -ESOS 36
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,426.45
2,31,04,400
0
56,10,300
73,10,700
4,87,700
1,93,800
1,51,12,200
Plan G -ESOS 37
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,516.95
2,38,000
0
59,600
1,04,600
0
0
1,33,400
Plan G -ESOS 38
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,493.50
1,20,730
0
30,200
30,200
0
0
90,530
Plan G -ESOS 39
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,287.05
6,27,612
0
1,69,600
1,45,400
76,320
0
4,05,892
Plan G -ESOS 40
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,360.75
97,877
0
24,500
0
0
0
97,877
Plan G -ESOS 41
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1486.10
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Plan G -ESOS 42
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,426.65
2,80,94,500
0
67,90,000
15,61,700
9,64,500
15,500
2,55,52,800
Plan G -ESOS 43
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,673.10
52,700
0
13,100
0
0
0
52,700
Plan G -ESOS 44
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1584.45
3,17,091
0
79,200
0
0
0
3,17,091
Plan G -ESOS 45
30th June, 2010
20,00,00,000
1,636.90
50,75,360
0
12,62,900
33,800
2,45,280
2,600
47,93,680
Plan G -ESOS 46
27th June, 2013
20,00,00,000
1,636.90
1,25,33,590
0
30,13,100
97,400
9,40,110
5,400
1,14,90,680
Plan G -ESOS 47
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,636.90
22,13,560
0
4,95,500
0
2,38,810
0
19,74,750
Plan G -ESOS 48
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,506.05
29,32,674
0
8,65,100
48,200
3,70,814
0
25,13,660
Plan G -ESOS 49
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,506.05
74,560
0
18,600
0
0
0
74,560
Plan G -ESOS 50
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,506.05
10,34,520
0
2,47,900
11,500
46,600
0
9,76,420
Plan G -ESOS 51
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,506.05
63,026
0
17,760
2,060
6,553
0
54,413
Plan G -ESOS 52
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,478.85
3,36,057
0
84,000
0
0
0
3,36,057
Plan G -ESOS 53
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,478.85
93,343
0
23,300
23,300
0
0
70,043
Plan G -ESOS 54
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,419.90
24,670
0
6,200
0
0
0
24,670
Plan G -ESOS 55
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,419.90
3,330
0
1,000
0
0
0
3,330
ESOS-07 eHDFC 2007
25th November, 2022
44,411
255.84
44,411
0
0
0
0
0
44,411
ESOS-08 eHDFC 2008
25th November, 2022
40,942
160.79
40,942
0
0
0
0
0
40,942
ESOS-14 eHDFC 2014
25th November, 2022
12,483
603.96
12,483
0
0
0
0
0
12,483
ESOS-17 eHDFC 2017-1 25th November, 2022
4,95,190
934.44
2,22,926
0
0
1,59,547
0
15,767
47,612
ESOS-17 eHDFC 2017-2 25th November, 2022
1,20,960
1,011.34
120,960
0
0
120,960
0
0
0

HDFC Bank Limited
256
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
Schemes
Date of Shareholders 
Approval
Total No of 
Options/Units 
Approved Face 
value (FV) of 
Re. 1/- each
Grant Price 
(Rs.) 
Options/
Units 
Opening 
balance FV 
Re. 1/
Options, 
Units 
Granted / 
Options, 
Units 
Reinstated 
FV Re. 1/-
Options/
Units Vested 
FV Re. 1/-
Options/Units 
Exercised 
& Shares 
Allotted of FV 
Re. 1/-
Options/
Units 
Forfeited
Options / 
Units Lapsed
Total Options /
Units in Force 
as on March 
31, 2025
ESOS-17 eHDFC 2017-3 25th November, 2022
57,120
1,089.29
57,120
0
0
13,500
0
0
43,620
ESOS-17 eHDFC 2017-4 25th November, 2022
2,16,720
1,242.15
2,12,920
0
0
70,120
0
0
1,42,800
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-1 25th November, 2022
3,80,86,981
1,076.64
3,02,22,276
0
1,73,229
98,78,029
0
662
2,03,43,585
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-2 25th November, 2022
42,000
1,535.27
42,000
0
0
0
0
0
42,000
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-3 25th November, 2022
1,68,000
1,477.68
1,68,000
0
84,000
0
0
0
1,68,000
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-4 25th November, 2022
1,00,800
1,497.92
1,00,800
0
50,400
0
0
0
1,00,800
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-5 25th November, 2022
1,78,080
1,423.75
1,78,080
0
89,040
0
0
0
1,78,080
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-6 25th November, 2022
88,19,594
1,327.21
80,61,228
0
39,92,834
16,82,553
1,11,291
30,120
62,37,264
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-7 25th November, 2022
1,59,600
1,391.40
1,17,600
0
8,400
0
0
0
1,17,600
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-8 25th November, 2022
16,800
1,523.75
16,800
0
0
0
0
0
16,800
Plan G -ESOS 56
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1573.35
0
96,650
0
0
0
0
96,650
Plan G -ESOS 57
21st July, 2016
20,00,00,000
1,605.05
0
4,77,150
0
0
0
0
4,77,150
Plan H -ESOS 58
9th August, 2024
9,50,00,000
1,734.20
0
2,21,56,230
0
0
0
0
2,21,56,230
Plan H -ESOS 59
9th August, 2024
9,50,00,000
1,677.30
0
4,16,630
0
0
0
0
4,16,630
ESIS-2022 RSU 001
14th May, 2022
10,00,00,000
1.00
23,34,200
0
6,51,850
7,14,630
62,320
46,850
1,510,400
ESIS-2022 RSU 002
14th May, 2022
10,00,00,000
1.00
13,220
0
3,700
4,380
300
120
8,420
ESIS-2022 RSU 003
14th May, 2022
10,00,00,000
1.00
20,160
0
5,050
6,600
1,850
570
11,140
ESIS-2022 RSU 004
14th May, 2022
10,00,00,000
1.00
56,29,190
0
9,86,870
9,14,120
2,53,470
2,490
4,459,110
ESIS-2022 RSU 005
14th May, 2022
10,00,00,000
1.00
36,72,637
0
11,32,072
7,12,500
3,62,657
1,100
2,596,380
ESIS-2022 RSU 006
14th May, 2022
10,00,00,000
1.00
208
0
70
51
0
0
157
ESIS-2022 RSU 007
14th May, 2022
10,00,00,000
1.00
31,430
0
7,911
2,702
3,096
25
25,607
ESIS-2022 RSU 008
14th May, 2022
10,00,00,000
1.00
20,759
0
6,859
982
138
0
19,639
ESIS-2022 RSU 009
14th May, 2022
10,00,00,000
1.00
0
60,41,515
0
0
0
0
60,41,515
ESIS-2022 RSU 010
14th May, 2022
10,00,00,000
1.00
0
1,98,060
0
0
0
0
1,98,060
ESIS-2022 RSU 011
14th May, 2022
10,00,00,000
1.00
0
15,000
0
0
0
0
15,000
Total
 
18,73,81,228
2,94,01,235
3,71,64,245
5,53,11,012
46,61,309
5,50,204
15,62,59,938
Options Exercised during FY 2024-25
5,53,11,012
Share Capital Money
5,53,11,012.00
Share Premium Money Received
63,40,96,62,365.87
Perquisite Tax Amount Collected
10,85,66,55,891.00
Total Amount Collected 
74,32,16,29,268.87
Note: 1 (One) share of the face value of ` 1/- each would arise on exercise of 1 (One) Equity Stock Option/ Restricted Stock Unit

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
257
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Vesting Requirements
Except for the death / permanent disablement or retirement of the employee, the options will vest 
only if the employee is in the continuous and uninterrupted employment of the Bank as on the date 
of vesting.
Maximum Term of Options
Provided the employee is in the continuous and uninterrupted employment of the Bank, the 
options vested under the ESOP Schemes 25 to ESOP Scheme 28 and ESOP Scheme 41 to 
ESOP Scheme 59 will lapse in case the same are not exercised by the employee within four years 
from the respective dates of vesting. However, for the grant of options under the ESOP Schemes 
29 to ESOP Scheme 40 the vested options will lapse in case the same are not exercised by the 
employee within two years from the respective dates of vesting. Further, for the grant of options 
under the RSU 001 to 011 the vested options will lapse in case the same are not exercised by the 
employee within one year from the respective dates of vesting. Further, for the grant of options 
under the schemes of HDFC Limited, the vested will lapse in case the same are not exercised by 
the employee within five years from the respective dates of vesting.
In case of death/ permanent disablement or retirement of the employee to whom the options are 
granted, all unvested options shall get vested to the employee on the date of happening of such 
event and should be exercised within one year period or its lapse date whichever is earlier from the 
date of such event for options granted under ESOP Scheme 23 to ESOP Scheme 34 and RSU 
001 to 011. However, in case of ESOP Scheme 35 to ESOP Scheme 40 the vesting will happen 
on date of such event and exercisable within two years from the occurrence of the event or its 
lapse date whichever is earlier and in case of ESOP Scheme 41 to 59 the vesting will happen on 
date of such event and exercisable within four years from the occurrence of the event or its lapse 
date whichever is earlier and in case of schemes of HDFC Limited, the vested will happen on date 
of such event and exercisable within five years from the occurrence of the event or its lapse date 
whichever is earlier.
Source of shares
Primary
Variation in terms of ESOS
None
DETAILS OF OPTIONS GRANTED TO DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL AND KEY 
MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL AS ON MARCH 31, 2025
Sr. no.
Name
Grade
Final Grant
1.
Arvind Vohra
CX
83,200
2.
Ashish Parthasarthy
CX
83,200
3.
Bhavesh Zaveri
ED
78,602
4.
Gourab Roy
CX
69,160
5.
Jimmy M Tata
CX
83,200
6.
N Srinivasan
CX
69,160
7.
Nirav Vimal Shah
CX
83,200
8.
Parag Rao
CX
83,200
9.
Rakesh Kumar Rajput
CX
47,030
10.
Rakesh Singh
CX
83,200
11.
Ramesh Lakshminarayanan
CX
83,200
12.
Sanmoy Chakrabarti
CX
48,510
13.
Sashidhar Jagdishan
MD
2,12,052
14.
Srinivasa V Rangan
ED
1,25,976
15.
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
CX
59,440
16.
Sudhir Kumar Jha
CX
69,160
17.
Suketu Kapadia
CX
37,940
18.
Sumant Vinay Rampal
CX
69,160
19.
Vinayak Ravindra Mavinkurve
CX
55,310
20.
Ajay Agarwal*
C2
26,660

HDFC Bank Limited
258
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
 
 *Mr. Ajay Agarwal was appointed as Company Secretary and Head- Group Oversight with effect from July 21, 2024. He was further elevated as 
Group Head-Secretarial & Group Oversight with effect from April 1, 2025.
i.
Other employees who receive a grant in any one year of share-linked 
instruments (employee stock options and restricted stock units) 
amounting to 5 % or more of share-linked instruments granted during 
that year
None
ii.
Identified employees who were granted share linked instruments, 
during any one year, equal to or exceeding 1 percent of the issued 
capital (excluding outstanding warrants and conversions)
None
iii.
Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) pursuant to the issue of shares on 
exercise of share linked instruments calculated in accordance with 
Accounting Standard (AS) - 20 (Earnings Per Share)
The diluted EPS of the Bank calculated after considering 
the effect of potential equity shares arising on account of 
exercise of share- linked instruments is ` 87.90
iv.
Where the company has calculated the employee compensation cost 
using the intrinsic value of the share-linked instruments, the difference 
between the employee compensation cost so computed and the 
employee compensation cost that shall have been recognized if 
it had used the fair value of the share linked instruments, shall be 
disclosed. The impact of this difference on profits and on EPS of the 
company shall also be disclosed
During the year, the compensation cost for share-linked 
instruments granted has been recognised basis the fair 
value of the share-linked instruments calculated based on 
the Black-Scholes model.
v.
Weighted average exercise prices and weighted average fair values 
of share-linked instruments shall be disclosed separately for share-
linked instruments whose exercise price either equals or exceeds or 
is less than the market price of the stock share-linked instruments.
The weighted average price of the stock options exercised 
is ` 1,198.42 and the weighted average fair value cost is 
` 326.02 
The weighted average price of the RSU’s exercised is ` 1 
and the weighted average fair value is ` 1,485.15
vi.
A description of the method and significant assumptions used during 
the year to estimate the fair value of share-linked instruments, at the 
time of grant including the following weighted average information:
The Bank calculated the fair value of share linked instruments 
at the time of grant, using Black-Scholes model with the 
following assumptions
I. 
Risk-free interest rate
6.73 percent to 7.19 percent
II. 
Expected life
1  to 8 years 
III.
Expected volatility
20.05 percent to 27.70 percent
IV.
Expected dividends
0.77 percent to 1.58 percent
V. 
The price of the underlying share in the market at the time of share 
linked instrument grant
For ESOS, the market price per share at the time of grant 
of options was ` 1,561.30 for ESOS 56, and ` 1,615.55 for 
ESOS 57, and ` 1,751.85 for ESOS 58 and ` 1,691.50 for 
ESOS 59
For RSU, the market price per share was ` 1,751.85 for 
RSU 009, RSU 010 and RSU 011
VI.
The weighted average market price of Bank’s shares on NSE at the 
time of share linked instruments grant
For ESOS, the weighted average market price at the time 
of grant was ` 1,566.93 for ESOS 56, and ` 1,615.74 for 
ESOS 57, and ` 1,744.14 for ESOS 58 and ` 1,685.73 for 
ESOS 59
For RSU, the weighted average market price was 
` 1,744.14 for RSU 009, RSU 010 and RSU 011
VII.
Method used and assumptions made to incorporate effects of 
expected early exercise
The Black-Scholes model is used to calculate the fair value 
of options at the time of grant. 
VIII.
How expected volatility was determined, including explanation of the 
extent to which expected volatility was based on historical volatility
Stock expected volatility is completely based on GARCH 
volatility forecasting model using historical stock prices from 
the market.
IX.  Whether and how any other features of the share linked instrument 
grant were incorporated into the measurement of fair value, such as 
a market condition
Stock price and risk-free interest rate are variables based 
on actual market data at the time of share linked instrument 
valuation.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
259
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
ANNEXURE 2 TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
1. 
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company: 
 
 The Bank’s CSR is implemented under the aegis of ‘Parivartan’ which is the umbrella brand for all the Bank’s social initiatives. 
Parivartan aims to bring about a transformation in the communities in which the Bank operates through multiple initiatives 
in the areas of education, skill training and livelihood enhancement, health care, sports, environmental sustainability and 
rural development. The Bank’s programs are guided by CSR Policy duly approved by the Board which is driven by the 
vision of “Creating Sustainable Communities.” The CSR policy and programs are aligned to comply with the requirements 
of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and are monitored by a Board level Committee.
2. 
Composition of CSR Committee:
Sl. 
No.
Name of    
Director 
Designation
/ Nature of Directorship
Number of meetings of CSR 
Committee attended / held during 
the year
1
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
Independent Director – Chairperson
5/5
2
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar 
Bhanwala*
Independent Director 
2/2
3
Mrs. Renu Karnad
Non-Executive Director
5/5
4
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan**
Independent Director
N.A.
4
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
Deputy Managing Director
5/5
 
* Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala was appointed as a Member of the CSR & ESG Committee with effect from October 19, 2024.
 
**Mr. Santhosh Keshavan was appointed as a Member of the CSR & ESG Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
3. 
 Web-link(s) where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects approved by the Board.
 
https://v.hdfcbank.com/csr/our-commitment.html
4.  
 Executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) 
of rule 8, if applicable.
 
 The Bank carried out 78 mandatory impact assessment studies in FY 2024-25 as per compliance with the requirements 
of CSR Rules. Below is the link and details of mandatory 78 impact assessment reports. 
 
https://v.hdfcbank.com/csr/our-commitment.html
Sr. 
No.
Project Code
Focus of the Impact Assessment 
1
P0745
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to the Community Health Centers for proving 
CT Scan machines
2
P0693
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided Banaras Hindu University Hospital for the 
medical equipment
3
P0387
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
4
P0692
Assessment of the FDP project primarily focused on installing smart TVs in one classroom of the 
intervention schools
5
P0335
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
6
P0336
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
7
P0338
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project

HDFC Bank Limited
260
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
Sr. 
No.
Project Code
Focus of the Impact Assessment 
8
P0340
Assessment of the FDP project aimed at strengthening rural livelihoods by establishing robust value 
chains around garlic and other high-value crops, thereby enhancing income opportunities for smallholder 
farmers 
9
P0342
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to the marginalized youth with future-ready skills 
in the IT/ITES sector, thereby enhancing their employability and income-generating potential
10
P0343
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to marginalized youth with skills in the Healthcare 
sector, thereby enhancing their employability and income-generating potential
11
P0349
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
12
P0354
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
13
P0358
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
14
P0359
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
15
P0436
Assessment of the FDP project for skill training provided to youth in AI, Digital Marketing, Core Java, and 
Cloud Computing, aiming to boost employability through digital skill development
16
P0626
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
17
P0700
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to government hospitals for providing medical 
equipment
18
P0754
Assessment of the FDP project for the support to the disabled persons provided with tricycles
19
P0327
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
20
P0350
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to promote sustainable livelihoods and socio-
economic development in rural communities, focusing on enhancing agricultural practices, improving 
community infrastructure, and increasing income-generating opportunities
21
P0357
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
22
P0581
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for the school infrastructure development
23
P0638
Assessment of the FDP project focused on enabling digital skills for employability of rural youth by 
ensuring well-equipped IT Labs with desktops
24
P0601
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for quality nursing education to young tribal 
women from disadvantaged backgrounds
25
P0331
Assessment of the FDP project aimed to adopt a comprehensive area intervention approach combining 
varied approaches, appropriate technologies and livelihood prototypes deployed or developed and 
strengthen supply chains
26
P0382
Assessment of the FDP project for the support for skill development and livelihood enhancement of 
marginalized communities
27
P0384
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for skill development and livelihood enhancement 
of marginalized communities
28
P0388
Assessment of the FDP project for the support for skill development and livelihood enhancement of 
marginalized communities
29
P0323
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
30
P0332
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
31
P0315
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
32
P0330
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
33
P0314
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
34
P0329
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
35
P0433
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
36
P0326
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
37
P0341
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
38
P0347
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
39
P0362
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
261
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Sr. 
No.
Project Code
Focus of the Impact Assessment 
40
P0398
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
41
P0413
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
42
P0317
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
43
P0312
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
44
P0322
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
45
P0503
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention 
areas
46
P0316
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
47
P0319
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
48
P0320
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
49
P0289
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
50
P0334
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
51
P0364
Assessment of the FDP project aimed to enhance the livelihoods of rural villagers by promoting sustainable 
farming practices, encouraging an entrepreneurial mindset, creating an enabling learning environment 
and developing employability (self/wage) among rural youths/ farmers/ women by sharpening the existing 
skills and knowledge to sustain in existing market
52
P0328
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
53
P0313
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
54
P0282
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
55
G0040
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for HPV vaccination drive.
56
G0166
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for CT scan and MRI machines to the Municipality 
Hospital
57
P0627
Assessment of the FDP project supporting junior athletes for Olympics.
58
P0286
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
59
G0120
Assessment of the FDP project supported with artificial limbs calipers for differently abled.
60
G0161
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for the school infrastructure development.
61
P0311
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
62
P0400
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for women empowerment through creating 
sustainable livelihood by providing vocational training.
63
P0212
Assessment of the FDP project for support provided to students for promoting education.
64
P0630
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention 
areas.
65
P0635
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention 
areas.
66
P0287
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
67
P0466
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
68
P0617
Assessment of the FDP project aiming at fostering competencies rather than content retention, the 
program aimed to equip students with the tools needed for academic and lifelong success.
69
P0321
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
70
P0295
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for waste management in intervention areas.
71
P0648
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to strengthen the school infrastructure holistically.
72
P0526
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention 
areas.
73
P0279
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
74
P0582
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for women empowerment through creating 
sustainable livelihood by providing vocational training.

HDFC Bank Limited
262
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
Sr. 
No.
Project Code
Focus of the Impact Assessment 
75
P0280
Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
76
P0310
Assessment of the FDP project aimed at improving learning attainment levels and enhancing the learning 
experiences of students while fostering holistic development through edutainment methods.
77
P0478
Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention 
areas.
78
P0064
Assessment of the FDP project, Zero Investment Innovations for Education Initiatives (ZIIEI) aimed to 
contribute towards quality education, personality development and skilling by introducing innovative 
teaching methods such as arts, sports, storytelling, and project-based learning.
All amounts in INR crore rounded off.
5. 
 
a) 
Average net profit of the Bank as per sub-section (5) of section 135: INR 53,001.70 Cr
 
b) 
Two percent of average net profit of the Bank as per sub-section (5) of section 135: INR 1,060.03 Cr
 
c) 
Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: 0.08 Cr
 
d) 
Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: INR 0 Cr
 
e) 
Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]: INR 1,060.11 Cr
6. 
 
a) 
Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): INR 1,039.29 Cr
 
b) 
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: INR 20.92 Cr
 
c) 
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: INR 7.82 Cr
 
d) 
Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: INR 1,068.03 Cr
 
e) 
CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year: 
Total Amount Spent for 
the Financial Year. (in Rs. Cr)
Amount Unspent (in Rs.)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per sub-
section (6) of section 135.
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso to sub-section (5)
of section 135.
Amount.
Date of transfer.
Name of the Fund
Amount.
Date of transfer.
 1,068.03
0 
NA
NA
NA
NA
(b) 
Excess amount for set-off, if any:
Sl. 
No.
Particular
Amount (in ` Cr)
(rounded off)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135
1,060.03
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
1,068.03
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)]
8.00
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous Financial Years, if any
0.08
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]
7.92

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
263
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
7. 
Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial Years: NA
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sl. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year(s)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub- section 
(6) of
section 135 
(in `.)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent CSR
Account under 
sub- section 
(6) of
section 135 
(in `.)
Amount 
Spent in the 
Financial Year 
(in `)
Amount transferred to a Fund 
as specified under Schedule VII 
as per second proviso to sub- 
section (5) of section 135, if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
Financial 
Years (in `)
Deficiency if 
any
Amount (in `)
Date of Transfer
1
FY-1
2
FY-2
3
FY-3
8. 
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year:
 
3 
Yes         {   No
 
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/ acquired  
 
 
20
 
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent 
in the Financial Year:
Sl. No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s)
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pincode of 
the property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent 
(in ` )
Details of entity / Authority / beneficiary of the 
registered owner
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
CSR
Registration
Number, if
applicable
Name
Registered
address
1
Lenovo Desktop, Canon 
Printer, Biometric Matra 
MFS
414001, 
900461, 
470001, 
144005, 
734424, 
500087, 
284001, 
342006, 
194101, 
522006, 
273008, 
226002, 
560001
03-05-2024
15,41,977.58
NA
Mahar Regiment 
(Infantry 
Regiment of 
Indian Army), 
Mechanized 
Infantry 
Regimental 
Centre, DIAV 
Dehradun, 2 
ASC Training 
Centre 
(Erstwhile ASC 
Centre, Corps 
of Indian Army, 
Indian Army 
Division, EME, 
Cantonment 
Board, HQ 
Sub Area C/o 
56 APO, Leh 
Sub Area, 
Guntur, Andhra 
Pradesh, DIAV 
Gorakhpur, 
DIAV Lucknow
Khangabok 
Desktops were 
provided in 
11 States as 
Ahmed Nagar, 
Maharashtra; 
Dehradun, 
Uttarakhand; 
Bangalore, 
Karnataka; 
Jalandhar, 
Punjab; 
Darjeeling, 
West Bengal; 
Secunderabad, 
Telangana; 
Jhansi, 
Gorakhpur, 
Lucknow, 
Uttar Pradesh; 
Jodhpur, 
Rajasthan; 
Guntur, Andhra 
Pradesh; 
Sagar, Madhya 
Pradesh; Leh, 
Ladakh

HDFC Bank Limited
264
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
Sl. No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s)
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pincode of 
the property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent 
(in ` )
Details of entity / Authority / beneficiary of the 
registered owner
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
CSR
Registration
Number, if
applicable
Name
Registered
address
2
Medical Grade Oxygen 
Generation Plant of 
capacity 57.60 Cu. Mtr 
per hour equivalent to 960 
LPM (catering to 195 beds 
at flow rate of 5 LPM)
110005
18-01-2024
1,30,04,273.65 NA
Ayurvedic and 
Tibbia College
Ayurvedic and 
Tibbia College, 
Ajmal Khan 
Road, Block 
56, Karol Bagh, 
New Delhi 
3
Ambulance T1 AMB 3350 
FM 2.6 BS6.2 (9+D+P) AC 
PS ABS Type-B
402304
22-03-2024
21,31,684.00
NA
Sahyadri 
Vanyajiv 
Rakashnarth 
Samajik 
Sanstha
House no 244, 
at Sambhe, 
Post Kolad, 
Taluka Roha, 
Raigarh
4
UPS & Server Room 
Creation with Door & 
Ventilation; Meeting Room 
Creation with Door & 
Ventilation; Meeting Room 
Table with 6 Chairs (incl 
2 chairs for Server room); 
Work Stations with Chair 
& Pedestal ; Entrance 
Door in Complete Glass; 
Covering of Storage below 
Granite area with Frame 
& Shutter in MR Ply; 
Electrical Total Turnkey – 
LPSM; CCTV & its Cabling 
with 8CH DVR; Painting 
Approx & Lumpsum 
– Only walls & Roof; 
Transportation, Loading 
& Unloading; Design & 
Supervision & Warranty 
Coverage; Vitrified Tiles 
with Roff Laying 8x4 tiles 
Approx; Grid Ceiling Hilux 
Grof Tiling for Roof.
560029
25-06-2024
67,51,283.70
NA
National 
Institute 
of Mental 
Health and 
Neurosciences 
(NIMHANS)
Hosur Road 
/ Marigowda 
Road, 
(Lakkasandra, 
Wilson Garden), 
Bangalore, 
Karnataka
5
Portable Septage 
Treatment Unit
629002
 28-06-2024
30,89,500.00
NA
Compost Yard 
Vallampurivilai
Compost Yard 
Vallampurivilai, 
Beach Road, 
Kottar, 
Nagarcoil, 
Kanyakumari 
district- 629002
6
Ambulance - T1 AMB 
3350 FM2.6 BS VI.2 
(9+D+P) AC PS ABS 
TYPE C
803116
04-07-2024
26,60,612.66
NA
Nalanda 
University
Chabilapur 
road, Dist, 
near Pilki gaon, 
Rajgir, Bihar 
803116

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
265
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Sl. No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s)
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pincode of 
the property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent 
(in ` )
Details of entity / Authority / beneficiary of the 
registered owner
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
CSR
Registration
Number, if
applicable
Name
Registered
address
7
150 24-Watt Solar 
Lights with accessories 
including installation and 
transportation charges
249401
24-01-2025
34,82,033.62
NA
Haridwar district 150 Streetlights 
has been 
installed in 
different Gram 
panchayats 
of block 
Bhadrabaad, 
Haridwar
8
Ultra-portable digital 
-X Ray machine- make 
Prognosis
246401 
262523
246171
246001
263642
249401
263139
262501
248001
14-12-2024
3,64,00,000.00 NA
Netaji Subhash 
Chandra Bose 
Bhavan, Civil 
Secretariat
Set up of 13 
X-ray machines 
in 9 district 
hospitals 
at Chamoli, 
Champawat, 
Rudraprayag, 
Garhwal, 
Bageshwar, 
Paudi, 
Haldwani, 
Pithorgarh, 
Dehradun
9
Motor vehicle Body 
Building, Mobile rest room 
for Ladies police 
400601
15-04-2025
19,85,114.00
NA
Assistant 
Commissioner 
of Police, RTO
Assistant 
Commissioner 
of Police, RTO, 
Thane, Near 
Kalwa Bridge, 
Thane 400601
10
Hemodialysis Machine 
4008S NG, RO Plant 500 
LPH, Online UPS 3KVA 
BPE Inbuilt Battery
768107
14-12-2024
25,95,500.00
NA
Community 
Health Centre 
Fasimal
The Medical 
Office(I/C) 
CHC Fasimal 
Block - 
Jamankira 
Dist-Sambalpur
Pin - 768107
11
Cruzio 5360WB OBD2 
44+D REG – School Bus
422222
23-12-2024
30,52,000.00
NA
Yashwantrao 
Chavan 
Maharashtra 
Open University
Yashwantrao 
Chavan 
Maharashtra 
Open University, 
Gat no -49, 
Goverdhan 
Village, Nashik
12
Hemodialysis Machine 
4008S NG, RO Plant 500 
LPH, Online UPS 3KVA 
BPE Inbuilt Battery
767020
14-12-2024
25,95,500.00
NA
Community 
Health Centre 
Loisingha
The Medical 
Office(I/C) CHC-
II, Loisingha 
Dist-Balangir
Pin - 767020

HDFC Bank Limited
266
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
Sl. No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s)
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pincode of 
the property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent 
(in ` )
Details of entity / Authority / beneficiary of the 
registered owner
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
CSR
Registration
Number, if
applicable
Name
Registered
address
13
Solid waste management 
unit with 2-SC - 260 - 
static Compactor with 
tipcart, hopper and 2 
container change over 
system as per scope of 
supply; 2-Hook Loader 
20253S with chasis (6X2), 
GVW, 28T; 6-20 Cum 
Container cylindrical type; 
1-Civil work of 1 transfer 
station
221010
15-03-2025
3,80,05,208.22 NA
Sankul Dhara 
Transfer Station, 
Varanasi Nagar 
Nigam
Sankul Dhara 
Transfer Station, 
Sankul Dhara, 
Bhelupur Zone, 
Nagar Nigam, 
Varanasi
14
30 Carbon Dragon Boat 
Paddle
160001
02-12-2024
9,00,000.00
NA
Water Sport 
Chandigarh
Punjab 
education 
Department, 
Mohali, Punjab
15
Equipment for medical 
lab - LC-20AD BLK 
L20106298877, Washing 
Kit 20AD, Reservoir 
Tray 20A BLK, Mixer, 
Low Pressure Gradient 
Unit, DGU-20A5R, Auto 
Sampler SIL-20ACHT, 
CTO-10ASVP BLK SUB 
P-N 228-45059-58, 
SPD-M40 Photo Diode 
Array, System Controller 
CBM 20A LITE, LabSol 
LC Connect CS Ready 
& L54746101784-KE2, 
Solvent Bottles with Cap 
5/PKT
422004
04-03-2024
31,10,000.00
NA
Maharashtra 
University of 
Health Science
Maharashtra 
University of 
Health Science, 
University 
research 
department, 
Dindori Road, 
Mhasrul, Nashik 
422004
16
Neurosurgery Microscope
382007
12-03-2025
61,00,000.00
NA
SMVS 
Swaminarayan 
Hospital & 
Research 
Foundation
SMVS, 1, 
Swaminarayan 
Dham, Opp 
Infocity, Koba 
(1), Gandhinagar 
Highway, 
Kudasan, 
Gandhinagar, 
Gujarat
17
NEOFLY: Customized 
Wheelchair & Neobolt 
Helmet for children with 
disability in government 
schools of Punjab
160062
01-02-2024
2,11,862.20
NA
Wheelchairs for 
40 children with 
disability
Punjab School 
Education 
Board Complex, 
E - Block, 5th 
floor, Phase -8, 
Mohali, Punjab

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
267
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Sl. No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s)
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pincode of 
the property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent 
(in ` )
Details of entity / Authority / beneficiary of the 
registered owner
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
CSR
Registration
Number, if
applicable
Name
Registered
address
18
E-tricycle for specially 
abled
425103
09-03-2024
12,16,000.00
NA
E- tricycles for 
400 Persons 
with Disabilities
Sugoki Lawns, 
Shaam Colony, 
Paladhi, 
Dharangaon, 
Jalgaon, 
Maharashtra
19
Bailer Thresher Machine 
with fully Automatic Coir 
Yarn Spinning, sensor 
and auto cut, Willowing 
machine, Extraction 
Machine, starter, belt, 
pully and conveyor from 
Extraction to screener, 
Automatic 4bobbin type 
rewinding machine with 
sensor, Block making 
machine 25HP, Coir 
Dutch mat manual 
weaving and other tools 
and accessories such as 
finishing scissor, clipping 
scissor, needle & bitter
751007
22-02-2024
8,55,900.00
NA
Bhubaneshwar 
Municipal 
Corporation
ICOMC Tower, 
Infront of 
Satya Nagar 
Kali Temple 
on Janpath, 
Unit-IX, 
Bhubaneswar, 
Odisha
20
Brush Chipper with 
Standard Accessories for 
Bhubaneshwar Municipal 
Corporation
751007
21-02-2024
10,62,000.00
NA
Bhubaneshwar 
Municipal 
Corporation
ICOMC Tower, 
In front of 
Satya Nagar 
Kali Temple 
on Janpath, 
Unit-IX, 
Bhubaneswar, 
Odisha
 
Note: We have disclosed only the capital assets created / acquired by Bank itself (i.e., invoice is in the name of Bank). The assets created / acquired by 
IA where project directly belongs to creation / acquisition is disclosed in the following link: https://v.hdfcbank.com/csr/our-commitment.html. Further, 
none of the capital assets created / acquired out of CSR funds, directly by Bank or by IA / other beneﬁciary have been capitalized in the books of 
accounts of Bank and all the expenses have been debited to CSR expenditure in Proﬁt & Loss Statement.
 
(All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office/Municipal Corporation/ Gram panchayat are 
to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well as boundaries).
9. 
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per sub-section (5) of 
section 135. NA
Sashidhar Jagdishan 
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 
Sunita Maheshwari
Chairperson of CSR & ESG Committee

HDFC Bank Limited
268
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
Performance and financial position of the subsidiaries/entity over which control is exercised of the Bank as on March 31, 2025
Name of entity
Net assets as of March 31, 2025
Profit or (loss) for the year ended 
March 31, 2025
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets**
Amount
Rs in crore
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount
Rs in crore
Parent:
HDFC Bank Limited
93.18%
501,424.64
91.70%
67,347.36
Subsidiaries:
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (Consolidated)*1
3.00%
16,153.93
2.39%
1,757.94
HDB Financial Services Limited*
3.00%
16,142.41
2.88%
2,117.32
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (Consolidated)*2
1.51%
8,130.96
3.35%
2,456.68
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited*
0.97%
5,201.60
0.66%
485.82
HDFC Securities Limited (Consolidated)*3
0.62%
3,340.85
1.51%
1,111.42
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited*
0.08%
428.16
0.19%
141.33
HDFC Sales Private Limited*
0.05%
273.26
0.10%
71.07
Griha Pte Limited
0.01%
39.17
(0.01%)
(4.62)
Griha Investments
0.00%
6.86
(0.01%)
(3.98)
HDFC Trustee Company Limited*
0.00%
3.88
0.00%
0.57
Entity over which control is exercised:
HDB Employee Welfare Trust*
0.14%
738.73
0.23%
169.79
Minority Interest
3.04%
16,359.04
3.61%
2,647.92
Inter-company adjustments
(5.60%)
(30,095.06)
(6.60%)
(4,858.45)
Total
100.00%
538,148.43
100.00%
73,440.17
 
*These are Indian entities.
 
**Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities.
 
1. 
 HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary - HDFC Pension Fund 
Management Limited and wholly owned foreign subsidiary HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited.
 
2. 
 HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary - HDFC AMC International 
(IFSC) Limited.
 
3. 
HDFC Securities Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary – HDFC Securities IFSC Limited.
ANNEXURE 3 TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
269
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Disclosures on Remuneration
1. 
Ratio of Remuneration of each Director to 
the median employees’ remuneration for the 
FY 2024-25
Name and Designation
Ratio
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Part-Time Chairman and 
Independent Director @
21.27 : 1
Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Independent Director
22.69 : 1
Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Independent Director
27.35 : 1
Dr. (Mrs). Sunita Maheshwari, Independent 
Director
12.46 : 1
Mrs. Lily Vadera, Independent Director
17.12 : 1
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala, Independent 
Director
18.23 : 1
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan, Independent Director ^
4.68 : 1
Mr. Keki Mistry, Non-Executive Director
12.26 : 1
Mrs. Renu Karnad, Non-Executive Director
18.23 : 1
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director & 
Chief Executive Officer *
161.28 : 1
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director *
156.76 : 1
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director*
98.90 : 1
Mr. V Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director*
150.69: 1
 
*In case of Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer, 
Deputy Managing Director and Executive Directors, 
the Bank has considered the annualised fixed pay for 
the computation of ratios. Fixed pay includes - salary, 
allowances, retiral benefits as well as value of perquisites 
as approved by the RBI. Variable Pay has been excluded 
from the same.
 
For other Directors the actual remuneration paid 
during the FY 2024–25 has been considered while 
calculating the ratio of remuneration to the median 
employees’ remuneration.
 
@Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was re-appointed as a Part-Time 
Chairman and Independent Director of the Bank for a 
period of three (3) years from May 5, 2024 to May 4, 2027 
(both days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation.
 
^Mr. Santhosh Keshavan was appointed as an 
Independent Director of the Bank for the period of three 
(3) years from November 18, 2024 to November 17, 2027 
(both days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation.
 
2. 
 Percentage increase in remuneration of each 
Director and Key Managerial Personnel in the 
FY 2024-25
Designation
Percentage Increase
Directors
Managing DirectorA
 00.00
Deputy Managing DirectorB
 00.00
Executive DirectorC
 00.00
Key Managerial Personnel
                         
Chief Financial Officer
29.21
Company SecretaryD
41.71
 
A,B & C As per the salary review process thus far, the 
salary increment proposal to be effected from April 1st in 
a given financial year has been  made in the subsequent 
financial year post assessment of performance for 
the reference financial year. For e.g. salary increment 
proposal to be made to the RBI effective April 01, 
2024 is made post assessment of performance for the 
FY 2024–25. The approval received from the RBI will 
therefore be retrospectively applied from April 01, 2024. 
In light of aforementioned process, the salary increase 
given in FY 2024-25 is reported to be as zero.
 
The percentage increase in Fixed Pay for the Managing 
Director and Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Managing 
Director and two Executive Directors for FY 2023-24 
was 5.08%, 7.00%, 6.39% (Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri) & 5.84% 
(Mr. V Srinivasa Rangan) respectively. The remuneration 
for the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, 
Deputy Managing Director and two Executive Directors 
for performance in FY 2023-24, effective April 01, 2023 
was approved by the RBI vide their letter dated January 
07, 2025.
 
The salary increase for performance in previous financial 
year i.e. 2023 – 2024 paid retrospectively from April 01, 
2023 was approved by the RBI on January 07, 2025.
 
DMr. Ajay Agarwal was appointed as the Company 
Secretary and Key Managerial Personnel w.e.f. 
July 21, 2024. The percentage increase in Fixed Pay for 
the Company Secretary, as shown above is considering 
his Fixed Pay as on March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2025.
ANNEXURE 4 TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT

HDFC Bank Limited
270
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
 
Non-executive / Independent Directors:
 
The Non-Executive Directors are paid sitting fees 
of ` 50,000 or ` 1,00,000 per meeting for attending 
Committee and Board meetings, the details of which 
are provided in the Report on Corporate Governance. 
 
Further, pursuant to the circular issued by RBI on 
“Review of Fixed Remuneration Granted to Non- 
Executive Directors” dated February 09, 2024 read 
with the RBI circular on “Corporate Governance in 
Banks - Appointment of  Directors and Constitution of 
Committees of the Board” dated April 26, 2021 and 
subsequent resolution passed by the Members of the 
Bank through Postal ballot on March 29, 2024, each 
Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) of the Bank, other than 
the Part-Time Chairman, were paid compensation in 
the form of fixed remuneration of ` 30,00,000 (Rupees 
Thirty Lakhs Only) for FY 2024-25. This is in addition to 
payment of sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses 
for attending the Board and Committee meetings.
 
Further, pursuant to approval of the Members of 
the Bank through postal ballot on May 3, 2024 and 
RBI, Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was re-appointed as the 
Part-Time Chairman and Independent Director of the 
Bank for a period of 3 (three) years with effect from May 
5, 2024 up to May 4, 2027 (both days inclusive), not liable 
to retire by rotation at a remuneration of ` 50,00,000 
(Rupees Fifty Lakhs Only) per annum. 
 
Accordingly, the details of remuneration paid to 
Mr. Chakraborty for FY 2024-25 is as under:
 
i. 
 From April 1, 2024 to May 4, 2024- ` 35,00,000 
(Rupees Thirty Five Lakhs Only) per annum, on a 
proportionate basis.
 
ii. 
 From May 5, 2024 to March 31, 2025- ` 50,00,000 
(Rupees Fifty Lakhs Only) per annum, on a 
proportionate basis.
 
In addition to the above, Mr. Chakraborty was also paid 
sitting fees, reimbursement of expenses for attending the 
Board and Committee meetings and provision of car for 
official and personal use, during FY 2024-25. 
3. 
 Percentage Increase in the median remuneration 
of employees in the FY 2024-25
 
The percentage increase in median remuneration of 
employees in the FY 2024-25 was 9.27%. This includes 
front line sales and overseas staff. This includes only 
fixed pay.
4. 
 The number of permanent employees on the 
rolls of the Bank
 
As of March 31, 2025, the number of permanent 
employees on the rolls of the Bank was 2,14,521.
5. 
 Average percentage increase already made 
in the salaries of employees other than the 
managerial personnel in the last financial 
year and its comparison with the percentage 
increase in the managerial remuneration and 
justification thereof and point out if there are 
any exceptional circumstances for increase in 
the managerial remuneration.
 
The average percentage increase for Key Managerial 
Personnel: 35.46%*
 
The average percentage increase for Non-Managerial 
Staff : 7.11%  
 
The average percentage increase in the salaries is 
inclusive of front-line sales and overseas staff and 
is primarily on account of annual fixed pay increase 
and promotions.
 
*The average percentage increase is only for Company 
Secretary and Chief Financial Officer. Whole Time 
Directors are excluded from the calculation since they 
did not receive increment for FY 2024 – 2025. For more 
details please refer to the foot notes to point number 2.
 
6. 
 Affirmation that the remuneration is as per 
the remuneration policy of the company: 
 
Yes

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
271
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
FORM NO. MR-3 
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT 
For the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025
 [Pursuant to Section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members 
HDFC Bank Limited,
HDFC Bank House, 
Senapati Bapat Marg, 
Lower Parel (W), Mumbai,
Maharashtra 400013.
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by HDFC Bank Limited, (CIN: 
L65920MH1994PLC080618) (hereinafter called the ‘Bank’) 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 (‘period under 
audit’). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that 
provided us with a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
Bank’s corporate conducts / statutory compliances and for 
expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Bank’s books, papers, minute 
books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Bank and the information provided by the Bank, its 
officers, agents and authorized representatives, during the 
conduct of Secretarial Audit, we hereby report that in our 
opinion, the Bank has, during the period under audit, complied 
with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that 
the Bank has proper Board processes and compliance-
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject 
to the reporting made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by the Bank for 
the period under audit according to the provisions of:
I. 
 The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the Rules 
made thereunder; 
II. 
 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder;
III. 
 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the 
Rules made thereunder;
IV. 
 The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
Rules / Regulations made thereunder to the extent of 
Overseas / Foreign Direct Investments and External 
Commercial Borrowings;
V. 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021;
VI. 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
VII.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, including 
maintenance of a ‘Structured Digital Database’;
VIII.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
IX. 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
X. 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
XI. 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories 
and Participants) Regulations, 2018;
XII.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Bankers to 
an issue) Regulations, 1994;
XIII.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant 
Bankers) Regulations, 1992; 
XIV.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian) 
Regulations, 1996;
XV.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019;
XVI.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture 
Trustees) Regulations, 1993;
XVII.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulation, 2008;
ANNEXURE 5 TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT

HDFC Bank Limited
272
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
XVIII. Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010;
XIX.  KYC / PML Policy on Securities of the Prevention of 
Money Laundering Act, 2002;
XX.  The Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial 
Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 
2002; and
XXI.  The Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial 
Institutions Act, 1993.
We have also examined compliance by the Bank with the 
applicable clauses of the Secretarial Standard on Meetings of 
Board of Directors and its Committees (SS-1) and Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India and notified by the Central 
Government under Section 118(10) of the Act which are 
mandatorily applicable to the Bank.
During the period under audit, the Bank has complied with 
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Standards, as 
mentioned above.
We have also examined, on test-check basis, the relevant 
documents and records maintained by the Bank according to 
the following laws applicable specifically to the Bank:
(a) 
 Banking Regulation Act, 1949, Master Circulars, 
Notifications, Guidelines and other directions pertaining 
to commercial banking, issued by the Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI), from time to time. 
(b) 
 Other applicable general business laws, rules, 
regulations and guidelines. 
Based on such examination and having regard to the 
compliance system prevailing in the Bank, we report that, the 
Bank has complied with the provisions of the above laws during 
the period under audit, except for the following observations:
a) 
 The maintenance of secretarial records, the processes 
relating to holding of meetings of the Board and its 
committees have shown improvement during the course 
of the Audit period. 
b) 
 During the year, the Bank has received certain 
administrative warnings from the regulatory authorities 
which have been duly reported to the Stock Exchanges 
from time to time.
During the period under audit, provisions of the following 
Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 were not applicable 
to the Bank:
(a) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 
1993 relating to the Companies Act, 2013 and dealing 
with clients; 
(b) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of 
Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; 
(c) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-back 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018.
We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Bank is duly constituted with 
a proper balance of Managing Director, Deputy Managing 
Director, Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and 
Independent Directors including women independent directors. 
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors and 
Key Managerial Personnel, which have taken place during the 
period under audit were carried out in compliance with the 
provisions of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations.
We would report that there have been instances where the 
Regulatory authorities have imposed penalties / fines on the 
Bank which have been paid and duly reported to the Stock 
Exchanges in accordance with the Regulations. 
The following changes have occurred in the composition of the 
Board of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel, as follows:
i) 
 Re-appointment of Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (DIN: 
01469375), as a Part-time Chairman and Independent 
Director of the Bank, for a second term of 3 (three) years, 
from May 05, 2024 to May 04, 2027 (both days inclusive), 
not liable to retire by rotation as per the approval of RBI, 
shareholders of the Bank through Postal Ballot on May 
3, 2024.
ii) 
 Re-appointment of Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri (DIN: 1550468), 
as a Director of the Bank (Executive Director), liable to 
retire by rotation, at the 30th Annual General Meeting held 
on August 09, 2024.
iii) 
 Re-appointment of Mr. Keki Mistry (DIN: 00008886), as 
a Director of the Bank (Non-executive), liable to retire 
by rotation, at the 30th Annual General Meeting held on 
August 09, 2024. 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
273
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
iv) 
 Appointment of Mr. Santhosh Iyengar Keshavan (DIN: 
08466631), as an Independent Director of the Bank for a 
period of 3 (three) years, with effect from November 18, 
2024 to November 17, 2027 (both days inclusive), not liable 
to retire by rotation, as approved by the shareholders of 
the Bank through Postal Ballot on January 11, 2025.
v) 
 Appointment of Mr. Ajay Giridharilal Agarwal (ICSI 
Membership No.: F9023) as the Company   Secretary 
and Head of Secretarial & Group Oversight Department 
of the Bank on July 21, 2024, consequent upon the 
resignation of Mr. Santosh Haldankar as the Company 
Secretary of the Bank from the close of business hours 
on July 20, 2024.
Adequate notices have been given to all directors of the Bank 
as regards the schedule of the meetings of the Board (including 
the meetings of its Committees) except where consent of 
directors / members of the Committees has been received for 
holding the meetings at a shorter notice. Agenda and detailed 
notes on Agenda were also sent to all the directors of the Bank 
at least seven days in advance, except in cases where consent 
of directors / members of the Committees, was received for 
circulation of the agenda and notes on Agenda at a shorter 
notice. A system exists for seeking and obtaining further 
information and clarifications on the agenda items before the 
meetings and for meaningful participation by the directors at 
the meetings.   
All decisions at the meetings of the Board and the meetings 
of the Committees were carried out unanimously as recorded 
in the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and 
its Committees.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Bank, which are commensurate with its 
size and operations, to monitor and ensure compliance with 
applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines. 
We further report that during the period under audit, the 
following specific events / actions having major bearing on 
the Bank’s affairs have taken place in pursuance of the above 
referred laws, rules, regulations and standards:
i) 
 The Bank has allotted 5,53,11,012 equity shares of Re. 
1/- each to the eligible employees of the Bank during the 
period under audit, pursuant to exercise of options under 
its Employees Stock Options Scheme (ESOS).
ii) 
 A subsidiary of the Bank namely HDFC Securities 
Limited has incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary 
named as HDFC Securities IFSC Limited, (CIN: 
U64990GJ2024PLC155489), a Company limited by 
shares, vide Certificate of Incorporation dated October 
01, 2024, issued by the Registrar of Companies, 
Ahmedabad, Gujarat.
iii) 
 The Bank has disposed of its 100% stake in Edu Voyage 
Education Private Limited (earlier known as HDFC 
Education and Development Services Private Limited), 
in tranches.
iv) 
 The Board of Directors of the Bank at its meeting held 
on July 20, 2024, has provided an in-principle approval 
to initiate the process of listing of equity shares of HDB 
Financial Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Bank, 
through a potential Initial Public Offering (IPO) and to seek 
necessary approvals from the regulatory authorities in 
this regard.  
v) 
 The members of the Bank have approved the following 
at the 30th Annual General Meeting held on August 
09, 2024:
 
a. 
 Declaration of Dividend of ` 19.50/- per Equity 
Share of face Value of Re. 1 (Rupee One) each /-, 
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024, as 
recommended by the Board;
 
b. 
 Appointment of M/s. Batliboi & Purohit, Chartered 
Accountants as one of the Joint Statutory Auditors 
of the Bank for a period of 3 (three) years w.e.f. 
FY 2024-25 till and including FY 2026-27 and 
overall audit for FY 2024-25 aggregating to a fee 
of ` 9,90,00,000 (Nine Crore and Ninety Lakhs) to 
be allocated between the Joint Statutory Auditors 
as may be mutually agreed between  the Bank and 
Joint Statutory Auditors.
 
c. 
 Issue of Long-Term Bonds (financing of infrastructure 
and affordable housing), perpetual Debt Instruments 
(part of additional Tier I Capital) and Tier II Capital 
Bonds of an amount in aggregate not exceeding 
` 60,000/- crore through private placement mode.
 
d. 
 Grant, offer, issue and allot 9,50,00,000 (Nine Crore 
and Fifty Lakhs) equity stock options (“ESOPs”), 
convertible into 9,50,00,000 (Nine Crore and Fifty 
Lakhs) equity shares of the nominal face value not 
exceeding Re. 1 (Rupee One) per equity share under 
the Employee Stock Option Master Scheme-2024 
(“ESOS-Plan H-2024” / “ESOS 2024”), fully paid 
in one or more tranches.

HDFC Bank Limited
274
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
vi) 
 The members of the Bank have approved the following 
through Postal Ballot involving the process of e-voting 
on March 26, 2025:
 
a. 
 Material Related Party Transactions with HDB 
Financial Services Limited, proposed to be entered 
during the financial year 2025-26 up to an amount 
of Rs. 40,234 crores.
 
b. 
 Material Related Party Transactions with HDFC 
Securities Limited, proposed to be entered during 
the financial year 2025-26 which could aggregate, 
up to Rs. 8,248 crores.
 
c. 
 Material Related Party Transactions with HDFC 
Life Insurance Company Limited, proposed to be 
entered during the financial year 2025-26 which 
could in aggregate, be up to Rs. 40,695 crores.
 
d. 
 Material Related Party Transaction with HDFC ERGO 
General Insurance Company Limited, proposed to 
be entered during the financial year 2025-26 which 
could in aggregate, be up to Rs. 9,249 crores.
 
e. 
 Material Related Party Transactions with PayU 
Payments Private Limited, proposed to be entered 
during the financial year 2025-26 which could, in 
aggregate, be up to Rs. 1,521 crores. 
 
f. 
 Material Related Party Transactions with HCL 
Technologies Limited, proposed to be entered 
during the financial year 2025-26 which could in 
aggregate, be up to Rs. 2,500 crores.
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
[Firm Reg No: P2014MH037400] 
PR No: 6316/2024
Date: April 19, 2025
Place: Mumbai                                 
Sd/
Kalidas Ramaswami
Partner 
FCS: F2440 / COP: 22856
UDIN: F002440G000122549
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date 
which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part 
of this report.
Annexure - A
To,
The Members,
HDFC Bank Limited
HDFC Bank House, 
Senapati Bapat Marg, 
Lower Parel (W), Mumbai,
Maharashtra 400013.
Re: Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read 
along with this letter.
1. 
 Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility 
of the Management. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on the secretarial records based on our audit.
2. 
 We have followed the audit practices and processes 
as were considered appropriate to obtain reasonable 
assurance about the correctness of the contents of the 
secretarial records. The verification was done on test-
check basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in secretarial records. We believe that the process and 
practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for 
our opinion.
3. 
 We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness 
of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Bank.
4. 
 Wherever required, we have obtained Management 
representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of material events, etc.
5. 
 The compliance of the provisions or corporate and 
other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards, is 
the responsibility of the Management. Our examination 
was limited to the verification of procedures on test-
check basis.
6. 
 The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as 
to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the Management has conducted 
the affairs of the Bank.
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
[Firm Reg No: P2014MH037400] 
PR No: 6316/2024
Date: April 19, 2025
Place: Mumbai                                 
Sd/
Kalidas Ramaswami
Partner 
FCS: F2440 / COP: 22856
UDIN: F002440G000122549

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
275
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
1. 
Disclosure for complaints and grievance redressal 
 
Summary information on complaints received by the Bank from the customers and from the Office of Ombudsman.
Sr. 
No
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Complaints received by the bank from its customers
1
Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
14,232
13,361
1.1
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))
NA
1,224
2
Number of complaints received during the year
4,57,466
4,85,339
3
Number of complaints disposed during the year
4,55,392
4,85,692
3.1
Of which, number of complaints rejected by the bank*
1,50,965
 1,27,112
4
Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
16,306
14,232
Maintainable complaints received by the bank from RBIOs*
5
Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from RBIOs
13,578
14,563
5.1
Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the bank by RBIOs
6,515
6,834
5.2
Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation / mediation / advisories 
issued by RBIOs
7,063
7,729
5.3
Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by RBIOs against 
the bank
NIL
1
6
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than those 
appealed)
NIL
NIL
 
* Total cases referred to Internal Ombudsman (IO) was 1,65,081 cases (previous year: 1,40,646 cases) of 
which 1,50,965 cases (previous year: 1,27,112 cases) were complaints. 
 
Overall complaints summary for the financial years:
Description
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
A
Total number of complaints
7,25,047
7,39,759
B
Complaints redressed by the bank within one working day / duplicate complaints
2,67,581
2,54,420
C
Net Reportable Complaints (A - B)
4,57,466
4,85,339
ANNEXURE 6 TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT

HDFC Bank Limited
276
D I R E C T O R S ’  R E P O R T
 
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2025:
Grounds of complaints (i.e. 
complaints relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
the beginning 
of the year
Addition 
on amalg-
amation 
( Refer 
Schedule 
18(1))
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
% increase / 
(decrease) in 
the number 
of complaints 
received over 
the previous 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
the end of the 
year*
Of  6, number 
of complaints 
pending 
beyond 30 
days
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
ATM / Debit Cards
3,013
-
1,19,694
(17%)
3,467
218
Credit Cards
2,565
-
1,16,242
23%
3,839
3
Internet / Mobile / Electronic 
Banking
2,910
-
1,00,306
(11%)
3,160
21
Loans and advances
3,981
-
64,833
(13%)
3,927
6
Account opening / difficulty in 
operation of accounts
327
-
20,986
(14%)
386
1
Others
1,436
-
35,405
3%
1,527
29
Total
14,232
-
4,57,466
(6%)
16,306
278
 
* All these cases were pending within the stipulated turnaround time (TAT) of the Bank. 
 
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2024:
Grounds of complaints (i.e. 
complaints relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
beginning of 
the year
Addition on
 amalgamation
 ( Refer 
Schedule 18(1))
Number of 
complaints 
received during 
the year
% increase 
/  (decrease) 
in the number 
of complaints 
received over 
the previous 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
end of the year*
Of 6, number 
of complaints 
pending 
beyond 30 days
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
ATM / Debit Cards
2,955
1,44,803
(12%)
3,013
72
Credit Cards
2,207
94,755
21%
2,565
0
Internet / Mobile / 
Electronic Banking
3,621
1,12,279
16%
2,910
24
Loans and advances 
3,168
1,208
74,491
66%
3,981
0
Account opening / 
difficulty in operation 
of accounts
247
                   16
24,472
46%
327
              2
Others
1,163
34,539
21%
1,436
9
Total
13,361
1,224
4,85,339
13%
14,232
107
 
* All these cases were pending within the stipulated turnaround time (TAT) of the Bank.
 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
277
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
C E R T I F I C AT E  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E 
To,
The Members of
HDFC Bank Limited
HDFC Bank House,  
Senapati Bapat Marg, 
Lower Parel (West), 
Mumbai – 400013. 
 
We, BNP & Associates have examined all relevant records of HDFC Bank Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Bank”) 
as provided for the purpose of certifying the compliance ensured by the Bank of applicable disclosure requirements and 
corporate governance norms as prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“LODR”), during the financial year ended March 31, 2025. We have obtained all the information 
and explanations, which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were necessary for the purpose of this certification.
We state that the compliance with Corporate Governance requirements is the responsibility of the management of the Bank 
and our examination is limited to procedures and implementation thereof, as adopted by the Bank for ensuring compliance. It 
is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Bank.
In our opinion, and to the best of the information and explanations provided to us, we certify that the Bank has complied with 
the conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in the LODR during the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
We further state that the above certification is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Bank during the financial year.
For BNP & Associates 
 
 
Company Secretaries
                                                                                                    (Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400)
PR No. 6316/2024
 
 
Kalidas Ramaswami 
Partner
FCS No.: F2440
 CP No.: 22856
UDIN: F002440G000423817
Date: May 23, 2025
Place: Mumbai
  

HDFC Bank Limited
278
C E R T I F I C AT E  U N D E R  S E B I  L I S T I N G  R E G U L AT I O N S
To,
The Members of
HDFC Bank Limited
HDFC Bank House, 
Senapati Bapat Marg, 
Lower Parel (West), 
Mumbai – 400013. 
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of HDFC Bank 
Limited [CIN.: L65920MH1994PLC080618] (hereinafter called the “Bank”) having its Registered Office at HDFC Bank 
House, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel (West), Mumbai – 400013 and also the information provided by the Bank, its officers 
and the authorised representatives for the purpose of issuance of the Certificate, in accordance with Regulations 34 (3) read 
with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10 (i) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements), Regulations, 2015  (“LODR”), as amended from time to time.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications {including Directors Identification Number 
(DIN) status at the portal (www.mca.gov.in)} as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Bank and its 
officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Bank as stated below for the Financial Year ended on 
March 31, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of the Bank by Securities 
and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.
S. No.
Name of the Director
DIN
Date of Appointment in the 
Bank *
1.
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty1
01469375
05/05/2021
2.
Mr. M.D. Ranganath
07565125
31/01/2019
3.
Mr. Sandeep Parekh
03268043
19/01/2019
4.
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
01641411
30/03/2021
5.
Mrs. Lily Vadera
09400410
26/11/2021
6.
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 
06417704
25/01/2024
7.
Mr. Santhosh Iyengar Keshavan2 
08466631
18/11/2024
8.
Mr. Keki Mistry 
00008886
30/06/2023
9.
Mrs. Renu Karnad 
00008064
03/03/2020
10.
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 
08614396
27/10/2020
11.
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha 
02490648
24/12/2013
12.
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri 
01550468
19/04/2023
13.
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan 
00030248
23/11/2023
 
* Date of appointment is taken from MCA 
1. 
 Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was re-appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank for a period of three (3) years from May 
5, 2024 up to May 4, 2027 (both days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation.
2. 
 Mr. Santhosh Iyengar Keshavan was appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank for the period of three (3) years 
from November 18, 2024 to November 17, 2027 (both days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
279
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of 
the Bank. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs 
of the Bank.
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
                                                                                                [Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
                                                                                                                                                          PR No. 6316/2024
 
 
Kalidas Ramaswami
Partner
FCS No.: F2440
CP No.: 22856 
Date: May 13, 2025 
UDIN: F002440G000327446
Place: Mumbai 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
                                                          

HDFC Bank Limited
280
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The corporate governance environment in India has evolved 
significantly over the years, driven by regulatory reforms and 
increasing emphasis on transparency, accountability and 
ethical business practices. 
India’s corporate governance landscape is characterized 
by a strong focus on compliance and the adoption of best 
practices. Companies are encouraged to implement robust 
internal control systems, audit mechanisms and policies 
related to whistleblowing, anti-corruption and anti-bribery. 
The emphasis on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) further 
strengthens the governance framework, with companies 
required to contribute to social and environmental causes. 
The digitisation of corporate governance is also a 
transformative trend that is reshaping how companies manage 
their governance practices. 
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) have continued to raise the 
bar on corporate governance standards in India. The Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Framework introduced by 
SEBI, is rightly urging companies to increase their non-financial 
disclosures which helps to provide a more holistic perspective 
about a company.
Philosophy on Code of Corporate Governance
The Bank is one of India’s leading private bank and was 
among the first to receive approval from the RBI to set up a 
private sector bank in 1994. Since its inception, the Bank has 
imbibed the principles of kindness, fairness, efficiency and 
effectiveness in all its activities. 
Corporate governance also plays a crucial role during mergers 
to ensure transparency, accountability and compliance 
with regulatory standards. During the merger of Housing 
Development Finance Corporation Limited (HDFC Limited) 
with and into the Bank, the corporate governance standards 
were meticulously followed to facilitate a smooth transition and 
integration of the systems and processes and adherence to all 
regulatory requirements.
Two years into the merger, the integration of HDFC Limited’s 
home loan expertise with the Bank’s scale and reach has 
solidified the Bank’s position as a leading financial institution. 
The Bank has also enhanced its capacity to support large-
scale financing and infrastructure financing with its continued 
commitment to nation-building and job creation. As Bank's 
role expands, so does Bank's emphasis on strong governance 
across the HDFC Bank Group. The Bank remains steadfast 
in upholding ethical practices, transparency and strong risk 
management—ensuring we retain the trust that defines 
our legacy.
Commitment to good governance has a distinctive competitive 
advantage, enhances trust and creates long-term sustainability. 
The Bank is committed to maintaining the highest level of 
ethical standards, professional integrity, corporate governance 
and regulatory compliance. Its business philosophy is based 
on five core values: Operational Excellence, Customer Focus, 
Product Leadership, People and Sustainability.
During FY 2024-25, the Bank strengthened its governance 
architecture to reflect the growing complexity of operations 
across the group. The Bank has formalised oversight 
mechanisms across the group through the introduction of 
a structured Group Oversight Framework. This aligns with 
regulatory guidance on financial conglomerates and reinforces 
Bank's approach to responsible growth, risk management and 
institutional integrity.
The Bank has a strong corporate governance framework 
comprising robust board governance processes, internal 
control systems and audit mechanisms, which are implemented 
through its policies, procedures, code of conduct and ethics 
and corporate governance guidelines.
The Bank has a two-tiered Board structure with the Board of 
Directors at helm, supported by Committees of the Board. 
The Board of Directors comprised of seasoned and diverse 
professionals, serve as the principal steward of the Bank’s 
governance philosophy. They ensure that oversight is both 
strategic and values-driven. Through its formally constituted 
Committees, the Board provides active oversight across 
operational conduct, regulatory compliance, technology and 
cyber resilience, risk management, financial stewardship, 
succession planning and other critical areas that shape 
the Bank’s sustained performance. Bank's approach to 
governance is anchored in a firm commitment to ethical 
leadership, robust internal controls and alignment with 
stakeholder expectations. This is reflected in practices such 
as linking executive compensation to long-term performance 
outcomes and maintaining a vigilant whistle-blower mechanism 
that safeguards transparency. The continued engagement of 
the Board and its Committees ensures that accountability, 
responsiveness, and trust remain embedded in how the Bank 
operates and grows.
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
281
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Whole-Time Directors
Board of Directors
Shareholders
Regulators
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee
Audit  
Committee
Risk Policy & 
Monitoring 
Committee
CSR & ESG
Committee
Nomination & 
Remuneration 
Committee
External and 
Internal Auditors
Managing Director
The Bank has set the highest standards by adhering to sound 
and effective corporate governance practices and strong 
leadership. The Bank has complied with the requirements 
stipulated under the  SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (SEBI Listing Regulations), 
the Companies Act, 2013, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
and corporate governance norms issued by the RBI from time 
to time.
Culture of Transparency and Accountability 
At the Bank, transparency and accountability are foundational 
to how we govern and engage. Anchored in globally recognised 
governance principles, we strive to ensure that our disclosures 
are timely, accurate and structured to support regulatory 
compliance as well as informed stakeholder dialogue.
This ethos is reflected in a coherent set of governance policies 
that uphold consistency, fairness and disciplined conduct. 
These include the Share Dealing Code and the Code of 
Practices and Procedure for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished 
Price Sensitive Information, which ensures responsible 
communication and safeguard of price-sensitive information.
Our standards of integrity are articulated through the Code 
of Ethics and Conduct, which applies across all levels of the 
organisation. These principles are reinforced by our Whistle-
blower Policy, which provides a secure and impartial platform 
for reporting concerns, and a Compensation Policy that 
promotes alignment between performance, accountability 
and sustainable value creation.
We have instituted a structured Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism to ensure prompt and transparent resolution 
of customer concerns. Further information on complaints 
addressed during the year is available in Annexure 6 of the 
Directors’ Report.
We also maintain a strong commitment to workplace dignity 
and safety. The Bank adopts a zero-tolerance approach to 
sexual harassment, supported by an Internal Committee 
established under the Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
Framework. Disclosures relating to this are available further 
down in this Report.
Group Oversight Framework
As the Bank continues to grow in scale with a diversified financial 
group, the need for coordinated oversight across Group 
entities has become increasingly important. With effect from 
April 2024, the Bank formally introduced a Group Oversight 
Framework to reinforce governance across subsidiaries. 
The Framework outlines a structured approach for Group-
wide effective oversight, reporting and escalation. The Bank’s 
Board is kept informed through periodic updates, with critical 
matters—such as key risks, governance issues and related-
party exposures by the Group Oversight Department. Group 

HDFC Bank Limited
282
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E
Sr. 
No. Category
Name of Director
Directorships on 
the Board  of other 
companies
Memberships of 
committees of other 
companies*
1.
Independent 
Directors
i.  Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (Part-time Chairman and Independent 
Director)
-
-
ii. Mr. M. D. Ranganath
1
1
iii. Mr. Sandeep Parekh
-
-
iv. Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
1
-
v. Mrs. Lily Vadera
-
-
vi. Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
1
1
vii. Mr. Santhosh Keshavan
-
-
2.
Non-Executive 
(Non-Independent) 
Directors
i. Mr. Keki Mistry
5 (2)
5 (3)
ii. Mrs. Renu Karnad
 6 (1)
7 (2)
3.
Executive Directors
i.  Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer)
-
-
ii.  Mr. Kaizad Bharucha (Deputy Managing Director)
3
-
iii. Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri
3 (1)
3 (1)
iv. Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan
2
3
* The ﬁgures in brackets indicate chairpersonships.
Note: For the purpose of considering the limit of the directorships and committees on which the directors are members / chairpersons, all public limited 
companies (whether listed or not) have been included. All Private companies, foreign companies, companies under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 
2013, Partnership Firms, LLP, HUF, Sole Proprietorship and Association of Individuals (Trust, Society) have not been included. Further, chairpersonships 
/ memberships of only the Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee have been considered.
The number of directorships held by all Directors as well as their membership/chairmanship in committees is within the prescribed 
limits under the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI Listing Regulations.
entities and control functions report relevant developments 
and metrics through defined channels, as set out in the 
framework. Detailed disclosure in relation to the same is 
included in the Management Discussion and Analysis section 
of this Integrated Annual Report.
ESG Principles
At the Bank, Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
principles are integrated into both decision-making and long-
term strategy. We recognise that ESG plays a critical role in 
strengthening risk management, operational discipline and 
stakeholder value.
To support these commitments, we have implemented a 
structured ESG governance framework with oversight at 
both the Board and executive levels. Detailed disclosure 
can be found in the Environment section of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
Board of Directors
The composition of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“Board”) 
is governed by the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, SEBI Listing Regulations and 
other applicable laws.
In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors continue 
to fulfil the criteria prescribed for an independent director in 
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Section 
149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and are independent of the 
management of the Bank. 
Each of the Directors of the Bank have confirmed that he/she 
is not debarred from holding the office of director by virtue 
of any order by SEBI or any other authority. The Directors 
have ascertained that neither they nor any other company on 
which they serve as Directors have been identified as a wilful 
defaulter. Each of the Directors of the Bank have confirmed 
that he/she satisfies the fit and proper criteria as prescribed 
under the applicable regulations and none of the Directors are 
related to each other.
As on the date of this report, the Board consists of thirteen 
(13) Directors. 
Board Diversity by Gender
As on March 31, 2025
Male  
      10 
Female 
                 3  
Board Average Tenure
4.15 years
Details of the Board of Directors including their directorships/
memberships in committees of public companies as at the 
date of this report are as under:

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
283
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Appointment of Director(s)
The Bank has a Board approved Policy on Appointment and Fit 
and Proper Criteria for Directors, based on which an existing 
director whose appointment is intended to be continued and 
a new director proposed to be appointed, is evaluated.
The said policy is available on the Bank’s website at 
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-
governance/codes-and-policies
The Bank recognizes the importance of a diverse Board 
which leverages different perspectives, knowledge, 
experience and expertise, which would help the Bank retain 
its competitive advantage. 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of Directors 
recommends and the Board approves the appointment/ 
re-appointment of non-executive and executive directors, 
subject to the approval of the shareholders. The process for 
re-appointment of non-executive directors entails a detailed 
evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
of the existing Directors. New Directors are inducted after 
assessing skill requirements of the Board and identifying areas 
of expertise which would be beneficial to the Bank. 
During the year, pursuant to approval of the Shareholders 
of the Bank through postal ballot on May 03, 2024 and the 
RBI, Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was re-appointed as the Part-
time Chairman and Independent Director of the Bank for a 
period of 3 (three) years with effect from May 05, 2024 up to 
May 04, 2027 (both days inclusive) and not liable to retire by 
rotation. Further, the shareholders and the RBI also approved 
an increase in remuneration payable to Mr. Chakraborty from 
` 35,00,000 (Rupees Thirty-Five Lakhs Only) per annum to 
` 50,00,000 (Rupees Fifty Lakhs Only) per annum with effect 
from May 5, 2024. 
Further, the Board at its meeting held on November 18, 
2024 appointed Mr. Santhosh Keshavan as an Independent 
Director of the Bank for a period of 3 (three) years with effect 
from November 18, 2024 to November 17, 2027 (both days 
inclusive) and not liable to retire by rotation, which was also 
approved by the shareholders of the Bank through Postal 
Ballot on January 11, 2025.
Profile of Board of Directors
The profile of the Directors of the Bank is provided elsewhere 
in this Integrated Annual Report.
Responsibilities of the Board 
The Board represents the interests of the Bank’s stakeholders 
in optimising long-term value by providing the management 
with guidance and strategic direction. The Board’s 
mandate is to oversee the Bank’s strategic direction, review 
corporate performance, maintain highest ethical standards 
of governance, assess the adequacy of risk management 
and mitigation measures, evaluate internal financial controls, 
authorise and monitor strategic investments, facilitate and 
review Board and senior management succession planning 
and oversee regulatory compliance, environmental and 
corporate social responsibility activities. 
The responsibilities of the Board also include ensuring that 
the Bank is transparent in all its dealings with its stakeholders, 
overseeing the effectiveness of key executives of the Bank and 
aligning the remuneration policy with the long-term interests 
of the Bank and its stakeholders. 
The Bank has a Directors’ & Officers’ liability insurance policy, 
which provides indemnity to its Directors and all employees 
in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office. All 
the Board members ensure that their work in other capacities 
does not impinge on their fiduciary responsibilities as Directors 
of the Bank.

HDFC Bank Limited
284
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E
A chart or a matrix setting out the skills /expertise / competence of the Board of Directors:
The Board comprises directors that bring a wide range of skills, expertise and experience which enhances overall Board 
effectiveness. The Bank has identified the core skills/expertise (see table below) required by the Directors of the Bank, keeping in 
mind the business requirements which span across parameters such as industry experience, technical/strategic competencies, 
behavioural, other attributes and skills in line with the relevant provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and relevant 
circulars issued by the RBI from time to time.
3 
Finance
anc
7 
3
5 
Banking
5
6 
Information Technology
2
Small Scale Industry
1 
Co-operation
r
3
Law
13
Board of 
Directors
Our Board is distinguished by a diverse array of skills and 
expertise, spanning accountancy, business management, 
banking, payment and risk management etc. We emphasize 
independence and inclusion, ensuring a rich tapestry of 
backgrounds and proficiencies among our members. From 
financial acumen to industry insights, our Board's 
composition epitomizes a commitment to effective 
decision-making and accountability. Furthermore, we 
actively seek input from external experts to continually 
refine our governance processes. This collective wisdom 
ensures strategic oversight and propels our unwavering 
dedication to governance excellence.
expe
ban
inde
bac
fina
com
dec
acti
refin
ensu
ded
ent,
size
y of
rom
rd's
tive
we
ally 
dom
g
ring
1
Co
C -o
2
Human Resource
1 
Agriculture and Rural Economy
Accountancy
7
Bankin
6
B
Accoun
6 
A 
Risk Management
Fina
7
8
Business Management
Risk 
8
R
Busin
B
9
Economics
Payment & Settlement Systems
2
Sma
S
Infor
3
A tabular representation of the same is as below:
Skill Areas 
Mr. Atanu 
Chakraborty
Mr. M.D. 
Ranganath
Mr. 
Sandeep 
Parekh
Dr. (Mrs.) 
Sunita 
Maheshwari
Mrs. Lily 
Vadera
Dr. (Mr.) 
Harsh 
Kumar 
Bhanwala
Mr. 
Santhosh 
Keshavan
Mr. Keki 
Mistry
Mrs. Renu 
Karnad
Mr. 
Sashidhar 
Jagdishan
Mr. Kaizad 
Bharucha
Mr. 
Bhavesh 
Zaveri
Mr. V. 
Srinivasa 
Rangan
Business 
Management
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
Risk 
Management
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
Finance
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
Accountancy
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
Banking
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
Economics
ض
ض
ض
ض
ض
Payment & 
Settlement 
Systems
ض
ض
ض
Law
ض
ض
ض
Information 
Technology
ض
ض
ض
Small-Scale 
Industry
ض
ض
Human 
Resources
ض
ض
Co-operation
ض
Agriculture 
and Rural 
Economy
ض

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
285
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Board Meetings and Annual General Meeting 
(AGM)
The meetings of the Board are normally held at the Bank’s 
office in Mumbai. Meetings are generally scheduled well in 
advance and the notice of each Board meeting is given in 
writing to each director. The Board Members endeavor to 
attend and participate in all Board meetings, unless he/she is 
unable to attend the meeting on account of reasonable cause 
for which leave of absence is requested, which is considered 
by the Board for approval. Video-conference (VC) facility is 
also provided in case any director is unable to attend the 
meeting physically but wishes to participate through VC.
The Board meets at least once a quarter to review the quarterly 
performance and financial results of the Bank. Members of the 
Board are free to convene a Board meeting at any time and 
shall inform the company secretary regarding the same. In 
case of a special and urgent business need, Board approval 
is taken by passing resolutions by circulation as permitted 
by law, which is noted and confirmed at the subsequent 
Board meeting. 
The company secretary in consultation with the Chairman, 
the whole-time directors and the Group Heads prepares a 
detailed agenda for the meetings. The Board is provided 
with the relevant information as stipulated in the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. The Board members have access to 
all information of the Bank. The Board papers, agenda and 
explanatory notes are circulated to the directors well in 
advance and are made available on a digital platform. The 
members of the Board are free to recommend inclusion of any 
matter in the agenda for discussion. The Chairman moderates 
the overall discussion to arrive at a conclusive and consensus 
opinion and also summarizes the discussions to ensure that 
decisions taken are appropriately recorded. 
Senior management of the Bank is invited to attend the Board 
meetings to discuss matters pertaining to their respective 
business verticals so as to provide additional inputs on the 
matters being discussed by the Board. At the Board meetings, 
the whole-time directors and senior management make 
presentations on various matters including the financial results, 
annual plans and strategies, liquidity, cyber security and 
information technology, operational and business continuity 
measures of the Bank, customer grievances and customer 
services framework, credit portfolio quality, IT strategic 
initiatives, ESG & climate risk, Sustainable Livelihood (SLI), 
compliance and risk management strategy, rewards strategy, 
Enterprise-Wide Risk Management (ERM) Framework, global 
macro environment and any other relevant matter which the 
Board needs to be apprised of.
The minutes of each Board meeting are finalised and recorded 
in the minutes book. Post the board meetings, the Bank has 
a system of communication and follow up on actions required 
to be taken by the management as suggested by the Board 
and the same is updated to the Board.
Directors are also encouraged to attend relevant programs 
and seminars conducted by reputed external organizations. 
During the financial year under review, fourteen (14) Board 
meetings were held. The meetings were held on April 20, 2024, 
April 29, 2024, June 20, 2024, July 20, 2024, August 21, 2024, 
September 20, 2024, October 19, 2024, November 18, 2024, 
November 27, 2024, December 20, 2024, January 22, 2025, 
February 20, 2025, March 27, 2025 and March 28, 2025. 
The Bank endeavors that the gap between the approval 
of financial results by the Audit Committee and the Board 
is kept to minimum, as required under the provisions of 
SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. The 
attendance of the Directors at the above-mentioned Board 
meetings and at the 30th Annual General Meeting held on 
August 9, 2024, are listed below:

HDFC Bank Limited
286
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E
Name of the Director
No. of Board Meetings held 
during the financial year*
No. of Board Meetings 
attended during the financial 
year
Attendance at last AGM 
(August 9, 2024)
Non-Executive (Independent) 
Directors
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty
14
14
Present
Mr. M. D. Ranganath
14
13
Present
Mr. Sandeep Parekh
14
14
Present
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
14
12
Present
Mrs. Lily Vadera
14
14
Present
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 
14
14
Present
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan1
6
6
N.A. 
Non-Executive (Non-Independent) 
Directors 
Mr. Keki Mistry 
14
13
Present
Mrs. Renu Karnad
14
14
Present
Executive Directors
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan
14
14
Present
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
14
13
Present
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri 
14
13
Present
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan 
14
14
Present
* The maximum number of meetings that a Director was eligible to attend during the ﬁnancial year
1. Mr. Santhosh Keshavan was appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank with effect from November 18, 2024.
Leave of absence was granted to the concerned director who could not attend the concerned board meeting
Composition of Committees of Directors, Terms of Reference and Attendance at the Meetings
To enable better and more focused attention on the affairs of the Bank, the Board delegates particular matters to Committees 
of the Board set up for the purpose. These Committees prepare the groundwork for decision-making and report the same to 
the Board at the subsequent meetings. These Committees monitor the activities as per the scope defined in their charter and 
terms of reference.
There have been no instances wherein the Board has not accepted the recommendations of any committee.
The composition and functioning of these Board committees is in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013, SEBI Listing Regulations and applicable guidelines issued by RBI.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
287
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Composition of Committees of Directors as on the date of this Report is as follows:
Name of the 
Committee
Non-Executive Directors
Executive Directors
Mr. Atanu 
Chakraborty
Mr. M.D. 
Ranganath
Mr. 
Sandeep 
Parekh
Dr. (Mrs.) 
Sunita 
Maheshwari
Mrs. Lily  
Vadera
Dr. (Mr.) 
Harsh 
Kumar 
Bhanwala
Mr. 
Santhosh 
Keshavan 
Mr. Keki 
Mistry
Mrs. 
Renu 
Karnad
Mr. 
Sashidhar 
Jagdishan
Mr. Kaizad 
Bharucha
Mr. 
Bhavesh 
Zaveri
Mr. V. 
Srinivasa 
Rangan
Audit
Nomination and 
Remuneration
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship
CSR & ESG
Risk Policy and 
Monitoring
Fraud Monitoring
Customer 
Service
Credit Approval
IT Strategy*
Review 
Committee for 
Wilful Defaulters’ 
Identification
Review 
Committee for 
Non-Cooperative 
Borrowers
Premises
Investments 
Strategy
Committee for 
Resolution of 
NCLT Matters
*Includes external IT consultant in addition to the above members.            
  Chairperson of the Committee               
  Member of the Committee 

HDFC Bank Limited
288
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E
BRIEF TERMS OF REFERENCE OF BOARD COMMITTEES
Audit Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• 
Review and discuss with management and the independent auditor, the Bank’s annual financial statements, interim financial statements, auditor’s report thereon
 
and all internal control reports before submission to the Board for approval, with particular reference to:

{ 
 matters required to be included in the director’s responsibility statement to be included in the board’s report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the 
Companies Act, 2013;
 
{changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same;
 
{major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by management;
 
{
significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings;
 
{compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements;
 
{disclosure of any related party transactions;
 
{modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report.
•  
Overseeing the Bank’s compliances with legal and regulatory requirements.
• 
Overseeing the independent auditor’s qualifications and independence.
• 
Overseeing the performance of the Bank’s independent auditor and internal audit, compliance and vigilance functions.
• 
 Overseeing the Bank’s systems of disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls over financial reporting, and compliance with ethical standards adopted 
by the Bank.
• 
Reviewing the disclosure required by Section 303A.11 of NYSE Continued Listing Standards in Form 20-F.
• 

Review of modus operandi / findings of any internal investigations, quarterly analysis of suspected / actual frauds or irregularity reported by the bank, failure of 
internal control system of material nature, etc.
• 

Review important guidelines, circulars, notifications / directions etc. issued by RBI, SEBI, MCA and other regulatory bodies.
•
Review the functioning of the whistle blower mechanism.
• 
Establish, review and update periodically a code of business conduct and ethics and determine whether management has established a system to enforce this
 
code.
•  
Review of compliance with the Bank’s Share Dealing Code and SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and verify that the systems for internal
 
control are adequate and are operating effectively.
• 
 Grant of approval / omnibus approval for related party transactions as defined in the Board-approved ‘Policy on Related Party Transactions’ of the Bank and for 
their subsequent modifications, if any.  
• 
Review at least on a quarterly basis, the details of related party transactions entered into by the Bank pursuant to the approvals given.
Financial, Social and Relationship capital 
Investors and Government and Regulatory Bodies  
Mr. M. D. Ranganath (Chairman), Mrs. Lily Vadera and Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala, all of whom are Independent Directors. Mr. M. D. 
Ranganath and Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala are the members of Audit Committee having financial expertise. 
During the financial year under review, the Audit Committee met 17 (seventeen) times on April 5, 2024, April 16, 2024, April 29, 2024, June 
6, 2024, June 28, 2024, July 15, 2024, August 3, 2024, August 20, 2024, September 27, 2024, October 17, 2024, November 25, 2024, 
December 5, 2024, January 10, 2025, February 18, 2025, March 5, 2025, March 13, 2025 and March 30, 2025.
F
Capitals Impacted
I
Stakeholders Impacted
M
R
M
Composition
D
6
D
D
Meetings
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• 
 Formulating criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a director and recommending to the Board of Directors a policy relating
 
to the remuneration of the Directors, key managerial personnel and other employees.
•  
Scrutinizing the nominations of candidature for the purpose of appointment as Directors, inter alia with reference to their qualifications and experience, confirming
 
compliance with ‘Fit and Proper’ criteria, assessing competency of the persons and making suitable recommendations to the Board.
•  
 Reviewing compensation levels of the Bank’s employees vis-à-vis other banks and the banking industry in general.
•  
 Formulation of criteria and specifying manner for evaluation of performance of individual Directors including Independent Directors, the Board of Directors and its
 
Committees.
•  
Formulation and administration of the Bank’s Employee Stock Options (ESOP) schemes, plans/ schemes for Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and such other stock
 
or stock-based incentive plans/schemes, including granting of ESOPs and RSUs and prescribing terms and conditions applicable to such instruments.
•  
Overseeing the implementation of the respective Codes of Conduct & Ethics Policy of the Bank established and approved by the Board, applicable to the Board
 
members as well as all employees of the Bank.
•  
Recommending remuneration of whole-time directors as well as recommending appointment including remuneration of Senior Management Personnel, to the
 
Board.
Human capital
Employees
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala (Chairman), Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Mr. M.D. Ranganath and Mr. Sandeep Parekh. All the members of the 
Committee are independent Directors. 
During the financial year under review, the Nomination & Remuneration Committee met 17 (seventeen) times on April 19, 2024, May 3, 2024, 
June 10, 2024, June 18, 2024, July 5, 2024, July 19, 2024, August 5, 2024, August 20, 2024, September 19, 2024, October 18, 2024, October 
29, 2024, November 15, 2024, November 25, 2024, December 9, 2024, January 21, 2025, January 30, 2025 and March 26, 2025.
H
Capitals Impacted
E
Stakeholders Impacted
D
C
D
Composition
D
J
2
D
Meetings

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
289
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• 
Monitoring the grievances /complaints relating to transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual reports, non-receipt of dividend, issue of duplicate share
 
certificates and new certificates on split / consolidation / renewal, general meetings, non-receipt of interest on debentures / bonds, etc.;
•  
Noting of investor service requests relating to transmission, sub-division/ splitting and consolidation of securities certificate, issue of letter of
 
confirmation, claim from unclaimed suspense account, and to consider requests for dematerialization and re-materialization of shares.
•  
Reviewing the measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders and reviewing adherence to the service standards adopted in respect of
 
various services being rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
•  
Reviewing various measures and initiatives taken by the Bank for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants
 
annual reports / statutory notices by the shareholders of the Bank.
•  
Resolving grievances of debenture holders, payment of interest / principal, maintenance of security cover and any other covenants.
•  
Noting of allotment of shares to the employees of the Bank on exercise of stock options and any other incentive-based instrument(s) granted under the various
 
Schemes of the Bank.
Financial, Human, Social and Relationship capital   
Investors, Employees, Government and Regulatory Bodies
F
Capitals Impacted
I
Stakeholders Impacted
Meetings
Mr. Keki Mistry (Chairman), Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mrs. Lily Vadera, Mrs. Renu Karnad, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha and Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan. 
Details of re-constitution:  Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan was inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025. Out of the 
total Directors, 2 Directors are independent.
 During the financial year under review, the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee met 5 (five) times on April 15, 2024, July 16, 2024, October 
16, 2024, November 19, 2024 and January 16, 2025.
M
D
t
Composition
CSR & ESG Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• 
Formulation of Bank’s CSR and ESG Strategy, Policy and Goals and recommending the CSR Annual Action Plan to the Board.
•  
Identification of the areas of CSR activities and recommend to the Board the amount of CSR expenditure.
•  
Monitoring the Bank’s CSR policy and performance.
•  
Reviewing the CSR projects / initiatives from time to time.
•  
Ensuring legal and regulatory compliance from a CSR viewpoint.
•  
Ensuring reporting and communication to the Bank’s stakeholders on the Bank’s CSR activities. 
•  
Monitoring the Bank’s ESG Framework, strategy, goals and disclosures. 
Financial, Human, Natural, Social and Relationship capital
Customers, Employees, Community, Investors, Employees, Suppliers Government and Regulatory Bodies.
F
Capitals Impacted
C
Stakeholders Impacted
Meetings
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari (Chairperson), Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala, Mr. Santhosh Keshavan, Mrs. Renu Karnad and Mr. Kaizad 
Bharucha.
Details of Re-constitution: Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala and Mr. Santhosh Keshavan were inducted as  Members of the Committee with 
effect from October 19, 2024 and March 27, 2025, respectively. Out of the total Directors, 3 Directors are independent.
During the financial year under review, the CSR & ESG Committee met 5 (five) times on April 15, 2024, July 16, 2024, October 16, 2024, 
December 4, 2024 and January 17, 2025. 
D
B
D
e
D
Composition

HDFC Bank Limited
290
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E
Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee
Financial capital
Investors, Government and Regulatory Bodies
F
Capitals Impacted
I
Stakeholders Impacted
During the financial year under review, the Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee met 10 (ten) times on April 19, 2024, June 19, 2024, June 27, 
2024, July 19, 2024, September 19, 2024, October 18, 2024, November 26, 2024, January 21, 2025, February 20, 2025 and March 26, 2025.
Mrs. Lily Vadera (Chairperson), Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mrs. Renu Karnad and Mr. Sashidhar 
Jagdishan. Out of the total Directors, 4 Directors are independent.
Composition
Meetings
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• 
 Monitoring the compliance of risk parameters/aggregate exposures with the appetite set by the Board and ensuring that frameworks are established for 
assessing and managing various risks faced by the Bank, systems are developed to relate risk to the Bank’s capital level and methods are in place for monitoring 
compliance with internal risk management policies and processes.
•  
 Ensuring that the Bank has a suitable framework for Risk Management and oversees the implementation of the risk management policy.
•  
 Reviewing of the enterprise-wide risk frameworks viz.  Risk Appetite framework (RAF), Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), stress testing 
policy & framework, Enterprise Model Validation Policy, Group Risk Management Policy, Bank’s exposure to Central Counterparties including exposures arising 
from trading through CCP and exposures arising from CCP membership obligations such as default fund contributions, outcome of Money Laundering and 
Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment etc. 
•  
 Reviewing impaired credits and material risks faced by the subsidiaries.
•  
 Reviewing the cyber security framework of the Bank, evaluating the probable risks associated with cyber security and ensure that appropriate measures and 
procedures have been put in place to mitigate the same.
Fraud Monitoring Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• 
Identifying the systemic lacunae, if any, that facilitated perpetration of the fraud and put in place measures to plug the same.
•  
Identifying the reasons for delay in detection, if any, reporting to top management of the Bank and Reserve Bank of India.
•  
Monitoring progress of CBI / Police Investigation, and recovery position.
•  
Ensure that staff accountability is examined at all levels in all the cases of frauds and staff side action, if required, is completed quickly without loss of time.
•  
Reviewing the efficacy of the remedial action taken to prevent recurrence of frauds, such as strengthening of internal controls.
•  
Put in place other measures as may be considered relevant to strengthen preventive measures against commission of frauds. 
•  
Monitoring and reviewing the Red Flag Accounts as and when they are classified as per the guidelines prescribed by the RBI.
•  
Monitoring the progress of mitigating steps taken by the Bank in case of electronic frauds and the efficacy of the same in containing fraud numbers and values.
•  
 Reviewing and monitoring cases of frauds, including root cause analysis, and suggest mitigating measures for strengthening the internal controls, risk
 
management framework and minimising the incidence of frauds. 
Financial, Social and Relationship capital
Investors, Government and Regulatory Bodies 
F
Capitals Impacted
I
Stakeholders Impacted
During the financial year under review, the Fraud Monitoring Committee met 4 (four) times on April 15, 2024, July 16, 2024, October 16, 2024 
and January 15, 2025.
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala (Chairman), Mrs. Lily Vadera, Mrs. Renu Karnad, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha. Out of 
the total Directors, 2 Directors are independent.
Composition
Meetings

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
291
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Customer Service Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• 
Formulation of comprehensive deposit policy incorporating the issues arising out of the demise of a depositor for operation of his account, the product approval
 
process, annual survey of depositor satisfaction and the triennial audit of such services.
•  
Striving for continuous improvements in the quality of customer services provided by the Bank.
•  
Overseeing the function of the Standing Committee on Customer Service, and also bring out innovative measures for enhancing the customer experience and
 
quality of customer service thereby enhancing the customer satisfaction level across all categories of clientele, at all times.
Financial, Social and Relationship capital
F
Capitals Impacted
Customers
C
Stakeholders Impacted
During the financial year under review, the Customer Service Committee met 5 (five) times on May 29, 2024, May 31, 2024, August 20, 2024, 
November 26, 2024 and February 19, 2025.
Meetings
D
Composition
Mr. Sandeep Parekh (Chairman), Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan and Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri. 
Details of Re-constitution:
Mr. Sandeep Parekh was appointed as a Chairman of the Committee with effect from September 20, 2024 and Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri was 
inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ceased to be Member of the Committee with effect from close of business hours on March 27, 2025.
Out of the total Directors, 2 Directors are independent.
Committee for Resolution of NCLT Matters
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• 
Reviewing and deciding on requests/ requirements involving principal write-off of over ` 5 crores and up to ` 500 crores only for wholesale & SME accounts.
•  
Deciding on voting in favour or against a proposal submitted to the CoC/ lenders in relation to the above categories of loans, for and on behalf of the Bank.
Financial, Social and Relationship capital
F
Capitals Impacted
Investors, and Government and Regulatory Bodies 
I
Stakeholders Impacted
During the financial year under review, the Committee for Resolution of NCLT Matters met 3 (three) times on September 10, 2024, February 
19, 2025 and March 13, 2025.
Meetings
D
Composition
Mr. Sandeep Parekh (Chairman), Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha and Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan. 
Details of Re-constitution:
Mr. Sandeep Parekh was appointed as a Chairman of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025. 
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala was inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
Out of the total Directors, 2 Directors are independent.
Credit Approval Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• 
Evaluation and approval of credit appetite on borrower/counterparties proposed in credit appetite memorandum and product programs within the threshold
 
ceilings in accordance with the Board approved Credit Polices and Procedure Manual, as amended from time to time. 
Financial, Social and Relationship capital
F
Capitals Impacted
Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mrs. Renu Karnad and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha. Out of the total Directors, 1 director is independent.  
M
Composition
Investors and Customers 
I
Stakeholders Impacted
During the financial year under review, the Credit Approval Committee met 28 (twenty-eight) times on April 23, 2024,May 08, 2024, 
May 27, 2024, May 29, 2024, June 14, 2024, June 22, 2024, June 28, 2024, July 11, 2024, July 29, 2024, August 19, 2024, 
August 26, 2024, September 09, 2024, September 18, 2024, September 23, 2024, September 25, 2024, September 30, 2024, 
October 17, 2024, October 28, 2024, November 19, 2024, December 04, 2024, December 21, 2024, January 10, 2025, January 
13, 2025, January 27, 2025, February 14, 2025, February 17, 2025, March 05, 2025 and March 27, 2025.
D
M
A
O
1
Meetings

HDFC Bank Limited
292
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E
IT Strategy Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• 
Approving IT strategy and related policy documents and reviewing the same from time to time and ensuring that the management has put an effective strategic
 
planning process in place.
•  
Approving the Bank’s IT strategy and budget to ensure it aligns with the business needs and approving re-allocation of resources within IT to facilitate meeting
 
priorities and business needs.
•  
Reviewing and approving IT implementation plans and providing guidance on the review of third-party assessment outcomes, risks and compliance pertaining
 
to IT outsourcing.
•  
Review the plans for managing IT Security and mitigating potential vulnerabilities and overseeing IT risks and controls and reviewing actions taken by the IT
 
department to address such risks.
•  
Framing of the Bank-level strategy and action plans for achieving the target of digital transactions in an organized manner, as may be set by the Government,
 
regulatory authorities, Indian Banks’ Association, etc. from time to time.
•  
Monitoring the progress of achievement in digital transactions in line with the Bank’s strategy and action plans.
• 
Exploring new opportunities for increasing the digital transactions of the Bank from time to time and providing necessary directions in implementing and
 
improving high level of digitalization in Bank.
•  
Reviewing the Digital Banking strategy of the Bank as and when required thereby providing direction on focus areas.
•  
Reviewing the progress made on the initiatives relating to Digital Banking covering performance initiatives as determined by the Board and
 
Government of India from time to time and reviewing the customer services rendered on digital platform from time to time.
Financial, Social, Relationship and Intellectual capital  
F
Capitals Impacted
Investors, Customers, Government and Regulatory Bodies and Suppliers
I
Stakeholders Impacted
During the financial year under review, the IT Strategy Committee met 5 (five) times on June 19, 2024, August 13, 2024, November 25, 2024, 
January 20, 2025 and March 27, 2025.
Meetings
D
Composition
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan (Chairman), Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, 
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan and Prof. H. Krishnamurthy (external IT consultant). 
Details of Re-constitution:
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari ceased to be a Chairperson of the Committee with effect from November 27, 2024.
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan was appointed as a Member with effect from November 18, 2024 and as a Chairman of the Committee with effect 
from November 27, 2024.
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan was inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
Out of the total Directors, 4 Directors are independent.
Premises Committee
Financial and Manufactured capital
Investors and Suppliers
F
Capitals Impacted
I
Stakeholders Impacted
Meetings
Mrs. Renu Karnad (Chairperson), Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari and Mr. V.  Srinivasa Rangan. 
Details of re-constitution:
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan was inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025. Out of the total Directors, 2 Directors 
are independent.
During the financial year under review, the Premises Committee met 4 (four) times during the year on April 15, 2024, July 16, 2024, October 
16, 2024 and January 17, 2025. 
M
D
M
a
D
Composition
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• 
 Approving the acquisition and / or leasing / leave & license including renewal of lease and leave & license, of any property / premises/ building/ commercial 
& residential plot, as proposed by the Central Infrastructure Team of the Bank, for the purpose of setting up of Branch / Back Office / ATM / Currency Chest 
/ Residential Training Centre/ Storage / Godown/ Guest House, etc., as per the terms and conditions stipulated and in accordance with the guidelines as 
prescribed and approved by the Board.
•  
 Approving the acquisition of residential premises for the eligible employees of the Bank on lease / leave and license basis/ as per the terms and conditions 
stipulated and in accordance with the guidelines as prescribed and approved by the Board. 
•  
 Approving any other acquisition of property / space, which is proposed by the Central Infrastructure Team of the Bank, as per the terms and conditions stipulated 
and in accordance with the guidelines as prescribed and approved by the Board. 
• 
 Approving the construction of office building, residential tower etc. on (freehold / leasehold) properties acquired by the Bank as per the terms and conditions 
stipulated and in accordance with the guidelines as prescribed and approved by the Board.
•  
 Approving the divestment of Bank owned properties / land parcel / flats, etc., not gainfully utilised.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
293
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Investments Strategy  Committee
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• 
 Exploring and evaluating feasibility of various monetization initiatives and potential opportunities in respect of investment/divestment in the various subsidiary and 
/ or group companies of the Bank, including but not limited to sale, divestment of equity stake, monetising investments under the process of Initial Public Offer 
or Further Public Offer or other strategies.
•  
 Appointing merchant bankers / legal advisors / consultants and other agencies towards such exploration/ evaluation of potential investment/ divestment 
opportunities, as it may deem fit.
•  
 Reviewing progress, for the proposals approved by the Committee/Board or provide the relevant recommendations, if any, to the Board.
Financial capital
Investors
Mr. Keki Mistry (Chairman), Mr.  M.D.  Ranganath and Mr.  Sandeep Parekh. Out of the total Directors, 2 Directors are independent.  
During the financial year under review the Investments Strategy Committee met 15 (fifteen) times on April 8, 2024, May 27, 2024, July 18, 
2024, August 3, 2024, August 20, 2024, September 2, 2024, September 18, 2024, October 3, 2024, October 16, 2024, October 25, 2024, 
November 23, 2024, November 26, 2024, December 21, 2024, February 6, 2025 and March 23, 2025.
F
Capitals Impacted
I
Stakeholders Impacted
M
Composition
D
2
N
D
Meetings
Review Committee For Willful Defaulters’ Identification
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• 
 Providing an opportunity for a personal hearing to the borrower / guarantor / promoter / director / persons who are in charge and responsible for the management 
of the affairs of the entity. 
•  
 In case the opportunity is not availed or if the personal hearing is not attended by the borrower/ guarantor/ promoter/ director / persons who are in charge and 
responsible for the management of the affairs of the entity, the Committee shall, after assessing the facts or material on record, including written representation, 
if any, consider the proposal of the Executive Identification Committee and take a decision. 
•  
 Passing a reasoned order and the same shall be communicated to the wilful defaulter.
Financial, Social and Relationship capital 
Investors and Customers
Mr.  Sashidhar Jagdishan (Chairman), Mr.  M.D. Ranganath, Mr.  Sandeep Parekh, and Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri 
Details of Re-constitution:
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri was inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ceased to be a Member of the Committee with effect from close business hours on March 27, 2025. Out of the total Directors, 
2 Directors are independent.
During the financial year under review, the Review Committee for Wilful Defaulters’ Identification met 2 (twice) on April 12, 2024 and May 28, 
2024.
F
Capitals Impacted
I
Stakeholders Impacted
M
D
M
M
2
M
Composition
D
2
Meetings
Review Committee For Non-Cooperative Borrowers
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities
• 
To review matters related to Non-Co-Operative Borrowers which are handled by the Internal Committee of Executives appointed for this purpose.
Financial, Social and Relationship capital 
Investors and Customers
Mr.  Sashidhar Jagdishan (Chairman), Mr.  M.D. Ranganath, Mr.  Sandeep Parekh and Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri. 
Details of Re-constitution:
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri was inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ceased to be a Member of the Committee with effect from close business hours on March 27, 2025. Out of the total Directors, 
2 Directors are independent.
No meetings of the Committee were held during the year.
F
Capitals Impacted
I
Stakeholders Impacted
M
D
M
M
2
M
Composition
N
Meetings
Detailed terms of reference of the above-mentioned committees are placed on the Bank's website at https://www.hdfcbank.
com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and-policies

HDFC Bank Limited
294
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E
COMMITTEE MEETINGS ATTENDED / HELD DURING FY 2024-25
Sr. 
No
Name of the Director
Audit
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration
Stakeholder’s 
Relationship
CSR & ESG
Risk 
Policy and 
Monitoring
Fraud 
Monitoring
Customer 
Service
Credit
Approval
Premises
IT Strategy@
Investments 
Strategy 
Review 
Committee 
for Wilful 
Defaulters’ 
Identification
Committee for 
Resolution of 
NCLT Matters
1.       Mr. Atanu Chakraborty
-
17/17
-
-
10/10
-
-
-
-
5/5
-
-
2.       Mr. M. D. Ranganath
17/17
16/17
-
-
9/10
-
-
-
-
5/5
14/15
2/2
-
3.       Mr. Sandeep Parekh*
-
17/17
5/5
-
10/10
-
5/5
28/28
4/4
-
15/15
2/2
3/3
4.
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari$
-
-
-
5/5
-
-
5/5
-
4/4
5/5
-
-
-
5.       Mrs. Lily Vadera 
17/17
-
5/5
-
10/10
4/4
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6.       Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala**
17/17
17/17
-
2/2
-
4/4
-
-
-
-
-
-
NA
7.      Mr. Santhosh Keshavan***
-
-
-
NA
-
-
-
-
-
3/5
-
-
-
8.
Mr. Keki Mistry 
-
-
5/5
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
15/15
-
-
9.       Mrs. Renu Karnad
-
-
5/5
5/5
9/10
4/4
-
28/28
4/4
-
-
-
-
10.     Mr. Sashi Jagdishan
-
-
-
-
10/10
4/4
3/5
-
-
5/5
-
1/2
-
11.    Mr. Kaizad Bharucha#
-
-
5/5
5/5
-
4/4
4/5
26/28
-
-
-
2/2
3/3
12.     Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri##
-
-
-
-
-
-
NA 
-
-
-
-
NA
-
13.
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan###
-
-
NA
-
-
-
-
-
NA
NA
-
-
3/3
Leave of absence was granted to the concerned Director who could not attend the concerned Committee meeting
*Mr. Sandeep Parekh was appointed as a Chairman of the Customer Service Committee with effect from September 20, 2024 and as a Chairman of the Committee for Resolution of NCLT Matters with effect 
from March 27,2025.
$Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari ceased to be the Chairperson of the IT Strategy Committee with effect from November 27, 2024.
** Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala was appointed as a Member of the CSR & ESG Committee and Committee for Resolution of NCLT Matters with effect from October 19, 2024 and March 27, 2025, respectively.
*** Mr. Santhosh Keshavan was appointed as a Member of the IT Strategy Committee with effect from November 18, 2024 and as a Chairman of the IT Strategy Committee with effect from November 27, 2024. 
Further, appointed as a Member of the CSR & ESG Committee with effect from March 27, 2025. 
#Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ceased to be a Member of the Customer Service Committee, Review Committee for Willful Defaulter’s Identification and Review Committee for Non-Cooperative Borrowers with effect 
from March 27, 2025.
##Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri was appointed as a Member of the Customer Service Committee, Review Committee for Willful Defaulter’s Identification and Review Committee for Non-Cooperative Borrowers with effect 
from March 27, 2025.
###Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan was  appointed as a Member of the IT Strategy Committee, Premises Committee and Stakeholder’s Relationship Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
@Committee includes an external IT consultant, Prof. H. Krishnamurthy as a permanent invitee.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
295
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Meeting of the Independent Directors
The Independent Directors convene separate meetings to discuss various issues at their discretion without the presence of the 
management of the Bank. The main objective of such meetings is for the Independent Directors to evaluate the performance of 
the Whole-Time Directors and the overall performance of the Board and its committees. 
At the meetings, apart from conducting performance evaluation, the Independent Directors assessed the quality, quantity and 
timeliness of the flow of information between the Bank’s management and the Board and expressed its satisfaction on the same.
The Independent Directors met 9 (nine) times during the year on June 18, 2024, July 19, 2024, August 21, 2024, September 
19, 2024, October 18, 2024, November 26, 2024, January 21, 2025, February 19, 2025 and March 27, 2025. All Independent 
Directors were present at all the Meetings except for the following wherein leave of absence was granted:
• 
 Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari could not attend the Independent Directors’ meetings held on August 21, 2024, September 
19, 2024, October 18, 2024 and February 19, 2025;
• 
 Mr. M. D. Ranganath could not attend the Independent Directors’ meetings held on September 19, 2024 and October 18, 
2024; and
• 
 Mr. Santhosh Keshavan could not attend the Independent Directors’ meeting held on February 19, 2025.
Remuneration of Directors
Executive Directors
The details of the remuneration paid to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Kaizad 
Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director, Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director and Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director 
during the FY 2024-2025 are as under:
(Amount in `)
Particulars   
Mr. Sashidhar 
Jagdishan
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri
Mr. V. Srinivasa 
Rangan
Basic
3,09,07,457
2,80,91,040
1,91,45,675
3,60,65,640
Allowances and Perquisites
3,46,43,301
3,24,64,367
2,14,07,698
2,15,65,108
Provident Fund
37,08,901
33,70,920
22,97,477
43,27,877
Superannuation
46,36,116
42,13,656
28,71,863
54,09,854
Performance Bonus
4,67,24,465
4,19,92,844
1,95,21,500*
2,11,23,294
Number of stock options Granted (Number of 
ESOPs)
2,12,052
1,30,206**
78,602
6,03,126***
*This includes Cash Bonus paid in FY 2024-25 for the performance as Executive Director (effective April 19, 2023) and Group Head.
** Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was granted a total quantum of 1,30,206 employee stock options on May 10, 2025 for the performance 
year 2023 -24. The same had been approved by the RBI vide their letter dated January 07, 2025.
*** Includes 2 grants of employee stock options as follows: 
a)  
 4,77,150 employee stock options were granted for the period 2020-2023, i.e. for the period before his appointment as an 
Executive Director of the Bank and as a one-time grant for his performance as an Executive Director of HDFC Limited (i.e. 
prior to the amalgamation of HDFC Limited with and into the Bank w.e.f July 1, 2023.)
b)  
 Further, 1,25,976 ESOPs were granted for the performance year 2023-24.

HDFC Bank Limited
296
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E
Notes:
1. 
 Mr. Aditya Puri former Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Bank retired from the services of the Bank 
from the close of business hours on October 26, 2020. Mr. Aditya Puri was paid cash variable pay of ` 7,11,00,000 for 
the performance period April 01, 2020 to October 26, 2020. The same was approved by RBI vide their letter dated 
March 23, 2022. Basis RBI direction, 40% of the above-mentioned cash variable pay i.e. ` 2,84,40,000 was paid in the 
FY  2021-2022 and the balance 60% of the cash variable pay was to be deferred and subject to payment over a period 
of three years in three equal instalments. The first tranche of the aforementioned deferred amount of ` 4,26,60,000 i.e. 
` 1,42,20,000 (Computed as 1/3rd of 4,26,60,000) was paid in April 2023 in line with the RBI directive. The second tranche 
of the aforementioned deferred amount of  ` 4,26,60,000 i.e. 1,42,20,000 (computed as 1/3rd of ` 4,26,60,000) was paid 
on April 02, 2024 in line with the RBI directive. The Third tranche of the aforementioned deferred amount of ` 4,26,60,000 
i.e. 1,42,20,000 (computed as 1/3rd of ` 4,26,60,000) was paid on April 23, 2025, in line with the RBI directive. 
 
 2.  
 Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer was paid the following as part of cash variable 
pay. This would also include payment received as part of deferred cash variable of previous years. The total cash 
variable pay paid to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan in the FY 2024-25 is as follows:
 
A)   50% of the cash variable pay for the Performance 
Year 2023-24 (Total cash variable pay approved by 
RBI was ` 5,25,38,346): ` 2,62,69,173. The same is 
in accordance with the RBI guidelines and was paid 
in January 2025.
 
B)   Tranche 1 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
Performance Year 2022-23: ` 83,32,777 was paid 
on April 23, 2025. 
 
C)   Tranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
Performance Year 2021-22: ` 86,15,293 was paid 
on April 23, 2025. 
 
D)   Tranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
Performance Year 2020-21: ` 35,07,222 was paid 
on July 25, 2024.
 
 
Total Payout (A+B+C+D) = ` 4,67,24,465
3.  
 Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director 
(erstwhile Executive Director) was paid the following 
as part of cash variable pay. This would also include 
payment received as part of deferred cash variable 
of previous years. The total cash variable pay paid to 
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha in the FY 2024-25 is as follows.
 
A)   50% of the cash variable pay for the Performance 
Year 2023-24 (Total cash variable pay approved by 
RBI was ` 4,62,11,282): ` 2,31,05,641. The same is 
in accordance with the RBI guidelines and was paid 
on 23rd April 2025. 
 
B)    Tranche 1 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
Performance Year 2022-23: ` 68,45,311 was paid 
on April 23, 2025.
 
C)   Tranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
Performance Year 2021-22: ` 61,75,225 was paid 
on April 23, 2025.
 
D)   Tranche 3 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
Performance Year 2020-21: ` 58,66,667 was paid 
on April 23, 2025.
 
 
Total Payout (A+B+C+D) = ` 4,19,92,844
4.  
 Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director (erstwhile Group 
Head and designated as Executive Director on April 19, 
2023) was paid the following as part of cash variable pay. 
This would include payment received as part of deferred 
cash variable of previous years, post being designated 
as Executive Director as well as deferred cash variable 
pay for the period served as Group Head. Accordingly, 
the total cash variable pay paid to Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri in 
the FY 2024-25 is as follows.
 
A) 
 50% of the cash variable pay for the Performance 
Year 2023-24 (Total cash variable pay approved by 
RBI was ` 2,63,59,624): ` 1,31,79,812. The same 
is in accordance with the RBI guidelines and was 
paid in January 2025 (Performance as Executive 
Director)

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
297
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
B) 
 Tranche 1 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
Performance Year 2022-23: ` 13,29,724 was paid in 
September 2024 (Performance as Group Head)
C) 
 Tranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
Performance Year 2021-22: ` 27,58,892 was paid in 
September 2024 (Performance as Group Head)
D) 
 Tranche 3 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
Performance Year 2020-21: ` 22,53,072 of which 
` 9,52,889 was paid in October 2024 and ` 13,00,183 
was paid in January 2025 (Performance as Group Head)
 
Total Payout (A+B+C+D) = ` 1,95,21,500
5.  
 Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, designated as Executive Director 
effective from November 23, 2023 was paid the following 
as part of cash variable pay in FY 2024-25:
 
A) 
 50% of the cash variable pay for the Performance 
Year 2023-24 (Total cash variable pay approved by 
RBI was ` 4,22,46,588): ` 2,11,23,294. The same is 
in accordance with the RBI guidelines and was paid 
in January 2025.
 
 
Total Payout (A): ` 2,11,23,294
*Grant of Employee Stock Options to Directors
1.  
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan:
 
 Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan was granted a total quantum 
of 2,12,052 employee stock options for the performance 
year 2023-24 on January 30, 2025. The same had been 
approved by the RBI vide their letter dated January 
07, 2025.
2.  Mr. Kaizad Bharucha:
 
 Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was granted a total quantum of 
1,30,206 employee stock options on May 10, 2025 for 
the performance year  2023 -24. The same had been 
approved by the RBI vide their letter dated January 
07, 2025.
3.  Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri :
 
 Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri was granted a total quantum of 78,602 
employee stock options for the performance year 2023-
24 on January 30, 2025. The same had been approved 
by the RBI vide their letter dated January 07, 2025.
4.  Mr. V Srinivasa Rangan:
 
 Mr. V Srinivasa Rangan was granted a total quantum of 
6,03,126 employee stock options in Financial 2024-25 
which was done through 2 grants:
 
a) 
 4,77,150 employee stock options were a one-time 
grant for the period 2020-2023, i.e. for the period 
before his appointment as an Executive Director of 
the Bank and as a one-time grant for his performance 
as an Executive Director of the erstwhile HDFC 
Limited (i.e. prior to the amalgamation of erstwhile 
HDFC Limited with and into the Bank.). This was 
granted on July 30, 2024 ^
 
b) 
 1,25,976 employee stock options granted for 
Performance Year 2023-24 on January 30, 2025. 
The same had been approved by the RBI vide their 
letter dated January 07, 2025.
^The vesting schedule for the 4,77,150 stock options granted 
to Mr. V Srinivasa Rangan on July 30, 2024 is 33% of options 
after expiry of twelve months from date of grant, 33% options 
after expiry of twenty-four months from the date of grant and 
the balance options after expiry of thirty-six months from date 
of grant.
The vesting schedule for the stock options granted to 
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Mr. Bhavesh 
Zaveri and Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan (except 4,77,150 ESOPs 
granted to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan on July 30, 2024) is 25% 
of options after expiry of twelve months from date of grant, 
25% options after expiry of twenty-four months from the date 
of grant, 25% of options after expiry of thirty-six months from 
the date of grant and the balance options after expiry of forty-
eight months from date of grant.
The notice period for each of the Whole-Time Directors, 
as specified in their respective terms of appointments is 
three months.
Pursuant to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the appointment 
and tenure of Whole-Time Directors is subject to the approval 
of RBI.
The Bank provides for gratuity in the form of lump-sum 
payment on retirement or on death while in employment or 
on termination of employment of an amount equivalent to 15 
(fifteen) days basic salary payable for each completed year 
of service.

HDFC Bank Limited
298
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E
The Bank makes annual contributions to funds administered 
by trustees and managed by insurance companies for 
amounts notified by the said insurance companies. The Bank 
accounts for the liability for future gratuity benefits based on an 
independent external actuarial valuation carried out annually.
No sitting fees were paid to Executive Directors for attending 
meetings of the Board and / or its Committees.
Details of Remuneration / Sitting Fees Paid to 
Non-Executive Directors 
Criteria for remuneration/sitting fees paid to Non- 
Executive Director
All the non-executive directors including the Independent 
Directors and the Chairman receive sitting fees and 
reimbursement of out of pocket expenses for attending each 
meeting of the Board and its various Committees. No stock 
options are granted to any of the non- executive directors. 
The sitting fees paid for attending the committee meetings 
held during the FY 2024-25 is as follows: 
List of Committees wherein 
sitting fees of ` 1,00,000 is paid 
per meeting 
List of Committees wherein 
sitting fees of ` 50,000 is paid 
per meeting
i.
Audit Committee
i.
Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee
 ii.
Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee
 ii.
CSR & ESG Committee
iii.
Risk Policy & Monitoring 
Committee
iii.
Fraud Monitoring 
Committee
iv.
Customer Service 
Committee
iv.
Premises Committee
v.
Credit Approval Committee
v.
Review Committee 
for Non-Cooperative 
Borrowers
vi.
IT Strategy Committee
vi.
Review Committee 
for Wilful Defaulter’s 
Identification
vii.
Investments Strategy 
Committee
vii.
Committee for Resolution 
of NCLT Matters 
The Board at its meeting held on March 27, 2025 approved 
the increase in amount of sitting fees payable to the members 
of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, CSR & ESG 
Committee, Fraud Monitoring Committee, Committee for 
Resolution of NCLT Matters and Premises Committee from 
` 50,000 to ` 1,00,000 per meeting, with effect from the 
said date.
Additionally, sitting fees of ` 1,00,000 is paid to Non-Executive 
Directors for attending Board Meetings and to Independent 
Directors for attending Independent Directors' meetings.
The details of sitting fees and remuneration paid to 
Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors during 
the FY 2024-25 is as under:
(Amount in `)
Director 
Sitting Fees 
Remuneration 
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty 
55,00,000
48,58,871
Mr. M.D. Ranganath 
82,00,000
30,00,000
Mr. Sandeep Parekh 
1,05,00,000
30,00,000
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 
31,50,000
30,00,000
Mrs. Lily Vadera
54,50,000
30,00,000
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar 
Bhanwala 
60,00,000
30,00,000
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan1
12,00,000
11,11,644
Mr. Keki Mistry 
30,50,000
30,00,000
Mrs. Renu Karnad 
60,00,000
30,00,000
Total
4,90,50,000
2,69,70,515
1 Mr. Santhosh Keshavan was appointed as an Independent 
Director of the Bank with effect from November 18, 2024.
Pursuant to the circular issued by the RBI on “Review of Fixed 
Remuneration Granted to Non-Executive Directors” dated 
February 09, 2024 read with the RBI circular on “Corporate 
Governance in Banks - Appointment of  Directors and 
Constitution of Committees of the Board” dated April 26, 2021 
and subsequent resolution passed by the shareholders of 
the Bank through Postal ballot on March 29, 2024, the Non-
Executive Directors (NEDs) of the Bank, other than the Part-
time Chairman, were paid compensation in the form of fixed 
remuneration of ` 30,00,000 (Rupees Thirty Lakhs Only) each 
for financial year 2024-25. This is in addition to payment of 
sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses for attending the 
Board and Committee meetings.
Further, pursuant to approval of the Shareholders of the Bank 
through postal ballot on May 03, 2024 and RBI, Mr. Atanu 
Chakraborty was re-appointed as the Part-time Chairman 
and Independent Director of the Bank for a period of 3 
(three) years with effect from May 05, 2024 up to May 04, 
2027 (both days inclusive) and not liable to retire by rotation. 
Further, the Shareholders and RBI also approved an increase 
in remuneration payable to Mr. Chakraborty from ` 35,00,000 
(Rupees Thirty Five Lakhs Only) per annum to ` 50,00,000 
(Rupees Fifty Lakhs Only) per annum with effect from May 
5, 2024. 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
299
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Accordingly, Mr. Chakraborty was paid remuneration for the 
financial year 2024-25 as follows:
i. 
 From April 1, 2024 to May 4, 2024- ` 35,00,000 
(Rupees Thirty Five Lakhs Only) per annum, on a 
proportionate basis.
ii. 
 From May 5, 2024 to March 31, 2025- ` 50,00,000 (Rupees 
Fifty Lakhs Only) per annum, on a proportionate basis.
In addition to the above, Mr. Chakraborty was also paid sitting 
fees, reimbursement of expenses for attending the Board 
and Committee meetings and provision of car for official and 
personal use, during the financial year 2024-25. 
There were no other pecuniary relationships or transactions 
of Non-Executive Directors vis-a-vis the Bank (except banking 
transactions in the ordinary course of business and on arm’s 
length basis) during financial year 2024-25.
EVALUATION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Bank has put in place a mechanism for performance 
evaluation of the Board, Committees of the Board and the 
individual members of the Board (including the Chairman). The 
details of the same have been included in the Directors’ Report. 
PARTICULARS OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT
The details of Senior Management of the Bank as on March 
31, 2025 is as follows:
Employee name
Designation
Mr. Ashish Parthasarthy
Group 
Head 
- 
Branch 
Banking, 
Infrastructure, 
Treasury 
and 
Virtual 
Channels
Mr. Arvind Vohra
Group Head - Retail Assets, RBG & SLI
Mr. Gourab Roy1
Group 
Head-Transactional 
Banking 
Operations
Mr. Jimmy M Tata
Group Head – Credit and Chief Credit 
Officer
Mr. N. Srinivasan2
Group Head-Retail Asset Operations
Mr. Nirav Vimal Shah
Group Head - Corporate Banking, 
Emerging 
Corporate 
Group 
and 
Healthcare Finance
Mr. Parag Rao
Group Head - Payments Business, 
Liability Products, Consumer Finance & 
Marketing
Mr. Rahul Shukla
Group Head - Commercial and Rural 
Banking
Mr. Ramesh 
Lakshminarayanan
Group Head – Tech & Digital and Chief 
Information Officer
Employee name
Designation
Mr. Rakesh Kumar Rajput3 Group Head- Compliance and Chief 
Compliance Officer 
Mr. Rakesh Singh
Group Head - Financial Institutions, 
International Banking, Private Banking 
& BaaS
Mr. Sanmoy Chakrabarti
Group Head – Risk Management and 
Chief Risk Officer
Mr. Srinivasan 
Vaidyanathan
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Suketu Kapadia4 
Group Head- Internal Audit 
Mr. Sudhir Kumar Jha
Group Head - Legal and Group General 
Counsel
Mr. Sumant Rampal
Group Head - Mortgage Business
Mr. Vinayak Ravindra 
Mavinkurve
Group Head - Realty Business Finance
Mr. Vinay Razdan5
Group Head – Human Resources and 
Chief Human Resources Officer
Mr. Ajay Agarwal6
Company Secretary and Group Head- 
Secretarial and Group Oversight 
1Mr. Gourab Roy was elevated as Group Head- Transactional Banking 
Operations with effect from June 1, 2024.
2Mr. N. Srinivasan was elevated as Group Head- Retail Asset Operations 
with effect from June 1, 2024.
3Mr. Rakesh Kumar Rajput, Chief Compliance Ofﬁcer in terms of RBI 
regulations was elevated as Group Head - Compliance with effect from 
June 1, 2024.
4Mr. Suketu Kapadia was appointed as Group Head - Internal Audit with 
effect from April 1, 2024. 
5Mr. Vinay Razdan, Group Head – Human Resources and Chief Human 
Resources Ofﬁcer  resigned from the services of the Bank with effect from 
close of business hours on June 18, 2025. 
6Mr. Ajay Agarwal was appointed as Company Secretary and Head-Group 
Oversight with effect from July 21, 2024. He was further elevated as Group 
Head-Secretarial and Group Oversight with effect from April 1, 2025.
Mr. Arvind Kapil, Group Head- Mortgage Business resigned from the 
services of the Bank with effect from April 26, 2024.
Mr. Santosh Haldankar, Company Secretary, resigned from the services 
of the Bank with effect from July 20, 2024.
Mr. Chakrapani Venkatachari, Group Head - Change Agent, superannuated 
from the services of the Bank with effect from January 31, 2025.
Mr. Sanjay John D’Souza, Group Head- Business Banking, Emerging 
& Micro Enterprises Group has been included as a part of the senior 
management with effect from April 8, 2025.
Mr. Prasun Singh has been elevated as Group Head- Ethics with effect 
from June 1, 2025.

HDFC Bank Limited
300
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
Following are the details of general body meetings for the previous three (3) financial years:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars 
of Meeting
Venue
Day, Date and 
Time
Number 
of Special 
Resolutions
passed, if any*
Nature of Special Resolution(s)
1
28th Annual 
General 
Meeting
Held through Video-
Conferencing
Saturday, July 
16, 2022 at 
2.30 P.M.
1 (one)
Issue Unsecured Perpetual Debt Instruments (part of Additional Tier 
I capital), Tier II Capital Bonds and Long-Term Bonds (financing of 
infrastructure and affordable housing) on a private placement basis.
2
Meeting 
Convened 
by National 
Company 
Law Tribunal 
Held through Video-
Conferencing 
Friday, 
November 25, 
2022 at 2.30 
P.M.
1 (one)
Approval of the Composite Scheme of Amalgamation of: 
(i) 
 HDFC Investments Limited and HDFC Holdings Limited, wholly-
owned subsidiaries of Housing Development Finance Corporation 
Limited (“HDFC Limited”), with and into HDFC Limited and 
(ii) 
 HDFC Limited with and into HDFC Bank Limited and their 
respective shareholders and Creditors.
3
29th Annual 
General 
Meeting
Held through Video-
Conferencing
Friday, August 
11, 2023 at 
01.30 P.M. 
1 (one)
Issue Unsecured Perpetual Debt Instruments (part of Additional 
Tier I capital), Tier II Capital Bonds and Long-Term Bonds (financing 
of infrastructure and affordable housing) on a private placement basis.
4
30th Annual 
General 
Meeting
Held through Video-
Conferencing
Friday, August 
09, 2024 at 
02.30 P.M.
2 (two)
1.   Issue Long-Term Bonds (financing of infrastructure and affordable 
housing), Perpetual Debt Instruments (part of additional Tier I 
capital) and Tier II capital bonds through private placement mode
2.   Grant equity stock options under Employees Stock Option Master 
Scheme - 2024
*All the resolutions as mentioned above were passed with the requisite majority.
POSTAL BALLOT
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 110 and all other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Rule 22 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (“SS-2”) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, including any 
statutory modification(s), clarification(s), substitution(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force, guidelines/ circulars 
prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (the “MCA”), Government of India, for holding general meetings/ conducting 
postal ballot process through electronic voting (remote e-voting) and any other applicable laws and regulations, the approval of 
the Members of the Bank for below mentioned resolutions were obtained through Postal Ballot Notices dated November 27, 
2024 and February 20, 2025 via remote e-voting.
Particulars   
Postal Ballot Notice Dated November 27, 2024
Postal Ballot Notice Dated February 20, 2025
Resolution(s)
Appointment of Mr. Santhosh Keshavan (DIN: 08466631) 
as an Independent Director of the Bank for a period of 
three (3) years with effect from November 18, 2024 
to November 17, 2027 (both days inclusive)- Special 
Resolution 
1)  To approve Material Related Party Transactions 
with HDB Financial Services Limited- Ordinary 
Resolution
2)  To approve Material Related Party Transactions with 
HDFC Securities Limited- Ordinary Resolution
3)  To approve Material Related Party Transactions with 
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited- Ordinary 
Resolution
4)  To approve Material Related Party Transactions with 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited- 
Ordinary Resolution
5)  To approve Material Related Party Transactions 
with PayU Payments Private Limited- Ordinary 
Resolution
6)  To approve Material Related Party Transactions with 
HCL Technologies Limited- Ordinary Resolution

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
301
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Particulars   
Postal Ballot Notice Dated November 27, 2024
Postal Ballot Notice Dated February 20, 2025
Remote e-voting    
National Securities Depository Limited (the “NSDL”)
Scrutinizer
Ms. Manisha Maheshwari, Partner of M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries 
Cut-off Date for 
determining the members 
eligible to vote 
Friday, December 6, 2024
Friday, February 14, 2025
Dispatch Date of notice
Tuesday, December 10, 2024
Monday, February 24, 2025
Remote e-voting period
Commenced on Friday, December 13, 2024 at 10:00 
A.M. (IST) and ended on Saturday, January 11, 2025 at 
5:00 P.M. (IST)
Commenced on Tuesday, February 25, 2025 at 10:00 
A.M. (IST) and ended on Wednesday, March 26, 2025 at 
5:00 P.M. (IST)
The procedure undertaken for aforesaid postal ballots was in 
accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. 
A Scrutinizer report was submitted to the Authorized 
Officer, Mr. Ajay Agarwal, Company Secretary, Group Head- 
Secretarial and Group Oversight of the Bank with respect to 
the Postal Ballots conducted by the Bank. The results of the 
voting conducted through Postal Ballots were as under:
For resolution(s) as specified in the Postal Ballot 
Notice dated November 27, 2024:
There were total of 39,62,399 shareholders of the Bank as 
on the cut-off date i.e. Friday, December 6, 2024, out of 
which 12,237 Members holding 5,17,53,39,470 equity shares 
representing 67.70% of the share capital participated in the 
e-voting process. A snapshot of the voting results of the postal 
ballot is as follows: 
Resolution
% of votes 
polled on 
outstanding 
shares
% of votes in 
favour on votes 
polled
% of votes 
against on votes 
polled
Resolution No. 1
67.697
99.652
0.348
Accordingly, the Resolution as set out in the Postal Ballot 
Notice dated November 27, 2024 was passed with requisite 
majority on January 11, 2025.
For resolution(s) as specified in the Postal Ballot 
Notice dated February 20, 2025:
There were 39,23,592 shareholders of the Bank as on the 
cut-off date i.e., Friday, February 14, 2025, out of which 12,322 
Members holding 5,13,31,83,464 equity shares representing 
67.10 % of the paid- up share capital participated in the 
e-voting process. A snapshot of the voting results of the postal 
ballot is as follows:
Resolutions
% of votes 
polled on 
outstanding 
shares
% of votes in 
favour on votes 
polled
% of votes 
against on votes 
polled
Resolution No. 1
66.834
99.965
0.035
Resolution No. 2
66.834
99.965
0.035
Resolution No. 3
66.833
99.965
0.035
Resolution No. 4
66.832
99.965
0.035
Resolution No. 5
66.834
99.964 
0.036
Resolution No. 6
66.834
99.964 
0.036
Accordingly, the Resolutions as set out in the Postal Ballot 
Notice dated February 20, 2025 were passed with requisite 
majority on March 26, 2025.
The Bank may consider passing resolutions including special 
resolutions through Postal Ballot as and when required.
DISCLOSURES
Material Subsidiary
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (“HDFC Life”) is 
a material subsidiary of the Bank as per the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. HDFC Life was incorporated on August 14, 
2000 in Mumbai. M/s. G M Kapadia & Co. and M/s BSR & 
Co LLP, Chartered Accountants are the Statutory Auditors of 
HDFC Life. M/s. G.M. Kapadia & Co. was appointed on July 
14, 2016 (re-appointed on July 19, 2021) and M/s BSR & Co 
LLP, Chartered Accountants was appointed on July 15, 2024 
as Statutory Auditors of HDFC Life.
Further, the Bank has formulated a policy for determining 
material subsidiary and the same is available on the Bank’s 
website at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/
corporate-governance/codes-and-policies 
During the year, the Policy for determining material subsidiary 
was amended to align the same with the amendments made 
to the SEBI Listing Regulations.

HDFC Bank Limited
302
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E
Related Party Transactions
The Bank has a Board approved policy on Related Party 
Transactions. The policy intends to ensure that proper 
reporting, approval and disclosure processes are in place for 
all related party transactions. All the related party transactions 
entered into by the Bank have been in its ordinary course of 
business and at arm’s length basis. 
Loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/companies 
in which Directors are interested, are disclosed along with 
other related party transactions, in the notes forming part of 
financial statements.
During the year, the Bank has not entered into any materially 
significant transactions with the related parties, which could 
lead to a potential conflict of interest between the Bank and 
these parties. Transactions with related parties were placed 
before the Audit Committee for approval. 
The Shareholders of the Bank have approved all the material 
related party transactions to be entered into by the Bank as 
per SEBI Listing Regulations.
Details of related party transactions entered into during the year 
ended March 31, 2025 are given in Note No. 29 in Schedule 
18, forming part of 'Notes to Accounts' to standalone financial 
statements in accordance with Accounting Standard (AS) – 18.
During the year, the Bank has amended its policy on related 
party transactions which was approved by the Board on 
January 22, 2025 to align the same with various amendments 
in the applicable laws and regulations, and the same is 
available on the Bank’s web-site at https://www.hdfcbank.
com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and-
policies. 
ACCOUNTING TREATMENT
The financial statements have been prepared and presented 
under the historical cost convention and accrual basis of 
accounting, unless otherwise stated and are in accordance 
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (‘Indian 
GAAP’), statutory requirements prescribed under the Third 
Schedule of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, directions, 
circulars, notifications and guidelines issued by the RBI from 
time to time (RBI guidelines), Accounting Standards (‘AS’) 
specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the 
Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, in so far as 
they apply to banks.
Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism
The details of establishment of whistle blower policy / vigil 
mechanism are included in the Directors’ Report. No one 
has been denied access to the Audit Committee to express 
concerns or report grievances under the Whistle Blower Policy 
and / or vigil mechanism.
Familiarization of Directors
The Bank conducts familiarisation programmes for its 
Directors from time to time. The familiarisation programme 
ensures that the directors are updated on the business and 
regulatory environment and the overall operations of the Bank. 
This enables the Directors to make better informed decisions 
in the interest of the Bank and its stakeholders. 
During the year, at the Board / Committee meetings, 
presentations and deep dive sessions were made covering 
important areas such as annual plans and strategies, artificial 
intelligence, global economic crisis, climate risks impact of 
inflation, risk management,  priority sector lending, liquidity, 
stress testing, movement in Foreign Exchange (FX) etc.
The Directors are encouraged to participate in external training, 
learning and development programmes, and during financial 
year 2024-25, the Directors have attended programmes on 
cyber security, Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti Money 
Laundering (AML) etc. organized by various organizations 
such as Data Security Council of India, Centre for Advanced 
Financial Research and Learning by RBI etc.
A monthly compendium containing updates about the Bank 
and its subsidiary companies, synopsis of relevant regulatory 
changes, gist of circulars issued by various regulators and case 
laws is circulated to all the Directors for their ready reference. 
Orientation programmes are being conducted for the new 
Directors in order to familiarise them with the Bank, its 
subsidiary companies, the management, key areas of 
business and regulations. 
The details of familiarization programmes imparted to Directors 
are available on the website of the Bank at  https://www.
hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
familiarization-of-independent-directors 
Strictures and Penalties for last three financial years:
During the last three financial years, the RBI and other 
regulatory / statutory authorities have imposed the following 
penalties / strictures / prohibitions / restrictions on the Bank:

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
303
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
FY 2024-25
During the year ended March 31, 2025, RBI vide its letter dated 
September 10, 2024 levied a penalty of `1,00,00,000 (Rupees 
One crore only) on the Bank for soliciting gifts  to the depositors 
at the time of accepting deposits; for opening certain savings 
accounts in the names of ineligible entities and for failure to 
ensure that customers are not contacted after 7 p.m. and 
before 7 a.m.; in contravention to the Reserve Bank Directions 
on ‘lnterest Rate on Deposits’ and ‘Recovery Agents engaged 
by Banks’. The penalty was paid by the Bank on September 
17, 2024.  The Bank has already taken corrective measures, 
as necessary, to align the operations / procedures in line with 
the applicable regulations.
RBI vide its letter dated March 26, 2025, levied a penalty of 
` 75,00,000 (Rupees Seventy Five Lakh only) on the Bank 
for not categorising certain customers into low, medium 
and high risk category based on its assessment and risk 
perception and for allotting multiple customer identification 
code to certain customers instead of a Unique Customer 
ldentification Code (UCIC) for each customer, which were 
in contravention to Reserve Bank directions on ‘Know Your 
Customer (KYC)’. The penalty was paid by the Bank on March 
28, 2025. The Bank has already taken corrective measures, 
as necessary, to align the operations / procedures in line with 
the applicable regulations.
Administrative warning letter dated August 30, 2024 was 
issued by SEBI pursuant to thematic inspection of depository 
operations undertaken in July 2024. Warning letter was 
issued for discrepancies observed with respect to (i) State 
not mentioned in KRA form in one instance (ii) name mismatch 
observed in KRA system in one instance (iii) documents 
uploaded in KRA system were not clear in four instances (iv) 
address proof not submitted to KRA in one instance. ATR 
was submitted to SEBI vide letter dated September 26, 2024. 
No further communication in the matter is received.
Central Depository Services (India) Limited, vide its letter 
dated October 30, 2024 intimated about levy of penalty of 
` 5000 (Rupees Five Thousand Only) due to non-submission 
of complete compliance report within stipulated time from 
the first intimation of non-compliance letter. Necessary 
clarification along with request for waiver of penalty was 
submitted to CDSL vide letter dated November 4, 2024. 
CDSL, vide email dated March 28, 2025 informed that Bank’s 
request for the waiver of penalty was considered favorably by 
the committee. Accordingly, no penalty was concluded.  The 
matter stands closed.
Administrative warning was issued by SEBI vide letter dated 
March 18, 2025 pursuant to inspection of DDP activities. 
Administrative warning was issued for (i) not periodically 
incorporating changes in the checklist/manual in response to 
regulatory changes notified by SEBI to assess the FPI eligibility 
before granting the FPI registration (ii) failure to determine 
that there is a delay in intimation of change of Investment 
manager of FPI as the effective date of change was not 
obtained and failure to report the said case to SEBI for further 
action (iii) granting an exemption to FPI without independently 
validating the accuracy of documents/disclosures and without 
conducting necessary due diligence (iv) informing the details 
of invalid FPI to NSDL with a delay of more than 4 months.
Administrative warning was issued by SEBI vide its letter dated 
December 9, 2024, for alleged violation of (i) (a) Clause 8(I) of 
Part A of Schedule VI read with Regulation 24(2)(b) of the SEBI 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018 ("ICDR") (b) Regulation 24(3) of the ICDR (c) Clause 4 of 
Schedule III Code of Conduct read with Regulation 13 of SEBI 
(Merchant Banking) Regulations, 1992 (ii) Violation of Regulation 
9A(1)(f) of the SEBI (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992 read 
with Clause 1 of Chapter I of the SEBI Master Circular SEBI/
HO/CFD/PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/157 dated September 26, 2023 
(iii) Violation of Regulation 9(1) read with Schedules B and C 
of the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. 
Action taken report was placed before Board and update was 
submitted to SEBI on December 26, 2024.
Administrative warning was issued by SEBI vide its letter dated 
December 10, 2024 with reference to alleged violation of para 
7 of Part A of Annexure I to SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/
CFD1-PoD/P/Cir/2023/123 dated July 13, 2023 read with 
clause 7 of Para A of Part A of Schedule III and Regulation 30(2) 
of SEBI Listing Regulations and alleged violation of second 
proviso to Regulation 30 (6) of SEBI Listing Regulations.
NCL issued warning vide letter dated February 14, 2025 
pursuant to inspection conducted in Futures & Options 
segment for the period October 01, 2022 to September 30, 
2024. Warning letter stated that (i) the Bank has accepted that 
inadvertently it has missed uploading the G-sec de-allocation 
file which resulted in excess allocation (ii) excess allocation 
funds were not utilized by the client and after subtracting 
this allocation, the allocated collateral of the said client 
was sufficient against the margin requirement of the client. 
Sufficient collaterals were always available with the member 
and there was no margin shortfall. The Bank has already taken 
corrective action by updating its process. 

HDFC Bank Limited
304
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E
FY 2023-24
RBI vide its letter dated November 30, 2023 levied a penalty 
of ` 10,000 (Rupees Ten Thousand only) on the Bank under 
Section 11(3) of FEMA, 1999 for violation of Regulation 3 of 
FEMA 5(R) – FEMA Deposit Regulation 2016. The Bank was 
required to open a Special Non-Resident Rupee Account 
(SNRR) whereas it continued with Resident Current Account of 
a non-resident bank, even after it ceased its operation in India 
in June 2016. Considering the facts of the case, steps were 
taken by the bank in ensuring that no interest was paid on 
the balances in the account, clear explanation was provided 
by the Bank in the personal hearing with RBI and certification 
from statutory auditors that transactions in the account post 
June 2016 were related to winding up activities of the bank. 
The penalty was paid by the Bank.
SEBI had a issued Show Cause Notice in the matter of a 
Foreign Portfolio Investor not meeting eligibility criteria under 
SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations. The Bank had 
submitted Settlement Application which was accepted by 
SEBI and settlement amount of ` 9,18,750 (Rupees Nine Lakhs 
Eighteen Thousand Seven Hundred and Fifty only) was paid 
by the Bank. SEBI issued settlement order dated February 
29, 2024. In terms of the Settlement Order, the proceedings 
initiated in terms of the SCN against the Bank have been 
disposed of without admitting or denying the findings of fact 
and conclusions of law contained in the SCN.
NSE vide email dated November 15, 2023 levied penalty of 
` 7,500 (Rupees Seven Thousand Five Hundred only) for delay 
in submission of Action Taken report (ATR) for non-compliance 
observed in Cyber Security audit report for FY 2022-23. The 
Bank submitted its detailed response to the NSE wherein inter-
alia, it was requested that as ATR was immediately submitted 
to NSE upon receipt of clarification from NSE regarding 
submission of ATR, the penalty imposed may be waived. NSE 
has apprised that the Bank’s response and request for waiver 
of penalty shall be placed before its committee for approval. 
NSE vide its mail dated July 22, 2024 informed that the waiver 
request has been approved. The matter stands closed.
NSE vide letter dated November 17, 2023 levied penalty of 
` 5,000 (Rupees Five Thousand only) for operation of trading 
terminals without having valid certification. The Bank has 
submitted its detailed response to NSE wherein inter-alia, it 
had stated that the Bank’s membership does not have any 
trading rights. The ID was created for usage of member portal 
for downloading of daily reports for clearing and settlement 
related activities and submission of compliance related 
matters to the Clearing Corporation. Further, the Bank had 
submitted its request for disablement of ID and subsequently 
disablement request was processed by NSE. A request for 
waiver of imposed penalty was also submitted to NSE. The 
NSE has apprised that the Bank’s response shall be placed 
before relevant authority for further action. NSE vide its email 
dated May 27, 2024 informed, that the Bank’s request for the 
penalty waiver was considered favorably and credit note will 
be issued to the Bank shortly. The matter stands closed.
During FY 2023-24, pursuant to various tax demands, 
penalties aggregating to the tune of ` 1.17 crores imposed 
on the Bank have been disclosed to the Stock Exchanges 
as required under the SEBI Listing Regulations. The Bank is 
taking appropriate legal remedies including, but not limited to, 
pursuing appeals, as per law.
FY 2022-23
No penalties and strictures were imposed by any regulatory 
authority during the FY2022-23 on the Bank.
Details of utilization of funds
During the year under review, the Bank has not raised any 
funds through Preferential Allotment or Qualified Institutions 
Placement and through issuance of non-convertible securities.
Disclosure of certain types of agreements binding 
listed entities 
The Bank has not entered into any agreements as required 
to be disclosed under clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of 
Schedule III of SEBI Listing Regulations. 
Disclosures for complaints/requests received from 
shareholders 
The Bank is committed to providing effective and prompt 
service to its shareholders. The shareholders can also escalate 
their grievance in case of non-redressal of the same in the 
manner as made available on the Bank’s website.
The details of investor complaints received and redressed by 
the Bank during the last three financial years are as under:
Financial Year
Number of complaints 
received during the 
Financial Year
Number of complaints 
pending as at the end of 
the Financial Year
2022-23
123
0
2023-24
183
5*
2024-25
155
3*
* All complaints were duly attended and closed to the satisfaction of the 
shareholders as on the date of the Reports of the respective ﬁnancial years

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
305
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
The Bank has established an accessible and responsive 
means for its investors to raise concerns through shareholder.
grievances@hdfcbank.com, which is monitored by the 
company secretary.
Besides, 3,537  letters & requests were received from the 
shareholders relating to change of address, updation of bank 
details, correction of name / bank details on the warrants, 
transmission of shares, death claim letters, documents for 
deletion of name, letters related to issues on demat, electronic 
clearing service, email for address updation, exchange of 
certificate(s), letter on exchange of certificates, indemnity 
bond for duplicate certificate, indemnity bond for duplicate 
warrants, KYC updation, loss of share certificate /non receipt 
of certificate, permanent account / GIR number of income tax, 
reminders on any subject, stop mark, transmission documents 
and various other investor related matters. These letters have 
also been responded to within the prescribed timelines.
Disclosures for complaints received by the Bank 
in relation to the Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013
The Bank has a policy on prevention, prohibition and 
redressal of sexual harassment of women at the workplace. 
In consonance with the statutory provisions of the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013, the Bank has constituted an Internal 
Committee to deal with the cases of sexual harassment of 
women at the workplace and the same is placed on the 
Bank’s website. 
The Bank regularly communicates about the mechanism of 
raising complaints to all employees. The Bank also reinforces 
the awareness of the Act and the understanding of the same 
through its mandatory e- learning module that is available in 
both English and Hindi.
Details of the number of complaints received, disposed and 
pending during the last three financial years pertaining to the 
sexual harassment of women at workplace are as under: 
Financial Year
Number of 
complaints 
received
Number of 
complaints 
disposed
Number of cases 
pending as on 
the end of the 
Financial Year
2022-23
68
61
7
2023-24
77
65
12
2024-25
75
65
10*
*The Ten (10) pending cases were disposed by the Internal Committee as 
on the date of this Report. 
Further, two (2) complaints were pending for more than 90 days during 
the ﬁnancial year 2024-25. 
Our Policies and Frameworks
Within the Bank’s broader governance architecture, structured policies serve as the operating framework that translates intent 
into action—guiding the conduct of its operations and decision-making processes.
Code of Conduct & Ethics Manual
Our standards of integrity are articulated 
through the Code of Ethics and Conduct, 
which applies across all levels of the 
organisation. These principles are reinforced 
by our Whistle-blower Policy and My 
Concern portal, providing a platform for staff 
to report their concerns.  
The Bank’s Code of Conduct and Ethics 
manual directs employees, including senior 
management, in upholding the values 
and conducting business with ethical 
standards. At the core of this commitment 
is adherence to the Code of Conduct, which 
explicitly prohibits any involvement in child/
forced labour within our operations. It also 
addresses issues related to verbal abuse, 
sexual abuse or harassment of employees. 
For breaches related to Conflict of Interest, 
kindly refer to Principle 1 of BRSR report.
Whistleblower Policy / Vigil Mechanism
Our Whistleblower Policy establishes a 
comprehensive framework for receiving and 
resolving complaints or grievances from 
stakeholders. These complaints encompass 
various concerns, including instances of 
corruption, improper business practices.
During the FY 2024-25, we addressed a 
total of  97 (Ninety-Seven)  whistleblower 
complaints from a diverse array of 
stakeholders, such as shareholders, 
employees, customers, and value 
chain partners.
For further details, please refer the 
Directors’ Report.
Anti-corruption, Anti-bribery, and Anti-
money Laundering (AML)
To demonstrate our commitment to 
combating corruption, bribery, and 
money laundering, we have implemented 
targeted initiatives across critical domains 
such as the Prevention of Corruption Act, 
Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy, Trade-
based Money Laundering, and Know Your 
Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering 
(AML) regulations. These initiatives include 
comprehensive training for our employees 
on anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and anti-
money laundering practices.

HDFC Bank Limited
306
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E
Policy on Related Party Transactions
This Policy, framed under SEBI Listing 
Regulations and the Companies Act, governs 
the identification, review, and approval 
of Related Party Transactions (RPTs) at 
the Bank. It ensures RPTs are conducted 
transparently, at arm’s length, and in the 
Bank’s best interest. All  RPTs and significant 
modifications require prior approval from the 
Audit Committee, and where material, from 
the Board and shareholders. The Policy 
provides for defined thresholds, permitted 
exclusions, and approvals of Related Party 
Transactions. It also mandates quarterly 
review, public disclosure, and periodic 
reporting to stock exchanges. 
During the year, the Bank has amended 
its policy on related party transactions 
which was approved by the Board on 
January 22, 2025 to align the same with 
various amendments in the applicable laws 
and regulations.
Policy for Determining Material 
Subsidiary 
This Policy, formulated in line with SEBI 
Listing Regulations, sets out the criteria 
and governance framework for determining 
material subsidiaries of the Bank. A 
subsidiary is classified as material if its 
turnover or net worth exceeds 10% of the 
Bank’s consolidated turnover or net worth, 
based on audited financials. All KMPs are 
severally authorised to assess materiality 
and undertake necessary actions in 
line with applicable regulations. Once a 
subsidiary is identified as material, the Bank 
ensures compliance with SEBI-mandated 
requirements, with oversight from the 
Company Secretary.
During the FY 2024-25, the Policy 
for determining material subsidiary 
was amended to align the same with 
the amendments made to the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
Human Rights 
The Bank places strong emphasis on 
respecting and protecting human rights. 
The Human Rights Statement adopted 
by the Bank is guided by the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and reflects 
our commitment to conducting business 
ensuring that all the stakeholders are treated 
with utmost respect and dignity.
The human rights principles are embedded 
in the Bank's Model Code of Conduct, which 
applies to all employees and stakeholders, it 
engages with. 
The Bank strives to strengthen internal 
processes and awareness to prevent and 
address human rights violation across its 
value chain. 
During FY 2024-25, 4,00,082 hours of 
training on human rights awareness was 
imparted to Bank's employees.
Among other critical policies that shape the Bank's 
organisational ethos, the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) 
Policy further advances a culture of representation, openness, 
and belonging within the workplace (for more details refer 
Social-People section).
In addition, the Bank adheres to a formally adopted Tax Policy, 
which outlines a transparent and responsible approach to tax 
strategy and compliance.
A complete list of our publicly disclosed policies is available 
at: https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-
governance/codes-and-policies.
COMPLIANCE WITH MANDATORY 
REQUIREMENTS
The Bank has complied with the applicable mandatory 
requirements of the Code of Corporate Governance as 
prescribed under the SEBI Listing Regulations.
M/s. BNP & Associates, company secretaries, have certified 
that the Bank has complied with the mandatory requirements 
as stipulated under the SEBI Listing Regulations. and the said 
certificate forms a part of this Report.
Mr. Ajay Agarwal, Company Secretary, Group Head- 
Secretarial and Group Oversight is the compliance officer of 
the Bank in accordance with the SEBI Listing Regulations.
COMPLIANCE WITH NON-MANDATORY 
REQUIREMENTS
The Bank has complied with the applicable non-mandatory 
requirements of the Code of Corporate Governance as 
prescribed under the SEBI Listing Regulations and as 
given below:
a) 
The Board 
 
 The Bank maintains an office for its Part-time Chairman, 
expense whereof is borne by the Bank. 
b) 
Shareholder’s Rights
 
 The Bank publishes its results on its website at www.
hdfcbank.com which is accessible to the public at large. 
The same are also available on the websites of the Stock 
Exchanges on which the Bank’s shares are listed.
 
 The financial performance including summary of the 
significant events is being sent separately to such 
shareholders who have registered their e-email address 
with Datamatics Business Solutions Limited (Registrar 
and Share Transfer Agent of the Bank) or their respective 
Depository Participant, on a quarterly basis. The Bank’s 
results for each quarter are published in an English 
newspaper having a nation-wide circulation and in a 
Marathi newspaper having circulation in Maharashtra.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
307
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 The Shareholder’s rights are more particularly mentioned 
in the Shareholders’ Information Section annexed to 
this Report.
c) 
Audit Qualifications
 
 During the period under review, there is no audit 
qualification in the Bank’s financial statements. The Bank 
continues to adopt best practices to ensure regime of 
unmodified audit opinion.
 d) 
 Separate posts of Chairperson and Managing 
Director/ Chief Executive Officer
 
 Mr.  Atanu Chakraborty is the Part-time Chairman and 
Independent Director of the Bank and Mr. Sashidhar 
Jagdishan is the Managing Director & Chief Executive 
Officer of the Bank.
e) 
Reporting of Internal Auditor
 
 The Internal Auditor of the Bank reports to the Audit 
Committee of the Bank.
f)  
Independent Directors
 
 The Independent Directors of the Bank held nine 
meetings during the financial year 2024-25. 
CODE FOR PREVENTION OF INSIDER TRADING
The Bank has adopted a Share Dealing Code (Code) for the 
prevention of insider trading in the securities of the Bank as 
well as in other listed and proposed to be listed companies. 
The Code is divided into 3 parts viz. Part A, Part B and Part C. 
Part A of the Code deals with trading in HDFC Bank securities, 
Part B deals with transactions in other listed and proposed to 
be listed companies and Part C deals with trading in the units 
of mutual funds. 
The share dealing code, inter alia, prohibits dealing in securities 
of the Bank as well as in other listed and proposed to be listed 
companies by insiders while in possession of Unpublished 
Price Sensitive Information (UPSI). The persons designated 
under Part A of the Code are prohibited from trading in the 
securities of the Bank during the Restricted Trading Period 
(Ban Period) notified by the Bank, from time to time and whilst 
in possession of any UPSI relating to the Bank. The Ban Period 
of the Bank starts 7 calendar days prior to the end of a financial 
quarter or year and ends on expiry of two calendar days from 
the date of publication of the results of the Bank.
Further, the Bank also maintains a restricted list of securities 
of certain listed entities for those employees who are in 
possession of or have access to UPSI in relation to those 
entities and such employees are prohibited from trading in 
listed securities of those entities.
During the year under review, the Share Dealing Code of 
the Bank was amended to align the same with various 
amendments in the applicable laws and regulations.
CODE OF ETHICS / CONDUCT FOR DIRECTORS 
AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
The Bank has framed and adopted a Code of Ethics/ Conduct 
for Directors and Senior Management which is approved by 
the Board. The Code is applicable to all Directors and Senior 
Management Personnel of the Bank.
On April 19, 2025, the Code was amended so as to align it with 
the changes in the applicable laws and the Bank’s practices.
This Code is available on the Bank’s website at https://www.
hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
codes-and-policies. All the Directors and Senior Management 
Personnel have affirmed compliance with the said Code.
FEES FOR STATUTORY AUDITORS
For the details of total fees for all services paid by the Bank and 
its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the Joint Statutory 
Auditors and all entities in the network firm / network entity of 
which the Joint Statutory Auditors is a part, kindly refer to the 
Directors’ Report. 
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
The Board acknowledges its responsibility towards its 
shareholders and therefore encourages open and active 
dialogue with all its shareholders – be it individuals, domestic 
institutional investors or foreign investors. The Bank believes 
that the Annual General Meeting is a principal forum which 
provides shareholders an opportunity to interact with the 
Board, auditors and senior management of the Bank.
During the year, in accordance with the circulars issued by 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the shareholder meeting 
was held through a two-way video conference, which enabled 
shareholders of the Bank to participate at the meeting, 
irrespective of their location and interact with the Board.

HDFC Bank Limited
308
R E P O R T  O N  C O R P O R AT E  G O V E R N A N C E
The quarterly and half-yearly un-audited / audited financial 
results are normally published in the newspapers, viz., the 
Business Standard in English and Navshakti in Marathi 
(regional language). The results are also displayed on the 
Bank’s website at www.hdfcbank.com and the same is also 
sent via email on a quarterly basis to those shareholders who 
have registered their email address with Datamatics Business 
Solutions Limited (Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the 
Bank) or their respective Depository Participant.
The Bank communicates with its institutional shareholders 
through meetings with analysts and discussions between fund 
managers and management. The Bank also participates at 
investor conferences and non-deal roadshows, from time 
to time. All interactions with institutional shareholders, fund 
managers and analysts are based on generally available 
information that is accessible to the public on a non-
discriminatory basis. The presentations made to analysts 
and fund managers are placed on the Bank’s website. The 
transcripts of such meetings as well as the audio recordings 
are also uploaded on the website.
The shareholders can visit the Bank’s website for financial 
information, shareholding information, dividend policy, 
Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Bank, etc. The 
website also redirects  to www.sec.gov where the investors 
can view statutory filings of the Bank with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission, USA. The information relating to the 
Bank’s financial results and shareholding pattern are also 
displayed on the websites of the Stock Exchanges on which 
the Bank’s shares are listed. Other information such as official 
news/press releases, stock exchange disclosures, etc. are 
regularly displayed on the Bank’s website.
A section on ‘Shareholders’ Information’ is provided elsewhere 
in the Integrated Annual Report.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Atanu Chakraborty
Part-time Chairman and Independent Director
June 20, 2025
DECLARATION
I confirm that for the year under review, all Directors and 
Members of Senior Management have affirmed their adherence 
to the provisions of the Code of Conduct of Directors and 
Senior Management Personnel.
Sashidhar Jagdishan 
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
June 20, 2025

Audited Standalone & 
Consolidated Financial Statements ...........................
310
Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report ..........................................
528
Shareholder Information  ...........................................
584

HDFC Bank Limited
310
To the Members of HDFC Bank Limited
Report on Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion 
1. 
 We have jointly audited the accompanying Standalone Financial Statements of HDFC Bank Limited (“the Bank”), which 
comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, and the Standalone Profit and Loss Account and the 
Standalone Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements including a 
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (together known as the “Standalone Financial 
Statements”).
2. 
 In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Standalone 
Financial Statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act”) in the manner so required for banking companies and are in conformity with accounting principles generally 
accepted in India and give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Bank as at March 31, 2025, and its profit and its 
cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3. 
 We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act 
and other applicable authoritative pronouncements issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). Our 
responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of Standalone 
Financial Statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Bank in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued 
by the ICAI together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements under 
the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
Key audit matters 
4. 
 Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025. These matters were addressed in the context of 
our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide 
a separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be 
communicated in our report.
I N D E P E N D E N T  A U D I T O R ’ S  R E P O R T

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
311
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Identification and Provisioning of Non-performing Advances (NPA): 
Total NPA as at March 31, 2025: ` 35,194.95 crores 
Provision for NPA as at March 31, 2025: ` 23,874.52 crores
(Refer Schedule 17 (C)(3), Schedule 18 note 10)
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank is required to comply with the Master Circular dated 
April 02, 2024 issued by the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) on 
“Prudential Norms on Income Recognition, Asset Classification 
and Provisioning pertaining to Advances” (the “IRAC norms”) 
and amendments thereto, which prescribe the guidelines for 
identification and classification of Non-performing Advances and 
the minimum provision required for such assets.
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to determine 
the identification and provision required against Non-performing 
Advances considering various quantitative as well as qualitative 
factors. The identification of Non-performing Advances is also 
affected by factors like stress and liquidity concerns in certain 
sectors.
The provision for identified Non-performing Advances is estimated 
based on ageing and classification of Non-performing Advances, 
nature of product, value of security etc., and is also subject to 
the minimum provisioning norms specified by RBI. Since the 
identification of Non-performing Advances and provisioning for Non-
performing Advances requires considerable level of management 
estimation, application of various regulatory requirements and in 
view of its significance to the overall audit, we have identified this as 
a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included the following:
 
¾
Understood the process and controls, and tested the 
design and operating effectiveness of key controls, including 
Information Technology based controls, and focused on the 
following:
• 
Monitoring of credit quality which amongst other things 
includes the monitoring of overdue loan accounts and 
drawing power, pending security creation;
• 
Identification 
and 
classification 
of 
Non-performing 
Advances in accordance with IRAC norms and 
consideration of qualitative factors; and
• 
Testing of application controls including testing of 
automated controls, reports and system reconciliations.    
 
¾
Evaluated the governance process and controls over 
calculations of provision for Non-performing Advances and 
tested that the basis of provisioning is in accordance with the 
Board of Directors approved policy and IRAC norms.
 
¾
On a sample basis, recomputed the Days Past Due, verified 
the date of Non-performing Advances and verified the 
classification of Non-performing Advances. 
 
¾
On a test check basis, verified the classification of accounts 
reported by the Bank as Special Mention Accounts (‘SMA’) 
in RBI’s Central Repository of Information on Large Credits 
(‘CRILC’).
 
¾
With respect to provisions recognised towards Non-
performing Advances, calculated provision on a sample 
basis taking into consideration the value of security, where 
applicable, the IRAC norms and the policy of the Bank, and 
compared our outcome to that prepared by the management 
and evaluated relevant assumptions and judgements and 
other qualitative factors considered by the management.

HDFC Bank Limited
312
I N D E P E N D E N T  A U D I T O R ’ S  R E P O R T
Information Technology (“IT”) Systems and Controls impacting Financial Reporting
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The IT environment of the Bank is complex and involves a large 
number of independent and interdependent IT systems used in the 
operations of the Bank for processing and recording a large volume 
of transactions.
As a result, there is a high degree of reliance and dependency on 
such IT systems for the financial reporting process of the Bank.
Appropriate IT general controls and IT application controls are 
required to ensure that such IT systems are able to process the data 
as required, completely, accurately, and consistently for reliable 
financial reporting. 
We have identified certain key IT systems (“in-scope” IT systems) 
which have an impact on the financial reporting process and the 
related controls testing as a key audit matter because of the high 
level of automation, significant number of systems being used by 
the Bank for processing financial transactions, the complexity of the 
IT architecture and its impact on the financial records and financial 
reporting process of the Bank.
Our procedures with respect to this matter included the following:
 
¾
In assessing the controls over the IT systems of the Bank, we 
involved our technology specialists to obtain an understanding 
of the IT environment, IT infrastructure and IT systems. We 
evaluated and tested relevant IT general controls over the “in-
scope” IT systems and IT dependencies identified as relevant 
for our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements and 
financial reporting process of the Bank. On such “in-scope” 
IT systems, we tested key IT general controls with respect to 
the following domains:
• 
Program change management, which includes that 
program changes are moved to the production 
environment as per defined procedures and relevant 
segregation of environment is ensured.
• 
User access management, which includes user access 
provisioning, de-provisioning, access review, password 
management, sensitive access rights and segregation 
of duties to ensure that privilege access to applications, 
operating systems and databases in the production 
environment were granted only to authorized personnel.
• 
Program development, which includes controls over IT 
application development or implementation and related 
infrastructure, which are relied upon for financial reporting.
• 
IT operations, which includes job scheduling, monitoring 
and backup and recovery.
 
¾
We also evaluated the design and tested the operating 
effectiveness of relevant key IT dependencies within the key 
business process, which included testing automated controls, 
automated calculations / accounting procedures, interfaces, 
segregation of duties and system generated reports, as 
applicable.
 
¾
We communicated with those charged with governance and 
management and tested a combination of compensating 
controls or remediated controls and / or performed alternative 
audit procedures, where necessary.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
313
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Other Information
5. 
 The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information 
included in the Annual report, but does not include the Standalone Financial Statements and our auditor’s report thereon. 
The Annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor's report.
 
 Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form 
of assurance conclusion thereon.
 
 In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified 
above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the 
Standalone Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
 
 When we read the Annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the relevant 
laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of the Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Standalone 
Financial Statements
6. 
 The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation 
of these Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance and 
cash flows of the Bank in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Accounting 
Standards specified under Section 133 of the Act, and the provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 
and circulars, guidelines and directions issued by the RBI from time to time. This responsibility also includes maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Bank 
and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting 
policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Standalone Financial Statements that give a true 
and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
7. 
 In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Bank’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, or has no realistic 
alternative but to do so. 
8. 
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
9. 
 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs 
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users 
taken on the basis of these Standalone Financial Statements.
10.  As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:

HDFC Bank Limited
314
I N D E P E N D E N T  A U D I T O R ’ S  R E P O R T
 
• 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to 
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting 
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
 
• 
 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether 
the Bank has adequate internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements in place and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls. 
 
• 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management. 
 
• 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant 
doubt on the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are 
required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Standalone Financial Statements or, 
if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Bank to cease to continue 
as a going concern. 
 
• 
 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Standalone Financial Statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the Standalone Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation.
11.  We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing 
of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during 
our audit.
12.  We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought 
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
13.  From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the current year and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the 
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication.
Other Matters
14.  The Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank for the year ended March 31, 2024, were jointly audited by M M Nissim & 
Co LLP and Price Waterhouse LLP under the Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, who, vide their report dated April 
20, 2024, expressed an unmodified opinion on those Standalone Financial Statements. Accordingly, Batliboi & Purohit do 
not express any opinion on the figures reported in the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2024.
 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
315
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
15.  In our opinion, the Standalone Balance Sheet and the Standalone Profit and Loss Account have been drawn up in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Section 133 of the Act. 
16. As required by sub-section (3) of Section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that:
 
(a) 
 We have obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were necessary 
for the purpose of our audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
 
(b) 
 The transactions of the Bank, which have come to our notice, have been within the powers of the Bank, other than 
those relating to leasing of immovable properties acquired on amalgamation of the erstwhile HDFC Limited with the 
Bank, as disclosed in Schedule 18 note 1 to the Standalone Financial Statements; and
 
(c) 
 During the course of our audit, we have visited 73 branches to examine the books of account and other records 
maintained at the branch and performed other relevant audit procedures. Since the key operations of the Bank are 
automated with the key applications integrated to the core banking system, the audit is carried out centrally at Bank’s 
Head office located in Mumbai, as all the necessary records and data required for the purposes of our audit are 
available there.
17. Further, as required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that: 
 
(a) 
 We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit. 
 
(b) 
 In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Bank so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books, except for the matters stated in paragraph 17(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended).
 
(c) 
 The Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone Profit and Loss Account and the Standalone Cash Flow Statement 
dealt with by this report are in agreement with the books of account.
 
(d) 
 In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act, to the extent they are not inconsistent with the accounting policies prescribed by RBI. 
 
(e) 
 On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as at March 31, 2025 taken on record by the 
Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as at March 31, 2025 from being appointed as a director in 
terms of Section 164(2) of the Act. 
 
(f) 
 With respect to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith, reference is made to our 
comment in paragraph 17(b) above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 17(h)(vi) below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended).
 
(g) 
 With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements of 
the Bank and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure A”.  
 
(h) 
 With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:  

HDFC Bank Limited
316
I N D E P E N D E N T  A U D I T O R ’ S  R E P O R T
 
 
i. 
 The Bank has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its financial statements – 
Refer Schedule 12(I) and (II), Schedule 17(C)(18) and Schedule 18 note 19.5 and 32(b) to the Standalone Financial 
Statements.  
 
 
ii. 
 The Bank has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material 
foreseeable losses on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Schedule 17(C)(9) and 17(C)(18), 
Schedule 18 Note 19.5 and 32(b) to the Standalone Financial Statements; 
 
 
iii. 
 There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Bank, during the year ended March 31, 2025. 
 
 
iv. 
(a)    The management has  represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in 
the Schedule 18 note 36, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
 
 
 
(b)    The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in the 
Schedule 18 note 36, no funds have been received by the Bank from any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Bank shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security 
or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
 
 
 
(c)    Based on such audit procedures that we considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (a) 
and (b) contain any material misstatement.
 
 
v. 
The dividend declared and paid during the year by the Bank is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act. 
 
 
vi. 
 Based on our examination, which included test checks, the Bank has used various accounting software for 
maintaining its books of account which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility, which have operated 
throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software, except that the audit trail feature was not 
enabled for part of the year for certain masters in two accounting software and two databases and throughout 
the year for other databases (also, refer Schedule 18 note 37 to the Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank). 
During the course of performing our procedures, other than the aforesaid instances of audit trail not enabled, 
where the question of our commenting does not arise, we did not notice any instance of audit trail feature being 
tampered with. Further, the Bank has preserved the audit trail for the prior financial year in compliance with 
statutory record retention requirements, except in relation to certain software and databases for which the audit 
trail feature was not enabled. 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
317
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
18.  In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the provisions of Section 
197 of the Act are not applicable to the Bank by virtue of Section 35B(2A) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Accordingly, 
the reporting under Section 197(16) of the Act regarding payment / provision for managerial remuneration in accordance 
with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act, is not applicable.
For Price Waterhouse LLP
Chartered Accountants 
Firm Registration Number:
301112E/E300264
For Batliboi & Purohit 
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 
101048W
Sharad Vasant
Partner
Membership Number: 101119
UDIN: 25101119BMIFBA5214
Janak Mehta 
Partner
Membership Number: 116976 
UDIN: 25116976BMOKOV9481
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025

HDFC Bank Limited
318
I N D E P E N D E N T  A U D I T O R ’ S  R E P O R T
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 17(g) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of HDFC Bank Limited on the 
Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements under 
clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1. 
 We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements of HDFC Bank Limited 
(“the Bank”) as of March 31, 2025 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank for the 
year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
2. 
 The Bank’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established by the Bank considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (“the Guidance Note”) issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient 
conduct of its business, including adherence to Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection 
of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3. 
 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank's internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on 
Auditing deemed to be prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial 
controls, both applicable to an audit of internal financial controls and both issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the 
Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements was 
established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects. 
4. 
 Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
system with reference to Standalone Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls 
with reference to Standalone Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone 
Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5. 
 We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion 
on the Bank’s internal financial controls system with reference to Standalone Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements 
6. 
 A Bank's internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Standalone Financial Statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A Bank's internal financial controls with 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance 
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
Bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of Standalone 
Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
319
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
the Bank are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the Bank; and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the Bank's 
assets that could have a material effect on the Standalone Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements 
7. 
 Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements, including 
the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may 
occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with 
the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
Opinion
8. 
 In our opinion, the Bank has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system with reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements and such internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements 
were operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established 
by the Bank considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by ICAI.
For Price Waterhouse LLP
Chartered Accountants 
Firm Registration Number:
301112E/E300264
For Batliboi & Purohit 
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 
101048W
Sharad Vasant
Partner
Membership Number: 101119
UDIN: 25101119BMIFBA5214
Janak Mehta 
Partner
Membership Number: 116976 
UDIN: 25116976BMOKOV9481
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025

HDFC Bank Limited
320
S TA N D A L O N E  B A L A N C E  S H E E T
As at March 31, 2025
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital
1
7,652,222
7,596,911
Employees stock options outstanding
18 (5)
38,051,944
26,527,161
Reserves and surplus
2
4,968,542,229
4,368,333,979
Deposits
3
27,147,148,959
23,797,862,764
Borrowings
4
5,479,308,926
6,621,530,751
Other liabilities and provisions
5
1,461,285,166
1,354,379,303
Total
39,101,989,446
36,176,230,869
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India
6
1,443,550,296
1,786,832,228
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice
7
952,156,416
404,641,953
Investments
8
8,363,596,736
7,024,149,587
Advances
9
26,196,086,171
24,848,615,188
Fixed assets
10
136,553,987
113,989,878
Other assets
11
2,010,045,840
1,998,002,035
Total
39,101,989,446
36,176,230,869
Contingent liabilities
12
26,474,170,018
22,967,583,363
Bills for collection
706,795,544
653,328,740
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Balance Sheet.
17 & 18
As per our report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP
For Batliboi & Purohit
Atanu Chakraborty
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part-time Chairman of the Board
Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 
ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264   
101048W
M. D. Ranganath
Sunita Maheshwari 
Independent Director
Independent Director
Sharad Vasant
Janak Mehta
Partner
Partner
Lily Vadera
Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 
Membership No.: 101119
Membership No.: 116976
Independent Director
Independent Director 
  
Bhavesh Zaveri 
V. S. Rangan 
Executive Director
Executive Director
Renu Karnad 
Keki Mistry 
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan  
Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
321
S TA N D A L O N E  P R O F I T  A N D  L O S S  A C C O U N T
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
  Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I. INCOME
Interest earned
13
3,005,170,417
2,583,405,755
Other income
14
456,322,818
492,409,994
Total
3,461,493,235
3,075,815,749
II. EXPENDITURE
Interest expended
15
1,778,469,527
1,498,081,008
Operating expenses
16
681,748,820
633,860,240
Provisions and contingencies
18 (19.5)
327,801,307
335,751,716
Total
2,788,019,654
2,467,692,964
III. PROFIT
Net profit for the year
673,473,581
608,122,785
Balance in the Profit and Loss account brought forward
1,395,798,306
1,129,599,963
Additions on Amalgamation (net)
18 (1)
 -   
 35,701,097 
Total
2,069,271,887
1,773,423,845
IV. APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 168,368,395 
152,030,697
Transfer to General Reserve
 67,347,358 
 60,812,279 
Transfer to Special Reserve
 32,000,000 
 30,000,000 
Transfer to Capital Reserve
 5,069,983 
 41,664,119 
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve Account (net)
 -   
 5,294,222 
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 -   
 3,780,000 
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year
 148,261,930 
 84,044,222 
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet
 1,648,224,221 
 1,395,798,306 
Total 
2,069,271,887
1,773,423,845
V. EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE (Face value ` 1/- per share) 
18 (31)
`
`
Basic 
 88.29 
 85.83 
Diluted 
 87.90 
 85.44 
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Profit and Loss 
Account. 
17 & 18
As per our report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP
For Batliboi & Purohit
Atanu Chakraborty
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part-time Chairman of the Board
Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 
ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264   
101048W
M. D. Ranganath
Sunita Maheshwari 
Independent Director
Independent Director
Sharad Vasant
Janak Mehta
Partner
Partner
Lily Vadera
Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 
Membership No.: 101119
Membership No.: 116976
Independent Director
Independent Director 
  
Bhavesh Zaveri 
V. S. Rangan 
Executive Director
Executive Director
Renu Karnad 
Keki Mistry 
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan  
Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary

HDFC Bank Limited
322
S TA N D A L O N E  C A S H  F L O W  S TAT E M E N T
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in ‘000)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
  Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before income tax 
 884,780,560 
 708,953,051 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation on fixed assets
 33,794,728 
 28,100,988 
(Profit) / loss on revaluation of investments
 2,683,978 
 (9,434,922)
Amortisation of premium / (discount) on investments
 (278,677)
 8,449,479 
Profit on sale of fixed assets
 (226,517)
 (738,174)
(Profit) / loss on sale of investment in subsidiary
 80,000 
 (73,414,237)
Provision / charge for non performing assets
 127,153,073 
 107,748,189 
Floating provisions
 -   
 109,000,000 
Provision / (write-back) for standard assets and contingencies
 (10,658,745)
 18,173,261 
Dividend from subsidiaries
 (21,870,101)
 (13,323,911)
Employee stock options / units expense
 18,907,034 
 15,474,040 
 1,034,365,333 
 898,987,764 
Adjustments for:
Increase in investments
 (1,302,003,741)
 (548,336,186)
Increase in advances
 (1,489,033,797)
 (2,894,442,171)
Increase in deposits
 3,349,286,195 
 3,391,324,138 
Increase in other assets
 (73,424,525)
 (292,254,127)
Increase / (decrease) in other liabilities and provisions 
 106,340,648 
 (6,692,396)
 1,625,530,113 
 548,587,022 
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds)
 (173,757,076)
 (198,437,376)
Net cash flows from operating activities
 1,451,773,037 
 350,149,646 
Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchase of fixed assets 
 (31,986,944)
 (38,348,940)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets
 904,484 
 960,042 
Investment in subsidiaries
 (13,097,695)
 -   
Proceeds from sale of investment in subsidiary (net)
 1,920,000 
 95,006,717 
Dividend from subsidiaries
 21,870,101 
 13,323,911 
Net cash flow (used in) / from  investing activities
 (20,390,054)
 70,941,730 
Cash flows from financing activities:
Proceeds from exercise of convertible equity warrants 
 -   
 31,928,121 
Proceeds from issue of share capital other than warrants
 63,464,973 
 52,497,323 
Decrease in other borrowings
 (1,144,291,825)
 (222,750,573)

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
323
S TA N D A L O N E  C A S H  F L O W  S TAT E M E N T
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` in ‘000)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
  Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Dividend paid during the year
 (148,261,930)
 (84,044,222)
Net cash flow used in financing activities
 (1,229,088,782)
 (222,369,351)
Effect of fluctuation in foreign currency translation reserve
 1,938,330 
 1,012,629 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
 204,232,531 
 199,734,654 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 2,191,474,181 
 1,937,650,831 
Cash and cash equivalents acquired on amalgamation 
 -   
 54,088,696 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 
 2,395,706,712 
 2,191,474,181 
Cash and cash equivalents include Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India and Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 
(Refer Schedule 6 and Schedule 7). 
 
 
As per our report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP
For Batliboi & Purohit
Atanu Chakraborty
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part-time Chairman of the Board
Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 
ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264   
101048W
M. D. Ranganath
Sunita Maheshwari 
Independent Director
Independent Director
Sharad Vasant
Janak Mehta
Partner
Partner
Lily Vadera
Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 
Membership No.: 101119
Membership No.: 116976
Independent Director
Independent Director 
  
Bhavesh Zaveri 
V. S. Rangan 
Executive Director
Executive Director
Renu Karnad 
Keki Mistry 
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan  
Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary

SCHEDULE 1 - CAPITAL
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
Authorised capital 
11,90,61,00,000 (31 March, 2024: 11,90,61,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 1/- each
11,906,100
11,906,100
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital
7,65,22,21,674 (31 March, 2024: 7,59,69,10,662) Equity Shares of ` 1/- each
7,652,222
7,596,911
Total
7,652,222
7,596,911
SCHEDULE 2 - RESERVES AND SURPLUS
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.   Statutory Reserve
Opening balance
858,868,812
626,280,835
Additions on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 80,557,280 
Additions during the year
18 (6)
 168,368,395 
152,030,697
Closing balance
1,027,237,207
858,868,812
II.  General Reserve
Opening balance
538,526,919
248,677,940
Additions on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 229,023,281 
Additions during the year
18 (6)
 72,327,207 
60,825,698
Closing balance
610,854,126
538,526,919
III.  Share Premium 
Opening balance
1,270,532,922
665,394,291
Additions on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 517,288,313 
Additions during the year
 70,640,779 
87,850,318
Closing balance
1,341,173,701
1,270,532,922
IV.  Special Reserve
Opening balance
262,681,815
 5,000,000 
Additions on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 227,681,815 
Additions during the year
18 (6)
 32,000,000 
 30,000,000 
Closing balance
294,681,815
 262,681,815 
V.  Amalgamation Reserve - I
Opening balance
10,635,564
10,635,564
Additions / (deductions) during the year
 -   
 -   
Closing balance
18 (6)
10,635,564
10,635,564
HDFC Bank Limited
324
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDLONE BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025

(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
VI.  Amalgamation Reserve - II
Opening balance
(139,470,590)
 -   
Additions / (deductions) on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 (139,470,590)
Closing balance
18 (6)
 (139,470,590)
 (139,470,590)
VII.  Capital Reserve
Opening balance
97,941,784
56,275,415
Additions on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 414 
Additions during the year
18 (6)
 5,069,983 
 41,665,955 
Closing balance
103,011,767
97,941,784
VIII. Investment Reserve Account
Opening balance
 5,294,222 
 -   
Additions during the year
 -   
 5,294,222 
Deductions during the year 
18 (6)
 (5,294,222)
 -   
Closing balance
 -   
 5,294,222 
IX.  Investment Fluctuation Reserve 
Opening balance
 50,320,000 
 37,010,000 
Additions on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 9,530,000 
Additions during the year
18 (6)
 5,294,222 
 3,780,000 
Closing balance
 55,614,222 
 50,320,000 
X.  Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
Opening balance
8,801,080
7,788,451
Additions during the year
1,938,330
1,012,629
Closing balance
18 (6)
10,739,410
8,801,080
XI.  Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
Opening balance
 8,403,145 
(922,314)
Additions on amalgamation
18 (1)
-
 9,370,530 
Deductions during the year
(8,730,454)
 (45,071)
Closing balance
18 (6)
(327,309)
 8,403,145 
XII.  AFS Reserve
Opening balance
 -   
 -   
Additions during the year
6,168,095
 -   
Closing balance
18(6)
6,168,095
 -   
XIII. Balance in Profit and Loss Account 
1,648,224,221
1,395,798,306
Total
4,968,542,229
4,368,333,979
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
325
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

SCHEDULE 3 - DEPOSITS
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
A. 
I. 
Demand deposits
 
 
(i) 
From banks
41,498,542
37,047,391
 
 
(ii) 
From others
3,099,437,830
3,063,109,564
Total
3,140,936,372
3,100,156,955
    
II.     Savings bank deposits
6,304,666,061
5,987,472,923
    
III.    Term deposits
        
(i)   From banks
325,992,858
177,670,784
        
(ii)  From others
17,375,553,668
14,532,562,102
 
Total
17,701,546,526
14,710,232,886
 
Total
27,147,148,959
23,797,862,764
B.  I.   Deposits of branches in India
26,906,095,755
 23,575,937,441
     II.  Deposits of branches outside India
241,053,204
221,925,323
 
Total
27,147,148,959
23,797,862,764
Deposits include lien marked deposits of ` 368,707.83 crore (previous year: ` 291,798.38 crore).
SCHEDULE  4 - BORROWINGS
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.     Borrowings in India 
(i)  
Reserve Bank of India
 63,350,000 
 45,560,000 
 
(ii)  Other banks
 498,422,662 
 1,158,049,831 
 
(iii)  Other institutions and agencies
 1,070,858,321 
 1,387,550,400 
 
(iv)  Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments
 250,761,891 
 250,536,249 
     (v)  Other bonds and debentures
 2,391,764,562 
 2,710,439,699 
Total
4,275,157,436
5,552,136,179
II.    Borrowings outside India
1,204,151,490
1,069,394,572
Total
5,479,308,926
6,621,530,751
Secured borrowings included in I and II above: Nil (previous year: Nil) except borrowings of `13,039.60 crore (previous year: ` 5,654.13 crore) under 
repurchase transactions (including tri-party repo) and transactions under Liquidity Adjustment Facility.
HDFC Bank Limited
326
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDLONE BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025

SCHEDULE  5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.     Bills payable
136,557,423
141,013,564
II.    Interest accrued
235,192,453
222,810,099
III.  Contingent provisions against standard assets
108,629,049
106,637,109
IV.  Others (including provisions)
980,906,241
883,918,531
 
Total
1,461,285,166
1,354,379,303
SCHEDULE 6  -  CASH AND BALANCES WITH  RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.   Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)
 121,276,593 
130,246,313
II.  
Balances with Reserve Bank of India
        (a)  In current accounts
 1,320,273,703 
1,318,925,915
 
(b)  In other accounts
 2,000,000 
337,660,000
 
Total
 1,322,273,703 
 1,656,585,915 
 
Total
1,443,550,296
1,786,832,228
SCHEDULE  7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.   In India
   
(i)  
Balances with banks
           
(a)  In current accounts
1,769,908
2,448,844
           
(b)  In other deposit accounts
172,289
3,020,199
 
Total
1,942,197
5,469,043
   
(ii)  Money at call and short notice
            
(a)  With banks
 -   
 2,000,000 
            
(b)  With other institutions
 309,634,683 
 -   
 
Total
 309,634,683 
 2,000,000 
 
Total
311,576,880
7,469,043
II.   Outside India
       (i)  
In current accounts 
190,673,763
103,044,784
      (ii)  In other deposit accounts
 124,262,164 
118,589,699
     (iii)  Money at call and short notice 
325,643,609
175,538,427
 
Total
640,579,536
397,172,910
 
Total
952,156,416
404,641,953
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
327
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

SCHEDULE  8  - INVESTMENTS
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.  
Investments in India in
    
(i)   Government securities
 7,652,301,388 
6,448,063,974
   
(ii)   Other approved securities
 -   
 -   
  
(iii)    Shares
 36,447,757 
19,729,997
   
(iv)   Debentures and bonds
 287,230,834 
200,747,321
    
(v)   Subsidiaries / joint ventures
 138,939,093 
126,342,133
 
(vi)   Others (Units of Mutual funds / AIFs / REITs, Certificate of deposits, PTCs and  
security receipts)
 224,660,233 
210,241,598
 
Total
 8,339,579,305 
 7,005,125,023 
II.    Investments outside India in
   
(i)    Government securities (including local authorities)
 9,180,892 
 2,480,394 
   
(ii)    Subsidiaries / joint ventures abroad
 54,061 
 54,061 
   
(iii)   Other investments:
       
(a)   Shares
 964,701 
215,336
       
(b)   Debentures and bonds
 13,817,777 
 16,274,773 
 
Total
 24,017,431 
 19,024,564 
 
Total
 8,363,596,736 
 7,024,149,587 
SCHEDULE  9  -  ADVANCES
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
A.   (i)   Bills purchased and discounted
349,646,089
240,329,232
     (ii)   Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand
7,092,052,542
6,272,383,851
      (iii)   Term loans
18,754,387,540
18,335,902,105
 
Total 
26,196,086,171
24,848,615,188
Net of Bills Rediscounted: Nil (previous year: ` 3,500.00 crore) and Inter Bank Participatory 
Certiﬁcates of  ` 77,703.73 crore (previous year: ` 62,920.05 crore)
B.  (i)  
Secured by tangible assets*
20,064,100,012
19,143,339,472
     (ii)  Covered by bank / government guarantees
605,433,986
415,985,170
    
(iii)  Unsecured
5,526,552,173
5,289,290,546
 
Total
26,196,086,171
24,848,615,188
     * Including advances against book debts
C.  I.  
Advances in India
      
(i)  
Priority sector
8,785,988,737
7,755,713,447
    
 
(ii)  Public sector
1,214,696,329
1,405,546,990
    
 
(iii)  Banks
21,224,114
25,671,224
    
 
(iv)  Others
15,712,591,082
15,275,192,176
 
Total
25,734,500,262
24,462,123,837
HDFC Bank Limited
328
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDLONE BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025

(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
C.  II.  
Advances outside India
      
(i)  
Due from banks
27,698,862
27,561,578
    
 
(ii)  Due from others:
               
(a)  Bills purchased and discounted
5,441,025
7,148,584
               
(b)  Syndicated loans
5,817,254
11,804,945
               
(c)  Others
422,628,768
339,976,244
 
Total
461,585,909
386,491,351
 
Total
26,196,086,171
24,848,615,188
SCHEDULE 10  - FIXED ASSETS
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.  
Premises (including land)
        Gross block
        At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
45,179,729
24,353,113
        Additions on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 17,158,133 
        Additions during the year
 5,843,490 
3,914,363
        Deductions during the year
 (560,881)
(245,880)
 
Total  
50,462,338
45,179,729
      Depreciation
       As at 31st March of the preceding year
13,897,188
8,155,263
       Additions on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 5,053,311 
       Charge for the year
 1,831,059 
886,959
       On deductions during the year
 (414,754)
(198,345)
 
Total  
15,313,493
13,897,188
       Net block
35,148,845
31,282,541
II.  Other fixed assets (including furniture and ﬁxtures)
        Gross block
        At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
224,005,298
179,030,451
        Additions on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 5,868,936 
        Additions during the year
 51,196,574 
43,904,034
        Deductions during the year
 (13,711,393)
(4,798,123)
 
Total  
261,490,479
224,005,298
      Depreciation
       As at 31st March of the preceding year
141,297,961
115,062,891
       Additions on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 3,547,773 
       Charge for the year
 31,966,929 
27,216,269
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
329
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
       On deductions during the year
 (13,179,553)
(4,528,972)
 
Total  
160,085,337
141,297,961
       Net block
101,405,142
82,707,337
III.  Assets on lease (plant and machinery)
        Gross block
        At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
 -   
4,546,923
        Additions during the year
 -   
 -   
        Deductions during the year
 -   
 (4,546,923)
 
Total  
 -   
 -   
      Depreciation
       As at 31st March of the preceding year
 -   
4,104,467
       Charge for the year
 -   
 -   
       On deductions during the year
 -   
 (4,104,467)
 
Total  
 -   
 -   
      Lease adjustment account
       As at 31st March of the preceding year
 -   
442,456
       Charge for the year
 -   
 -   
       On deductions during the year
 -   
 (442,456)
 
Total  
 -   
 -   
       Unamortised cost of assets on lease
 -   
 -   
 
Total  
136,553,987
113,989,878
SCHEDULE 11  -  OTHER ASSETS
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.    Interest accrued
290,278,036
221,272,886
II.   Advance tax / tax deducted at source (net of provisions)
153,846,089
170,135,924
III.  Stationery and stamps
653,834
641,440
IV.  Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims
9,912,393
11,405,574
V.  
Security deposit for commercial and residential property
10,005,339
8,002,888
VI. Others
18 (22)
1,545,350,149
1,586,543,323
 
Total
2,010,045,840
1,998,002,035
HDFC Bank Limited
330
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDLONE BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025

SCHEDULE  12 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.   Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts  - taxation
37,327,236
40,608,619
II.   Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts - others
1,214,910
1,509,529
III.  Liability for partly paid investments
 -   
 -   
IV.  Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts
12,934,924,742
12,125,527,858
V.  
Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts
10,986,775,591
8,700,000,919
VI.   Guarantees given on behalf of constituents - in India
1,492,273,572
1,260,307,896
                                                                           - outside India
2,505,328
2,874,204
VII.  Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
966,848,695
710,083,810
VIII.  Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable
52,299,944
126,670,528
 
Total
26,474,170,018
22,967,583,363
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
331
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
  Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I.    Interest / discount on advances / bills
2,384,444,278
2,072,200,137
II. 
Income on investments
533,196,899
443,642,848
III. 
Interest on balance with RBI and other inter-bank funds
25,063,136
20,404,735
IV. 
Others
62,466,104
47,158,035
 
Total
3,005,170,417
2,583,405,755
SCHEDULE 14 - OTHER INCOME
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
  Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I.    Commission, exchange and brokerage 
318,985,521
281,606,512
II. 
Profit / (loss) on sale of investments (net)
20,227,183
105,826,427
III.  Profit / (loss) on revaluation of investments (net)
(2,683,978)
9,434,922
IV.  Profit / (loss) on sale of building and other assets (net)
1,568,130
1,983,223
V.   Profit / (loss) on exchange / derivative transactions (net)
49,190,377
40,011,265
VI.   Income earned by way of dividends from subsidiaries and / or joint ventures abroad / 
in India
 21,870,101 
13,323,911
VII. Miscellaneous income
47,165,484
40,223,734
 
Total
456,322,818
492,409,994
SCHEDULE 15 - INTEREST EXPENDED
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
  Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I.    Interest on deposits
1,252,706,143
994,329,551
II.   Interest on RBI / inter-bank borrowings
524,697,574
502,603,949
III. 
Other interest
1,065,810
1,147,508
 
Total
1,778,469,527
1,498,081,008
SCHEDULE  16 - OPERATING EXPENSES
(` in ‘000)
Schedule
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
  Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I.      Payments to and provisions for employees
239,005,294
222,402,099
II.    Rent, taxes and lighting
31,313,950
26,790,093
III.    Printing and stationery
8,414,626
9,405,133
IV.    Advertisement and publicity
5,917,829
3,456,411
V.     Depreciation on bank's property
33,794,728
28,100,988
VI.    Directors' fees / remuneration, allowances and expenses
101,367
78,014
HDFC Bank Limited
332
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDLONE PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
For the year ended March 31, 2025

(` in ‘000)
Schedule
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
  Year ended 
March 31, 2024
VII.   Auditors' fees and expenses
129,379
177,927
VIII.  Law charges
3,474,462
3,571,829
IX.    Postage, telegram, telephone etc.
9,018,281
8,678,881
X.     Repairs and maintenance
38,204,289
31,626,821
XI.    Insurance
32,667,788
28,135,719
XII.  Other expenditure*
279,706,827
271,436,325
 
Total
681,748,820
633,860,240
*Includes professional fees, commission to sales agents, card and merchant acquiring expenses and system management fees.          
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
333
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

SCHEDULE 17 – Significant accounting policies 
appended to and forming part of the standalone 
financial statements for the year ended March 31, 
2025
A     BACKGROUND 
 
 HDFC BANK Limited (‘HDFC Bank’ or the ‘Bank’), 
incorporated in Mumbai, India is a publicly held 
banking company engaged in providing a range of 
banking and financial services including retail banking, 
wholesale banking and treasury operations. The Bank is 
governed by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the 
Companies Act, 2013. During FY 2024, basis scheme for 
amalgamation of (i) erstwhile HDFC Investments Limited 
(“eHDFC Investments”) and erstwhile HDFC Holdings 
Limited (“eHDFC Holdings”) with and into erstwhile 
Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited 
(“eHDFC Limited”); and thereafter (ii) eHDFC Limited into 
the Bank became effective from July 01, 2023, upon 
receipt of all requisite approvals.  Accordingly, the financial 
statements of the Bank included operations of eHDFC 
Limited, eHDFC Investments and eHDFC Holdings from 
July 01, 2023 onwards. The Bank has overseas branch 
operations in Bahrain, Hong Kong, Dubai, Singapore and 
an Offshore Banking Unit at International Financial Service 
Centre (IFSC) in GIFT City, India. The financial accounting 
systems of the Bank are centralised and, therefore, 
accounting returns are not required to be submitted by 
branches of the Bank.
B 
BASIS OF PREPARATION
 
 The standalone financial statements have been prepared 
and presented under the historical cost convention and 
accrual basis of accounting, unless otherwise stated and 
are in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles in India (‘Indian GAAP’), statutory requirements 
prescribed under the Third Schedule of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949, directions, circulars, notifications 
and guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) 
from time to time (RBI guidelines), Accounting Standards 
(‘AS’) specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 
2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 
2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2021, in so far as they apply to banks.
 
Use of estimates
 
 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
Indian GAAP requires the management to make estimates 
and necessary assumptions in the reported amounts of 
assets and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as 
at the date of the financial statements and the reported 
income and expenses for the reporting year. Management 
believes that the estimates used in the preparation of the 
financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual 
results could differ from these estimates. The impact of 
any revision in the accounting estimates is recognised 
prospectively from the period of change.
C 
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1. 
Investments 
 
 The RBI, vide its master direction dated September 12, 
2023, issued revised norms for the classification, valuation 
and operation of investment portfolio of banks, which 
became applicable from April 01, 2024 (herein after 
referred as ‘revised norms on investments’).                                                     
       Classification:
 
 In accordance with the revised norms on investments, 
investments are classified on the date of purchase into 
“Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’), “Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) and 
“Fair value through Profit and Loss” (‘FVTPL’) categories 
(hereinafter called “categories”). “Held for Trading” (‘HFT’) 
is a separate investment sub-category within FVTPL. All 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 
are categorised in a distinct category Group companies 
(“Group cos”). Under each of these categories, investments 
are further classified under six groups (hereinafter called 
“groups”) - Government Securities, Other Approved 
Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, Investments 
in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and Other Investments. 
         Hitherto, investments were classified on the date of 
purchase into “Held for Trading” (‘HFT’), “Available for 
Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’) categories. 
(hereinafter called “categories”). Subsequent shifting 
amongst the categories was done in accordance with 
the RBI guidelines. Under each of these categories, 
investments were further classified into six groups 
(hereinafter called “groups”), Government securities, 
Other approved securities, Shares, Debentures and 
Bonds, Investments in subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and 
Other Investments. 
 
 Purchase and sale transactions in securities are accounted 
on settlement date except in the case of equity shares 
which are accounted on trade date.
 
HDFC Bank Limited
334
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025

 
Basis of classification:
 
 Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity 
and contractual terms there of gives rise to cash flows that 
are solely payment of principal and interest on principal 
outstanding (SPPI) are classified under HTM category. All 
investments in subsidiaries / associates / joint ventures 
are classified under the category of Group Companies 
(Group Cos.). Investments which the Bank acquires with 
an objective that is achieved by both collecting contractual 
cashflows and selling securities and where the contractual 
terms of the investment meet the SPPI criterion are 
classified under AFS category. Investments not classified 
in any of the above categories are classified under FVTPL 
category. HFT, which is a sub-category of FVTPL consists 
of all instruments that meet the specifications for HFT 
instruments prescribed by the RBI. 
         Hitherto, investments which the Bank intended to hold 
till maturity were classified under HTM category and 
investments that were held for resale within 90 days 
from the date of purchase were classified under HFT. 
Investments which were not classified in either of the 
above categories were classified under AFS category.
 
Acquisition cost: 
 
 Costs, including brokerage and commission paid at the 
time of acquisition of investments and broken period 
interest on debt instruments, are recognised in the Profit 
and Loss Account and are not included in the cost 
of acquisition.
 
Valuation:
 
In accordance with the revised norms on investments:
 
• 
 Investments classified under FVTPL and AFS 
categories are fair valued individually. Net gain or 
loss arising on such valuation of FVTPL category is 
directly taken to the Profit and Loss Account. The 
net appreciation or depreciation (adjusted for the 
effect of applicable taxes, if any) in AFS Category is 
directly taken to AFS reserve without routing through 
the Profit & Loss Account. 
 
 
 Hitherto, investments classified under AFS and HFT 
categories were marked to market individually, and 
depreciation / appreciation was aggregated for 
each group. Net depreciation, if any, compared to 
the acquisition cost, in any of the six groups, was 
charged to the Profit and Loss Account and net 
appreciation, if any, in any of the six groups was 
not recognised except to the extent of depreciation 
provided earlier. 
 
• 
 Quoted investments are valued based on the trades / 
quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or prices 
published by Financial Benchmarks India Pvt Ltd. 
(FBIL) or Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives 
Association (FIMMDA). Investments denominated in 
foreign currencies are valued based on the prices 
provided by market information providers such as 
Bloomberg, Refinitiv, etc.
 
• 
 Unquoted Government of India securities, state 
government securities and special bonds such as oil 
bonds, fertilizer bonds etc. issued by the Government 
of India are valued as per the prices published by 
FBIL. The valuation of other unquoted fixed income 
securities (viz. other approved securities and bonds 
and debentures) and preference shares is done 
with appropriate mark-up, i.e. applicable FIMMDA 
published credit spreads over the Yield to Maturity 
(YTM) rates for Government of India securities as 
published by FBIL.
 
• 
 Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-
up value, ascertained from the company’s latest 
balance sheet. The date as on which the latest 
balance sheet is drawn up does not precede the 
date of valuation by more than 18 months. In case 
the latest audited balance sheet is not available or is 
more than 18 months old, the shares are valued at 
` 1 per company.
 
• 
 Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest Net 
Asset Value (NAV) declared by the mutual fund. 
 
• 
 Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of 
deposits being discounted instruments are valued at 
carrying cost. 
 
• 
 Investments in Security Receipts (SRs) and unquoted 
units of Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT) are 
valued as per the net asset value provided by the 
issuing Asset Reconstruction Company and InvIT 
respectively. 
 
• 
 Investments in unquoted units of Alternative 
Investment Fund (AIF) are valued at NAV provided 
by the AIF based on its financial statements. Where 
an AIF fails to carry out and disclose the valuation of 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
335
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

its investments by an independent valuer as per the 
frequency mandated by SEBI, the value of its units 
is treated as ` 1. In case AIF is not registered under 
SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulation, 2012, 
and the latest disclosed valuation of its investments 
by an independent valuer precedes the date of 
valuation by more than 18 months the value of its 
units is treated as ` 1.
 
• 
 Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) including Priority 
Sector-PTCs are valued by using FIMMDA credit 
spreads as applicable for the NBFC category, 
based on the credit rating of the respective PTC over 
the YTM rates for Government of India securities 
published by FBIL. 
 
• 
 Investments classified under HTM and Group Cos. 
category are carried at their acquisition cost and 
not marked to market. Any diminution, other than 
temporary, in the value of investments in HTM 
and Group Cos. category is provided for. Hitherto, 
any premium on investments classified under 
HTM category, was amortised over the remaining 
maturity period of the security on a constant yield-
to-maturity basis.
 
• 
 For all debt securities meeting SPPI criteria (except 
short sale securities), any discount or premium 
on acquisition is accreted or amortised over the 
remaining maturity period of the security on a 
constant yield-to-maturity basis. Such accretion or 
amortisation of discount or premium is classified 
under interest income from investments. 
 
• 
 The investment portfolio is categorised into three fair 
value hierarchies viz. Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3:


¾ 
 Level 1 Financial Instruments are valued with 
inputs such as quoted prices in active markets 
for identical instruments.
 
 
¾ 
 Level 2 Financial Instruments are valued with 
inputs other than quoted prices, that are 
observable for asset or liability either directly 
or indirectly.
 
 
¾ 
 Level 3 Financial Instruments are valued using 
unobservable inputs.
 
• 
 All investments are measured at fair value on initial 
recognition. Unless facts and circumstances suggest 
that the fair value is materially different from the 
acquisition cost, it is presumed that the acquisition 
cost is the fair value. In case of Level 1 and Level 2 
instruments, when acquisition cost is not equal to fair 
value, any Day 1 gain / loss is recognised in the Profit 
and Loss Account. In case of Level 3 instruments, 
any Day 1 loss is recognized immediately in the 
Profit and Loss Account whereas any Day 1 gain 
is deferred. In case of Level 3 debt instruments, the 
Day 1 gain is amortized on a straight-line basis up to 
the maturity date (or earliest call date for perpetual 
instruments), while for unquoted Level 3 equity 
instruments, the gain is set aside as a liability until 
the security is listed or derecognised.
 
• 
 Non-performing investments (NPIs) are identified, 
and provision is made thereon based on the RBI 
guidelines. Provision for NPIs is not set-off against 
appreciation in respect of performing investments. 
Appreciation, if any, in the value of a NPI is not 
recognised. Income on NPIs is not recognised 
until received.
 
Disposal of investments:
 
 In accordance with the revised norms on investments, 
Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid 
categories is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account 
except for equity instruments designated under AFS at 
the time of initial recognition, in respect of which the 
gains and losses are transferred from AFS Reserve to 
the Capital Reserve. Hitherto entire Profit / Loss on sale 
of investments, were recognised in the Profit and Loss 
Account. Cost of investments is determined based on 
the weighted average cost method. The profit from sale of 
investment under HTM and Group Cos. categories, net-
off taxes and transfer to statutory reserve is appropriated 
from the Profit and Loss Account to “Capital Reserve”, in 
accordance with RBI guidelines.       
 
Short sale:
 
 The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central 
Government dated securities in accordance with the RBI 
guidelines. The short position is categorised under HFT 
and netted off from investments in government securities. 
The short position along with other government securities 
under HFT portfolio is marked to market and the resultant 
MTM profit or loss, is taken to the Profit and Loss Account. 
Profit / Loss on short sale is recognised on settlement 
date.  
HDFC Bank Limited
336
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025

 2.    Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions:
 
 Repurchase (Repo) and reverse repurchase (Reverse 
Repo) transactions are reported as borrowing and 
lending (lending above 14 days tenor reported as 
advances) respectively. 
 
 Borrowing cost on repo transactions is accounted as 
interest expense and revenue on reverse repo transactions 
is accounted as interest income.
 3.    Advances
 
Classification:
 
 Advances are classified as performing and non-performing 
based on the RBI guidelines and are stated net of bills 
rediscounted, inter-bank participation with risk, specific 
loan loss provision, interest suspense for non-performing 
advances, claims received from Credit Guarantors, 
provision for funded interest term loan and provision for 
diminution in the fair value of restructured assets. 
 
 The Bank classifies its loans and investments, including 
overseas branches and overdues from crystallised 
derivative contracts, into performing assets and non-
performing assets (NPAs) in accordance with RBI 
guidelines. Further the NPAs are classified into sub-
standard, doubtful and loss assets based on the criteria 
stipulated by RBI. Non-performing assets are upgraded 
into standard as per the extant RBI guidelines.
 
Provisioning:
         Specific loan loss provision in respect of non-performing 
advances is made based on management’s assessment 
of the degree of impairment of advances, subject to the 
minimum provisioning prescribed by the RBI.
 
 The specific loan loss provision for retail non-performing 
advances is also made based on the nature of product 
and delinquency levels.
 
 Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance 
with the Bank’s policy. Recoveries from bad debts written-
off are included under other income. 
 
 Loans reported as frauds are classified as loss assets 
and fully provided for immediately without considering the 
value of security.
 
 The Bank maintains general provision for standard assets 
including credit exposures computed as per the current 
marked to market values of interest rate and foreign 
exchange derivative contracts and gold. The Bank also 
maintains general provision for unhedged foreign currency 
exposures of borrowers, provision on loans to specific 
borrowers in specific stressed sectors, provision on 
exposures to step-down subsidiaries of Indian companies 
and provision on specified borrowers as prescribed by 
RBI. In the case of overseas branches, general provision 
on standard assets is maintained at the higher of the 
levels stipulated by the respective overseas regulator or 
RBI. The provision for standard assets is included under 
other liabilities.
 
 In addition to the above, the Bank on a prudent basis 
makes provision on advances or exposures which are not 
NPAs, but has reasons to believe on the basis of the extant 
environment or specific information or basis regulatory 
guidance / instructions, of a possible slippage of a specific 
advance or a group of advances or exposures or potential 
exposures. These are classified as contingent provisions 
and included under other liabilities.
 
 Provision made in addition to the Bank’s policy for specific 
loan loss provision for non-performing assets, possible 
slippage of specific exposures and regulatory general 
provision is categorised as floating provision. Creation of 
floating provision is considered by the Bank up to a level 
approved by the Board of Directors. Floating provisions 
are used only for contingencies under extraordinary 
circumstances and for making specific provisions for non-
performing accounts. Floating provisions are included 
under other liabilities.
 
 Further to the provisions required to be held according 
to the asset classification status, provision is held for 
individual country exposures (other than for home country 
exposure). Countries are categorised into risk categories 
as per Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. 
(‘ECGC’) guidelines and provisioning is made in respect 
of that country where the net funded exposure is one 
percent or more of the Bank’s total assets. Provision for 
country risk is included under other liabilities.
 
 In accordance with the RBI guidelines on the prudential 
framework for resolution of stressed assets and the 
resolution frameworks for COVID-19 related stress and 
its Board approved policy, the Bank has implemented 
resolution plans for eligible borrowers. The asset 
classification and necessary provision thereon is made 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
337
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

in accordance with the said RBI guidelines. Restructured 
assets involving compromise settlements, where the 
time for payment of the agreed settlement amount 
exceeds three months are classified and provided for in 
accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI from 
time to time.
 
 The restructured loans are upgraded into standard 
category as per the extant RBI guidelines. Further, in 
respect of restructuring of loans pertaining to projects 
under implementation, the asset classification and 
necessary provision thereon is made in accordance with 
the said RBI guidelines.
4. 
Securitisation and transfer of assets
 
 Assets transferred through securitisation and direct 
assignment of cash flows are de-recognised in the 
Balance Sheet when they are sold (true sale criteria 
being fully met with) and consideration is received. 
Sales / transfers that do not meet true sale criteria are 
accounted for as borrowings. For a securitisation or direct 
assignment transaction, the Bank recognises profit upon 
receipt of the funds and loss is recognised at the time of 
sale. Unrealised gains associated with expected future 
margin income is recognised in profit and loss account 
on receipt, after absorbing losses, if any.
 
 On sale of stressed assets, if the sale is at a price below 
the net book value (i.e., funded outstanding less specific 
provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the Profit and 
Loss Account and if the sale is for a value higher than 
the net book value, the excess provision is credited to 
the Profit and Loss Account in the year when the sum 
of cash received by way of initial consideration and / 
or redemption or transfer of security receipts issued by 
Securitisation Company (‘SC’) / Reconstruction Company 
(‘RC’) exceeds the net book value of the loan at the time 
of transfer. Where the sale consideration is comprised 
of only cash and SRs guaranteed by the Government of 
India, the excess provision is credited to the Profit and 
Loss Account in the year of transfer. 
 
 In respect of stressed assets sold under an asset 
securitisation, where the investment by the bank in SRs 
issued against the assets transferred by it is more than 10 
percent of such SRs, provisions held against outstanding 
SRs are higher of the provisions required in terms of net 
asset value declared by the SC / RC and provisions 
as per the extant norms applicable to the underlying 
loans, notionally treating the book value of these SRs as 
the corresponding stressed loans assuming the loans 
remained in the books of the Bank.
 
 The Bank invests in PTCs issued by Special Purpose 
Vehicles (SPVs). These are accounted at acquisition cost 
and are classified as investments. The Bank also buys 
loans through the direct assignment route which are 
classified as advances. PTCs are carried at acquisition 
cost unless it is more than the face value, in which case 
the premium is amortised based on effective interest 
rate method.
 
 The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank 
participation with and without risk. In the case of 
participation with risk, the aggregate amount of the 
participation issued by the Bank is reduced from 
advances. In case where the Bank is assuming risk by 
participation, the aggregate amount of the participation 
is classified under advances. In the case of issue of 
participation certificate without risk, the aggregate amount 
of participation issued by the Bank is classified under 
borrowings and where the Bank is acquiring participation 
certificate, the aggregate amount of participation acquired 
is shown as due from banks under advances.
5. 
Fixed assets and depreciation
 
 Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation as adjusted for impairment, if any. Cost 
includes cost of purchase and all expenditure like site 
preparation, installation costs and professional fees 
incurred on the asset before it is ready to use. Subsequent 
expenditure incurred on assets put to use is capitalised 
only when it increases the future benefit / functioning 
capability from / of such assets. 
 
 Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life 
of the fixed asset on a straight-line basis except for 
freehold land. The management believes that the useful 
life of assets assessed by the Bank, pursuant to Part C 
of Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013, taking into 
account changes in environment, changes in technology, 
the utility and efficacy of the asset in use, fairly reflects its 
estimate of useful lives of the fixed assets. The estimated 
useful lives of key fixed assets are given below:
HDFC Bank Limited
338
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025

Asset
Estimated useful life as 
assessed by the Bank
Owned Premises
60 years
Automated Teller Machines (ATMs)
10 years
Electrical equipments and 
installations
6 to 8 years
Office equipments
3 to 6 years
Computers
3 years
Modems, routers, switches, 
servers, network and related IT 
equipments
3 to 6 years
Motor cars
4 years
Safe deposit lockers 
21 years
Furniture and fittings
10 to 16 years
 
•     Leasehold land is depreciated over the period 
of lease.
 
• 
 Improvements to leasehold premises are amortised 
over the remaining period of lease.
 
• 
  Software and system development expenditure is 
amortised over a period upto 5 years.
 
• 
  Point of Sales (PoS) terminals (including sound box) 
are depreciated over a period of 4 years.
 
• 
 For assets purchased and sold during the year, 
depreciation is provided on pro-rata basis.
 
• 
 Whenever there is a revision of the estimated useful 
life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable amount 
is charged over the revised remaining useful life of 
the said asset.
 
• 
 Profit on sale of immovable property net of taxes 
and transfer to statutory reserve, are transferred to 
capital reserve.
 
 • 
 Assets (other than PoS terminals) costing less than 
` 5,000 individually, are fully depreciated in the year 
of purchase.
6. 
Non-Banking Assets 
 
 Non-Banking Assets (NBAs) acquired in satisfaction 
of claims are carried at lower of net book value or net 
realizable value.
7. 
Impairment of assets
 
 The Bank assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether 
there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. 
Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent the 
carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated 
recoverable amount.
8. 
Translation of foreign currency items
 
 Foreign currency income and expenditure items of 
domestic operations are translated at the exchange 
rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. Income 
and expenditure items of integral foreign operations 
(representative offices) are translated at the weekly 
average closing rates and of non-integral foreign 
operations (foreign branches and offshore banking units) 
at the monthly average closing rates.
 
 Outstanding foreign currency monetary items of domestic 
and integral foreign operations are translated at the 
closing exchange rates notified by Foreign Exchange 
Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) as at the Balance 
Sheet date and the resulting net revaluation profit or loss 
is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
 
 Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency 
assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations 
are translated at closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI 
at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss 
arising from exchange differences are accumulated in the 
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve until disposal of the 
non-integral foreign operations in accordance with AS - 
11, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates 
and the extant RBI guidelines. 
 
 Foreign currency denominated contingent liabilities on 
account of foreign exchange and derivative contracts, 
guarantees, letters of credit, acceptances and 
endorsements are translated at closing rates of exchange 
notified by FEDAI as at the Balance Sheet date.
9. 
Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
 
 Foreign exchange spot and forward contracts, 
outstanding as at the Balance Sheet date and held for 
trading, are revalued at the closing spot and forward 
rates respectively as notified by FEDAI and at interpolated 
rates for contracts of interim maturities. The USD-INR 
exchange rate for valuation of contracts having longer 
maturities i.e. greater than one year, is derived using the 
USD-INR spot rate as well as relevant INR yield curve 
and USD yield curve. For other currency pairs, and non-
deliverable contracts, the forward points (for rates / tenors 
not published by FEDAI) are obtained / derived basis 
data published by Refinitiv or Bloomberg for valuation of 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
339
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

the contracts. Valuation is considered on present value 
basis. For this purpose, the forward profit or loss on the 
contracts are discounted to the valuation date using the 
discounting yields. The resulting profit or loss on valuation 
is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. Marked to 
market value of foreign exchange contracts are classified 
as assets when the fair value is positive or as liabilities 
when the fair value is negative.
 
 The Bank recognises all derivative contracts at fair value, 
on the date on which such derivative contracts are entered 
into and are re-measured at fair value as at the Balance 
Sheet date. Marked to market values of such derivatives 
are classified as assets when the fair value is positive or 
as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
 
 The Bank as part of its risk management strategy, makes 
use of derivative instruments, including foreign exchange 
forward contracts, for hedging the risk embedded in 
some of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the 
balance sheet. The Bank identifies the hedged item (asset 
or liability) at the inception of the transaction itself. Hedge 
effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception 
of the hedge and at the reporting date thereafter.
 
 Foreign exchange forward contracts and Principal only 
swaps (POS) not intended for trading, that are entered into 
to establish the amount of reporting currency required or 
available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are 
outstanding at the Balance Sheet date, are accounted in 
accordance with AS-11. Accordingly, such contracts are 
not marked to market and only translated at spot rate. 
The premium or discount arising at the inception of such 
forward exchange contract is amortised on a straight line 
basis as expense or income over the life of the contract. 
The interest income / expense on such POS transaction 
is accounted on accrual basis.
 
 In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair 
value of the hedging instruments and hedged items are 
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of 
cash flow hedges, the changes in fair value of effective 
portion are recognised in Reserves and Surplus under 
‘Cash flow hedge reserve’ and ineffective portion of an 
effective hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in 
the Profit and Loss Account. The accumulated balance 
in the cash flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging 
relationship, is recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at 
the same time that the impact from the hedged item is 
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
 
 In relation to derivative contracts with non-performing 
borrowers, the Bank makes provision for the entire amount 
of overdue and future receivables relating to positive 
marked to market value of the said derivative contracts.
10. Revenue recognition
 
 Interest income is recognised in the Profit and Loss 
Account on an accrual basis, except in the case of non-
performing assets which is recognised when realised.
 
 Interest income on investments in PTCs and loans bought 
out through the direct assignment route is recognised at 
their effective interest rate. 
 
 Income on non-coupon bearing discounted instruments is 
recognised over the tenor of the instrument on a constant 
yield basis.
 
 Dividend on equity shares and preference shares is 
recognised as income when the right to receive the 
dividend is established.
 
 Income from units of mutual funds / AIF is recognised on 
cash basis.
 
 Loan processing fee is recognised as income when due. 
Syndication / Arranger fee is recognised as income when 
a significant act / milestone is completed.
 
 Gain / loss on sell down of loans is recognised in line with 
the extant RBI guidelines.
 
 Guarantee commission, commission on letter of credit, 
annual locker rent fees and annual fees for credit cards 
are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period 
of contract. Other fees and commission income are 
recognised when due, where the Bank is reasonably 
certain of ultimate collection.
 
 Fees paid / received for priority sector lending certificates 
(PSLC) is recognised on straight-line basis over the period 
of the certificate.
11. Employee benefits
 
Stock based Employee Compensation:
 
 The Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘the Scheme’) 
provides for the grant of options to acquire equity shares 
of the Bank to its employees and whole time directors. 
The Employee Stock Incentive Master Scheme-2022 
HDFC Bank Limited
340
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025

(ESIS-2022) provides for the grant of Restricted Stock 
Units (units) to acquire equity shares of the Bank to its 
employees and whole time directors. The options / units 
granted shall vest as per their vesting schedule and these 
may be exercised within a specified period. 
 
 The Bank followed the intrinsic value method to account for 
its stock-based employee compensation plans in respect 
of options granted up to March 31, 2021. Compensation 
cost was measured by the excess, if any, of the market 
price of the underlying stock over the exercise price as 
determined under the option plan. The market price is 
the closing price on the stock exchange where there is 
highest trading volume on the working day immediately 
preceding the date of grant. 
 
 Effective April 01, 2021, the fair value of share-linked 
instruments on the date of grant for all instruments granted 
after March 31, 2021 is recognised as an expense in 
accordance with the RBI guidelines on Compensation of 
Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material 
Risk Takers and Control Function staff.
 
 The fair value of the stock-based employee compensation 
is estimated on the date of grant using Black-
Scholes model. 
 
 The compensation cost is amortised on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period after adjusting estimated 
forfeiture. Ultimately, the cost for all instruments that vest is 
recognised. The compensation expense is recognised in 
the Profit and Loss Account with a corresponding credit to 
Employee Stock Options Outstanding. On exercise of the 
stock options, corresponding balance in Employee Stock 
Options Outstanding is transferred to Share Premium. 
In respect of the options which expire unexercised, the 
balance standing to the credit of Employee Stock Options 
Outstanding is transferred to General Reserve.
 
Gratuity:
        The Bank has an obligation towards gratuity, a defined 
benefit retirement plan covering all eligible employees. 
The plan benefit vests upon completion of minimum 
prescribed period of continuous years of service and 
is in the form of lump sum amount, without an upper 
limit, equivalent to 15 days’ basic salary payable for each 
completed year of service to all eligible employees on 
resignation, retirement or death while in employment or on 
termination of employment, except in respect of employees 
of eHDFC Limited, where the vesting is equivalent to one 
month’s basic salary for each completed year of service 
till the effective date of amalgamation. The Bank makes 
contributions to a recognised Gratuity Trust administered 
by trustees and whose funds are managed by insurance 
companies. In respect of erstwhile Lord Krishna Bank 
(eLKB) employees, the Bank makes contribution to a 
fund set up by eLKB and administered by the Board of 
Trustees. The defined gratuity benefit plans are valued 
by an independent actuary as at the Balance Sheet 
date using the projected unit credit method as per the 
requirement of AS-15, Employee Benefits, to determine 
the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the 
related service costs. The actuarial calculations entails 
assumptions about demographics, early retirement, 
salary increases and interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss 
is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
 
Superannuation:
 
 The Bank has a Superannuation Plan under which 
employees of the Bank, above a prescribed grade, are 
entitled to receive retirement benefits either through salary 
or under a defined contribution plan. For those opting for 
a defined contribution plan, the Bank contributes a sum 
equivalent to 13% of the employee’s eligible annual basic 
salary (15% for the whole time directors and for certain 
eligible employees of the erstwhile Centurion Bank of 
Punjab (eCBoP staff)) to a Trust administered by trustees 
and whose funds are managed by insurance companies. 
The Bank has no liability towards future superannuation 
fund benefits other than its contribution and recognises 
such contribution as an expense in the year incurred.
 
Provident fund:
 
 The Bank is covered under the Employees Provident Fund 
and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and accordingly 
all employees of the Bank are entitled to receive benefits 
under the provident fund. The Bank contributes an amount, 
on a monthly basis, at a determined rate (currently 12% 
of employee’s basic salary). Of this, the Bank contributes 
an amount equal to 8.33% of employee’s basic salary 
up to a maximum salary level of ` 15,000/- per month, 
to the Pension Scheme administered by the Regional 
Provident Fund Office. The balance amount out of the 
12% employer’s share is contributed to an exempted Trust 
set up by the Bank and administered by the Board of 
Trustees. The Bank recognises such contributions as an 
expense in the year in which it is incurred. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
341
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

 
 Interest payable to the members of the exempted trust 
shall not be lower than the statutory rate of interest 
declared by the Central Government under the Employees 
Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 
and shortfall, if any, shall be made good by the Bank.
 
 The guidance note on implementing AS-15, Employee 
Benefits, states that benefits involving employer 
established provident funds, which require interest 
shortfalls to be provided, are to be considered as defined 
benefit plan. Actuarial valuation of this Provident Fund 
interest shortfall is done as per the guidance note issued 
in this respect by The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI) 
and provision towards this liability is made.
 
 The overseas branches of the Bank make contribution 
to the respective applicable government social security 
scheme calculated as a percentage of the employees’ 
salaries. The Bank’s obligations are limited to these 
contributions, which are expensed when due, as such 
contribution is in the nature of defined contribution.
 
Pension:
 
 In respect of pension payable to certain eLKB employees 
under the Lord Krishna Bank (Employees) Pension 
Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme, the Bank 
contributes 10% of basic salary to a pension trust set up 
by the Bank and administered by the Board of Trustees 
and an additional amount towards the liability shortfall 
based on an independent actuarial valuation as at the 
Balance Sheet date, which includes assumptions about 
demographics, early retirement, salary increases and 
interest rates.
 
 In respect of certain eLKB employees who had moved to 
a Cost to Company (CTC) based compensation structure 
and had completed less than 15 years of service, the 
contribution which was made until then, is maintained as 
a fund and will be converted into annuity on separation 
after a lock-in-period of two years. For this category 
of employees, liability stands frozen and no additional 
provision is required except for interest as applicable to 
Provident Fund, which is provided for.
 
 In respect of certain eLKB employees who moved to 
a CTC structure and had completed service of more 
than 15 years, pension would be paid on separation 
based on salary applicable as on the date of movement 
to CTC structure. Provision thereto is made based on 
an independent actuarial valuation as at the Balance 
Sheet date.
 
National Pension System (NPS):
 
 In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the 
NPS, the Bank contributes certain percentage of the basic 
salary of employees to the aforesaid scheme, a defined 
contribution plan, which is managed and administered 
by pension fund management companies. The Bank has 
no liability other than its contribution and recognises such 
contributions as an expense in the year incurred.
12. Debit and credit cards reward points
 
 The Bank estimates the probable redemption of debit 
and credit card reward points and cost per point using an 
actuarial method by employing an independent actuary, 
which includes assumptions such as discount rate, block, 
withdrawal, cost per reward point, mortality, redemption 
and spends. Provisions for liabilities on the outstanding 
reward points are made based on an independent 
actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet date and 
included in other liabilities and provisions.
13. Bullion
 
 The Bank imports bullion including precious metal bars 
on a consignment basis or through exchange (India 
International Bullion Exchange – Gift City). The imports 
are typically on a back-to-back basis and are priced to the 
customer based on the price quoted by the supplier. The 
difference between the price recovered from customers 
and cost of bullion is accounted at the time of sale to the 
customers and reported as ‘‘Other Income’’.
 
 The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending 
basis and the interest thereon is accounted as interest 
expense / income respectively.
14. Segment information 
 
 The disclosure relating to segment information is in 
accordance with AS-17, Segment Reporting and as per 
guidelines issued by RBI.
15. Lease accounting
 
 Lease payments including cost escalation for assets 
taken on operating lease are recognised as expense in 
the Profit and Loss Account over the lease term on a 
straight-line basis in accordance with the AS-19, Leases.
HDFC Bank Limited
342
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025

16. Earnings per share
 
 The Bank reports basic and diluted earnings per equity 
share in accordance with AS-20, Earnings per Share. 
Basic earnings per equity share has been computed 
by dividing net profit for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding for the year. Diluted earnings per share 
reflect the potential dilution that could occur if securities or 
other contracts to issue equity shares were exercised or 
converted to equity during the year. Diluted earnings per 
equity share are computed using the weighted average 
number of equity shares and the dilutive potential equity 
shares outstanding during the year except where the 
results are anti-dilutive. 
17. Income tax
 
 Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current tax 
and deferred tax expense incurred by the Bank. Current 
tax expense is determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and rules framed 
thereunder and considering the material principles set out 
in the Income Computation and Disclosure Standards to 
the extent applicable. Deferred tax expense is determined 
as per AS-22, Accounting for Taxes on Income. Deferred 
tax assets and liabilities are recognised for the future tax 
consequences of timing differences between the carrying 
values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax 
bases, and operating loss carried forward, if any. Deferred 
tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted 
or substantively enacted tax rates as at the Balance 
Sheet date. 
 
 Current tax assets and liabilities and deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are off-set when they relate to income taxes 
levied by the same taxation authority, when the Bank has 
a legal right to off-set and when the Bank intends to settle 
on a net basis.
 
 Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent there 
is reasonable certainty that the assets can be realised 
in future. In case of unabsorbed depreciation or carried 
forward loss under taxation laws, deferred tax assets are 
recognised only if there is virtual certainty of realisation 
of such assets. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at 
each Balance Sheet date and appropriately adjusted to 
reflect the amount that is reasonably / virtually certain to 
be realised.
18.  Accounting for provisions, contingent liabilities and 
contingent assets
 
 In accordance with AS-29, “Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, the Bank recognises 
provisions when it has a present obligation as a result of 
a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits will be required to settle 
the obligation and when a reliable estimate of the amount 
of the obligation can be made. 
 
 Provisions are determined based on management estimate 
required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, 
supplemented by experience of similar transactions. 
These are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and 
adjusted to reflect the current management estimates.
  
A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
 
• 
 a possible obligation arising from a past event, 
the existence of which will be confirmed by the 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more 
uncertain future events not within the control of the 
Bank; or
 
• 
 a present obligation arising from a past event which 
is not recognised as it is not probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the obligation 
or a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation 
cannot be made.
 
 When there is a possible obligation or a present obligation 
in respect of which the likelihood of outflow of resources 
is remote, no provision or disclosure is made.
 
 Contingent assets, if any, are not recognised in the 
financial statements since this may result in the recognition 
of income that may never be realised.
19. Cash and cash equivalents
 
 Cash and cash equivalents include cash, gold in 
hand, rupee digital currency with RBI, balances with 
RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and 
short notice.
20. Share issue expenses
 
 Share issue expenses are adjusted against Share 
Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies 
Act, 2013.
21. Corporate social responsibility
 
 Expenditure towards corporate social responsibility, in 
accordance with Companies Act, 2013, is recognised in 
the Profit and Loss Account.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
343
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

HDFC Bank Limited
344
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 18 - Schedules forming part of the standalone financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2025
Amounts in notes forming part of the standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 are denominated in 
rupee crore to conform to extant RBI guidelines, except where stated otherwise. 
1. 
Amalgamation of HDFC Limited 
 
 The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 04, 2022, approved a composite Scheme of amalgamation (“Scheme”), 
for the amalgamation of: (i) erstwhile HDFC Investments Limited (“eHDFC Investments”) and erstwhile HDFC Holdings 
Limited (“eHDFC Holdings”), with and into erstwhile Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (“eHDFC Limited”); 
and thereafter (ii) eHDFC Limited into HDFC Bank Limited (“Bank”), and their respective shareholders and creditors, under 
Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws including the rules and regulations. The Scheme 
was approved by the shareholders at the National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”) convened meeting of the shareholders 
of the Bank held on November 25, 2022. The NCLT, in accordance with Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and rules thereunder, vide its order dated March 17, 2023 sanctioned the Scheme. Upon receipt of all requisite approvals, 
the Bank filed form INC 28 with Registrar of Companies on July 01, 2023 and accordingly, the Scheme became effective 
on July 01, 2023. As per the Scheme, the appointed date for the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into the Bank 
is the same as effective date of the Scheme i.e. July 01, 2023. The Profit and Loss Account for the year ended March 31, 
2025 include the operations of eHDFC Limited which amalgamated with and into HDFC Bank on July 01, 2023 and hence 
are not comparable with the Profit and Loss Account for the year ended March 31, 2024.
The amalgamation was accounted under the ‘pooling of interest’ method as prescribed in Accounting Standard-14 
“Accounting for amalgamation” (“AS-14”). Outstanding balances between eHDFC Limited and the Bank were eliminated as 
on July 01, 2023. All assets and liabilities of eHDFC Limited were recognised by the Bank at their carrying amounts as on 
that date except for adjustments to bring about uniformity of accounting policies as required under AS-14. The share capital 
of ` 311.04 crore issued by the Bank as consideration pursuant to the Scheme was adjusted against the corresponding 
share capital of eHDFC Limited of ` 370.29 crore and the difference was adjusted to Amalgamation Reserve. Further, 
excess of cost over face value of Investment in shares of the Bank by eHDFC Limited of ` 14,006.31 crore was adjusted 
to Amalgamation Reserve. Consequently, the Bank recognised a debit balance of ` 13,947.06 crore in the Amalgamation 
Reserve as a result of these adjustments. 
Summarized values of assets and liabilities taken over as at July 01, 2023 in accordance with the terms of the Scheme is 
as detailed below:
Particulars
(` crore)
Assets taken over
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice
5,408.87
Investments
146,773.54
Advances
605,664.86
Fixed assets
1,442.60
Other assets
14,338.34
Total Assets (A)
773,628.21
Liabilities, reserves and surplus taken over
Equity share warrants
265.64
Employees stock options outstanding
123.81
Reserves and surplus
111,005.85
Deposits
157,259.22

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
345
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Particulars
(` crore)
Borrowings
477,539.07
Other liabilities and provisions
27,064.33
Total Liabilities, reserves and surplus (B)
773,257.92
Net Assets C = (A-B)
370.29
 
Consequent upon amalgamation becoming effective, the authorised share capital of the Bank stood increased to ` 1,190.61 
crore (11,90,61,00,000 shares of ` 1/- each) on account of transfer to and amalgamation / combination of authorised capital 
of eHDFC Limited with the authorised share capital of the Bank. In terms of the Scheme, the Bank issued and allotted 
3,11,03,96,492 equity shares to the shareholders of eHDFC Limited as on July 13, 2023, being the record date fixed by the 
Board of Directors as per the Scheme, in accordance with the share exchange ratio i.e. 42 equity shares of face value of 
` 1/- each of the Bank for every 25 equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each of eHDFC Limited. Accordingly, the paid-up 
share capital of the Bank increased from ` 559.18 crore consisting of 5,59,17,98,806 equity shares of ` 1/- each to ` 753.76 
crore consisting of 7,53,75,69,464 equity shares of ` 1/- each, post cancellation of 1,16,46,25,834 equity shares held by 
eHDFC Limited in the Bank on that date in accordance with the provisions of the Scheme.
 
As part of the Scheme, certain leased out immovable properties of eHDFC Limited were transferred to the Bank on 
amalgamation. The Bank has initiated necessary steps to foreclose these leases.
2. 
Proposed dividend
 
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 19, 2025 proposed a dividend of ` 22.00 per equity share (previous year: 
` 19.50 per equity share) aggregating to ` 16,834.89 crore subject to the approval of shareholders at the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting. During the year ended March 31, 2025, the dividend paid by the Bank in respect of the previous year 
ended March 31, 2024 was ` 14,826.19 crore. In terms of the AS-4 “Contingencies and events occurring after the balance 
sheet date”, the Bank has not appropriated the proposed dividend from the Profit and Loss Account and the same will 
be recognised in the year of actual payout post approval. However, effect of the proposed dividend has been reckoned in 
determining capital funds in computation of the capital adequacy ratio.
3. 
Change in accounting policy
 
The RBI, vide its master direction dated September 12, 2023, issued revised norms (herein after referred as ‘revised norms 
on investments’) for the classification, valuation and operation of investment portfolio of banks, which became applicable 
from April 01, 2024. While hitherto, the investment portfolio was classified under the Held to Maturity (HTM), Available for 
Sale (AFS) and Held for Trading (HFT) categories, the revised norms bring in a principle-based classification of investment 
portfolio and a symmetric treatment of fair value gains and losses. In accordance with the revised norms and the Bank’s 
board approved policy, the Bank has classified its investment portfolio as on April 01, 2024 under the categories of Held to 
Maturity (HTM), Available for Sale (AFS), subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and Fair Value Through Profit and Loss 
(FVTPL) with Held for Trading (HFT) as a sub-category of FVTPL, and from that date, measures and values the investment 
portfolio under the revised framework. On transition to the framework on April 01, 2024, the Bank has recognised a net 
gain of ` 482.87 crore (net of tax of ` 127.00 crore) which has been credited to general reserve, in accordance with the said 
norms. The impact of the revised framework subsequent to the transition is not ascertainable and as such the income / 
profit or loss from investments for the year ended March 31, 2025, is not comparable with that of the previous year.
4. 
Capital adequacy
 
The Bank’s capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (‘Capital Adequacy Ratio’) is calculated in accordance with the RBI guidelines 
on Basel III capital regulations (‘Basel III’). The minimum capital ratio requirement under Basel III as at March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024 is as follows:

HDFC Bank Limited
346
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Minimum ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets (RWAs)
% of RWAs
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1)
8.2
Tier 1 capital 
9.7
Total capital 
11.7
 
 The above minimum ratios include Capital Conservation Buffer (CCB) and additional capital applicable to the Bank being 
Domestic-Systemically Important Bank (D-SIB). 
 
The Bank’s capital adequacy ratio computed under Basel III is given below:
(` crore)
Particulars
As at March 31,
2025
2024
CET 1 capital
458,210.41 
402,231.82
Additional Tier 1 capital
12,256.50 
12,049.50
Tier 1 capital
470,466.91 
414,281.32
Tier 2 capital
49,575.61 
49,721.50
Total capital
520,042.52 
464,002.82
Total risk weighted assets
2,660,003.89 
2,468,028.06
Capital adequacy ratios under Basel III
CET 1
17.23%
16.30%
Tier 1
17.69%
16.79%
Tier 2
1.86%
2.01%
Total
19.55%
18.80%
Leverage Ratio
10.91%
10.40%
Percentage of the shareholding of Government of India
Nil
Nil
Amount of paid-up equity capital raised during the year (Refer Schedule 18(1))
5.53
201.72
Amount of non-equity Tier 1 capital raised during the year, of which:
           Nil 
           Nil 
Basel III compliant Perpetual Debt instrument
           Nil
           Nil
Amount of Tier 2 capital raised during the year, of which:
           Nil
           Nil
Basel III compliant Cumulative Subordinated bonds
Nil
Nil
 
 As on March 31, 2025, the Bank’s subordinated and perpetual debt capital instruments amounted to ` 22,000.00 crore 
(previous year: ` 22,000.00 crore) and ` 12,286.50 crore (previous year: ` 12,079.50 crore) respectively. 
 
 In accordance with the RBI guidelines, banks are required to make consolidated Pillar 3 and Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) 
disclosures under the Basel III Framework. These disclosures would be available on the Bank’s website at the following 
link: https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/resources/regulatory-disclosures. These disclosures have not been subjected 
to audit by the statutory auditors of the Bank.
 
Capital infusion
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank allotted 5,53,11,012 equity shares (previous year: 4,66,21,586 equity shares) 
aggregating to face value of ` 5.53 crore (previous year: ` 4.66 crore) on exercise of stock options / units. Accordingly, the 
share capital increased by ` 5.53 crore (previous year: ` 4.66 crore) and the share premium increased by ` 6,340.97 crore 
(previous year: ` 5,245.07 crore).

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
347
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 During the previous year, the Bank issued and allotted 3,11,03,96,492 equity shares to the shareholders of eHDFC Limited 
in terms of the Scheme. Accordingly, the paid-up share capital of the Bank increased from ` 559.18 crore consisting of 
5,59,17,98,806 equity shares of ` 1/- each to ` 753.76 crore consisting of 7,53,75,69,464 equity shares of ` 1/- each, 
post cancellation of 1,16,46,25,834 equity shares held by eHDFC Limited in the Bank on that date in accordance with the 
provisions of the Scheme. Further, share premium increased by ` 51,728.83 crore on amalgamation of eHDFC Limited.
 
 During the previous year, the Bank allotted 2,47,75,632 equity shares pursuant to exercise of convertible share warrants 
issued by eHDFC Limited. Accordingly, the share capital and share premium of the Bank increased by ` 2.48 crore and 
` 3,455.79 crore respectively, including money received by eHDFC Limited at the time of allotment of share warrants.
 
The details of the movement in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank are given below: 
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
759.69
557.97
Addition pursuant to stock options / units / warrants exercised 
5.53
7.14
Addition pursuant to amalgamation (net of cancellation) (Refer Schedule 18(1))
-
194.58
Closing balance
765.22
759.69
5. 
Employees Stock Options Outstanding 
 
 The cost of stock-based compensation is determined using the fair value method. For the year ended March 31, 2025, an 
amount of ` 1,890.70 crore (previous year: ` 1,547.40 crore) is recognised in the profit and loss account and credited to 
Employees Stock Options Outstanding account. In the previous year, upon amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into 
the Bank, the Bank recognised ` 123.81 crore as Employees Stock Options Outstanding on account of fair valuation of 
share-linked instruments. 
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, on exercise of share-linked instruments, an amount of ` 723.11 crore (previous 
year: ` 84.18 crore) is transferred from Employees Stock Options Outstanding to share premium and on lapses of share-
linked instruments, an amount of ` 15.11 crore (previous year: ` 1.34 crore) is transferred from Employees Stock Options 
Outstanding to General reserve.
 
Accounting for employee share based payments
 
 The shareholders of the Bank approved the grant of equity stock options under Plan “C” in June 2005, Plan “D” in June 
2007, Plan “E” in June 2010, Plan “F” in June 2013, Plan “G” in July 2016 and Plan “H” in August 2024. The Bank also 
approved the Employee Stock Incentive Master Scheme in May 2022. Under the terms of each of these plans, the Bank 
may issue to its employees and Whole Time Directors, Equity Stock Options (‘ESOPs’) or Restricted Stock Units (‘Units’) 
each of which is convertible into one equity share. Further, pursuant to the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into 
Bank effective from July 01, 2023, the existing ESOP Schemes of the eHDFC Limited comprising of eHDFC 2007, eHDFC 
2008, eHDFC 2014, eHDFC 2017 and eHDFC 2020 were taken over by the Bank.
 
 All the plans were framed in accordance with the SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme & Employee Stock Purchase 
Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to time and as applicable at the time of the grant. The accounting for the 
stock options has been in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits 
and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and RBI guidelines to the extent applicable.
 
 The plans provide for the issuance of options at the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of 
the Board (‘NRC’) at the closing price on the working day immediately preceding the date when options are granted. This 
closing price is the closing price of the Bank’s equity share on an Indian stock exchange with the highest trading volume 
as of the working day preceding the date of grant. Further, the units are issued at the face value of the equity share of ` 1/- 

HDFC Bank Limited
348
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
each. The vesting conditions applicable to the options / units are at the discretion of the NRC. These options / units are 
exercisable on vesting, for a period as set forth by the NRC at the time of the grant. The period in which the options and 
units may be exercised cannot exceed five years and one year respectively from the date of vesting period.
 
Movement in the options / units outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans / Restricted Stock Units.
 
• 
 Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025 and March 
31, 2024:
Particulars
Number 
of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number 
of options
March 31, 2024
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2025
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
17,56,59,424
1,307.93
15,16,82,461
1,264.86
Addition on amalgamation
(Refer Schedule 18(1))
-
-
4,85,59,681
1,124.77
Granted during the year
2,31,46,660 
1,729.84 
2,43,84,690
1,611.84
Exercised during the year
5,29,55,047 
1,198.42
4,63,04,966
1,133.72
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year
44,76,527 
1,458.89 
26,62,442
1,096.34
Options outstanding at the end of the year
14,13,74,510 
1,413.25
17,56,59,424
1,307.93
Options exercisable
8,13,35,537 
1,279.91
9,88,29,856
1,201.65
• 
Movement in the Units outstanding under the Employees’ Stock Incentive Master Scheme as at March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024:
Particulars
Number 
of units
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number 
of units
March 31, 2024
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2025
Units outstanding at the beginning of the year
1,17,21,804
1.00
28,91,000
1.00
Granted during the year
62,54,575 
1.00
93,54,224
1.00
Exercised during the year
23,55,965
1.00
3,16,620
1.00
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year
7,34,986
1.00
2,06,800
1.00
Units outstanding at the end of the year
1,48,85,428
1.00
1,17,21,804
1.00
Units exercisable
12,07,198
1.00
3,76,070
1.00
• 
The following table summarizes the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Plan
Number of 
shares arising 
out of options
Range of exercise     
price (`)
Weighted 
average life of 
options
(in years)
Weighted 
average exercise 
price (`)
Plan E
          47,93,680
1,636.90
4.96
1,636.90
Plan F
        1,14,90,680
1,636.90
4.94
1,636.90
Plan G
         7,49,81,293
882.85 to 1,673.10
2.48
1,368.83
Plan H
          2,25,72,860 1,677.30 to 1,734.20
6.06
1,733.15
e-HDFC 2007
               44,411
255.83
-
255.83
e-HDFC 2008
              40,942
160.79
-
160.79
e-HDFC 2014
              12,483
603.95
-
603.95
e-HDFC 2017
            2,34,032
934.44 to 1,242.15
1.48
1,151.06
e-HDFC 2020
         2,72,04,129 1,076.64 to 1,535.27
2.58
1,142.74

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
349
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
• 
The following table summarizes the information about units outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Plan
Number of 
shares arising 
out of units
Range of 
exercise                     
price (`)
Weighted 
average life of 
units 
(in years)
Weighted 
average exercise 
price (`)
ESIS-2022
1,48,85,428
1.00
2.39
1.00
• 
The following table summarizes the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Plan
Number of shares 
arising out of 
options
Range of exercise            
price (`)
Weighted average 
life of options
(in years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Plan E
        50,75,360
1,636.90
5.92
1,636.90
Plan F
       1,55,51,708
   716.60 to 1,636.90
4.84
1,458.30
Plan G
      11,54,13,810
   882.85 to 1,673.10
2.66
1,333.78
e-HDFC 2007
            44,411
255.83
-
255.83
e-HDFC 2008
            40,942
160.79
-
160.79
e-HDFC 2014
            12,483
603.95
-
603.95
e-HDFC 2017
          6,13,926
934.44 to 1,242.15
1.84
1,070.72
e-HDFC 2020
       3,89,06,784
 1,076.64 to 1,535.27
3.51
1,134.61
• 
The following table summarizes the information about Units outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Plan
Number of shares 
arising out of units
Range of exercise   
price (`)
Weighted
average life of 
units (in years)
Weighted
average
exercise price (`)
ESIS-2022
 
1,17,21,804
1.00
2.65
1.00
 
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Dividend yield
0.77% to 1.36%
0.65% to 0.91%
Expected volatility
21.64% to 27.7%
22.01% to 29.45%
Risk-free interest rate
6.73% to 7.19%
7.17% to 7.54%
Expected life of the options
1 to 8 Years
1 to 8 Years
 
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the units granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Dividend yield
0.83% to 1.58%
0.59% to 1.85%
Expected volatility
20.05% to 24.95% 17.68% to 27.50%
Risk-free interest rate
6.82% to 6.88%
7.18% to 7.50%
Expected life of the units
1 to 5 Years
1 to 5 Years

HDFC Bank Limited
350
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
6. 
Reserves and Surplus
 
Statutory Reserve
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 16,836.84 crore (previous year: ` 15,203.07 
crore) out of profits for the year to the Statutory Reserve pursuant to the requirements of Section 17 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 read with RBI guidelines. 
 
General Reserve
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 6,734.74 crore (previous year: ` 6,081.23 
crore) out of profits for the year to the General Reserve. Further, the Bank has transferred ` 15.11 crore (previous year: 
` 1.34 crore) from Employee Stock Options Outstanding to General Reserve on lapses of share-linked instruments. 
 
 On transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has recognised a net gain of ` 482.87 crore (net of tax ` 127.00 
crore) which has been credited to General Reserve.
     
Special Reserve 
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 3,200.00 crore (previous year: ` 3,000.00 
crore) to the Special Reserve as per Section 36(1) (viii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961. 
     
Amalgamation Reserve I
 
 The balance of ` 1,063.56 crore represents excess of net assets taken over the paid-up value of equity shares issued as 
consideration with respect to amalgamation of Times Bank Limited during FY 2000 and Centurion Bank of Punjab Limited 
during FY 2009 with the Bank.
 
Amalgamation Reserve II
 
 During the previous year, the share capital of ` 311.04 crore issued by the Bank as consideration pursuant to the scheme 
was adjusted against the corresponding share capital of eHDFC Limited of ` 370.29 crore and the difference was adjusted 
to Amalgamation Reserve. Further, excess of cost over face value of Investment in shares of the Bank by eHDFC Limited 
of ` 14,006.31 crore was adjusted to Amalgamation Reserve. Consequently, the Bank recognised a debit balance of 
` 13,947.06 crore in the Amalgamation Reserve as a result of these adjustments.
     
Capital Reserve
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation ` 507.00 crore (previous year: ` 4,166.42 
crore), being the profit on sale of investments under HTM category and profit on sale of immovable properties, net of taxes 
and transfer to statutory reserve, from the Profit and Loss Account to the Capital Reserve. 
     
Investment Reserve Account
 
 On transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has transferred ` 529.42 crore from the Investment Reserve 
Account (IRA) to Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR). 
 
 In the previous year, the Bank had transferred ` 529.42 crore (net) from the Profit and Loss Account to the IRA as per the 
RBI guidelines.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
351
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 
On transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has transferred ` 529.42 crore from the IRA to IFR.
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of Nil (previous year: ` 378.00 crore) to IFR. 
As per RBI guidelines, banks are required to maintain an IFR equivalent to 2.00% of their AFS and FVTPL investment 
portfolios. The balance in the IFR as at March 31, 2025 is 2.55% (previous year: 3.48%^) of the Bank’s AFS and FVTPL 
investment portfolios. 
 
 ^ For the year ended March 31, 2024 the ratio represents closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments in AFS and 
HFT categories.
 
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
 
 As at March 31, 2025, the Bank has recognised ` 1,073.94 crore (previous year: ` 880.11 crore) as Foreign Currency 
Translation Reserve on account of translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations.
     
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
 
 As at March 31, 2025, the Bank has recognised debit of ` 32.73 crore (previous year: credit of ` 840.31 crore) as Cash 
Flow Hedge Reserve on derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedge.
 
AFS Reserve
 
 Pursuant to the revised norms on investments, the net appreciation or depreciation on all performing investments held under 
AFS category is directly credited or debited to AFS Reserve. Accordingly, as at March 31, 2025 the Bank has recognised 
` 616.81 crore, net of taxes as AFS Reserve.
 
Draw down from Reserves
 
The Bank has not undertaken any drawdown from reserves during the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.

HDFC Bank Limited
352
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
7. 
Maturity pattern of certain items of assets and liabilities
Assets and liabilities are classified in the maturity buckets as per the guidelines issued by the RBI.     
(` crore)
As at 
March 31, 
2025
1 day
2 to 7
days
8 to 14 
days
15 to 30 
days
31 days  
to 2 
months
Over 2 
months 
to 3 
months
Over 3 
months 
to 6 
months
Over 6 
months 
to 1 year
Over 1 
year to 
3 years
Over 3 
years to 
5 years
Over 
5 years
Total
Loans & 
advances*
2,875.76
27,392.10
12,897.20
40,050.13
71,181.92
60,523.42
151,419.62
236,048.05
1,086,198.06
298,935.62
632,086.74
2,619,608.62
Investments*
275,028.14
19,401.13
8,858.93
30,964.97
16,949.78
24,167.63
33,222.16
56,577.62
163,813.34
21,387.18
185,988.79
836,359.67
Deposits*
38,243.66
97,906.88
49,473.38
61,456.35
87,900.67
91,825.50
169,313.13
359,512.02
899,764.63
16,490.93
842,827.75
2,714,714.90
Borrowings*
6,998.96
10,136.22
2,390.22
14,298.79
15,271.05
29,326.76
39,529.04
57,770.24
133,233.08
80,745.37
158,231.16
547,930.89
Foreign 
currency 
assets
22,356.45
35,522.70
5,274.27
13,654.68
15,776.53
10,202.81
15,872.60
11,357.27
7,396.60
2,085.55
664.86
140,164.32
Foreign 
currency 
liabilities
4,064.30
8,839.29
3,912.23
9,736.13
13,031.27
7,977.11
25,911.17
51,491.68
73,441.79
15,044.79
7,679.98
221,129.74
 
*The amounts represented include Foreign Currency Balances.
 
Classiﬁcation of assets and liabilities under the maturity buckets is based on the same estimates and assumptions as used by the Bank for compiling the return submitted to the RBI. 
Maturity proﬁle of foreign currency assets and liabilities excludes off-balance sheet items.
(` crore)
As at 
March 
31, 2024
1 day
2 to 7
days
8 to 14
days
15 to 30 
days
31 
days  to 
2 months
Over 2 
months to 
3 months
Over 3 
months to 
6 months
Over 6 
months to 
1 year
Over 1 
year to 
3 years
Over 3 
years to 
5 years
Over 
5 years
Total
Loans & 
advances*
19,197.51
28,391.57
10,400.64
32,401.95
56,013.49
58,227.97
102,982.13
208,848.55
1,012,579.88
304,743.44
651,074.39
2,484,861.52
Investments*
206,302.25
16,485.17
7,502.85
18,350.29
17,134.25
16,622.47
28,784.60
49,486.69
177,797.25
17,042.04
146,907.10
702,414.96
Deposits*
38,628.02
92,701.82
44,387.29
62,239.18
87,416.56
82,685.74
141,448.99
291,656.00
888,512.25
25,043.54
625,066.89
2,379,786.28
Borrowings*
-
7,963.85
2,852.80
16,063.74
19,316.40
11,186.87
22,102.63
49,186.51
273,598.57
77,326.80
182,554.91
662,153.08
Foreign 
currency 
assets
12,607.14
23,456.05
2,350.78
17,135.71
10,038.36
5,253.79
10,764.09
8,381.55
9,931.38
1,719.26
340.54
101,978.65
Foreign 
currency 
liabilities
2,022.01
8,410.41
3,581.87
11,727.76
9,235.83
6,187.63
16,392.49
25,461.30
81,464.72
13,751.47
6,121.87
184,357.36
 
*The amounts represented include Foreign Currency Balances.
 
Classiﬁcation of assets and liabilities under the maturity buckets is based on the same estimates and assumptions as used by the Bank for compiling the return submitted to the RBI. 
Maturity proﬁle of foreign currency assets and liabilities excludes off-balance sheet items. 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
353
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
8. 
Liquidity coverage ratio 
 
 
Quantitative information on Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) for year ended March 31, 2025 is given below:  
  
  
(` crore)
Particulars
 Quarter ended
March 31, 2025
Quarter ended
December 31, 2024
Quarter ended
September 30, 2024
Quarter ended
June 30, 2024
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
725,568.81
711,888.62
669,069.46
632,856.73
Cash Outflows
2
Retail deposits and deposits from small 
business customers, of which:
1,538,922.43
135,048.82
1,508,468.62
131,786.49
1,465,366.57
127,182.21
1,433,709.30
123,940.54
(i)
Stable deposits
376,868.51
18,843.43
381,207.34
19,060.37
387,088.87
19,354.44
388,607.71
19,430.38
(ii)
Less stable deposits
1,162,053.92
116,205.39
1,127,261.28
112,726.12
1,078,277.70
107,827.77
1,045,101.59
104,510.16
  3
Unsecured wholesale funding, of which:
695,060.14
434,832.48
648,513.37
409,702.53
604,113.91
381,000.91
599,824.13
377,924.65
(i)
Operational deposits (all counterparties)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(ii)
Non-operational deposits (all counterparties)
678,417.33
418,189.67
633,898.22
395,087.38
591,898.71
368,785.71
580,969.92
359,070.44
(iii)
Unsecured debt
16,642.81
16,642.81
14,615.15
14,615.15
12,215.20
12,215.20
18,854.21
18,854.21
4
Secured wholesale funding
    3,862.43 
 
2,032.99
 
1,739.31
 
1,928.80
5
Additional requirements, of which:
 241,954.97  141,817.65 
220,885.80
122,906.35
226,676.11
129,194.43
221,188.15  127,861.16
(i)
Outflows related to derivative exposures and 
other collateral requirement
131,335.93 131,335.93 
112,818.95
112,818.95
119,195.63
119,195.63
118,732.82
118,732.82
(ii)
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt 
products
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(iii)
Credit and liquidity facilities
110,619.04 
10,481.72 
108,066.85
10,087.40
107,480.48
9,998.80
102,455.33
9,128.34
6
Other contractual funding obligation
45,609.68
45,609.68
43,425.24
43,425.24
32,242.97
32,242.97
32,195.84
32,195.84
7
Other contingent funding obligations
1,217,975.13
55,645.11
1,160,737.75
53,101.27
1,107,741.66
50,823.31
1,053,406.03
48,395.75
8
Total Cash Outflows
816,816.17
762,954.87
722,183.14
712,246.74
Cash Inflows
9
Secured lending (e.g. reverse repo)
- 
- 
-
-
-
-
-
-
10
Inflows from fully performing exposures
107,691.97
59,904.65
103,940.19
59,950.57
105,839.37
60,753.81
116,481.82
66,508.01
11
Other cash inflows
151,569.88
146,962.87
137,763.63
134,323.06
138,885.27
134,809.97
134,976.09
131,880.08
12
Total Cash Inflows
259,261.85
206,867.52
241,703.82
194,273.63
244,724.64
195,563.78
251,457.91
198,388.09
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
13
TOTAL HQLA
 725,568.81 
711,888.62
669,069.46
632,856.73
14
Total Net Cash Outflows
609,948.65
568,681.24
526,619.36
513,858.65
15
Liquidity Coverage Ratio(%)
118.96%
125.18%
127.05%
123.16%
                                                                              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* The average weighted and unweighted amounts are calculated taking simple average based on daily observation for the respective quarters.

HDFC Bank Limited
354
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
  
Quantitative information on Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) for year ended March 31, 2024 is given below:  
 
  
(` crore)
Particulars
 Quarter ended 
March 31, 2024
Quarter ended
December 31, 2023
Quarter ended
September 30, 2023
Quarter ended
June 30, 2023
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(average)*
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(average)*
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
558,424.94
541,719.24
575,640.30
499,351.68
Cash Outflows
2
Retail deposits and deposits from small 
business customers, of which:
1,389,203.92 118,703.67 1,348,821.05 114,782.06 1,298,493.38 110,606.05 1,166,141.18 
98,075.14 
(i)
Stable deposits
404,334.39 
20,216.72 
402,000.92 
20,100.05 
384,865.68 
19,243.28 
370,779.51 
18,538.97 
(ii)
Less stable deposits
984,869.53 
98,486.95 
946,820.13 
94,682.01 
913,627.70 
91,362.77 
795,361.67 
79,536.17 
3
Unsecured wholesale funding, of which:
560,983.51 355,303.23 
561,771.39 359,317.05 
541,609.54 347,725.89 
464,748.70 
283,465.87 
(i)
Operational deposits (all counterparties)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(ii)
Non-operational deposits (all counterparties)
543,681.17 338,000.89 
542,284.12 339,829.78 
522,112.93 328,229.28 
456,595.78 
275,312.95 
(iii)
Unsecured debt
17,302.34 
17,302.34 
19,487.27 
19,487.27
19,496.61
19,496.61
8,152.92 
8,152.92 
4
Secured wholesale funding
2,277.94 
2,971.97 
5,101.94
6,062.10
5
Additional requirements, of which:
236,107.76 140,465.49 
266,213.81 146,490.41 
251,335.01 125,020.27 
162,336.10 
111,953.16 
(i)
Outflows related to derivative exposures and 
other collateral requirement
129,736.77 129,736.77 
134,555.64 134,555.64 
111,298.99 111,298.99 
103,422.79 
103,422.79 
(ii)
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt 
products
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(iii)
Credit and liquidity facilities
106,370.99 
10,728.72 
131,658.17 
11,934.77 
140,036.02 
13,721.28 
58,913.31 
8,530.37 
6
Other contractual funding obligations
33,471.03 
33,471.03 
35,686.06 
35,686.06 
45,409.88 
45,409.88 
33,089.66 
33,089.66 
7
Other contingent funding obligations
1,034,507.09 
47,611.76 
977,735.54 
44,891.81
  849,851.16
39,267.86
808,158.17
37,549.89
8
Total Cash Outflows
697,833.12 
704,139.36
673,131.89
570,195.82
Cash Inflows
9
Secured lending (e.g. reverse repo)
- 
- 
-
-
-
-
-
-
10
Inflows from fully performing exposures
118,860.92 
66,988.99 
110,959.10 
60,938.55 
101,047.03 
54,850.27 
102,728.53 
56,125.65 
11
Other cash inflows
147,654.01 144,129.42 
152,187.17 148,653.92 
146,308.02 139,050.96 
121,139.75 
115,532.96 
12
Total Cash Inflows
266,514.93 211,118.41 
263,146.27
209,592.47
 247,355.05
193,901.23
223,868.28 
171,658.61
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
Total 
Adjusted 
Value
13
TOTAL HQLA
558,424.94 
541,719.24 
575,640.30 
499,351.68 
14
Total Net Cash Outflows
486,714.71 
494,546.89 
479,230.66 
398,537.21 
15
Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%)
114.73%
109.54%
120.12%
125.30%
 
 
* The average weighted and unweighted amounts are calculated taking simple average based on daily observation for the respective quarters.
 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
355
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
Qualitative disclosure on LCR
 
 The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) is one of the Basel Committee’s key reforms to develop a more resilient banking sector. 
The objective of the LCR is to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of banks. It does this by ensuring 
that banks have an adequate stock of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) that can be converted easily and 
immediately into cash to meet their liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day liquidity stress scenario. The LCR is expected to 
improve the banking sector’s ability to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stress, whatever the source, 
thus reducing the risk of spillovers from the financial sector to the real economy.
 
 The Liquidity Risk Management of the Bank is governed by the Asset Liability Management (ALM) Policy approved by the 
Board. The Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) is a decision-making unit responsible for implementing the liquidity and interest 
rate risk management strategy of the Bank in line with its risk management objectives and ensures adherence to the risk 
tolerance / limits set by the Board. The Bank has also set up a senior level management committee, viz., the Group Risk 
Management Committee (GRMC) under the ICAAP framework of the Bank, to establish a formal and dedicated structure 
to periodically assess the nature / quantum of material risks of the subsidiaries and adequacy of its risk management 
processes, including providing oversight for managing liquidity risk. Liquidity for the Bank’s domestic banking operations 
is directly managed at the Head Office. The overseas branches and offshore unit of the Bank independently manage their 
liquidity requirements with support from the Head Office. Similarly, the Bank’s subsidiaries independently manage their 
liquidity requirements under guidance of the GRMC, which, along with senior management of the subsidiaries, reviews 
the risk assessment of material risks at the subsidiaries. Further, the Bank maintains suitable systems and processes to 
monitor liquidity requirements in other currencies as appropriate.
 
 In order to determine cash outflows, the Bank segregates its deposits into various customer segments, viz., Retail (which 
include deposits from individuals), Small Business Customers (those with deposits upto ` 7.5 crore), and Wholesale (which 
would cover all residual deposits). Other contractual funding, including a portion of other liabilities which are expected 
to run down in a 30-day time frame are included in the cash outflows. These classifications, based on extant regulatory 
guidelines, are part of the Bank’s LCR framework, and are also submitted to the RBI.
 
 The LCR is calculated by dividing a Bank’s stock of HQLA by its total net cash outflows over a 30-day stress period. The 
present minimum requirement, as on March 31, 2025, is 100%.
 
 In the Indian context, the run-off factors for the stressed scenarios are prescribed by the RBI, for various categories 
of liabilities (viz., deposits, unsecured and secured wholesale borrowings), undrawn commitments, derivative-related 
exposures, and offset with inflows emanating from assets maturing within the same time period. Given below is a table of 
run-off factors and the average LCR maintained by the Bank quarter-wise over the past two years:
Particulars
Run-off factors
Retail deposits
5% - 10%
Small business customers
5% - 10%
Operational deposits
5% - 25%
Non-financial corporates, sovereigns, central banks, multilateral development banks, and PSEs
40%
Other legal entities
100%
 

HDFC Bank Limited
356
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Quarter ended
LCR Maintained 
(average)
LCR Required
March 31, 2025
118.96%
100.00%
December 31, 2024
125.18%
100.00%
September 30, 2024
127.05%
100.00%
June 30, 2024
123.16%
100.00%
March 31, 2024
114.73%
100.00%
December 31, 2023
109.54%
100.00%
September 30, 2023
120.12%
100.00%
June 30, 2023
125.30%
100.00%
 
The average LCR for the quarter ended March 31, 2025, was at 118.96% as against 114.73% for the quarter ended March 
31, 2024, and above the present prescribed minimum requirement of 100%. The average HQLA for the quarter ended March 
31, 2025, was ` 725,568.81 crore, as against ` 558,424.94 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2024. During the same 
period the composition of government securities and treasury bills in the HQLA was at 96.55% as compared to 95.74% in 
the previous year.
 
For the quarter ended March 31, 2025, derivative exposures (net of cash inflows) / collateral requirements and undrawn 
commitments constituted around 0.47% and 1.28% respectively of average cash outflow as against 0.59% and 1.54% 
respectively for quarter ended March 31, 2024. The Bank has a significant portion of funding through deposits. As of March 
31, 2025, the top 20 depositors comprised of 4.32% of total deposits indicating a healthy and stable deposit profile.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
357
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
9. 
Investments
 
As per the revised norms for classification, valuation and operation of investment portfolio of banks, which became applicable from April 01, 2024, the 
consequent transition adjustment as on that date is given below:  
(` crore)
 Previous Framework
Revised Framework as on April 01, 2024
Transitional 
adjustment 
Net Book Value 
as on March 31, 
2024
Held to Maturity 
(HTM)
Available for 
Sale (AFS)
 Fair Value 
Through Profit 
and Loss 
(FVTPL)
Subsidiaries, 
Associates & 
JVs
Total 
Held to Maturity (HTM)
558,458.55
398,025.22
144,433.99
1,484.75
12,639.62
556,583.58
(1,874.97)
Available for Sale (AFS)
128,786.09
8,848.55
87,608.32
33,984.44
824.73
131,266.04
2,479.95
Held for Trading (HFT)
15,170.32
-
-
15,175.21
-
15,175.21
4.89
Net
702,414.96
406,873.77
232,042.31
50,644.40
13,464.35
703,024.83
609.87
 

HDFC Bank Limited
358
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Composition of investments as at March 31, 2025 (as per the revised norms on investments)
(` crore)
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities
Other 
Approved 
Securities
Shares Debentures 
and Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and / or 
joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Investments 
in India
Government 
Securities 
(including 
local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and / or 
joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Investments 
outside 
India
Held to Maturity*
Gross
596,551.53
-
-
-
13,893.91
7,781.69
618,227.13
-
5.41
-
5.41
618,232.54
(Less): Provision 
for non-performing 
investments (NPI)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
596,551.53
-
-
-
13,893.91
7,781.69
618,227.13
-
5.41
-
5.41
618,232.54
Available for Sale
Gross
135,807.35
-
-
12,909.21
-
5,261.87
153,978.43
910.87
-
530.61
1,441.48
155,419.91
Add / (less): MTM 
-appreciation / 
depreciation and 
provision for NPI
710.31
-
-
51.98
-
58.07
820.36
7.22
-
0.96
8.18
828.54
Net
136,517.66
-
-
12,961.19
-
5,319.94
154,798.79
918.09
-
531.57
1,449.66
156,248.45
FVTPL^
Gross
31,762.43
-
3,893.08
15,678.18
-
9,912.65
61,246.34
-
-
928.05
928.05
62,174.39
Add / (less): MTM 
-appreciation / 
depreciation and 
provision for NPI
398.52
-
(248.30)
83.71
-
(548.26)
(314.33)
-
-
18.63
18.63
(295.70)
Net
32,160.95
-
3,644.78
15,761.89
-
9,364.39
60,932.01
-
-
946.68
946.68
61,878.69
Total 
Investments
764,121.31
-
3,893.08
28,587.39
13,893.91
22,956.21
833,451.90
910.87
5.41 1,458.66
2,374.94
835,826.84
Less: Provision 
for non-
performing 
investments for 
HTM category
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Add / (less): MTM 
-appreciation 
/ depreciation 
and provision 
for NPI for AFS 
and FVTPL^ 
categories
1,108.83
-
(248.30)
135.69
-
(490.19)
506.03
7.22
-
19.59
26.81
532.84
Net
765,230.14
-
3,644.78
28,723.08
13,893.91
22,466.02
833,957.93
918.09
5.41 1,478.25
2,401.75
836,359.68
 
* Includes group companies as per the revised norms on investments,
 
^ Includes HFT as sub-category as per the revised norms on investments.
Investments in India
Investments outside India

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
359
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
Composition of investments as at March 31, 2024
(` crore)
Investments in India
Investments outside India
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities
Other 
Approved 
Securities
Shares
Debentures 
and Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and / or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Investments 
in India
Government 
Securities 
(including 
local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and / or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Investments 
outside India
Held to Maturity
Gross
541,803.48
-
-
3,179.39
12,634.21
836.06
558,453.14
-
5.41
-
5.41
558,458.55
Less: Provision for 
non-performing 
investments (NPI)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
541,803.48
-
-
3,179.39
12,634.21
836.06
558,453.14
-
5.41
-
5.41
558,458.55
Available for Sale
Gross
95,729.94
-
2,070.77
13,782.68
-
15,524.66
127,108.05
248.04
-
1,656.19
1,904.23
129,012.28
Less: Provision 
for depreciation 
and NPI
-
-
97.93
121.08
-
-
219.01
-
-
7.18
7.18
226.19
Net
95,729.94
-
1,972.84
13,661.60
-
15,524.66
126,889.04
248.04
-
1,649.01
1,897.05
128,786.09
Held for 
Trading
Gross
7,272.98
-
0.16
3,233.74
-
4,999.75
15,506.63
-
-
-
-
15,506.63
Less: Provision 
for depreciation 
and NPI
-
-
-
-
-
336.31
336.31
-
-
-
-
336.31
Net
7,272.98
-
0.16
3,233.74
-
4,663.44
15,170.32
-
-
-
-
15,170.32
Total 
Investments
644,806.40
-
2,070.93
20,195.81
12,634.21
21,360.47
701,067.82
248.04
5.41
1,656.19
1,909.64
702,977.46
Less: Provision 
for non-
performing 
investments for 
HTM category
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Less: Provision 
for depreciation 
and NPI for 
AFS and HFT 
categories
-
-
97.93
121.08
-
336.31
555.32
-
-
7.18
7.18
562.50
Net
644,806.40
-
1,973.00
20,074.73
12,634.21
21,024.16
700,512.50
248.04
5.41
1,649.01
1,902.46
702,414.96
 
Other investment outside India as at March 31, 2025 includes shares of ` 96.47 crore (previous year: ` 21.53 crore) and bonds and debentures of ` 1,381.78 crore (previous year: 
` 1,627.48 crore). 

HDFC Bank Limited
360
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
• 
Movement in provisions held towards depreciation on investments & Investment Fluctuation Reserve:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
i) Movement in provisions held towards depreciation on investments
a)  
Opening balance
562.49
1,392.27
b)  Add: Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))
-
103.37
c) 
Less: Transition adjustment*
447.00
-
d)  Add: Provision made during the year$ 
0.73
364.66
e)  
Less: Write-off, write back of excess provision during the year$
88.53
1,297.81
f)  
Closing balance$
27.69
562.49
ii) Movement of Investment Fluctuation Reserve 
a) 
Opening balance
5,032.00
3,701.00
b) 
Add: Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))
-
953.00
c) 
Add: Amount transferred during the year#
529.42
378.00
d) 
Less: Drawdown
-
-
e) 
Closing balance
5,561.42
5,032.00
iii) Closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments in 
AFS and FVTPL category^
              2.55%
3.48%
 
 
Movement in provisions held towards depreciation on investments has been reckoned on a yearly basis.
 
 
* Reduction on transition pursuant to the revised norms on investments.
 
 
 $  Represents provision in respect of NPIs for the year ended March 31, 2025 and provision for depreciation on investments (including NPIs) 
for the year ended March 31, 2024.       
 
 
#  Transferred from investment reserve account on transition as per the revised norms on investments.
 
 
 ^  For the year ended March 31, 2024 the ratio represents closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments in AFS 
and HFT categories.
 
• 
Sale and transfers to / from HTM category
 
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, there has been no sale from HTM category in excess of 5% of the book value 
of investments held in the HTM category at the beginning of the year. The 5% threshold is excluding sale which are 
exempted as per extant RBI guidelines.
 
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2024, there has been no sale from, and transfer to / from, HTM category in excess 
of 5% of the book value of investments held in the HTM category at the beginning of the year. The 5% threshold is 
excluding the sale and transfer which are exempted as per extant RBI guidelines.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
361
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
• 
Non-SLR investment portfolio
 
 
9 
Non-performing non-SLR investments:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
116.67
6.65
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))
                    -
99.76
Additions during the year
26.17
65.08
Reductions during the year
115.15
54.82
Closing balance
27.69
116.67
Total provisions held
27.69
115.49
9 
Issuer-wise composition of non-SLR investments as at March 31, 2025: 
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Issuer
Amount
Extent of private 
placement#
Extent of “below 
investment grade”
securities#(1)
Extent of 
“unrated” 
securities#(2)
Extent of 
“unlisted” 
securities#(2)
1
Public sector undertakings
889.34
404.63
-
             -
             -
2
Financial institutions
7,729.90
2,972.28
             -
             -
             -
3
Banks
8,283.77
6,536.28
611.50
             -
             -
4
Private corporate
17,631.89
14,893.10
            -
58.51
1,275.97
5
Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures(3)
13,899.32
13,705.21
-
-
-
6
Others
23,271.30
15,646.13
-
-
-
7
MTM - appreciation / 
depreciation and provision for 
NPI
(575.99)
Total
71,129.53
54,157.63
611.50
58.51
1,275.97
 #  Amounts reported under these columns are not mutually exclusive.
(1) Represents overseas investment of ` 611.50 crore in bond and debentures issued by entities having domicile in India, where the 
issuer rating given by domestic rating agencies is above investment grade.
(2) Excludes investments in securities issued by foreign sovereigns, equity shares, units of equity oriented mutual fund schemes, 
equity / debt instruments / units issued by Category I and II Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs), commercial paper, certiﬁcate of 
deposits, securities acquired by way of conversion of debt, security receipts, pass through certiﬁcates and unlisted convertible 
debentures.
(3) Investments in debt securities issued by Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures have been classiﬁed under Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures.



HDFC Bank Limited
362
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025


9 
Issuer-wise composition of non-SLR investments as at March 31, 2024: 
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Issuer
Amount
Extent of 
private 
placement#
Extent of “below 
investment 
grade”
securities#(1)
Extent of 
“unrated” 
securities#(2)
Extent of 
“unlisted” 
securities#(2)
1
Public sector undertakings
1,871.55
1,682.03
-
-
               -
2
Financial institutions
2,145.00
861.71
-
-
               -
3
Banks
5,272.25
4,036.97
359.04
-
               -
4
Private corporate
14,634.12
12,040.96
-
100.91
2,035.82
5
Subsidiaries / Joint ventures(3)
12,639.62
12,445.52
-
-
               -
6
Others
21,608.51
16,092.11
-
-
               -
7
Provision held towards depreciation
(562.49)
Total
57,608.56
47,159.30
359.04
100.91
2,035.82
#  Amounts reported under these columns are not mutually exclusive.
(1) Represents overseas investment of ` 359.04 crore in bond and debentures issued by entities having domicile in India, where the 
issuer rating given by domestic rating agencies is above investment grade.
(2) Excludes investments in securities issued by foreign sovereigns, equity shares, units of equity oriented mutual fund schemes, 
equity / debt instruments / units issued by Category I and II Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs), commercial paper, certiﬁcate of 
deposits, securities acquired by way of conversion of debt, security receipts, pass through certiﬁcates and unlisted convertible 
debentures.
(3) Investments in debt securities issued by Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures have been classiﬁed under Private Corporates.
 
• 
Repo transactions
9 
Details of repo / reverse repo deals excluding tri-party repo / reverse repo done during the year ended March 
31, 2025:
(` crore)
Particulars
Minimum 
outstanding  
during the year
Maximum 
outstanding  
during the year
Daily average 
outstanding  
during the year
Outstanding 
as at March  
31, 2025
FV1
MV2
FV1
MV2
FV1
MV2
FV1
MV2
Securities sold under repo
1. Government securities
-
-
46,454.86
47,000.00
7,928.72
8,068.64
7,572.50
7,918.96
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
131.37
123.62
39.03
36.72
128.21
120.64
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased 
under reverse repo
1. Government securities
-
-
65,402.40
64,988.25
4,474.82
4,484.70
29,295.27
30,963.47
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 
 
 
1.  FV: Face Value
 
 
 
2.  MV: Market Value

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
363
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
9 Details of repo / reverse repo deals excluding tri-party repo / reverse repo done during the year ended March 
31, 2024:
(` crore)
Particulars
Minimum 
outstanding  
during the year
Maximum  
outstanding  
during the year
Daily average 
outstanding  
during the year
Outstanding 
as at March  
31, 2024
FV1
MV2
FV1
MV2
FV1
MV2
FV1
MV2
Securities sold under repo
1. Government securities
-
-
121,168.11
119,495.43
22,036.86
22,016.52
5,567.14
5,654.30
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased 
under reverse repo
1. Government securities
-
-
49,785.56
51,006.65
6,426.30
6,447.30
-
-
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 
 
 
1. FV: Face Value
 
 
 
2. MV: Market Value
9 
Details of tri-party repo / reverse repo deals done during the year ended March 31, 2025*:
(` crore)
Particulars
Minimum 
outstanding  
during the year
Maximum 
outstanding  
during the year
Daily average 
outstanding  
during the year
Outstanding 
as at March  
31, 2025
FV1
MV2
FV1
MV2
FV1
MV2
FV1
MV2
Securities sold under repo
1. Government securities
-
-
74,860.20
74,860.20
17,126.54
17,126.54
5,000.00
5,000.00
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased 
under reverse repo
1. Government securities
-
-
30,287.00
30,287.00
1,335.83
1,335.83
-
-
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
  
 
*   FV and MV represent the amount borrowed or lent in tri-party repo / reverse repo deals
 
 
 
1. FV: Face Value
 
 
 
2. MV: Market Value

HDFC Bank Limited
364
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
9 
Details of tri-party repo / reverse repo deals done during the year ended March 31, 2024*: 
 
(` crore)
Particulars
Minimum 
outstanding  
during the year
Maximum  
outstanding  
during the year
Daily average 
outstanding  
during the year
Outstanding 
as at March  
31, 2024
FV1
MV2
FV1
MV2
FV1
MV2
FV1
MV2
Securities sold under repo
1. Government securities
-
-
95,823.40
95,823.40
33,986.83
33,986.83
-
-
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased 
under reverse repo
1. Government securities
-
-
22,587.55
22,587.55
431.30
431.30
-
-
2. Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3. Any other securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 
 
 
*   FV and MV represent the amount borrowed or lent in tri-party repo / reverse repo deals.
 
 
 
1. FV: Face Value
 
 
 
2. MV: Market Value
 
 
9 
Details of Government Security Lending (GSL) transactions:
 
 
 
 The Bank has not done any Government Security Lending transactions during the year ended March 31, 2025 
and March 31, 2024, under the Reserve Bank of India (Government Securities Lending) Directions, 2023 effective 
December 27, 2023.
 
• 
Securities kept as margin 
 
 
The details of securities that are kept as margin are as under:
(` crore)
Sr. 
No. Particulars
Face value as at March 31,
 2025
2024
I.
Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards:
a) 
Collateral and funds management – Securities segment
9,100.00
9,100.00
b) 
Collateral and funds management –Tri-party Repo
116,250.00
39,000.00
c) 
Default fund – Forex Forward segment
362.10
247.10
d) 
Default fund – Forex Settlement segment
86.05
51.05
e) 
Default fund – Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) segment
199.15
199.15
f) 
Default fund – Securities segment
255.00
255.00
g) 
Default fund –Tri-party repo segment
55.00
55.00
II.
Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards:
a) 
Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
91,562.48
64,687.48
b) 
Repo transactions
174,419.38
65,172.27
III.
Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 
(NSCCIL) towards NSE Currency Derivatives segment.
-
-
IV.
Securities kept as margin with Indian Clearing Corporation Limited towards BSE 
Currency Derivatives segment.
458.72
358.72
V.
Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 
(NSCCIL) towards Capital market.
1,900.00
1,400.00

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
365
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
10. Asset quality
 
• 
Classification of assets and provisions held as at March 31, 2025
(` crore)
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total 
Standard 
Advances
Substandard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non-
Performing 
Assets
Gross Standard Advances and 
NPAs^
  
Opening Balance 
2,476,770.96
11,508.47
17,063.72
2,601.13
31,173.32
2,507,944.28
Add: Addition on 
amalgamation  
(Refer Schedule 18(1))
-
Add: Additions during the 
year 
31,977.43
Less: Reductions during the 
year 
27,928.11
Closing balance 
2,608,288.19
14,452.42
17,643.58
3,126.64
35,222.64
2,643,510.83
Reductions in Gross NPAs 
due to: 
i) Upgradation*
11,536.99
ii) Recoveries (excluding 
recoveries from upgraded 
accounts) 
4,545.32
iii) Technical / Prudential 
Write-offs 
10,054.32
iv) Write-offs other than those 
under (iii) above 
1,791.48
Provisions (excluding 
Floating Provisions)^^
Opening balance of 
provisions held 
10,663.71
5,001.84
15,479.47
2,600.27
23,081.58
33,745.29
Add: Addition on 
amalgamation (Refer 
Schedule 18(1))
-
Add: Fresh provisions made 
during the year
21,175.51
Less: Excess provision 
reversed / Write-off loans  
20,354.88
Closing balance of provisions 
held 
10,862.90
5,506.83
15,268.74
3,126.64
23,902.21
34,765.11
Net NPAs 
Opening Balance 
6,506.63
1,584.25
0.86
8,091.74
Add: Addition on 
amalgamation (Refer 
Schedule 18(1))
-
Add: Fresh additions during 
the year 
10,801.92
Less: Reductions during the 
year 
7,573.23
Closing Balance 
8,945.59
2,374.84
-
11,320.43
11,320.43

HDFC Bank Limited
366
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
^  NPAs represents advances aggregating to ` 35,194.95 crore (previous year: ` 31,056.65 crore) and investments and foreign exchange 
and derivatives of ` 27.69 crore (previous year: ` 116.67 crore) that are classiﬁed as non-performing by the Bank. 
 
^^  Closing balance in provisions represents provisions on advances aggregating to ` 23,874.52 crore (previous year: ` 22,966.09 crore) 
and provisions on investments and foreign exchange and derivatives of ` 27.69 crore (previous year: ` 115.49 crore).
 
* Includes those accounts where all overdue have been paid.
 
• 
Classification of assets and provisions held as at March 31, 2024
(` crore)
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total 
Standard 
Advances
Substandard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non-
Performing 
Assets
Gross Standard Advances and 
NPAs^ 
Opening Balance 
1,596,217.76
7,827.16
8,745.35
1,446.52
18,019.03
1,614,236.79
Add: Addition on amalgamation 
(Refer Schedule 18(1))#
12,281.15
Add: Additions during the year 
27,980.95
Less: Reductions during the year 
27,107.81
Closing balance 
2,476,770.96
11,508.47
17,063.72
2,601.13
31,173.32
2,507,944.28
Reductions in Gross NPAs due to: 
 
 
 
i) Upgradation*
 
 
 
11,893.91
ii) Recoveries (excluding recoveries 
from upgraded accounts) 
 
 
 
4,183.95
iii) Technical / Prudential Write-offs 
9,343.08
iv) Write-offs other than those 
under (iii) above 
 
 
 
         1,686.87
Provisions (excluding Floating 
Provisions)^^
  
  
  
Opening balance of provisions 
held 
6,988.66
3,842.87
8,361.21
1,446.52
13,650.60 
20,639.26
Add: Addition on amalgamation 
(Refer Schedule 18(1))
  
  
  
9,130.85
Add: Fresh provisions made during 
the year**
  
  
  
19,365.78
Less: Excess provision reversed / 
Write-off loans  
  
  
  
19,065.65
Closing balance of provisions held 
10,663.71
5,001.84
15,479.47
2,600.27
23,081.58        33,745.29 
Net NPAs 
Opening Balance 
3,984.29
384.14
-
4,368.43
Add: Addition on amalgamation 
(Refer Schedule 18(1))
3,150.30
Add: Fresh additions during the 
year 
8,615.17
Less: Reductions during the year 
8,042.16
Closing Balance 
6,506.63
1,584.25
0.86
8,091.74
8,091.74
          
 ^  NPAs represents advances aggregating to ` 31,056.65 crore (previous year: ` 18,011.85 crore) and investments and foreign exchange 
and derivatives of ` 116.67 crore (previous year: ` 7.18 crore) that are classiﬁed as non-performing by the Bank.
 
 
^^  Closing balance in provisions represents provisions on advances aggregating to ` 22,966.09 crore (previous year: ` 13,643.70 crore) 
and provisions on investments and foreign exchange and derivatives of ` 115.49 crore (previous year: ` 6.90 crore).

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
367
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
**  Includes NPA of ` 214.44 crore and provision thereon ` 83.76 crore that has been debited to Balance in Proﬁt and Loss Account as on 
the effective date of amalgamation, in respect of harmonisation on common borrower exposure. 
 
* Includes those accounts where all overdue have been paid.
 
• 
Technical or prudential write-offs
 
As per RBI circular dated June 08, 2023 on “Framework for Compromise Settlements and Technical Write-offs”. 
Technical Write-offs are cases where the non-performing assets remain outstanding at borrowers’ loan account level 
but are written-off (fully or partially) by the Bank only for accounting purposes, without involving any waiver of claims 
against the borrower, and without prejudice to the recovery of the same. Movement in the stock of technically or 
prudentially written-off accounts is given below:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening balance of technical / prudential write-offs
42,661.39
32,768.64
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))*
-
4,988.87
Technical / Prudential write-offs during the year
10,054.32
9,343.08
Recoveries made from previously technically / prudentially written-off accounts during the 
year
(3,079.42)
(2,692.25)
Sacrifice made from previously technical / prudential written-off accounts during the year
(2,836.86)
(1,746.95)
Closing balance of technical / prudential write-offs
46,799.43
42,661.39
      
*  Special purpose ﬁnancial statement of eHDFC Limited as at the day beginning on July 01, 2023, had reported technical write-offs amounting 
to ` 4,645.03 crore. Subsequently, the Bank identiﬁed additional technical write-offs amounting to ` 343.84 crore. Accordingly, addition 
on amalgamation reported above is after including those additional technical write-offs.
• 
Floating provisions
 
Floating provision of ` 12,351.28 crore (previous year: ` 12,351.28 crore) has been included under “Other Liabilities”. 
Movement in floating provision is given below:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
12,351.28
1,451.28
Provisions made / reinstated during the year
-
10,900.00
Draw down made during the year
-
-
Closing balance
12,351.28
12,351.28
 
Floating provisions shall be utilised as per the Board approved policy for contingencies under extraordinary circumstances 
and for making specific provision for impaired accounts in accordance with the RBI guidelines / directions.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Gross non-performing assets to gross advances1
1.33%
1.24%
Gross non-performing advances to gross advances
1.33%
1.24%
Net non-performing assets2 to net advances3
0.43%
0.33%
Provision coverage ratio4 
67.86%
74.04%
1  Gross advances are net of bills rediscounted and interest in suspense for non-performing advances.
2  Net NPAs are non-performing assets net of speciﬁc provisions, claims received from Credit Guarantors, provisions for funded interest 
term loans classiﬁed as NPAs and provisions in lieu of diminution in the fair value of restructured assets classiﬁed as NPAs.

HDFC Bank Limited
368
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
3  Net advances are equivalent to gross advances net of speciﬁc loan loss provisions, claims received from Credit Guarantors, provision 
for funded interest term loans classiﬁed as NPA and provisions in lieu of diminution in the fair value of restructured assets.
4  Provision coverage ratio does not include assets written-off.
 
• 
Sector-wise Advances and Gross NPAs
(` crore)
Sr.
No.
Sector
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Gross 
advances
Gross 
non- 
performing 
assets 
% of gross 
non-
performing 
assets 
to gross 
advances in 
that sector
Gross 
advances
Gross 
non- 
performing 
assets 
% of gross 
non-
performing 
assets 
to gross 
advances in 
that sector
A
Priority sector
1
Agriculture and allied 
activities
208,341.69
8,009.42
3.84%
180,358.48
5,312.08
2.95%
2
Advances to industries 
eligible as priority sector 
lending
237,782.88
2,211.48
0.93%
215,907.22
1,568.12
0.73%
- Power
1,147.06
1.85
0.16%
736.94
1.85
0.25%
3
Services
299,475.81
4,687.34
1.57%
245,362.07
4,788.76
1.95%
- Consumer Services
47,347.94
231.07
0.49%
-
-
-
- NBFC
13,738.32
-
0.00%
11,837.99
-
0.00%
-  Real Estate & Property  
Services
22,497.05
1,770.27
7.87%
16,285.78
1,795.40
11.02%
4
Personal loans
143,455.20
2,090.54
1.46%
143,433.21
1,412.86
0.99%
- Home Loan
139,362.67
1,624.17
1.17%
143,056.82
1,404.67
0.98%
Sub-total (A)
889,055.58
16,998.78
1.91%
785,060.98
13,081.82
1.67%
B
Non Priority sector
1
Agriculture and allied 
activities
8,168.31
161.66
1.98%
6,402.27
388.64
6.07%
2
Industry
333,313.99
2,898.80
0.87%
318,400.59
2,768.53
0.87%
- Power
62,486.99
544.66
0.87%
65,220.92
551.71
0.85%
3
Services
463,859.09
7,912.05
1.71%
521,219.28
9,008.06
1.73%
- Consumer Services
44,540.68
307.85
0.69%
-
-
-
- NBFC
117,264.48
215.32
0.18%
146,538.31
231.50
0.16%
- Real Estate & Property 
Services
73,220.20
4,097.92
5.60%
84,724.58
4,608.73
5.44%
4
Personal loans
949,086.17
7,251.35
0.76%
876,744.49
5,926.27
0.68%
- Home Loan
484,814.90
2,698.32
0.56%
439,245.80
2,071.38
0.47%
- Vehicle / Auto Loans
-
-
-
102,783.94
1,261.43
1.23%
Sub-total (B)
1,754,427.56
18,223.86
1.04%
1,722,766.63
18,091.50
1.05%
Total (A) + (B)
2,643,483.14
35,222.64
1.33%
2,507,827.61
31,173.32
1.24%

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
369
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
• 
Overseas assets, NPAs and revenue 
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Total Assets 
92,529.86
   75,579.83
Total NPAs
125.52
108.37
Total Revenue
4,969.60
4,638.76
 
• 
 Details of Resolution Plan (RP) implemented under Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed  
Assets dated June 07, 2019:
Resolution Plan 
implemented 
during the year
Amount
(` crore) 
March 31, 2025
1
52.00
March 31, 2024
-
-

HDFC Bank Limited
370
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
• 
Details of accounts subjected to restructuring
Agriculture and allied activities Corporates (excluding MSME) 
Micro, Small and 
Medium 
Enterprises (MSME) 
Retail (excluding 
agriculture and 
MSME) 
Total
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024*
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
Standard
Number of 
borrowers
52
61
18
28
17
172
4,425
4,519
4,512
4,780
Gross Amount 
(` crore)
2.63
0.70
710.58
2,309.09
14.92
23.82
78.17
54.28
806.30
2,387.89
Provision held 
(` crore)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Substandard
Number of 
borrowers
393
20
167
1
223
29
18,593
649
19,376
699
Gross Amount 
(` crore)
9.99
0.08
144.51
134.08
25.30
2.37
212.42
10.96
392.22
147.49
Provision held 
(` crore)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Doubtful
Number of 
borrowers
766
-
51
2
274
42
12,834
26
13,925
70
Gross Amount 
(` crore)
37.83
-
203.27
194.57
63.36
16.91
186.25
4.18
490.71
215.66
Provision held 
(` crore)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Loss
Number of 
borrowers
-
-
3
-
5
-
71
-
79
-
Gross Amount 
(` crore)
-
-
6.18
-
9.87
-
5.56
-
21.61
-
Provision held
(` crore)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
Number of 
borrowers
1,211
81
239
31
519
243
35,923
5,194
37,892
5,549
Gross Amount 
(` crore)
50.45
0.78
1,064.54
2,637.74
113.45
43.10
482.40
69.42
1,710.84
2,751.04
Provision held ^
(` crore)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 
* Restructured accounts as on March 31, 2024, reported above, includes accounts pertaining to eHDFC Limited.
 
^ Provision held is in respect of any Fair Value Sacriﬁce, if any.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
371
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
• 
Divergence in the asset classification and provisioning
 
 
 In terms of the RBI guidelines, banks are required to disclose the divergence in asset classification and provisioning 
consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts to the financial statements, wherever 
the additional provisioning assessed / additional gross NPAs identified by RBI exceeds the threshold specified by 
RBI. The threshold for provisioning is 5 per cent of the reported profit before provisions and contingencies for the 
reference period and that for additional gross NPAs is 5 per cent of the published incremental Gross NPAs for the 
reference period.
 
 
 There was no reportable divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs for the year ended March 31, 
2024 and March 31, 2023. 
 
• 
 Pursuant to the RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021, the 
details of loans transferred during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are given below:
 
I) 
Transfer of Assets
 
a) 
Details of non-performing assets (NPAs) transferred during the financial year 2024-2025:
 
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Particulars
To Asset 
Reconstruction 
Companies (ARCs)
To permitted 
transferees
To other 
transferees
Number of accounts
105
-
-
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred
329.74
-
-
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred
(in years)
0.06
-
-
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer)
0.13
-
-
Aggregate consideration
191.91
-
-
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts 
transferred in earlier years
49.93
-
-
        
The Bank has reversed the excess provision of ` 191.78 crore to Profit and Loss account on sale of the NPAs.
 
 
The above excludes sale of written-off accounts.
 
b) 
Details of non-performing assets (NPAs) transferred during the financial year 2023-2024:
 
(` in crore except number of accounts)
Particulars
To Asset 
Reconstruction 
Companies (ARCs)
To permitted 
transferees
To other 
transferees
Number of accounts
-
                       -   
                       -   
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred
-
                       -   
                       -   
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred
(in years)
-
                       -   
                       -   
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer)
-
                       -   
                       -   
Aggregate consideration
-
                       -   
                       -   
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts 
transferred in earlier years
20.93
                       -   
                       -   
 
The Bank has reversed the excess provision of Nil to Profit and Loss account on sale of the aforesaid loans.

HDFC Bank Limited
372
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
c) 
Details of loans not in default transferred through assignment are given below:
Value
Value
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Aggregate amount of loans acquired (` in crore)*
35,499.38
-
Weighted average residual maturity (in years)
9.51
-
Weighted average holding period by originator (in years)
3.06
-
Retention of beneficial economic interest by the originator
10%
-
Tangible security coverage
98%
-
 
 
* 115 loans aggregating to ` 41.45 crore were repurchased.
 
 
The loans transferred amounting to ` 829.77 crore are rated A1+ and balance are not rated as these are to non-corporate borrowers.
 
d) 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, the Bank has not transferred any Special 
Mention Account.
 
e) 
Details of ratings of SRs outstanding as on March 31, 2025 are given below:
 (` crore)
Rating
Rating Agency
Recovery rating
Gross Value of 
Outstanding SRs
RR4
India Ratings
25%- 50%
127.60
RR1
India Ratings
100%-150%
48.95
RR3
CRISIL
50%-75%
20.56
RR1+
India Ratings
More than 150%
0.15
RR1+
ICRA
More than 150%
0.85
RR3
India Ratings
50% - 75%
36.22
Unrated
730.40
^
118.66
Total
1,083.39
 
^ Investment made in Security Receipts (SRs) are guaranteed by Government of India.   
 
Pursuant to regulatory norms, the ARC shall obtain initial rating of SRs from an approved credit rating 
 
agency within a period of six months from the date of acquisition of assets by it.
 
f) 
Details of ratings of SRs outstanding as on March 31, 2024 are given below:
 (` crore)
Rating
Rating Agency
Recovery rating
Gross Value of 
Outstanding SRs
RR4
India Ratings
25%- 50%
133.55
RR1
India Ratings
100%-150%
86.25
RR1
CRISIL
100%-150%
35.25
RR1+
India Ratings
More than 150%
0.15
RR1+
ICRA
More than 150%
0.85
RR1
Informeric$
100%-150%
704.70
RR3
India Ratings
50% - 75%
41.14
Unrated
25.69
Total
1,027.58
 
 
$ On account of amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with the Bank

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
373
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
II) 
Acquisition of Assets
 
a) 
 During the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, no non-performing financial assets were 
acquired by the Bank.
 
b) 
Details of loans not in default acquired through assignment are given below:
Value
Value
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Aggregate amount of loans acquired (` in crore)
-
11,660.14
Weighted average residual maturity (in years)
-
19.07
Weighted average holding period by originator (in years)
-
1.48
Retention of beneficial economic interest by the originator
-
10%
Tangible security coverage
-
100%
 
 
The loans acquired are not rated as these are to non-corporate borrowers.
 
c) 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, the Bank has not acquired any Special 
Mention Account.
 
• 
Provision pertaining to fraud accounts reported during the year:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
No. of frauds reported*
               39,893
               11,639
Amount involved in fraud (` crore)*
               801.24
               751.15
Amount involved in fraud net of recoveries / write-offs as at the end of the year 
(` crore)
               415.32
               141.51
Provisions held as at the end of the year (` crore)
               415.32
               141.51
Amount of unamortised provision debited from “other reserves” as at the end of the 
year (` crore)
                     -
                    -
          Above table represents all frauds reported during the year.
 
* Includes 38,195 cases (Previous year: 9,034 cases) of Customer liability amounting to ` 207.40 crore (Previous year: ` 522.65 crore) till 
July 15, 2024 basis RBI guidelines.
• 
Details of resolution plan implemented under the Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress 
as per RBI circular dated August 06, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and May 05, 2021 (Resolution 
Framework 2.0) as at March 31, 2025 are given below:
 (` crore)
Type of Borrower
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan – Position 
as at the end of the 
previous year i.e. March 
31, 2024 (A) 
Of (A), aggregate 
debt that slipped 
into NPA during the 
year ended March 
31, 2025
Of (A) amount 
written off 
during the 
year#
Of (A) amount 
paid by the 
borrowers 
during the 
year*
Exposure to accounts 
classified as 
Standard consequent 
to implementation 
of resolution plan – 
Position as at the end 
of this year i.e March 
31, 2025^
Personal Loans
4,411.91
283.40
73.74
1,242.28
2,886.23
Corporate persons
325.23
4.61
1.16
94.16
226.46
Of which, MSMEs 
57.08
2.55
0.11
28.54
25.99
Others
447.32
21.24
4.67
183.10
242.98
Total
5,184.46
309.25
79.57
1,519.54
3,355.67

HDFC Bank Limited
374
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
 
# Represents debt that slipped into NPA and was subsequently written off during the year ended March 31, 2025.
 
 
* Amount paid by the borrower during the year is net of additions in the borrower account including additions   due to interest capitalization.
 
 
^Excludes other facilities to the borrowers aggregating to ` 273.34 crore which have not been restructured.
• 
Details of resolution plan implemented under the Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress 
as per RBI circular dated August 06, 2020 (Resolution Framework 1.0) and May 05, 2021 (Resolution 
Framework 2.0) as at March 31, 2024 are given below:
 (` crore)
Type of Borrower
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan – 
Position as at the end 
of the previous year 
i.e. March 31, 2023 $(A)
Of (A), aggregate debt 
that slipped into NPA 
during the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Of (A) amount 
written off 
during the 
year#
Of (A) amount 
paid by the 
borrowers 
during the 
year*
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan – 
Position as at the end of 
this year i.e. March 31, 
2024^
Personal Loans
6,544.37
770.56
228.05
1,361.90
4,411.91
Corporate persons
622.76
6.85
1.80
290.68
325.23
Of which, MSMEs 
104.84
0.87
0.40
46.89
57.08
Others
866.40
94.06
14.28
325.02
447.32
Total
8,033.53
871.47
244.13
1,977.60
5,184.46
  
$ Includes additions of ` 2,981.92 crore as on July 01, 2023 on account of amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with the Bank.
 
 
# Represents debt that slipped into NPA and was subsequently written-off during the year ended March 31, 2024.
 
 
* Amount paid by the borrower during the year is net of additions in the borrower account including additions due to interest capitalization.
 
  
^ Excludes other facilities to the borrowers aggregating to ` 498.87 crore which have not been restructured.
• 
Details of accounts restructured under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector under RBI 
guidelines issued in January 2019:
 (` in crore except number of accounts)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
No. of accounts restructured
Amount outstanding
No. of accounts restructured
Amount outstanding
79,927
2,165.64
1,55,691
3,351.21
 
 
Number of accounts restructured reported in the disclosure above is reported at a borrower level.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
375
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
11. Details of exposures to real estate and capital market sectors, risk category-wise country exposures, 
unsecured advances, details of factoring exposures, intra-Group exposure, unhedged foreign currency 
exposure, details of single counterparty limit / limit for group of connected counterparties exceeded by 
the bank, inter-bank participation with risk sharing.
• 
Details of exposure to real estate sector  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exposure is higher of limits sanctioned or the amounts outstanding as at the year end.
(` crore)
Category
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
a) Direct exposure
878,071.41
   876,824.68
(i) Residential mortgages
Lending fully secured by mortgages on residential property that is or will be occupied 
by the borrower or that is rented. Exposure would also include non-fund based (NFB) 
limits
688,498.17
702,597.72
(of which housing loans eligible for inclusion in priority sector advances)
138,189.54
146,562.96
(ii) Commercial real estate
Lending secured by mortgages on Commercial Real Estates (office building, 
retail space, multipurpose commercial premises, multifamily residential buildings, 
multi tenanted commercial premises, industrial or warehouse space, hotels, land 
acquisition, development, and construction etc.) Exposures would also include non-
fund based (NFB) limits
189,499.27
174,132.07
(iii) Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other securitised exposures:
(a)  Residential
73.97
94.89
(b)  Commercial real estate 
-
-
b)
Indirect exposure
47,599.35
59,118.88
        Fund based and non-fund based exposures on National Housing Bank (NHB) and 
Housing Finance Companies (HFCs)
47,599.35
59,118.88
Total exposure to real estate sector
925,670.76
935,943.56
 
• 
Details of capital market exposure  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exposure is higher of limits sanctioned or the amounts outstanding as at the year end.
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(i)
Direct investments made in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures 
and units of equity oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is not exclusively 
invested in corporate debt
3,424.85
3,055.85
(ii)
Advances against shares, bonds, debentures or other securities or on clean basis 
to individuals for investment in shares (including IPO’s / ESOP’s), convertible bonds, 
convertible debentures and units of equity oriented mutual funds
5,029.80
3,030.91
(iii)
Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or convertible 
debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds are taken as primary security
6,002.20
  7,586.44
(iv) Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by collateral security of shares 
or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds 
i.e. where the primary security other than shares / convertible bonds / convertible 
debentures / units of equity oriented mutual funds does not fully cover the advances
1,031.63
1,406.52
(v)
Secured and unsecured advances to stock brokers and guarantees issued on behalf 
of stock brokers and market makers
37,071.12
27,973.84

HDFC Bank Limited
376
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(vi) Loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares / bonds / debentures 
or other securities or on clean basis for meeting promoter’s contribution to the equity 
of new companies in anticipation of raising resources
4,069.80
3,069.32
(vii) Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows / issues
-
-
(viii) Underwriting commitments taken up in respect of primary issue of shares or convertible 
bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds
-
-
(ix) Financing to stock brokers for margin trading
-
-
(x)
All exposures to venture capital funds (both registered and unregistered)
1,486.07
1,150.39
Total exposure to capital market
58,115.47
47,273.27
• 
Details of risk category wise country exposure
        (` crore)
Risk Category
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Exposure (net)
Provision held
Exposure (net)
Provision held
Insignificant
64,522.59
-
33,981.65
-
Low
19,655.22
-
21,794.76
-
Moderately low
1,065.88
-
2,304.76
-
Moderate
549.31
-
95.74
-
Moderately high
338.90
-
698.91
-
High
115.52
-
88.66
-
Very high
98.41
-
171.31
-
Total
86,345.83
-
59,135.79
-
 
• 
Unsecured advances
 
 
 Advances for which intangible collaterals such as rights, licenses, authority, trademarks, patents, etc. are charged in 
favour of the Bank in respect of projects financed by the Bank, are reckoned as unsecured advances under Schedule 
9 of the Balance Sheet in line with the extant RBI guidelines. There are no such advances outstanding as at March 
31, 2025 (previous year: Nil).
 
• 
Details of factoring exposure 
 
The factoring exposure of the Bank as at March 31, 2025 is ` 38,922.37 crore (previous year: ` 23,793.06 crore).
 
• 
Intra-Group exposure
 
 
Intra-Group exposures in accordance with the RBI guidelines are as follows: 
                
        
        (` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Total amount of intra-group exposures
20,823.76
34,176.68
Total amount of top 20 intra-group exposures
20,823.76
34,176.68
Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the Bank on borrowers / 
customers
0.49%
0.87%
Details of breach of limits on intra-group exposures and regulatory action thereon, if 
any
Nil
               Nil

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
377
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
• 
Unhedged foreign currency exposure
 
 
 The Bank has in place a policy and process for managing currency induced credit risk. The credit appraisal 
memorandum prepared at the time of origination and review of a credit facility is required to discuss the exchange 
risk that the customer is exposed to from all sources, including trade related, foreign currency borrowings and external 
commercial borrowings. It could cover the natural hedge available to the customer as well as other hedging methods 
adopted by the customer to mitigate exchange risk. For foreign currency loans granted by the Bank beyond a defined 
threshold the customer is encouraged to enter into appropriate risk hedging mechanisms with the Bank. Alternatively, 
the Bank satisfies itself that the customer has the financial capacity to bear the exchange risk in the normal course of 
its business and / or has other mitigants to reduce the risk. On a periodic basis, the Bank reviews information on the 
unhedged portion of foreign currency exposures of customers, whose total foreign currency exposure with the Bank 
exceeds a defined threshold. A Board approved credit risk rating linked limit on unhedged foreign currency position 
of customers is applicable when extending credit facilities to a customer. The compliance with the limit is assessed 
by estimating the extent of drop in a customer’s annual Earnings Before Interest and Depreciation (‘EBID’) due to 
a potentially large adverse movement in exchange rate impacting the unhedged foreign currency exposure of the 
customer. Where a breach is observed in such a simulation, the customer is suitably advised to review and manage 
its unhedged exposure, where deemed necessary. 
 
 
 The Bank holds standard asset provisions of ` 318.05 crore (previous year: ` 392.13 crore) and maintains capital 
(including D-SIB) of ` 1,551.56 crore (previous year: ` 1,692.53 crore) as at March 31, 2025, in respect of the unhedged 
foreign currency exposure of its customers.
 
• 
 Details of Single Counterparty Limit / Limit for Group of Connected Counterparties exceeded by the 
Bank
    
 
 The RBI has prescribed limits linked to a bank’s eligible capital base in respect of exposures to single counterparty 
and group of connected counterparties. During the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 the Bank was 
within the limits prescribed by the RBI.
 
• 
Inter-bank Participation with risk sharing
        
 The aggregate amount of participation issued by the Bank and reduced from advances as per regulatory guidelines 
as at March 31, 2025 was ` 77,703.73 crore (previous year: ` 62,920.05 crore).
 
• 
Concentration of deposits, advances, exposures and NPAs
 
 
a) 
Concentration of deposits  
 (` crore, except percentages)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Total deposits of twenty largest depositors
117,366.81
79,156.47 
Percentage of deposits of twenty largest depositors to total deposits of the Bank
4.32%
3.33%
b) 
Concentration of advances* 
 
 (` crore, except percentages)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Total advances to twenty largest borrowers
387,944.44
424,945.96
Percentage of advances of twenty largest borrowers to total advances of the 
Bank
9.34%
10.96%
 
*Advances comprise credit exposure (funded and non-funded credit limits) including derivative transactions computed as per current 
exposure method in accordance with RBI guidelines.

HDFC Bank Limited
378
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
c) 
Concentration of exposure** 
 
 
 (` crore, except percentages)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Total exposure to twenty largest borrowers / customers
406,518.55
434,591.97
Percentage of exposure of twenty largest borrowers / customers to total 
exposure of the Bank on borrowers / customers
9.62%
11.04%
 
**Exposures comprise credit exposure (funded and non-funded credit limits) including derivative transactions and investment exposure 
in accordance with RBI guidelines.
d) 
Concentration of NPAs
 (` crore, except percentages)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Total exposure to top twenty NPA accounts
7,378.47
8,628.04
Exposures of the twenty largest NPA as a percentage of total Gross NPAs.
20.95%
27.68%
12. Derivatives
• 
Forward Rate Agreements (FRA) / Interest Rate Swaps (IRS)*            
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
i)
The total notional principal of swap agreements
1,032,110.42
800,195.47
ii)
Total losses which would be incurred if counter parties failed to fulfill their obligations 
under the agreements
5,874.28
5,414.44
iii)
Collateral required by the Bank upon entering into swaps**
-
-
iv)
Concentration of credit risk arising from swaps (%)#
64.64%
73.18%
v)
Concentration of credit risk arising from swaps (Amount)#
3,797.31
3,962.40
vi)
The fair value of the swap book
424.39
(1,325.55)
    
 
* Interest Rate Swaps are comprised of INR Interest Rate Swaps and FCY Interest Rate Swaps.
           
** Represents outstanding amount of net margin received from customers as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
               
# Concentration of credit risk arising from swaps is with Banks as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
 
 
The nature and terms of Rupee IRS outstanding as at March 31, 2025 are set out below:
  (` crore, except numbers)
Nature
Nos.
Notional principal 
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
1
250
INCMT
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable 
Trading
6,345
346,649.08
OIS
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable 
Trading
6,624
353,427.29
OIS
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable 
Hedging
296
131,970
OIS
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable 
Trading
2
95.78
MIOIS
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Hedging
7
2,700
MIOIS
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
555
36,772.96
MOD MIFOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable 
Trading
309
20,370.94
MOD MIFOR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable 
Hedging
50
21,225
T-BILL Linked
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable 
Total
913,461.05

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
379
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 
The nature and terms of foreign currency IRS as at March 31, 2025 are set out below:
  (` crore, except numbers)
Nature
Nos.
Notional principal 
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
5
190.96
EURIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
4
268.30
EURIBOR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
-
-
EUR ESTR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
9
897.93
EUR ESTR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
50
10,243.87
USD SOFR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
161
24,178.86
USD SOFR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging
17
6,102.92
USD SOFR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Hedging
26
27,608.43
USD SOFR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
1
128.21
USD SOFR
Floating receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
1
1,282.13
USD TERM SOFR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging
33
32,053.13
USD TERM SOFR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
1
60.05
CHF SHARON
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
1
60.05
CHF SHARON
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Total
103,074.84
 
 
The nature and terms of Forward Rate Agreement as at March 31, 2025 are set out below:
  (` crore, except numbers)
Nature
Nos.
Notional principal 
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
588
15,574.54
Bond Yield
Sell FRA
Total
15,574.54
 
 
The nature and terms of Rupee IRS outstanding as at March 31, 2024 are set out below:
  (` crore, except numbers)
Nature
Nos.
Notional principal 
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
2
             600.00
INCMT
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
4,051
212,130.40
OIS
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
4,615
230,906.21
OIS
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging
419
174,570.00
OIS
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
2
95.78
MIOIS
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Hedging
7
2,700.00
MIOIS
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
523
33,400.36
MOD MIFOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
288
19,260.22
MOD MIFOR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging
52
21,975.00
T-BILL Linked
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Total
695,637.96
          

HDFC Bank Limited
380
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
 
The nature and terms of foreign currency IRS as at March 31, 2024 are set out below:
  (` crore, except numbers)
Nature
Nos.
Notional principal 
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
4
213.78
EURIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
7
483.41
EURIBOR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
4
179.75
EUR ESTR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
9
921.24
EUR ESTR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
49
9,818.69
USD SOFR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading
159
23,240.41
USD SOFR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging
18
3,227.77
USD SOFR
Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Hedging
10
17,765.27
USD SOFR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading
2
1,292.78
USD TERM SOFR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging
34
28,774.73
USD TERM SOFR
Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Total
85,917.83
 
 
 The nature and terms of Forward Rate Agreement as at March 31, 2024 are set out below:
  (` crore, except numbers)
Nature
Nos.
Notional principal 
Benchmark
Terms
Trading
678
18,639.68
Bond Yield
Sell FRA
Total
18,639.68
 
• 
Exchange traded interest rate derivatives
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
i)
The total notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives 
undertaken during the years reported 
Nil
Nil
ii)
The total notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives 
outstanding 
Nil
Nil
iii)
The notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives 
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’
N.A.
N.A.
iv)
Mark to market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding and 
not ‘highly effective’
N.A.
N.A.
 
• 
Qualitative disclosures on risk exposure in derivatives
 
 
Overview of business and processes
 
 
 Derivatives are financial instruments whose characteristics are derived from underlying assets, or from interest rates, 
exchange rates or indices. These include forwards, swaps, futures and options. The notional amounts of financial 
instruments such as foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with the instruments 
recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the 
current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Bank’s exposure to credit or price risks. The 
following sections outline the nature and terms of the derivative transactions generally undertaken by the Bank. 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
381
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
Interest rate contracts
 
 Forward rate agreements give the buyer the ability to determine the underlying rate of interest for a specified period 
commencing on a specified future date (the settlement date). The underlying rate of interest could be an interest rate curve, 
interest rate index or bond yield. There is no exchange of principal and settlement is effected on the settlement date. The 
settlement amount is the difference between the contracted rate and the market rate prevailing on the settlement date 
discounted for the interest period of the agreement.
 
 Interest rate swaps involve the exchange of interest obligations with the counterparty for a specified period without 
exchanging the underlying (or notional) principal.
 
 Interest rate caps and floors give the buyer the ability to fix the maximum or minimum rate of interest. The writer of the 
contract pays the amount by which the market rate exceeds or is less than the cap rate or the floor rate respectively. A 
combination of interest rate caps and floors can create structures such as interest rate collar, cap spreads and floor spreads. 
 
 Interest rate futures are standardised interest rate derivative contracts traded on a recognised stock exchange to buy 
or sell a notional security or any other interest bearing instrument or an index of such instruments or interest rates at a 
specified future date, at a price determined at the time of the contract.
 
Exchange rate contracts
 
 Forward foreign exchange contracts are agreements to buy or sell fixed amounts of currency at an agreed exchange rate 
on a future date. These instruments are carried at fair value, determined based on either FEDAI rates or market quotations.
 
 Cross currency swaps are agreements to exchange principal amounts denominated in different currencies. Cross 
currency swaps may also involve the exchange of interest payments on one specified currency for interest payments in 
another specified currency for a specified period.
 
 Currency options (including Exchange Traded Currency Option) give the buyer, on payment of a premium, the right 
but not an obligation, to buy or sell specified amounts of currency at an agreed exchange rate on or before a specified 
future date. 
 
 Currency futures contract is a standardised contract traded on an exchange, to buy or sell a certain underlying currency 
on a certain date in the future, at a specified price. The contract specifies the rate of exchange between one unit of currency 
with another.
 
 The Bank’s derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sale activities include the structuring and marketing 
of derivatives to customers to enable them to hedge their market risks (both interest rate and exchange risks), within the 
regulatory framework as applicable from time to time. The Bank deals in derivatives on its own account (trading activity) 
principally for the purpose of generating a profit from short term fluctuations in price yields or implied volatility. The Bank 
also deals in derivatives to hedge the risk embedded in some of its Balance Sheet assets or liabilities.
 
Constituents involved in derivative business
 
 The Treasury front-office enters into derivative transactions with customers and inter-bank counterparties. The Bank 
has an independent back-office and mid-office as per regulatory guidelines. The Bank has credit risk and market risk 
departments, as part of the Risk Management Group, that assesses counterparty credit risk and market risk limits, within 
the risk architecture and processes of the Bank.
 

HDFC Bank Limited
382
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
Derivative policy
 
 The Bank has in place a Derivative policy which covers various aspects that apply to the functioning of the derivative 
business. The derivative business is administered through various market risk limits such as position limits, tenor limits, 
sensitivity limits, scenario based profit and loss limit for option portfolio, stop loss trigger levels and value-at-risk limits 
that are recommended by the Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee (‘RPMC’) to the Board of Directors for approval. All 
methodologies that are used to assess market and credit risks for derivative transactions are specified by the market risk 
and credit risk units. Limits are monitored on a daily basis by the mid-office.
 
 The Bank has a Board approved policy on Customer Suitability & Appropriateness, which forms part of the Derivative 
policy, to ensure that derivative transactions entered into are appropriate and suitable to the customer’s nature of 
business / operations. Before entering into a derivative deal with a customer, the Bank scores the customer on various risk 
parameters and based on the overall score level it determines the kind of product that best suits its risk appetite and the 
customer’s requirements.
 
Classification of derivatives book
 
 The derivative book is classified into trading and hedging book. Classification of the derivative book is made on the basis 
of the definitions of the trading and hedging specified in the RBI guidelines. The trading book is managed within the trading 
limits recommended by the RPMC and approved by the Board of Directors.
 
Hedging policy
 
 For derivative contracts designated as hedging instruments, the Bank documents, at inception of the hedge, the relationship 
between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, the risk management objective for undertaking the hedge and the 
methods used to assess the hedge effectiveness. Hedge effectiveness is ascertained at the time of inception of the hedge 
and periodically thereafter. Hedge effectiveness is measured by the degree to which changes in the fair value or cash flows 
of the hedged item that are attributable to a hedged risk are offset by changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedging 
instrument using various qualitative and quantitative methods.
 
 The hedging book consists of transactions to hedge Balance Sheet assets or liabilities. The tenor of hedging instrument 
may be less than or equal to the tenor of underlying hedged asset or liability. The Bank as part of its risk management 
strategy, makes use of derivative instruments, including foreign exchange forward contracts, for hedging the risk embedded 
in some of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the Balance Sheet. In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in 
the fair value of the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of 
cash flow hedges other than for foreign exchange forward contracts and principal only swaps, the changes in fair value 
of effective portion are recognised in Reserves and Surplus under ‘Cash flow hedge reserve’ and ineffective portion of an 
effective hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. The accumulated balance in the cash 
flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging relationship, is recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at the same time that 
the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. Foreign exchange forward contracts and 
principal only swaps not intended for trading, that are entered into to establish the amount of reporting currency required 
or available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are outstanding at the Balance Sheet date, are accounted in 
accordance with AS-11. Accordingly, such contracts are not marked to market and only translated at spot rate. The premia 
or discount arising at the inception of such forward exchange contract is amortised as expense or income over the life of 
the contract. The interest income / expense on such POS transaction is accounted on accrual basis.
• 
Provisioning, collateral and credit risk mitigation
 
 The Bank enters into derivative transactions with counterparties based on their business ranking and financial position. 
The Bank sets up appropriate appetite / limits upon evaluating the ability of the counterparty to honour its obligations in 
the event of crystallisation of the exposure. Appropriate credit covenants are stipulated where required, as trigger events to 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
383
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
call for collaterals or terminate a transaction and contain the risk. Further, to mitigate the current exposure in non-centrally 
cleared forex and derivative transactions, Bank has entered into Credit Support Annex (‘CSA’) agreements with some of 
the major international counterparty banks and few Indian financial institutions.
 
 The Bank, at the minimum, conforms to the RBI guidelines with regard to provisioning requirements. Overdue receivables 
representing crystallised positive mark to market value of a derivative contract are transferred to the account of the borrower 
and treated as non-performing assets, if these remain unpaid for 90 days or more. Full provision is made for the entire 
amount of overdue and future receivables relating to positive marked to market value of non-performing derivative contracts.
 
Quantitative disclosure on risk exposure in derivatives
(` crore)
Sr.
No.
Particulars
Currency derivatives
Forward contracts
Interest rate derivatives
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
1
Derivatives (notional principal 
amount)
a) Hedging
13,248.63
28,357.70
69,063.80
60,802.25
221,659.47
249,012.76
b) Trading
53,216.03
41,318.47
1,224,428.67
1,151,750.54
810,553.44
551,311.15
2
Marked to market positions #
a) Asset (+)
999.96
1,005.98
8,178.81
3,245.63
3,038.63
2,674.59
b) Liability (-)
(568.25)
(513.27)
(7,822.67)
(3,234.51)
(3,728.34)
(2,932.43)
c) Net 
431.71
492.70
356.14
11.12
(689.71)
(257.83)
3
Credit exposure
4,771.67
4,855.47
31,151.66
29,639.07
14,648.79
13,325.22
4
Likely impact of one 
percentage change in interest 
rate (100*PV01)**
a) On hedging derivatives
82.36
199.56
2.86
3.91
4,202.37
5,335.83
b) On trading derivatives
25.30
8.08
1.13
0.06
1,805.05
2,215.16
5
Maximum of 100*PV01 
observed during the year**
a) On hedging*
189.22
275.06
6.13
5.64
5,127.07
6,214.97
b) On trading
25.30
45.77
7.86
3.07
2,182.42
2,322.16
6
Minimum of 100*PV01 
observed during the year**
a) On hedging*
82.36
0.67
0.55
0.52
4,202.37
492.08
b) On trading
0.93
8.08
0.17
0.06
1,805.05
1,968.46
# For trading derivatives including accrued interest.
* Computed for the month end dates where hedge deals were outstanding.
**Amounts given are absolute values on a net basis, excluding currency options.


9 
 The notional principal amounts of derivatives reflect the volume of transactions outstanding as at the Balance 
Sheet date and do not represent the amounts at risk.


9 
 For the purpose of this disclosure; currency derivatives include currency options purchased and sold and cross 
currency swaps; forward contracts include foreign exchange spot, forward and swap contracts; interest rate 
derivatives include interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and interest rate caps and floors.

HDFC Bank Limited
384
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025


9 
 The Bank has computed the maximum and minimum of PV01 for the year based on the balances as at the end 
of every month.


9 
 In respect of derivative contracts, the Bank has computed the exposure under the Current Exposure Method 
for counterparty credit risk capital computation based on the guidelines issued by RBI on “Bilateral Netting of 
Qualified Financial Contracts – Amendments to Prudential Guidelines” dated March 30, 2021 and any related 
amendments thereafter. However, for the purpose of calculating product-wise derivative exposure as mentioned 
in point number 3 in table above, Bank has calculated using Current Exposure Method (‘CEM’) without the impact 
of Bilateral Netting.
 
• 
Credit default swaps
          
The Bank has not transacted in credit default swaps during the year ended March 31, 2025 (previous year: Nil).
13.  Securitisation:
 
• 
 The outstanding amount of securitised assets as per books of the SPEs and total amount of exposures retained by the 
originator as on the date of balance sheet to comply with the MRR.
(` in crore except number of accounts) 
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
              March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
1. No of SPEs holding assets for securitisation transactions originated 
by the originator
                               3
                           1
2. Total amount of securitised assets as per books of the SPEs  
                       19,035.87
                      204.59
3. Total amount of exposures retained by the originator to comply with 
MRR as on the date of balance sheet 
                        2,061.42
                       71.54
 
a)   Off-balance sheet exposures 
      First loss 
      Others 
                  608.94 
                       -
                65.20
                       -
 
b)   On-balance sheet exposures 
      First loss 
      Others 
              
   247.44 
                        1,205.04
6.34
                       -
4. Amount of exposures to securitisation transactions other than MRR  
                  1,045.49 
-
a)   Off-balance sheet exposures 
 i)   Exposure to own securitisations 
      First loss 
      Others 
 ii)   Exposure to third party securitisations 
      First loss 
      Others 
 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
b)   On-balance sheet exposures 
 i)   Exposure to own securitisations 
      First loss 
      Others
 ii)   Exposure to third party securitisations 
      First loss 
      Others 
-
                        1,045.49
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.
Sale consideration received for the securitised assets and gain / loss 
on sale on account of securitisation^ 
Sale Consideration - 
21,434.28
Gain / Loss - NIL
-

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
385
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(` in crore except number of accounts) 
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
              March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
6.
Form and quantum (outstanding value) of services provided by way 
of, liquidity support, post-securitisation asset servicing, etc
Services Provided
Type of service
Post Securitisation Assets 
Servicing
Servicing Agent
No of 
Transaction
Outstanding 
Value
3
19,035.87
1
204.59
7.
Performance of facility provided. (Please provide separately for each 
facility viz. Credit enhancement, liquidity support, servicing agent etc. 
Mention percent in bracket as of total value of facility provided.) 
Amount paid 
Repayment received 
Outstanding amount
Credit Enhancement
Amount paid 
(utilised)
0.32
Repayment 
received 
(replenishment)
0.32
Outstanding 
amount
1,314.14 
(Average 
6.90% of 
current pool 
outstanding)
Credit Enhancement
-
-
65.20 (31.87% of current 
pool outstanding)
8.
Average default rate of portfolios observed in the past. (Please provide 
breakup separately for each asset class i.e. RMBS, Vehicle Loans 
etc.) 
5 years weighted average 
% of 90+ to total loans 
outstanding for respective 
asset class
5 years weighted average % of 
90+ to total loans outstanding 
for respective asset class
Housing Loan: 0.51%
Auto Loans (new car): 0.26%
Housing Loan: 0.60%
9.
Amount and number of additional / top up loan given on same 
underlying asset. (Please provide breakup separately for each asset 
class i.e. RMBS, Vehicle Loans etc.)
Number of additional / top 
up loan: 
 Housing Loan: 869 
Auto Loan: 8,629
Amount O/s as on 31-Mar-25: 
Housing Loan: 57.61
Auto Loan: 492.00
Number of additional / top up 
loan: 
Housing Loan: 1,009
Amount O/s as on 31-Mar-24: 
Housing Loan: 62.67
10. Investor complaints 
(a) Directly / Indirectly received and; 
(b) Complaints outstanding 
-
-
 
^ represent transactions done during the year.
14. Off-Balance Sheet SPVs
 
There are no Off-Balance Sheet SPVs sponsored by the Bank, which need to be consolidated as per accounting norms.
No of 
Transaction
Outstanding 
Value

HDFC Bank Limited
386
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
15. Transfers to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEA Fund)   
 
The details of amount transferred during the respective year to DEA Fund are as under: 
       
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund
  1,291.25
  1,090.05
Add: Amounts transferred to DEA Fund during the year
 211.97
233.36
Less: Amounts reimbursed by DEA Fund towards claims
 25.28
32.16
Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund
 1,477.94
1,291.25
 
The closing balance of amount transferred to DEA Fund is included under ‘Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities – Other 
items for which the Bank is contingently liable’.
 16. Disclosure for complaints and grievance redress 
Summary information on complaints received by the Bank from the customers and from the Office of Ombudsman.
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Complaints received by the Bank from its customers
1
Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
14,232
13,361
1.1 Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))
-
1,224
2
Number of complaints received during the year
4,57,466
4,85,339
3
Number of complaints disposed during the year
4,55,392
4,85,692
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the Bank*
1,50,965
1,27,112
4
Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
16,306
14,232
Maintainable complaints received by the bank from RBIOs
5
Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from RBIOs
13,578
14,563
5.1 Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the bank by RBIOs
6,515
6,834
5.2 Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation / mediation / advisories issued 
by RBIOs
7,063
7,729
5.3 Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by RBIOs against the bank
NIL
1
6
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than those appealed)
NIL
NIL
 
*  Total cases referred to Internal Ombudsman (IO) was 1,65,081 cases (previous year: 1,40,646 cases) of which 1,50,965 cases (previous year: 
1,27,112 cases) were complaints.   
   
 Overall complaints summary for the financial years:
Description
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
A
Total number of complaints
7,25,047
7,39,759
B
Complaints redressed by the Bank within one working day / duplicate complaints
2,67,581
2,54,420
C
Net Reportable Complaints (A - B)
4,57,466
4,85,339

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
387
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2025:
Grounds of complaints (i.e. 
complaints relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
beginning of the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
received during 
the year
% increase / 
(decrease) in 
the number 
of complaints 
received over 
the previous 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
end of the year*
Of 5, number 
of complaints 
pending beyond 
30 days
1
2
3
4
5
6
ATM / Debit Cards
3,013
1,19,694
(17%)
3,467
218
Credit Cards
2,565
1,16,242
23%
3,839
3
Internet / Mobile / Electronic 
Banking
2,910
1,00,306
(11%)
3,160
21
Loans and advances
3,981
64,833
(13%)
3,927
6
Account opening / difficulty in 
operation of accounts
327
20,986
(14%)
386
1
Others
1,436
35,405
3%
1,527
29
Total
14,232
4,57,466
(6%)
16,306
278
 
* All these cases were pending within the stipulated turnaround time (TAT) of the Bank. 
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2024:
Grounds of complaints (i.e. 
complaints relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
beginning of 
the year
Addition on 
amalgamation   
(Refer 
Schedule 18 (1))
Number of 
complaints 
received during 
the year
% increase 
/  (decrease) 
in the number 
of complaints 
received over 
the previous 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
end of the year*
Of 6, number 
of complaints 
pending 
beyond 30 
days
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
ATM / Debit Cards
2,955
-
1,44,803
(12%)
3,013
72
Credit Cards
2,207
-
94,755
21%
2,565
0
Internet / Mobile / Electronic 
Banking
3,621
-
1,12,279
16%
2,910
24
Loans and advances 
3,168
1,208
74,491
66%
3,981
0
Account opening / difficulty in 
operation of accounts
247
16
24,472
46%
327
2
Others
1,163
-
34,539
21%
1,436
9
Total
13,361
1,224
4,85,339
13%
14,232
107
 
* All these cases were pending within the stipulated turnaround time (TAT) of the Bank.
17. Penalties levied by the RBI
 
During the year ended March 31, 2025, RBI has levied following penalties on the Bank: 
 
• 
 RBI vide its letter dated September 10, 2024 levied a penalty of ` 10,000,000 on the Bank for giving gifts to the 
depositors at the time of accepting deposits, for opening certain savings accounts in the names of ineligible entities 
and for failure to ensure that customers are not contacted after 7 pm and before 7 am, in contravention to the Reserve 
Bank directions on ‘lnterest Rate on Deposits’ and ‘Recovery Agents engaged by Banks’.

HDFC Bank Limited
388
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
• 
 RBI vide its letter dated March 26, 2025 levied a penalty of ` 7,500,000 on the Bank for not categorising certain 
customers into low, medium and high-risk category based on its assessment and risk perception and for allotting 
multiple customer identification code to certain customers instead of a Unique Customer ldentification Code (UCIC) 
for each customer, which were in contravention to Reserve Bank directions on ‘Know Your Customer (KYC)’.
 
 The penalties have been paid by the Bank and has initiated / taken corrective measures, as necessary, to align the 
operations / procedures in line with the applicable regulations.
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2024, RBI vide its letter dated November 30, 2023 levied a penalty of ` 10,000 on the 
Bank under Section 11(3) of FEMA, 1999 towards not obtaining RBI’s approval for maintaining current and fixed deposit 
accounts of a foreign bank post cancellation of their license by RBI, which was in contravention to the para 13 of AP (DlR 
Series) Circular no. 67 dated May 05, 2016. The penalty was paid by the Bank.
18. Disclosures on remuneration
 
Qualitative Disclosures
 
A. 
Information relating to the bodies that oversee remuneration
 
 
Name and composition 
 
 
 The Board of Directors of the Bank has constituted the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (hereinafter, the 
‘NRC’) for overseeing and governing the compensation policies of the Bank. The NRC is comprised of four non-
executive directors as of March 31, 2025. Further, three members of the NRC are also members of the Risk Policy 
and Monitoring Committee (hereinafter, the ‘RPMC’) of the Board. 
 
 
 As of March 31, 2025, the NRC is comprised of Dr. Harsh Kumar Bhanwala, Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mr. M.D. Ranganath 
and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty. Further, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Parekh and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty are also 
the members of the RPMC. Dr. Harsh Kumar Bhanwala is the chairperson of the NRC.
 
 
Mandate of the NRC
 
 
 The primary mandate of the NRC is to oversee and review the implementation of compensation policies of the Bank. 
The NRC periodically reviews the overall Remuneration Policy of the Bank with a view to attract, retain and motivate 
employees. In this capacity, it is required to review and approve the design of the total compensation framework, 
including compensation strategy programs and plans, on behalf of the Board of Directors. The compensation 
structure and pay revision for the Group Heads, Material Risk Takers, Senior Management, Risk and Control Staff, 
Key Management Personnel and Whole Time Directors (who are also Material Risk Takers) of the Bank is approved 
by the NRC and subsequently approved by the Board of Directors. The compensation of the Whole Time Directors 
requires the additional approval of the Reserve Bank of India. The NRC co-ordinates with the RPMC to ensure that 
compensation is aligned with prudent risk taking. Further the NRC also reviews the appointments of individuals at the 
levels of Group Heads, Key Management Personnel, Senior Management and Whole Time Directors of the Bank.
 
 
External Consultants:
 
 
The Bank engaged with the following consultants during the year ended March 31, 2025:
 
 
1. 
AON Consulting Private Limited – in respect of the Bank’s annual salary market benchmarking exercise. 
 
 
 2. 
 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP – in respect of the Bank’s benchmarking exercise pertaining to executive 
compensation and compensation philosophy. 
 
 
3. 
Mercer Consulting (India) Private Limited – in the area of job evaluation.
 
 
4. 
ESOP Direct- in respect of Bank’s benchmarking exercise pertaining to ESOP Pool Calculation.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
389
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 
Scope of the Bank’s Remuneration Policy:
 
 
 The Remuneration Policy of the Bank includes within its scope all business lines and functions, and all permanent 
staff in the Bank’s domestic as well as international offices. The principles articulated in the compensation policy are 
applicable uniformly across the Bank. However, any statutory / regulatory provisions applicable in overseas locations 
take precedence over the Remuneration Policy of the Bank.
 
 
 All permanent employees of the Bank except those covered under the long term wage agreement are covered by 
the said Remuneration Policy. The number of employees covered under the compensation policy was 2,14,308 as on 
March 31, 2025 (previous year: 2,13,309).
 
B.   Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration processes and the key features and 
objectives of remuneration policy
 
I. 
Key Features and Objectives of Remuneration Policy
 
 
 The Bank’s Remuneration Policy (the ‘Policy’) is aligned to business strategy, market dynamics, internal characteristics 
and complexities within the Bank. The ultimate objective of the Policy is to provide a fair and transparent structure that 
helps in acquiring and retaining the talent pool critical to build competitive advantage and brand equity. The Policy has 
been designed basis the principles for sound compensation practices in accordance with regulatory requirements 
and provides a framework to create, modify and maintain appropriate compensation programs and processes with 
adequate supervision and control. 
 
 
 The Bank’s performance management system provides a sound basis for assessing employee performance holistically. 
The Bank’s compensation framework is aligned with the performance management system and differentiates pay 
appropriately amongst its employees based on degree of contribution, performance, skill, experience, grade and 
availability of talent owing to competitive market forces. Further, the Bank also considers compliance to processes, 
regulatory compliance and risk management as an integral part of its performance appraisal process. These factors 
are given due weightage for the purposes of the final performance rating of employees for a given performance year.
   
 
The NRC considers the aforementioned principles enunciated in the Bank’s compensation policy and ensures that:
 
 
(a) 
the compensation is adjusted for all types of prudent risk taking; 
 
 
(b) 
compensation outcomes are symmetric with risk outcomes;
 
 
(c) 
compensation payouts are sensitive to the time horizon of risk; and 
 
 
(d) 
the mix of cash, equity and other forms of compensation are aligned with risk. 
 
 
Review of Remuneration Policy of the Bank
 
 
 In Line with Annual Review of the Compensation Policy for the Bank, the same was proposed by the Bank to the NRC 
with the proposal of changes basis observations of Audit on specific inclusions.
 
 
 This was reviewed and approved by the NRC during the year ended March 31, 2025, vide NRC meeting dated 26th 
March, 2025
 
II. 
Design and Structure of Remuneration
 
 
 The design and structure of remuneration in accordance with the RBI guidelines dated November 04, 2019, for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025, is as follows:

HDFC Bank Limited
390
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
a) 
Fixed Pay
 
 
 The Remuneration Policy ensures that the fixed component of the compensation is reasonable, taking into account 
all relevant factors including industry practice. 
 
 
Elements of Fixed Pay:
 
 
 The fixed pay component of the Bank’s compensation structure typically consists of elements such as base salary, 
allowances, perquisites and retirement benefits. Perquisites extended are in the nature of company car, company 
leased accommodation, club membership and such other benefits or allowances in lieu of such perquisites / benefits. 
Retirement benefits include contributions to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund (for employees above certain job 
bands), National Pension Scheme and Gratuity. The Bank also provides pension to certain employees of the erstwhile 
Lord Krishna Bank (eLKB) under the Indian Banks’ Association (‘IBA’) structure.
 
 
Determinants of Fixed Pay:
 
 
 The fixed pay is primarily determined by taking into account factors such as the job size, performance, experience, 
location, market competitiveness of pay and is designed to meet the following key objectives of:
 
 
(a) 
fair compensation given the role complexity and size;
 
 
(b) 
fair compensation given the individual’s skill, competence, experience and market pay position; 
 
 
(c) 
contribution to post retirement benefits; and
 
 
(d) 
compliance with all statutory obligations.
 
 
 The quantum of fixed pay for the Senior Management i.e. Employees in Executive Vice President and above grades, 
Material Risk Takers other than Whole time Directors, Risk and Control Staff and Key Management Personnel are 
approved by the NRC and the Board. 
 
 
 The quantum of fixed pay for Whole Time Directors is approved by the NRC and the Board, and is subject to the 
approval of the RBI.
 
b) 
Variable Pay – For Senior Management and Material Risk Takers
 
 
 The performance management system forms the basis for variable pay allocation of the Bank. The Remuneration Policy 
of the Bank ensures that the performance management system is comprehensive and considers both, quantitative 
and qualitative performance measures.  
 
 
(i) 
Composition of Variable pay
 
 
 
 The variable pay will be in the form of share linked instruments or a mix of cash and share linked instruments. 
The share linked instrument used in the financial year 2024-25 was the Employee Stock Options. All plans for 
grant of options are framed in accordance with the SEBI guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to time and 
are approved by the shareholders of the Bank. These plans provide for the grant of options post approval by the 
NRC. For Whole time Directors the variable pay is approved by the NRC, Board and the Reserve Bank of India.
 
 
 
 The Bank will ensure that there is a proper balance between Fixed Pay and Variable Pay. In cases where 
compensation by way of share-linked instruments is not permitted by law / regulations, the entire variable pay 
will be in cash. 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
391
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 
(ii) Limits on Variable pay
 
 
 
 A substantial portion of compensation i.e. at least 50% will be variable and paid on the basis of individual, business-
unit and organization performance. This will be in line with the principle that, at higher levels of responsibility, 
the proportion of variable pay will be higher. The total variable pay shall be limited to a maximum of 300% of the 
fixed pay (for the relative performance period).
 
 
 
 In case the variable pay is upto 200% of the fixed pay, a minimum of 50% of the variable pay; and in case the 
variable pay is above 200%, a minimum of 67% of the variable pay shall be via non-cash instruments. The non-
cash component in 2024-25 comprised of Employee Stock Options.
 
 
 
 In the event that the employee is barred by statute or regulation from grant of share-linked instruments, his / her 
variable pay will be capped at 150% of fixed pay but shall not be less than 50% of the fixed pay.
 
 
(iii) Deferral of Variable pay
 
 
 
 For senior management including Whole time Directors (WTDs) and Material Risk Takers (MRTs), deferral 
arrangements exists for the variable pay. A minimum of 60% of total variable pay is under deferral arrangements. 
If cash component is a part of the variable pay, at least 50% of the cash bonus is deferred. In cases where cash 
component of the bonus is under Rs 25 lakh, deferral arrangements is not necessary.
 
 
 
 The deferral period is a minimum of three years and is applicable to both cash and non-cash components of 
variable pay. The deferral period for share linked instruments / ESOPs is governed by the ESOP Scheme Rules 
which is approved by the NRC and the Board. In 2024-25, the deferment of cash variable pay, where applicable, 
was 3 years in the case of cash variable pay and 4 years (vesting period) in the case of Employee Stock Options.
 
 
(iv) Vesting of Variable pay 
 
 
 
 The deferred portion of the remuneration vests at the end of deferral period and is spread out over the course 
of the deferral period. The first vesting is not before one year from the commencement of the deferral period. 
The vesting is no faster than on a pro rata basis and the frequency of the vesting is more than a year in order to 
ensure appropriate assessment of risk. 
 
 
(v) Malus / Clawback Arrangement
 
 
 
 The Bank believes in sustained business performance in tandem with prudent risk taking. The Bank, therefore, 
has devised appropriate deterrents in order to institutionalize the aforementioned commitment.
 
 
 
 Malus Arrangement: The provision of a Malus arrangement would entail cancellation of payout for the deferred 
portion of reward (cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument). The RBI guidelines 
define malus thus “A malus arrangement permits the bank to prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of a 
deferred remuneration. Malus arrangement does not reverse vesting after it has already occurred.”
 
 
 
 Clawback Arrangement: The provision of Clawback arrangement would entail return of payout of reward (cash 
variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument) made in the previous years attributable 
to a given reference year wherein the incident has occurred. The return would be in terms of net amount. The 
RBI guidelines define clawback thus “A clawback is a contractual agreement between the employee and the 
bank in which the employee agrees to return previously paid or vested remuneration to the bank under certain 
circumstances.”
 
 
 
 The malus and clawback clause will be actioned when the employee demonstrates behaviour involving fraudulent 
behaviour, moral turpitude, lack of integrity, flagrant breach of company policies and statutory norms resulting in 

HDFC Bank Limited
392
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
financial or non-financial losses. Manifestation of behaviour listed above is presumed to have a malafide intent. 
Illustrative list of conditions are enumerated below. The occurrence of any / some / all of the following conditions / 
events shall trigger a review by the NRC for the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement:
 
 
 
a) 
Substantial Financial Deterioration in profitability or risk parameters
 
 
 
b) 
Reckless, negligent or willful actions or exhibited inappropriate values and behavior
 
 
 
c) 
Fraud that requires a financial restatement
 
 
 
d) 
Reputational harm
 
 
 
e) 
Exposing the bank to substantial risk
 
 
 
 f) 
 Such other conditions or events, of similar nature as above, as determined by NRC for triggering review by 
NRC for the purpose of application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement 
 
 
 
 In determining the causes for deterioration in financial performance under (a), the NRC may take into consideration 
and have due regard to the fact whether the deterioration was for factors within control or whether it was 
on account of conditions like global market headwinds, industry performance, changes in legal / regulatory 
regime, force majeure events like occurrence of natural disasters, pandemic, other socio-economic conditions 
etc. 
 
 
 
 While undertaking the review for the concerned person for the application of the Malus or the Clawback 
arrangement based on any trigger events, when determining accountability of the concerned person, the NRC 
shall be guided by the principles of proportionality, culpability or proximity or nexus to the event or misconduct.
 
 
 
 In accordance with the RBI guidelines, wherever the assessed divergence in bank’s provisioning for Non-
Performing Assets (NPAs) or asset classification exceeds the prescribed threshold for public disclosure, the 
bank shall not pay the unvested portion of the variable compensation for the assessment year under ‘malus’ 
arrangement. Further, in such situations, no proposal for increase in variable pay (for the assessment year) shall be 
entertained. In case the bank’s post assessment Gross NPAs are less than 2.0%, these restrictions will apply only 
if criteria for public disclosure are triggered either on account of divergence in provisioning or both provisioning 
and asset classification.
 
 
 
 The NRC may decide to apply malus on part, or all of the variable pay. The time horizon for the application of 
malus / clawback clause shall be four years from the date of reward.
 
 
 
 The NRC shall review the act of misconduct / incident to ascertain the degree of accountability attributable to a 
Whole time Director / Material Risk Taker / Senior Management (Job Bands C  1 and above) prior to applying the 
Malus or Clawback arrangement.
 
 
 
The criteria for Malus / Clawback will be reviewed by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee annually.
 
 
 
 The NRC and Board of Directors has also approved an addendum (Addendum-B) to the compensation policy on 
Clawback of Incentive Compensation in view of the final rules on listing standards for the recovery of erroneously 
awarded compensation adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 26, 2022, applicable 
to companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ. 
 
 
 
 This Addendum-B shall be read with, and is in addition to, the Compensation Policy formulated and approved by 
the Board of Directors of the Bank. The same has been formulated to comply with the requirements of Section 
10D promulgated under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), and Section 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
393
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
303A.14 of the NYSE so as to recover certain compensation in the event of an accounting restatement due to 
any material non-compliance relating to any financial reporting requirements under the applicable U.S. securities 
laws, and shall be interpreted and applied consistent therewith.
 
 
(vi) Approval Process 
 
 
 
 The Variable Pay for Senior Management, Material Risk Takers other than Whole time Directors, Risk and control 
staff is approved by the NRC and the Board. For Whole time Directors the variable pay is approved by the NRC, 
Board and the Reserve Bank of India.
 
 
 
Employees other than Senior Management, Material Risk Takers, Whole Time Directors
 
 
 
The Bank has formulated the following variable pay plans:
 
 
(i) 
Annual Bonus Plan 
 
 
 
 The quantum of variable payout is a function of the performance of the Bank, performance of the business unit, 
performance of the individual employee, job band of the employee and the functional category. Basis these key 
determinants and due adjustment for risk alignment, a payout matrix for variable pay is developed. Market trends 
for specific businesses / functions along with inputs from compensation surveys may also be used in finalising 
the payout. 
 
 
 
 Bonus pools are designed to meet specific business needs therefore resulting in differentiation in both the 
quantum and the method of payout across functions.
 
 
(ii) Performance-linked Plans (PLPs) 
 
 
 
 PLPs are formulated for employees in sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given 
business / service targets but have limited impact on risk since credit decisions are exercised independent 
of these functions. All PLP payouts are based on a balanced scorecard framework which factors not just 
quantitative, but also qualitative measures, and are subject to achievement of individual targets enumerated in 
the respective scorecards of the employees. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial 
year to provide for any unforeseen performance risks. Employees who are on the PLPs are excluded from the 
Annual Bonus Plan.
 
 
(iii) Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOPs)
 
 
 
 Employees in Job Bands D4 and above also receive ESOPs as a vehicle to create a balance between short 
term rewards and long term sustainable value creation. ESOPs play a key role in the attraction and retention of 
key talent. 
 
 
 
 The NRC grants options after considering parameters such as the incumbent’s grade and performance rating, 
and such other factors as may be deemed appropriate by the NRC. 
 
 
 
 All plans for grant of options are framed in accordance with the SEBI guidelines, 1999 as amended from time 
to time and are approved by the shareholders of the Bank. These plans provide for the grant of options post 
approval by the NRC.
 
 
 
 The Bank grants ESOPs to eligible employees. Such ESOPs vest over four tranches spread over a period of 
48 months. 
 
 
 
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, Employee Stock Options is included as part of Variable Pay.

HDFC Bank Limited
394
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
 
(iv) Restricted Stock Units (Units)
 
 
 
 The Bank granted units to employees at E3 – D3 bands (upto 10 levels below the MD). The same was approved 
by the NRC after considering parameters such as the employee’s grade, performance rating and any other factors 
as may be deemed appropriate by the NRC.
 
 
 
 All plans for grant of units are framed in accordance with the SEBI guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to 
time and are approved by the shareholders of the Bank. These plans provide for the grant of units post approval 
by the NRC.
 
 
 
Such units vest over four tranches spread over a period of 48 months.
    
 
 
Risk, Control and Compliance Staff
    
 
 
 The Bank has separated the Risk, Control and Compliance functions from the Business functions in order to 
create a strong culture of checks and balances and to eliminate any possible conflict of interest between revenue 
generation and risk management and control. Accordingly, the overall variable pay as well as the annual salary 
increment of the employees in the Risk, Control and Compliance functions is based on their performance, 
functional objectives and goals. The Bank ensures that the mix of fixed to variable compensation for these 
functions is weighted in favour of fixed compensation.                 
 
 
 
Guaranteed Bonus
 
 
 
 Guaranteed bonuses are not consistent with sound risk management or pay for performance principles of the 
Bank and therefore do not form an integral part of the general compensation practice. 
 
 
 
 For critical hiring for some select strategic roles, the Bank may consider granting of bonus, based on the 
performance rating upon confirmation, as a prudent way to avoid loading the entire cost of attraction into the fixed 
component of the compensation which could have a long term cost implication for the Bank. For such hiring, the 
said bonus is generally decided by taking into account appropriate risk factors and market conditions. 
 
 
 
 For hiring at levels of Whole Time Directors / Managing Director / Material Risk Takers and certain employees in 
select strategic roles, a sign-on bonus, if any, is limited to the first year only and would be in the form of Employee 
Stock Options or Units (All units grants are subject to individual / Business Unit / organizational performance 
criteria).
 
 
 
Severance Pay
 
 
 
 The Bank does not grant severance pay other than accrued benefits (such as gratuity, pension) except in cases 
where it is mandated by any statute. 
 
 
 
Hedging
 
 
 
 The Bank does not provide any facility or fund or permit its Whole Time Directors and employees to insure or hedge 
their compensation structure to offset the risk alignment effects embedded in their compensation arrangement. 
 
 
 
 Statutory Bonus
 
 
 
 Some employees are also paid statutory bonus as per the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 as amended from time 
to time.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
395
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 
III.  Remuneration Processes
 
 
 
Fitment at the time of Hire
 
 
 
 Pay scales at the Bank are set basis the job size, experience, location and the academic and professional 
credentials of the incumbent. 
 
 
 
 The compensation of new hires is in line with the existing pay ranges and consistent with the compensation levels 
of the existing employees of the Bank at similar profiles. The pay ranges are subject to change basis market trends 
and the Bank’s talent management priorities. While the Bank believes in the internal equity and parity as a key 
determinant of pay, it does acknowledge the external competitive pressures of the talent market. Accordingly, 
there could be certain key profiles with critical competencies which may be hired at a premium and treated as an 
exception to the overall pay philosophy. Any deviation from the defined pay ranges is treated as a hiring exception 
requiring approval with appropriate justification.
 
 
 
Pay Increment / Pay Revision
 
 
 
 The Bank strives to ensure external competitiveness as well as internal equity without diluting the overall focus 
on optimising cost. In order to enhance the Bank’s external competitiveness, it participates in an annual salary 
survey of the banking sector to understand key market trends as well as get insights on relative market pay 
position compared to peers. The Bank endeavors to ensure that most employees progress to the median of the 
market in terms of fixed pay over time. This coupled with key internal data indicators like performance score, job 
family, experience, job grade and salary budget form the basis of decision making on revisions in fixed pay. 
 
 
 
 Increments in fixed pay for majority of the employee population are generally undertaken once every financial 
year. However, promotions, confirmations and change in job dimensions could also lead to a change in the fixed 
pay during other times of the financial year.
 
 
 
 The Bank also makes salary corrections and adjustments during the financial year for competitive pay positioning 
for the purpose of retention of critical skills and critical talent in the domain of Information Technology, Digital, 
Information Security, Data Science as well as business segments that are strategic focus areas of the Bank. 
However, such pay revisions are done on an exception basis.
 
 
 
 The Fixed Pay for the Material Risk Takers (other than Whole time Directors), Senior Management, Key Management 
Personnel is approved by the NRC and the Board. The Fixed Pay for the Whole time Directors is approved by the 
NRC, Board and the Reserve Bank of India.
 
C. 
 Description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the remuneration 
processes, including the nature and type of the key measures used to take account of these risks
 
 
 The Bank takes into account various types of risks in its remuneration processes. The Bank follows a comprehensive 
framework that includes within its ambit the key dimensions of remuneration such as fixed pay, variable pay and long 
term incentives (i.e. Employee Stock Options). 
 
 
 Fixed pay: The Bank conducts a comprehensive market benchmarking study to ensure that employees are 
competitively positioned in terms of fixed pay. The Bank follows a robust salary review process wherein revisions in 
fixed compensation are based on performance. The Bank also makes salary adjustments taking into consideration 
pay positioning of employees vis-à-vis market reference points. Through this approach the Bank endeavors to ensure 
that the talent risk due to attrition is mitigated. Fixed pay could be revised downwards as well, in the event of certain 
proven cases of misconduct by an employee.
 
 
Variable pay: The Bank has distinct types of variable pay plans as given below:

HDFC Bank Limited
396
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
 
(a) 
Quarterly / monthly performance-linked pay (PLP) plans:
 
 
 
 All quarterly / monthly PLP plans are based on the principle of balanced scorecard framework that includes within 
its ambit both quantitative and qualitative factors including key strategic objectives that ensure future competitive 
advantage for the Bank. PLP plans, by design, have deterrents that play a role of moderating payouts based on 
the non-fulfillment of established quantitative / qualitative risk factors. Deterrents also include risks arising out of 
non-compliance, mis-sell etc. Further, a portion of all payouts under the PLP plans is deferred till the end of the 
financial year to provide for any unforeseen performance risks. Employees who are part of the PLP plans are 
excluded from the Annual Bonus Plan.
 
 
(b) 
Variable Pay:
 
 
 
 The Bank takes into consideration the fact that a portion of the Bank’s profits are directly attributable to various 
types of risks the Bank is exposed to such as credit risk and market risk.
 
 
 
 The framework developed by the Bank in order to arrive at the quantum of bonus pool is based on the 
performance of the Bank and profitability. The annual variable pay is distributed based on business unit and 
individual performance and job band and role of the individual for non-business functions. The business unit 
performance is based on factors such as growth in revenue, growth in profit, cost to income ratio and achievement 
vis-à-vis plans and key objectives.  Bonus pay out for an individual employee in a particular grade is linked to the 
performance rating of the employee and subject to meeting the Bank’s standards of ethical conduct. 
 
 
 
 The Bank has devised appropriate malus and claw back clauses as a risk mitigant for Whole Time Directors, 
Material Risk Takers, Senior Management (i.e. Employees in the job Bands of Executive Vice President and 
above). Under the malus clause the incumbent could forego the vesting of the deferred variable pay in full or in 
part. Under the claw back clause the incumbent is obligated to return all the tranches of variable pay payout 
pertaining to the reference performance year. The deferred variable pay is paid out post review and approval by 
the NRC and the Board.
 
D. 
 Description of the ways in which the Bank seeks to link performance during a performance measurement 
period with levels of remuneration
 
 
 The Bank has a robust performance management system for evaluating the performance of its Whole Time Directors. 
The performance appraisal system is based on a Balanced Scorecard Framework and considers qualitative as well as 
quantitative factors of performance which includes the parameters at overall organization level and at Target Business 
Level. Following is the list of few parameters which are covered in the Balanced Scorecards of Whole Time Directors.
 
 
1. 
Business Performance – This includes business growth, profitability, asset quality and shareholder value.
    
 
2. 
Stakeholder Relationship – This includes net promoter score and corporate social responsibility.
 
 
3. 
 Audit and Compliance – This includes internal audit reports and compliance with the regulations and 
inspection reports.
 
 
4. 
Digital Transformation – This includes performance on initiatives required to run the Bank and grow the Bank.
 
 
5. 
People Excellence – This includes succession planning and employee attrition.
 
 
6. 
Strategic Initiatives – This includes various strategic initiatives of the Bank.
 
 
  The above list is not exhaustive.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
397
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 
 While the above parameters form the core evaluation parameters for the Bank and the remuneration of its Whole Time 
Directors, each of the business units are measured on the following from a remuneration standpoint:
 
 
a) 
Growth in net revenue (%) over previous year;
 
 
b) 
Growth in profit before tax (%) over previous year; 
 
 
c) 
Improvement in cost to income over the previous year;
 
 
d) 
Improvement in Gross NPA over the previous year and
 
 
e) 
Achievement of key strategic objectives.
 
 
 The process by which levels of remuneration in the Bank are aligned to the performance of the Bank, business unit 
and individual employees is articulated below:
 
 
Fixed Pay
 
 
 The Bank reviews the fixed pay portion of the compensation structure basis merit-based increments and market 
corrections. These are based on a combination of performance rating, job band and the functional category of the 
individual employee. For a given job band, the merit increment is directly related to the performance rating. The Bank 
strives to ensure that most employees progress to the median of the market in terms of fixed pay over time. All other 
things remaining equal, the correction percentage is directly related to the performance rating of the individual.
 
 
Variable Pay
 
 
 Basis the performance of the business unit, individual performance and role, the Bank has formulated the following 
variable pay plans: 
 
 
• 
Variable Pay Plans:
 
 
 
 For Employees in Job Bands of Sr Vice President I and above (includes employees in Senior Management, Material 
Risk Takers, Whole time Directors) the variable pay intends to reward short term as well as long term sustained 
performance of the Bank and shareholder value creation.
 
 
 
 Short term Performance: Short term performance is realised in the form of cash variable pay. The cash variable 
pay is based on performance rating and the job band of the individual and is further enhanced or moderated by 
the business performance multiplier and role. The cash variable pay is computed on the gross salary.  
 
 
 
 Long term Performance: Employee Stock Options are granted to employees based on their performance rating 
and job band and the value of the same is realised vide long term performance of the Bank and creation of 
shareholder value. 
          
 
For Employees in job bands Vice President and below:
 
 
 
 At these levels the variable pay is primarily in the form of cash variable pay and is based on the annual performance. 
In FY 2024-25, the Bank granted units at E3-D3 bands based on their performance rating, grade and any other 
such parameter as approved by the NRC.
 
 
 
 The Bank’s annual bonus is computed as a percentage of the gross salary for every job band. The bonus multiple 
is based on performance of the business unit (based on the parameters above), performance rating, job band 

HDFC Bank Limited
398
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
and the functional category of the individual employee. The business performance category determines the 
multiplier for the bonus. All other things remaining equal, for a given job band, the bonus is directly related to the 
performance rating. Employees who are part of the annual cash Variable Pay plan are not part of the Performance 
Linked Plans mentioned below.
 
 
• 
Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
 
 
 
 The Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given 
sales, collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to 
the achievement of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated 
by qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for 
any unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on 
the plan, could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
 
E. 
 Description of the ways in which the Bank seeks to adjust remuneration to take account of the longer 
term performance
 
 
 For employees in Senior Management, Material Risk Takers and Whole Time Directors the Bank seeks to adjust 
remuneration to take account of the longer term performance in the following way.
 
 
(i) 
Limits on variable pay
 
 
 
 A substantial portion of compensation i.e. at least 50% will be variable and paid on the basis of individual, business-
unit and organization performance. This will be in line with the principle that, at higher levels of responsibility, 
the proportion of variable pay will be higher. The total variable pay shall be limited to a maximum of 300% of the 
fixed pay.
 
 
 
 In case the variable pay is upto 200% of the fixed pay, a minimum of 50% of the variable pay; and in case the 
variable pay is above 200%, a minimum of 67% of the variable pay shall be via non-cash instruments. The non-
cash component in 2024-25 comprised of Employee Stock Options.
 
 
 
 In the event that the employee is barred by statute or regulation from grant of share-linked instruments, his / her 
variable pay will be capped at 150% of fixed pay but shall not be less than 50% of the fixed pay.
 
 
(ii)  Deferral of variable pay
 
 
 
 For senior management including Whole Time Directors (WTDs) and Material Risk Takers (MRTs), deferral 
arrangements will exist for the variable pay.  A minimum of 60% of total variable pay will be under deferral 
arrangements. If cash component is a part of the variable pay, at least 50% of the cash bonus shall be deferred. 
In cases where cash component of the bonus is under Rs 25 lakh, deferral arrangements would not be necessary.
 
 
 
 The deferral period would be a minimum of three years and will be applicable to both cash and non-cash 
components of variable pay. The deferral period for share linked instruments / ESOPs will be governed by the 
ESOP Scheme Rules which will be approved by the NRC and the Board. In 2023-24, the deferment of cash 
variable pay, where applicable, was 3 years in the case of cash variable pay and 4 years (vesting period) in the 
case of Employee Stock Options.
 
 
(iii)  Vesting of Variable Pay 
 
 
 
 The deferred portion of the remuneration will vest at the end of deferral period and will be spread out over the 
course of the deferral period. The first vesting would not be before one year from the commencement of the 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
399
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
deferral period. The vesting would be no faster than on a pro rata basis and the frequency of the vesting would 
be more than a year in order to ensure appropriate assessment of risk. 
 
 
(iv)  Malus / Clawback Arrangement:
 
 
 
 The Bank believes in sustained business performance in tandem with prudent risk taking. The Bank, therefore, 
has devised appropriate deterrents in order to institutionalize the aforementioned commitment.
 
 
 Malus Arrangement: The provision of a Malus arrangement would entail cancellation of payout for the deferred 
portion of reward (cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument). The RBI guidelines 
define malus thus “A malus arrangement permits the bank to prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of a deferred 
remuneration. Malus arrangement does not reverse vesting after it has already occurred.”
 
 
 Clawback Arrangement: The provision of Clawback arrangement would entail return of payout of reward (cash 
variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument) made in the previous years attributable to a 
given reference year wherein the incident has occurred. The return would be in terms of net amount. The RBI guidelines 
define clawback thus “A clawback is a contractual agreement between the employee and the bank in which the 
employee agrees to return previously paid or vested remuneration to the bank under certain circumstances.”
 
 
 The malus and clawback clause will be actioned when the employee demonstrates behaviour involving fraudulent 
behaviour, moral turpitude, lack of integrity, flagrant breach of company policies and statutory norms resulting in 
financial or non-financial losses. Manifestation of behaviour listed above is presumed to have a malafide intent. 
Illustrative list of conditions are enumerated below. The occurrence of any / some / all of the following conditions/
events shall trigger a review by the NRC for the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement:
 
 
a) 
Substantial financial deterioration in profitability or risk parameters
 
 
b) 
Reckless, negligent or willful actions or exhibited inappropriate values and behavior
 
 
c) 
Fraud that requires a financial restatement
 
 
d) 
Reputational harm
 
 
e) 
Exposing the bank to substantial risk
 
 
f) 
 Such other conditions or events, of similar nature as above, as determined by NRC for triggering review by NRC 
for the purpose of application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement 
 
 
 In determining the causes for deterioration in financial performance under (a), the NRC may take into consideration 
and have due regard to the fact whether the deterioration was for factors within control or whether it was on account 
of conditions like global market headwinds, industry performance, changes in legal / regulatory regime, force majeure 
events like occurrence of natural disasters, pandemic, other socio-economic conditions etc.
 
 
 While undertaking the review for the concerned person for the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement 
based on any trigger events, when determining accountability of the concerned person, the NRC shall be guided by 
the principles of proportionality, culpability or proximity or nexus to the event or misconduct.
 
 
 In accordance with the RBI guidelines, wherever the assessed divergence in bank’s provisioning for Non-Performing 
Assets (NPAs) or asset classification exceeds the prescribed threshold for public disclosure, the bank shall not pay the 
unvested portion of the variable compensation for the assessment year under ‘malus’ arrangement. Further, in such 
situations, no proposal for increase in variable pay (for the assessment year) shall be entertained. In case the bank’s 

HDFC Bank Limited
400
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
post assessment Gross NPAs are less than 2.0%, these restrictions will apply only if criteria for public disclosure are 
triggered either on account of divergence in provisioning or both provisioning and asset classification.
 
 
 The NRC may decide to apply malus on part, or all of the unvested deferred Variable pay. The time horizon for the 
application of malus / clawback clause shall be four years from the date of reward.
 
 
 The NRC shall review the act of misconduct / incident to ascertain the degree of accountability attributable to a 
Whole Time Director / Material Risk Taker / Senior Management (C1 and above) prior to applying the Malus or 
Clawback arrangement.
 
 
The criteria for Malus / Clawback will be reviewed by the NRC annually.
 
 
 The NRC and Board of Directors has also approved an addendum (Addendum-B) to the compensation policy on 
Clawback of Incentive Compensation in view of the final rules on listing standards for the recovery of erroneously 
awarded compensation adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 26, 2022, applicable to 
companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ. 
 
 
 This Addendum-B shall be read with, and is in addition to, the Compensation Policy formulated and approved by 
the Board of Directors of the Bank. The same has been formulated to comply with the requirements of Section 10D 
promulgated under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), and Section 303A.14 
of the NYSE so as to recover certain compensation in the event of an accounting restatement due to any material 
non-compliance relating to any financial reporting requirements under the applicable U.S. securities laws, and shall 
be interpreted and applied consistent therewith.
 
 
Employees other than Whole Time Directors, Material Risk Takers and Senior Management
 
 
The Bank has formulated the following variable pay plans:
 
 
• 
Annual Cash Variable Pay plan:
 
 
 
 The quantum of variable payout is a function of the performance of the Bank, performance of the individual 
employee, job band of the employee and the functional category. Basis these key determinants and due 
adjustment for risk alignment, a payout matrix for variable pay is developed. Market trends for specific 
businesses / functions along with inputs from compensation surveys may also be used in finalising the payout. 
 
 
 
 Bonus pools are designed to meet specific business needs therefore resulting in differentiation in both the 
quantum and the method of payout across functions. Typically, higher levels of responsibility receive a higher 
proportion of variable pay vis-à-vis fixed pay. 
 
 
 
 For Employees in Job Bands of Sr Vice President 1 and above Variable Pay intends to reward short term as well 
as long term sustained performance of the Bank and shareholder value creation.
 
 
 
 Short term Performance: Short term performance is realised in the form of cash variable pay. The cash variable 
pay is based on performance rating and the job band of the individual and is further enhanced or moderated by 
the business performance multiplier and role. The cash variable pay is computed on the gross salary.  
 
 
 
 Long term Performance: Employee Stock Options are granted to employees based on their performance rating 
and Job band and the value of the same is realised vide long term performance of the Bank and creation of 
shareholder value. The vesting period for Employee Stock Option is 4 years.
 
 
 
 The Bank has also granted Restricted Stock Units (Units) to employees at E3-D3 bands. The units would vest 
over 4 years.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
401
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 
• 
Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
 
 
 
 The Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given 
sales, collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to 
the achievement of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated 
by qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for 
any unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on 
the plan, could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
 
F. 
 Description of the different forms of variable remuneration (i.e. cash, shares, ESOPs and other forms) 
that the Bank utilises and the rationale for using these different forms
 
 
 The Bank recognises the importance of variable pay in reinforcing a pay for performance culture. Variable pay stimulates 
employees to stretch their abilities to exceed expectations.
 
 
• 
Annual Cash Variable Pay
 
 
 
 These are paid to reward performance for a given financial year. This covers all employees (excluding employees 
under PLPs). This is based on performance of the business unit, performance rating, job band and functional 
category of the individual. For higher job bands the proportion of variable pay to total compensation tends to be 
higher. For Material Risk Takers, Senior Management and Whole Time Directors 50% of the cash variable pay is 
deferred over 3 years in the event the cash variable pay exceeds 25 lakhs.
 
 
• 
Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
 
 
 
 The Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given 
sales, collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to 
the achievement of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated 
by qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for 
any unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on 
the plan, could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
 
 
• 
Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP)
 
 
 
 This is to reward for contribution of employees in creating a long term, sustainable earnings and enhancing 
shareholder value. Only employees in a certain job band and with a specific performance rating are eligible for 
stock options. Performance is the key criteria for granting stock options.
 
 
• 
Restricted Stock Units (Units)
 
 
 
 The Bank granted Restricted Stock Units (Units) to employees at E3-D3 bands in FY24-25. The units would vest 
over 4 years.
 
 
Quantitative disclosures
 
 
 The quantitative disclosures for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 cover the Bank’s Whole Time Directors and 
Material Risk Takers. The material risk takers are identified in accordance with the revised guidelines on remuneration 
issued by the RBI on November 04, 2019. Hitherto, the quantitative disclosures would cover the Bank’s Whole Time 
Directors and Key Risk Takers as per the erstwhile guidelines on remuneration dated January 13, 2012.

HDFC Bank Limited
402
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Sr. No.
Subject
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(a)
Number of meetings held by the 
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee (NRC) during the financial 
year and sitting fees paid to its 
members
Numbers of meetings: 17
Number of meetings: 18
Sitting Fees paid: ` 0.67 crore
Sitting Fees paid: ` 0.74 crore
(b) (i)
Number of employees having received 
a variable remuneration award during 
the financial year 
88
92
(b) (ii)
Number and total amount of sign-on 
awards made during the financial year 
Number – 1
Total amount of sign-on 
 awards – 39,050 ESOP Units
None
(b) (iii)
Number and total amount of 
guaranteed bonuses awarded during 
the financial year
None
None
(b) (iv)
Details of severance pay, in addition to 
accrued benefits, if any 
None
None
(c) (i)
Total amount of outstanding deferred 
remuneration, split into cash, shares 
and share-linked instruments and other 
forms 
1. Deferred Cash variable pay –  
` 45.16 crore
2.  ^Employee Stock Options  
(ESOP) – 89,54,079 Options
1. Deferred Cash variable 
pay - ` 34.31 crore
2.  ^Employee Stock Options  
(ESOP) – 98,70,019 Options.
(c) (ii)
Total amount of deferred remuneration 
paid out in the financial year 
` 15.51 crore
` 10.99 crore
(d)
Breakdown of amount of remuneration 
awards for the financial year to show 
fixed and variable, deferred and non-
deferred 
` 159.65 crore (Fixed*)
` 5.09 crore (cash variable pay 
pertaining to financial year ended 
March 31, 2024, in relation to 
employees where there was no 
deferment). The same category of 
employees were granted 4,77,620 
ESOPs
` 151.12 crore (Fixed*)
` 9.42 crore (cash variable pay pertaining 
to financial year ended March 31, 2023, 
in relation to employees where there 
was no deferment). The same category 
of employees were granted 14,07,710 
ESOPs.
` 49.55 crore (cash variable pay 
pertaining to financial year ended 
March 31, 2024, in relation to 
employees 
where 
there 
was 
a 
deferment) of which ` 24.78 crore was 
non-deferred variable pay and ` 24.78 
crore was deferred variable pay. The 
same category of employees were 
granted 34,26,650 ESOPs
` 30.11 crore (cash variable pay 
pertaining to financial year ended March 
31, 2023, in relation to employees 
where there was a deferment) of which 
` 15.05 crore was non-deferred variable 
pay and ` 15.05 crore was deferred 
variable pay. The same category of 
employees were granted 23,45,900 
ESOPs.
Number of stock options granted 
during the financial year: 39,04,270. 
This includes 8,93,780 ESOPs 
granted to the MD and the two EDs 
for performance in F.Y. 2023 – 2024.
Number of stock options granted 
during the financial year: 37,53,610. 
This includes 3,36,057 ESOPs granted 
to MD and DMD (erstwhile ED) for 
performance in F.Y. 2022 – 2023.
The above amount does not include 
variable pay awarded to the DMD for 
performance year 2023 – 2024 and 
the same is scheduled to be paid in 
F.Y. 2025 – 2026.
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan was awarded 
cash variable pay ` 5.00 crore for the 
performance year 2022 – 2023, 50% 
of which was paid out in the F.Y. 2024 
basis RBI letter dated – December 21, 
2023. The above amount is not included 
in the variable pay awarded this year as it 
pertains to the previous year.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
403
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Sr. No.
Subject
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(e) (i)
Total amount of outstanding 
deferred remuneration and retained 
remuneration exposed to ex-post 
explicit and / or implicit adjustments
1. Deferred Cash variable 
 pay – ` 45.16 crore
2. ^Employee Stock Options  
(ESOP) – 89,54,079 Options
1. Deferred Cash variable  
pay – ` 34.31 crore
2. ^Employee Stock Options 
(ESOP) – 98,70,019 Options
(e) (ii)
Total amount of reductions during the 
financial year due to ex-post explicit 
adjustments
Nil
Nil
(e) (iii)
Total amount of reductions during the 
financial year due to ex-post implicit 
adjustments 
Nil
Nil
(f)
Number of MRTs (Material Risk Takers) 
identified.
98
92
(g) (i)
Number of cases where Malus has 
been exercised.
None
None
(g) (ii)
Number of cases where Clawback has 
been exercised.
None
None
(g) (iii)
Number of cases where both Malus 
and Clawback have been exercised.
None
None
General 
Quantitative 
Disclosure
The mean pay for the Bank as a whole 
(excluding sub-staff) and the deviation 
of the pay of each of its WTDs from the 
mean pay.
The mean pay for the Bank as a whole 
is ` 0.08 crore as of March 31, 2025.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the 
managing director to the mean pay 
of the Bank as a whole is 96:1 as of 
March 31, 2025.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the deputy 
managing director to the mean pay 
of the Bank as a whole is 93:1 as of 
March 31, 2025.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the 
executive director (Mr. Srinivasa V 
Rangan) to the mean pay of the Bank 
as a whole is 90:1 as of March 31, 
2025.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the 
executive 
director 
(Mr. 
Bhavesh 
Zaveri) to the mean pay of the Bank as 
a whole is 59:1 as of March 31, 2025.
The mean pay for the Bank as a whole is 
` 0.08 crore as of March 31, 2024.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the managing 
director to the mean pay of the Bank as 
a whole is 99:1 as of March 31, 2024.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the deputy 
managing director to the mean pay of 
the Bank as a whole is 94:1 as of March 
31, 2024.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the executive 
director (Mr. Srinivasa V Rangan) to the 
mean pay of the Bank as a whole is 91:1 
as of March 31, 2024.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the executive 
director (Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri) to the mean 
pay of the Bank as a whole is 60:1 as of 
March 31, 2024.
 
* Excludes gratuity beneﬁts, since the same is computed at Bank level.
 
 ^  In accordance with the RBI guidelines, Employee Stock Options are to be included as part of variable pay. The number of options reported as 
part of deferred remuneration comprise of Employee Stock Options granted during the ﬁnancial year 2024-25 (as part of non cash variable pay) 
and are yet to be vested.
Disclosure on remuneration to Non-Executive Directors
 
 Remuneration by way of sitting fees to the Non-Executive Directors for attending meetings of the Board and its committees 
during the year ended March 31, 2025 amounted to ` 4.91 crore (previous year: ` 4.51 crore).
  
 Further, in accordance with RBI guidelines, remuneration to all Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairperson for the 
year ended March 31, 2025 amounted to ` 2.21 crore (previous year: ` 1.52 crore).   

HDFC Bank Limited
404
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
19. Other disclosures
19.1 Business ratios / information
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Interest income as a percentage to working funds1
8.52%
8.41%
Net interest income2 as a percentage to working funds
3.48%
3.53%
Net interest income as a percentage to average interest earning assets
3.67%
3.74%
Non-interest income as a percentage to working funds
1.29%
1.60%
Cost of Deposits3
5.21%
4.87%
Operating profit4 as a percentage to working funds
2.84%
3.07%
Return on assets (average)
1.91%
1.98%
Business5 per employee (` in crore)
23.62
21.49
Profit per employee6 (` in crore)
0.32
0.31
Debt-Equity Ratio7
0.74
1.21
Return on Equity Ratio8
14.56%
16.09%
Deﬁnitions of certain items in Business ratios / information:
1.
Working funds is the daily average of total assets during the year.
2.
Net Interest Income = Interest Income - Interest Expense.
3.
Cost of Deposits is the ratio of interest expense on deposits to daily average of total deposits.
4. 
Operating proﬁt is proﬁt for the year before provisions and contingencies and proﬁt / (loss) on sale of ﬁxed assets (net) and other assets (net).
5.
Business is the total of quarterly average of net advances and deposits (net of inter-bank deposits).
6.
Productivity ratios are based on quarterly average of employee numbers.
7.
Debt represents borrowings with residual maturity of more than one year.
8.
Return on Equity represents net proﬁt after tax to average equity share capital, employee stock options outstanding and reserves.
19.2 Bancassurance business
 Commission income for the year ended March 31, 2025 includes fees of ` 5,026.97 crore (previous year: ` 3,059.31 
crore) in respect of life insurance business and ` 1,281.30 crore (previous year: ` 914.68 crore) in respect of general 
insurance and health insurance business.
19.3 Marketing and distribution
 Commission income for the year ended March 31, 2025 includes income from marketing and distribution of ` 1,629.86 
crore (previous year: ` 2,492.82 crore), which comprises of income for displaying publicity materials at the Bank’s 
branches / ATMs, commission on mutual funds, pension and other investment / saving products and sourcing and 
referral income.
19.4 Details of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs)
 The Bank enters into transactions for the sale or purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs). In the case 
of a sale transaction, the Bank sells the fulfilment of priority sector obligation and in the case of a purchase transaction 
the Bank buys the fulfilment of priority sector obligation through RBI trading platform. There is no transfer of risks or 
loan assets in such transactions. The details of purchase / sale of PSLCs during the year are as under:      

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
405
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
        (` crore)
Type of PSLCs
For the year ended
 March 31, 2025
For the year ended
 March 31, 2024
PSLCs bought during 
the year
PSLCs sold during 
the year
PSLCs bought during 
the year
PSLCs sold during the 
year
Agriculture
-
-
-
29,445.50
Small and Marginal farmers
103,413.50
-
 81,969.75
-
Micro Enterprises
8,000.00
79,441.75
-
19,054.50
General
-
175,000.00
-
57,077.25
Total
111,413.50
254,441.75
   81,969.75
105,577.25
 
19.5 Provisions and contingencies
 
The break-up of ‘Provisions and contingencies’ included in the Profit and Loss Account is given below:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Provision for income tax1
- Current
     19,485.15 
 12,968.40 
- Deferred     
        1,645.55 
 (2,885.38)
Provision for NPAs2
     12,803.11 
10,764.66
Provision for diminution in value of non-performing investments
         (87.81)
10.15
Provision for standard assets
          198.39 
1,146.05
Floating provisions 
                - 
10,900.00
Other provisions and contingencies3
      (1,264.26)
671.29
Total 
32,780.13
33,575.17 
 
 
 1. 
 Provision for income tax is net of write back of provision no longer required of Nil (previous year: ` 6,325.04 crore), pursuant to 
favourable orders received.
 
 
2. 
Includes loss on sale of NPAs / stressed assets.
 
 
 3. 
 Includes provisions / (write-back) for tax, legal and other contingencies ` (518.03) crore (previous year: ` (336.39) crore, (provisions / 
(write-back) for securitised-out assets Nil (previous year: ` (26.81) crore) and provision / (write-back) towards investments in Alternate 
Investment Funds ` (746.24) crore (previous year: ` 1,034.49 crore).
 
19.6 Implementation of IFRS converged Indian Accounting Standards
 
 
 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs, in its press release dated January 18, 2016, had issued a roadmap for implementation 
of Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for scheduled commercial banks, insurers / insurance companies and non-
banking financial companies, which was subsequently confirmed by the RBI through its circular dated February 11, 
2016. This roadmap required these institutions to prepare Ind AS based financial statements for the accounting periods 
beginning April 01, 2018 with comparatives for the periods beginning April 01, 2017. The implementation of Ind AS by 
banks requires certain legislative changes in the format of financial statements to comply with the disclosures required 
under Ind AS. In April 2018, the RBI deferred the implementation of Ind AS  by a year by when the necessary legislative 
amendments were expected. The legislative amendments recommended by the RBI are under consideration by the 
Government of India. Accordingly, the RBI, through its circular dated March 22, 2019, deferred the implementation of 
Ind AS until further notice. 

HDFC Bank Limited
406
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
 
 Presently, the Bank prepares and submits its  Ind AS Proforma information to the RBI on a half yearly basis. The Bank 
is well prepared for  Ind AS implementation as and when it becomes applicable, with due consideration to updated 
regulations, accounting standards / guidance and business strategy at the date of actual transition.
 
 
 The RBI, vide its circular dated September 12, 2023 revised the norms on classification, measurement and valuation 
of investments, in view of the significant development in the global standards. These norms are closer to Ind AS. The 
Bank has implemented the revised norms with effect from April 01, 2024.
 
19.7 Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
1.
Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium (excluding GST)
2,803.37
2,412.30
2.
Arrears in payment of DICGC Premium
-
-
 
19.8 Disclosure of Letters of Comfort (LoCs) issued by the Bank
 
 
 The Bank has not issued Letter of Comfort during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 and there is 
no outstanding as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024. 
19.9 Portfolio-level information on the use of funds raised from green deposits
 
 
 The Bank has not raised green deposits on or after June 01, 2023 based on the Framework for the acceptance of 
Green deposits issued by RBI.
20. Other liabilities
 
 
• 
 The Bank held provisions towards standard assets amounting to ` 10,862.90 crore as at March 31, 2025 (previous 
year: ` 10,663.71 crore). These are included under other liabilities.
 
 
9 
 Provision for standard assets is made @ 0.25% for direct advances to agriculture, individual housing loans and 
Small and Micro Enterprises (SMEs) sectors, @ 1% for advances to commercial real estate sector, @ 0.75% for 
advances to commercial real estate - residential housing sector, @ 5% on restructured standard advances, @ 
2% until after one year from the date on which the rates are reset at higher rates for housing loans offered at a 
comparatively lower rate of interest in the first few years and @ 2% on all exposures to the wholly owned step 
down subsidiaries of the overseas subsidiaries of Indian companies, sanctioned / renewed after December 
31, 2015.


9 
 Provision is maintained at rates higher than the regulatory minimum, on standard advances based on evaluation 
of the risk and stress in various sectors as per the policy approved by the Board of the Bank.


9 
 In accordance with regulatory guidelines and based on the information made available by its customers to the 
Bank, for exposures to customers who have not hedged their foreign currency exposures, provision for standard 
assets is made at levels ranging from 0.10% to 0.80% depending on the likely loss the entities could incur on 
account of exchange rate movements.


9 
 Provision for standard assets of overseas branches is made at higher of rates prescribed by the overseas regulator 
or RBI. 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
407
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements


9 
 For all other loans and advances including credit exposures computed as per the current marked to market values 
of interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts, provision for standard assets is made @ 0.40%.


9 
 In accordance with RBI guidelines, an additional provision is made @ 3% on the incremental exposure to the 
“Specified Borrowers” (except NBFCs / HFCs) beyond normally permitted lending limit (NPLL) as defined by RBI.
 
 
• 
 Other liabilities include contingent provisions of ` 14,219.29 crore as at March 31, 2025 (previous year: ` 15,513.35 
crore) in respect of advances and investments.
 
 
• 
 The Bank has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets 
and gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other 
liabilities as at March 31, 2025 include unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 14,079.86 
crore (previous year: ` 10,491.46 crore).
 
 
• 
 There is no item under Other Liabilities and Provisions “Others (including provisions)” exceeding 1% of total assets 
as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
21. Other fixed assets
 
• 
 Other fixed assets include amount capitalised relating to software having useful life upto five years. Details regarding 
the same are tabulated below:     
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Cost
As at March 31 of the previous year
6,638.72
5,305.33
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))
-
138.04
Additions during the year
1,772.54
1,212.41
Deductions during the year
(68.50)
(17.05)
Total (a)
8,342.76
6,638.72
Depreciation
As at March 31 of the previous year
4,691.97
3,828.16
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18 (1))
-
57.88
Charge for the year
994.31
822.98
On deductions during the year
(67.34)
(17.05)
Total (b)
5,618.94
4,691.97
Net value (a-b)
2,723.82
1,946.75
22. Other assets
 
• 
 Other assets include deferred tax asset (net) of ` 6,435.04 crore (previous year: ` 8,415.03 crore). The break-up of the 
same is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax asset arising out of:
Loan loss and contingencies
12,252.21
12,249.18
Employee benefits 
1,321.67
1,033.77
Depreciation 
54.39
57.58

HDFC Bank Limited
408
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Others
293.51
676.87
Total (a)
13,921.78
14,017.40
Deferred tax liability arising out of: 
Special reserve u/s 36(1)(viii) of the Income tax act, 1961
6,191.81
5,385.82
Investments and derivatives
961.97
216.55
Others
332.96
-
Total (b)
7,486.74
5,602.37
Deferred tax asset (net) (a-b)
6,435.04
8,415.03
• 
Key items under “Others” in Other assets are as under:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Deposits with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB #
         107,160.11
118,007.02
Unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts*
           17,131.14 
10,797.41
Deferred tax assets
            6,435.04 
8,415.03
Accounts receivable
          10,058.70 
7,913.14
Deposits & amounts paid in advance
           8,943.05 
8,443.26
Advances for capital assets
           4,801.21 
5,074.45
Residual items
                5.76 
4.02
Total
    154,535.01 
158,654.33
# Deposits with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB exceeded 1% of total asset.
 
 *  The Bank has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and gross unrealised loss on 
foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities.
23. Non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims (NBA)
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
1,248.92
63.06
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))
-
1,224.70
Additions during the year 
3.90
17.93
Reductions during the year 
153.22
56.77
Closing balance
1,099.60
1,248.92
Provision held at the beginning of the year
108.36
16.60
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))
-
92.03
Provision made during the year
-
-
Provision reversed during the year
-
0.27
Provision held at the end of the year
108.36
108.36
24. Interest earned
 
Interest income under the sub-head Income on investments includes dividend on units of mutual funds and equity and 
preference shares received during the year ended March 31, 2025 amounting to ` 2,073.95 crore (previous year: ` 1,191.48 
crore).

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
409
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
25. Other income
 
• 
Commission, exchange and brokerage income
 
 
Commission, exchange and brokerage income is presented net of related commission expenses.
 
• 
Miscellaneous income
 
 
 Miscellaneous income includes recoveries from written-off accounts amounting to ` 3,785.01 crore (previous year: 
` 3,441.30 crore) exceeding 1% of the total income of the Bank.
26. Other expenditure
 
 Other expenditure includes commission to sales agents amounting to ` 5,128.86 crore (previous year: ` 5,284.53 crore), 
exceeding 1% of the total income of the Bank.

HDFC Bank Limited
410
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
27. Employee benefits
 
Gratuity  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1 
1,473.81
994.09
Liabilities assumed on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18 (1))
-
          337.79
Interest cost 
102.30
69.70
Current service cost 
275.11
186.28
Benefits paid 
(105.84)
(104.33)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:  
Experience adjustment
(42.34)
(31.29)
Assumption change 
50.17
21.57
Present value of obligation as at March 31
1,753.21
1,473.81
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets 
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1  
1,670.20
991.18
Assets assumed on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18 (1))
-
343.36
Expected return on plan assets 
111.96
86.50
Contributions 
77.71
65.00
Benefits paid
(105.84)
(104.33)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment 
20.63
288.49
Assumption change 
-
-
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31  
1,774.66
1,670.20
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31  
1,774.66
1,670.20
Present value of obligation as at March 31 
(1,753.21)
(1,473.81)
Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in Para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘Employee Benefits’)
-
-
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 
21.45
196.39
Expenses recognised in Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost 
102.30
         69.70
Current service cost
275.11
 186.28
Expected return on plan assets
(111.96)
(86.50)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year 
(12.80)
(298.21)
Effect of the limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘Employee Benefits’
-
-
Net cost 
252.65
(128.73)
Actual return on plan assets 
132.59
374.98
Estimated contribution for the next year 
138.30
77.71
Assumptions
Discount rate
6.70% per annum
7.20% per annum
Expected return on plan assets  
6.50% per annum
6.50% per annum
Salary escalation rate
7.00% per annum
7.00% per annum
  
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion 
and other relevant factors.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
411
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Bank at the beginning of the 
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets 
are given below:
Category of plan assets
% of fair value to total plan assets as at
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Government securities
43.34%
45.55%
Debenture and bonds
15.97%
15.57%
Equity shares
35.05%
34.37%
Others
5.64%
4.51%
Total
100.00%
100.00%
 
Experience adjustment 
 
(` crore)
Particulars
Years ended March 31,
  2025
2024
2023
2022
2021
Plan assets
1,774.66
1,670.20
991.18
895.44
743.24
Defined benefit obligation
1,753.21
1,473.81
994.09
910.43
857.58
Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in Para 
59(b) of AS 15 on ‘Employee Benefits’)
-
-
-
-
-
Surplus / (deficit)
21.45
196.39
(2.91)
(14.99)
(114.34)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan assets
20.63
288.49
(36.90)
21.96
105.74
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan 
liabilities
(42.34)
(31.29)
(7.81)
(65.14)
26.48
Pension  
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1 
103.47
107.82
Interest cost 
7.05
7.61
Current service cost 
2.57
1.83
Past service cost 
-
-
Benefits paid 
(11.17)
(9.85)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:  
Experience adjustment 
17.40
16.83
Assumption change 
6.99
(20.77)
Present value of obligation as at March 31 
126.31
103.47
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets  
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1  
16.16
0.31
Expected return on plan assets  
1.05
0.53
Contributions 
9.99
24.18
Benefits paid 
(11.17)
(9.85)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:  
Experience adjustment 
0.13
0.99
Assumption change 
-
-
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31  
16.16
16.16

HDFC Bank Limited
412
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31  
16.16
16.16
Present value of obligation as at March 31 
(126.31)
(103.47)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 
(110.15)
(87.31)
Expenses recognised in Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost 
7.05
7.61
Current service cost  
2.57
1.83
Past service cost 
-
-
Expected return on plan assets 
(1.05)
(0.53)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year  
24.26
(4.94)
Net cost 
32.83
3.97
Actual return on plan assets 
1.18
1.53
Estimated contribution for the next year  
12.98
7.78
Assumptions 
Discount rate 
6.70% per annum
7.20% per annum
Expected return on plan assets  
6.50% per annum
6.50% per annum
Salary escalation rate
7.00% per annum
7.00% per annum
 
 The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion 
and other relevant factors.
 
 Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Bank at the beginning of the 
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets 
are given below:
Category of plan assets
% of fair value to total plan assets as at
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Government securities
8.81%
8.81%
Debenture and bonds
1.06%
1.02%
Others
90.13%
90.17%
Total
100.00%
100.00%
 
Experience adjustment
(` crore)
Particulars
Years ended March 31,
2025
2024
2023
2022
2021
Plan assets
16.16
16.16
0.31
0.88
0.33
Defined benefit obligation
126.31
103.47
107.82
88.02
89.99
Surplus / (deficit)
(110.15)
(87.31)
(107.51)
(87.14)
(89.66)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan assets
0.13
0.99
0.22
0.39
(0.20)
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan 
liabilities
17.40
16.83
3.32
6.44
31.41
 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
413
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
Provident fund
 
 The guidance note on AS-15, Employee Benefits, states that employer established provident funds, where interest is 
guaranteed are to be considered as defined benefit plans and the liability has to be valued. The Institute of Actuaries of 
India (IAI) has issued a guidance note on valuation of interest rate guarantees on exempt provident funds. The actuary 
has accordingly valued the same and the Bank held a provision of Nil as at March 31, 2025 (previous year: Nil), towards 
the present value of the guaranteed interest benefit obligation. The actuary has followed the deterministic approach as 
prescribed by the guidance note.
 
Assumptions
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Discount rate (GOI security yield)
6.70% per annum
7.20% per annum
Expected guaranteed interest rate 
8.25% per annum
8.25% per annum
 
The Bank does not have any unfunded defined benefit plan. The Bank contributed ` 750.43 crore (previous year: ` 677.64 
crore) to the provident fund, ` 21.00 crore (previous year: ` 10.65 crore) to the National Pension Scheme (for employees 
who opted) and ` 95.95 crore (previous year: ` 92.05 crore) to the superannuation plan.
 
The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘the Code’) relating to employee benefits, during the employment and post-employment, 
has received Presidential assent on September 28, 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Further, 
the Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on November 13, 2020. The effective date 
from which the changes are applicable is yet to be notified and rules for quantifying the financial impact are not yet issued. 
The Bank will assess the impact of the Code and will give appropriate impact in the financial statements in the period in 
which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
28. Segment reporting
 
Business segments 
 
 Business segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the target customer profile, the nature of products 
and services, the differing risks and returns, the organisation structure, the internal business reporting system and the 
guidelines prescribed by RBI. The Bank operates in the following segments:
 
a) 
Treasury
 
 
 The treasury segment primarily consists of net interest earnings from the Bank’s investment portfolio, money market 
borrowing and lending, gains or losses on investment operations and on account of trading in foreign exchange and 
derivative contracts.
 
b) 
Retail banking
 
 
i. 
 Digital banking 
 
 
 
 The digital banking segment represents business by Digital Banking Units (DBUs) of the Bank. The said DBUs 
serves retail customers through the Bank’s digital network and other online channels. This segment raises 
deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers. 
 
 
 
 Revenues of the DBUs are derived from interest earned on retail loans, fees from services rendered, etc. Expenses 
of this segment primarily comprise of interest expense on deposits, infrastructure and premises expenses for 
operating the DBUs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of specialist product groups.

HDFC Bank Limited
414
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
 
ii. 
Non-Digital Banking 
 
 
 
 The retail banking segment serves retail customers through the Bank’s branch network and other channels. 
This segment raises deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers with the help 
of specialist product groups. Exposures are classified under retail banking taking into account the status of the 
borrower (orientation criterion), the nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum thereof.
 
 
 
 Revenues of the retail banking segment are derived from interest earned on retail loans, interest earned from other 
segments for surplus funds placed with those segments, subvention received from dealers and manufacturers, 
fees from services rendered, foreign exchange earnings on retail products etc. Expenses of this segment primarily 
comprise interest expense on deposits, commission paid to retail assets sales agents, infrastructure and premises 
expenses for operating the branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads 
and allocated expenses of specialist product groups, processing units and support groups.
 
c) 
Wholesale banking
 
 
 The wholesale banking segment provides loans, non-fund facilities and transaction services to large corporates, 
emerging corporates, public sector units, government bodies, financial institutions and medium scale enterprises. 
Revenues of the wholesale banking segment consist of interest earned on loans made to customers, interest / fees 
earned on the cash float arising from transaction services, earnings from trade services and other non-fund facilities 
and also earnings from foreign exchange and derivative transactions on behalf of customers. The principal expenses 
of the segment consist of interest expense on funds borrowed from external sources and other internal segments, 
premises expenses, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of delivery channels, specialist 
product groups, processing units and support groups.
 
d) 
Other banking Operations
 
 
 This segment includes income from parabanking activities such as credit cards, debit cards, third party product 
distribution, primary dealership business and the associated costs.
 
e) 
Unallocated
 
 
 All items which are reckoned at an enterprise level are classified under this segment. This includes capital and reserves, 
debt classified as Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital and other unallocable assets and liabilities such as deferred tax, etc.
 
 
 Segment revenue includes earnings from external customers plus earnings from funds transferred to other segments. 
Segment result includes revenue less interest expense less operating expense and provisions, if any, for that segment. 
Segment-wise income and expenses include certain allocations. Interest income is charged by a segment that provides 
funding to another segment, based on yields benchmarked to an internally approved yield curve or at a certain agreed 
transfer price rate. Transaction charges are levied by the retail banking segment to the wholesale banking segment for 
the use by its customers of the retail banking segment’s branch network or other delivery channels. Segment capital 
employed represents the net assets in that segment.
 
 
Geographic segments
 
 
 The geographic segments of the Bank are categorised as domestic operations and foreign operations. Domestic 
operations comprise branches in India and foreign operations comprise branches outside India.
 
 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
415
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2025 is given below:
 
Business segments:
(` crore) 
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Treasury
Retail banking
Wholesale 
banking
Other 
banking 
Operations
Total
Digital 
banking #
Non-Digital 
Banking
1
Segment revenue 
62,227.48
8.59
283,426.20
191,964.51
35,449.05
573,075.83
2
Unallocated revenue
-
3
Less: Inter-segment revenue 
226,926.51
4
Income from operations (1) + (2) - (3) 
346,149.32
5
Segment results
4,605.36
0.04
27,309.07
44,543.96
14,363.75
90,822.18
6
Unallocated expenses 
2,344.12
7
Income tax expense (including 
deferred tax)
21,130.70
8
Net profit (5) - (6) - (7) 
67,347.36
9
Segment assets
991,874.12
81.15
1,533,809.12
1,247,937.97
112,358.81
3,886,061.17
10
Unallocated assets
24,137.77
11
Total assets (9) + (10) 
3,910,198.94
12
Segment liabilities 
83,340.18
86.16
2,312,429.69
956,136.34
8,513.18
3,360,505.55
13
Unallocated liabilities
48,268.77
14
Total liabilities (12) + (13) 
3,408,774.32
15
Capital employed (9) - (12)
(Segment assets - Segment liabilities)
525,555.62
16
Unallocated (10) - (13)
(24,131.00)
17
Total (15) + (16)
501,424.62
18
Capital expenditure 
71.43
-
4,399.07
400.46
833.05
5,704.01
19
Depreciation 
30.20
-
2,774.26
250.78
324.23
3,379.47
20
Provisions for non - performing assets 
/ others*
-
-
9,138.23
 (1,729.99)
4,241.18
11,649.42
21
Unallocated other provisions*
-
-
-
-
-
-
 
 #  Information about Digital Banking Segment reported as a sub-segment of Retail Banking Segment is related to Digital  Banking Units of the 
Bank.
 
* Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
 
 Geographic segments: 
 
(` crore)  
Particulars
Domestic
International
Total
Revenue
341,179.71
4,969.61
346,149.32
Assets
3,817,669.08
92,529.86
3,910,198.94
Capital expenditure
5,694.47
9.54
5,704.01
 

HDFC Bank Limited
416
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2024 is given below:
Business segments: 
(` crore) 
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Treasury
Retail banking
Wholesale 
banking
Other 
banking 
Operations
Total
Digital 
banking #
Non-Digital 
Banking
1
Segment revenue 
61,653.66
3.37
233,634.50
175,520.23
30,050.38
500,862.14
2
Unallocated revenue
-
3
Less: Inter-segment revenue 
193,280.57
4
Income from operations (1) + (2) - (3) 
307,581.57
5
Segment results**
14,190.10
(1.23)
15,661.14
32,280.98
11,104.00
73,234.99
6
Unallocated expenses 
2,339.68
7
Income tax expense (including 
deferred tax)
10,083.03
8
Net profit (5) - (6) - (7) 
60,812.28
9
Segment assets
822,926.80
51.34
1,395,037.69
1,274,899.43
97,097.23
3,590,012.49
10
Unallocated assets
27,610.60
11
Total assets (9) + (10) 
3,617,623.09
12
Segment liabilities**
94,557.67
56.18
2,046,617.47
973,987.85
8,212.98
3,123,432.15
13
Unallocated liabilities
53,945.13
14
Total liabilities (12) + (13) 
3,177,377.28
15
Capital employed (9) - (12) 
(Segment assets - Seg-ment liabilities)
466,580.34
16
Unallocated (10) - (13)
(26,334.53)
17
Total (15) + (16)
440,245.81
18
Capital expenditure
31.45
-
4,168.78
49.06
532.55
4,781.84
19
Depreciation 
26.01
-
2,343.71
204.67
235.71
2,810.10
20
Provisions for non-performing assets 
/ others*
-
-
13,644.00
5,935.15
3,913.00
23,492.15
21
Unallocated other pro-visions*
-
-
-
-
-
# Information about Digital Banking Segment reported as a sub-segment of Retail Banking Segment is related to Digital Banking Units of the Bank.
* Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
** Segment Results and Liabilities are after considering the impact of Floating Provisions in the respective segments.
 
Geographic segments: 
(` crore) 
Particulars
Domestic
International
Total
Revenue
302,942.78
4,638.77
307,581.55
Assets
3,542,043.24
75,579.82
3,617,623.06
Capital expenditure
4,780.51
1.33
4,781.84

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
417
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
29. Related party disclosures
 
As per AS-18, Related Party Disclosures read with RBI Master Direction on Financial Statements – Presentation and 
Disclosures, the Bank’s related parties are disclosed below: 
 
Subsidiaries
 
HDB Financial Services Limited
 
HDFC Securities Limited
 
HDFC Securities IFSC Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Securities Limited; with effect from October 01, 2024)
 
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited 
 
HDFC Pension Fund Management Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited)
 
HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited)
 
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited 
 
HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Asset Management Company Limited)
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited 
 
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited
 
HDFC Trustee Company Limited 
 
HDFC Sales Private Limited
 
 HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited (ceased to be a related party with effect from October 18, 
2024)
 
Griha Investments
 
Griha Pte Limited
 
Welfare Trust of the Bank
 
HDB Employees Welfare Trust
 
Key management personnel 
 
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 
 
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director
 
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director 
 
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director 
 
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
 
 Ms. Nagsri Sashidhar, Mr. Dhruv Sashidhar, Mr. Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Ms. Mythra Mahesh, Mr. Mahesh Babu 
Ramamurthy, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories, Ms. Havovi Bharucha, Mr. Huzaan Bharucha, Mr. Danesh Bharucha, 

HDFC Bank Limited
418
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Mr. Darius Bharucha, Ms. Dilnaaz D Bharucha, Ms. Mala B. Zaveri, Ms. Bhakti Zaveri, Mr. Akash Metawala, Ms. Niharika 
Zaveri, Mr. Dev Metawala, Mr. Paresh Zaveri, Ms. Kavita Zaveri, Mr. Hitesh Zaveri, Mr. Tushar Pandey (with effect from 
February 23, 2025), Aurionpro Solutions Limited, Trejhara Solutions Limited, Ms. S. Anuradha, Ms. V. Jayam, Ms. S. 
Abinaya Rangan. 
 
 The significant transactions between the Bank and related parties for year ended March 31, 2025 are given below. A 
specific related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in 
that category:
 
• 
 Interest paid: HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited ` 382.33 crore; HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited 
` 87.90 crore
 
• 
Interest received: HDB Financial Services Limited ` 690.51 crore
 
• 
 Rendering of services: HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited ` 3,789.23 crore; HDFC ERGO General Insurance 
Company Limited ` 699.66 crore
 
• 
 Receiving of services: HDB Financial Services Limited ` 1,216.66 crore; HDFC Sales Private Limited ` 964.36 crore
 
• 
 Dividend paid: Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ` 4.12 crore; Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 3.00 crore; Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan ` 2.86 
crore 
 
• 
 Dividend received: HDFC Securities Limited ` 851.92 crore; HDFC Asset Management Company Limited ` 785.26 
crore; HDB Financial Services Limited ` 225.18 crore
 
• 
Fixed Assets purchased from: Trejhara Solutions Limited ` 9.98 crore; Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 9.55 crore
  
The Bank’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2025 are summarised as follows:
(` crore) 
Items / Related party
Subsidiaries
Key 
management 
personnel 
(KMP)
Relatives of 
KMP & their 
interested 
entities
Total
Deposits taken
3,820.22
11.31
195.53
           4,027.06
(3,820.22)
(32.51)
(195.53)
(4,048.26)
Deposits placed
10.93
0.02
0.02
10.97
(10.93)
(0.02)
(0.02)
(10.97)
Borrowings
5,900.90
-
-
5,900.90
(6,495.90)
-
-
(6,495.90)
Advances given
6,733.76
2.74
0.31
6,736.81
(9,450.35)
(2.74)
(0.61)
(9,453.70)
Fixed assets purchased from
0.44
-
19.53
19.97
Fixed assets sold to
-
-
-
-
Interest paid to
522.65
0.64
8.31
531.60
Interest received from
692.65
0.13
0.03
692.81
Income from services rendered to
4,632.74
0.01
0.52
4,633.27
Expenses for receiving services from
2,610.22
0.12
12.57
2,622.91
Equity investments
13,749.39
-
-
13,749.39

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
419
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(` crore) 
Items / Related party
Subsidiaries
Key 
management 
personnel 
(KMP)
Relatives of 
KMP & their 
interested 
entities
Total
(13,949.39)
-
-
(13,949.39)
Other investments
149.93
  149.93
(824.79)
-
-
 (824.79)
Dividend paid to
 - 
10.34 
1.18
               11.52
Dividend received from
2,187.01
-
-
2,187.01
Receivable from/ Advances paid
1,036.72
-
-
1,036.72
(1,036.72)
-
-
(1,036.72)
Payable to
208.95
-
-
208.95
(234.69)
-
-
(234.69)
Guarantees given
0.26
-
73.42
73.68
(0.26)
-
 (84.76)
(85.02)
Remuneration paid
-
34.62
 - 
34.62
# 
Denotes amount less than  ` 1 lakh.
• 
Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each 
quarter-end.
• 
Remuneration paid is ` 11.23 crore to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, ` 8.02 crore to Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, ` 6.52 crore to Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri 
and ` 8.85 crore to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan.  
 
(above excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year). 
• 
Bonus and retiral beneﬁts for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key 
managerial personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2025, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect 
of earlier years was ` 14.51 crore.
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank sold SLR securities of ` 125.15 crore to HDFC ERGO General Insurance 
Company Limited.
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank bought back Non SLR securities of ` 174.63 crore from HDFC Life 
Insurance Company Limited.
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank sold Non SLR securities of ` 2,052.09 crore to HDFC Life Insurance 
Company Limited, ` 888.02 crore to HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited and ` 5.01 crore to HDFC Pension 
Fund Management Limited. 
 
 The deposit outstanding from HDB Employees Welfare Trust as at March 31, 2025 was ` 0.94 crore and interest on deposit 
aggregating to ` 0.10 crore.
 
 The Bank’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2024 are summarised as 
follows: 
 
Promoter
 
Erstwhile Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (amalgamated with and into the Bank with effect from July 
01, 2023)
 
Subsidiaries
 
HDFC Securities Limited
 
HDB Financial Services Limited

HDFC Bank Limited
420
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
 Pursuant to the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into the Bank, following entities became 
subsidiaries of the Bank with effect from July 01, 2023
 
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited 
 
HDFC Pension Management Company Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited)
 
HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited)
 
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited 
 
HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Asset Management Company Limited)
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited 
 
HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited (ceased to be a related party with effect from March 19, 2024)
 
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited 
 
HDFC Trustee Company Limited 
 
HDFC Sales Private Limited
 
HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited
 
Griha Investments
 
Griha Pte Limited
 
Welfare Trust of the Bank
 
HDB Employees Welfare Trust
 
Key management personnel 
 
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 
 
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director
 
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director (appointed with effect from April 19, 2023)
 
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director (appointed with effect from November 23, 2023)
 
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
 
 Ms. Nagsri Sashidhar, Mr. Dhruv Sashidhar, Mr. Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Ms. Mythra Mahesh, Mr. Mahesh Babu 
Ramamurthy, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories, Ms. Havovi Bharucha, Mr. Huzaan Bharucha, Mr. Danesh Bharucha, 
Mr. Darius Bharucha, Ms. Dilnaaz D Bharucha
 
 With effect from April 19, 2023 – Ms. Mala B. Zaveri, Ms. Bhakti Zaveri, Mr. Akash Metawala, Ms. Niharika Zaveri, Mr. Dev 
Metawala, Mr. Paresh Zaveri, Ms. Kavita Zaveri, Mr. Hitesh Zaveri, Aurionpro Solutions Limited, Trejhara  Solutions Limited
 
With effect from November 23, 2023 – Ms. S. Anuradha, Ms. V. Jayam, Ms. S. Abinaya Rangan

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
421
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 The significant transactions between the Bank and related parties are given below. A specific related party transaction is 
a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in that category:
 
•  
 Interest paid: HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited ` 298.78 crore; HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited 
` 53.55 crore
 
• 
Interest received: HDB Financial Services Limited ` 773.69 crore; HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited ` 197.69 crore
 
• 
 Rendering of services: HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited ` 2,626.48 crore; HDFC ERGO General Insurance 
Company Limited ` 346.20 crore
 
• 
Receiving of services: HDB Financial Services Limited ` 2,250.82 crore; HDFC Sales Private Limited ` 936.27 crore
 
• 
Dividend paid: Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ` 4.25 crore; Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 2.90 crore; Ms. Mala B. Zaveri ` 1.09 crore
 
• 
 Dividend received: HDFC Securities Limited ` 774.69 crore; HDB Financial Services Limited ` 232.68 crore; HDFC 
Life Insurance Company Limited ` 198.69 crore
 
• 
Fixed Assets purchased from: Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 12.53 crore
(` crore) 
Items / Related party
Promoter
Subsidiaries
Key management 
personnel (KMP)
Relatives of 
KMP & their 
interested 
entities
Total
Deposits taken
-
3,084.99
8.54
37.65
3,131.18
(6,503.24)
(3,084.99)
(20.56)
(37.65)
(9,646.44)
Deposits placed
-
10.93
0.02
0.02
10.97
(0.49)
(10.93)
(0.02)
(0.02)
(11.46)
Borrowings
-
6,285.90
-
-
6,285.90
-
(6,285.90)
-
-
(6,285.90)
Advances given
-
9,730.59
2.42
0.43
9,733.44
-
(12,094.13)
(2.67)
(1.03)
(12,097.83)
Fixed assets purchased from
-
-
-
13.13
13.13
Fixed assets sold to
-
-
-
-
-
Interest paid to
3.06
391.63
0.44
0.99
396.12
Interest received from
-
971.38
0.29
0.03
971.70
Income from services rendered to
161.15
3,112.17
0.01
0.05
3,273.38
Expenses for receiving services from
236.64
3,769.80
0.12
13.86
4,020.42
Equity investments
-
12,639.62
-
-
12,639.62
-
(15,074.59)
-
#
(15,074.59)
Other investments
-
824.77
-
-
824.77
-
(3,834.69)
-
-
(3,834.69)
Dividend paid to
-
-
7.41
1.13
8.54
Dividend received from
-
1,332.39
-
0.01
1,332.40
Receivable from / Advances paid
-
717.42
-
-
717.42
(0.58)
(887.45)
-
-
(888.03)
Payable to
-
136.72
-
-
136.72
(81.70)
(136.72)
-
-
(218.42)

HDFC Bank Limited
422
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` crore) 
Items / Related party
Promoter
Subsidiaries
Key management 
personnel (KMP)
Relatives of 
KMP & their 
interested 
entities
Total
Guarantees given
-
0.26
-
68.43
68.69
(0.02)
(0.51)
-
(68.43)
(68.96)
Remuneration paid
-
-
27.18
-
27.18
Loans purchased from
11,632.00
-
-
-
11,632.00
 
# 
Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
 
• 
 Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each 
quarter-end.
 
• 
 Remuneration paid is ` 9.91 crore to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, ` 9.92 crore to Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, ` 5.05 crore to Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri and 
` 2.30 crore to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan.
 
 
(above excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year). 
 
• 
 Bonus and retiral beneﬁts for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key 
managerial personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2024, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect 
of earlier years was ` 10.87 crore.
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank purchased ` 198.93 crore debt securities from HDB Financial Services 
Limited issued by it. The Bank also purchased Non SLR securities of ` 52.28 crore from HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited.
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank sold SLR securities of ` 96.69 crore to HDFC Life Insurance Company 
Limited. The Bank also sold Non SLR securities of ` 721.42 crore and ` 705.81 crore to HDFC Life Insurance Company 
Limited and HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited respectively.
 
 The deposit outstanding from HDB Employees Welfare Trust as at March 31, 2024 was ` 3.57 crore and interest on deposit 
aggregating to ` 0.10 crore.
30. Leases
 
 Operating leases primarily comprise office premises, staff residences and Automated Teller Machines (‘ATM’s), which are 
renewable at the option of the Bank.   
 
Lease Payments
 
The details of maturity profile of future operating lease payments are given below:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Not later than one year
2,227.80
1,925.37
Later than one year and not later than five years
8,352.80
7,242.50
Later than five years
11,300.28
9,813.79
Total
21,880.88
18,981.66
Total of minimum lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year
2,590.94
2,193.37
Total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-
cancellable sub-leases
4.31
14.28
Sub-lease amounts recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year 
1.84
6.01
Contingent (usage based) lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for 
the year
279.35
470.37
 
The Bank has sub-leased certain of its properties taken on lease.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
423
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
The terms of renewal and escalation clauses are those normally prevalent in similar agreements. There are no undue 
restrictions or onerous clauses in the agreements.
 
Lease Income
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Gross carrying amount of the assets 
46.13
137.83
Accumulated depreciation of the assets
11.54
31.18
Total depreciation recognised in the Profit and Loss account for the year 
0.94
3.70
 
Future minimum lease rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases as at the end of the year.
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Not later than one year
20.85
28.13
Later than one year and not later than five years 
37.74
20.83
Later than five years
-
-
Total 
58.59
48.96
31. Earnings per equity share
 
 Basic and diluted earnings per equity share of the Bank have been calculated based on the net profit after tax of ` 67,347.36 
crore (previous year: ` 60,812.28 crore) and the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year 
of 7,62,77,93,180 (previous year: 7,08,48,07,443). The dilutive impact is on account of stock options / units granted to 
employees by the Bank. There is no impact of dilution on the profits in the current year and previous year. 
 
Following is the reconciliation between the basic and diluted earnings per equity share:
Particulars
For the years ended
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Nominal value per share (`)
1.00
1.00
Basic earnings per share (`)
88.29
85.83
Effect of potential equity shares per share (`)
(0.39)
 (0.39)
Diluted earnings per share (`)
87.90
85.44
 
 Following is the reconciliation of the weighted average number of equity shares used in the computation of basic and diluted 
earnings per share:
Particulars
For the years ended
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing basic earnings per equity 
share
7,62,77,93,180
7,08,48,07,443
Effect of potential equity shares outstanding
3,41,77,391
3,24,45,707
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing diluted earnings per equity 
share
7,66,19,70,571
7,11,72,53,150
 
Equity shares issued as consideration under the Scheme are included in the weighted average number of shares with effect 
from appointed and effective date of the amalgamation.

HDFC Bank Limited
424
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
32. Provisions and contingent liabilities
 
 Given below is the movement in provisions and a brief description of the nature of contingent liabilities recognised by 
the Bank.
 
a) 
Provision for credit card and debit card reward points                                                                    
(` crore)
Particulars
    March 31, 2025
   March 31, 2024
Opening provision for reward points
863.54
696.31
Provision for reward points made during the year
933.51
792.11
Utilisation / write-back of provision for reward points
(749.61)
(624.88)
Closing provision for reward points
1,047.44
863.54
 
b) 
Provision for legal and other contingencies 
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening provision
570.14
           542.34
Movement during the year (net)
29.45
            27.80
Closing provision
599.59
           570.14
 
 
c) 
Description of contingent liabilities
Sr. 
No.
Contingent liability*
Brief description
1
Claims against the Bank not 
acknowledged as debts – taxation
The Bank is a party to various taxation matters in respect of which appeals are 
pending. The Bank expects the outcome of the appeals to be favorable based on 
decisions on similar issues in the previous years by the appellate authorities, based 
on the facts of the case and taxation laws. 
2
Claims against the Bank not 
acknowledged as debts – others
The Bank is a party to various legal proceedings in the normal course of business. 
The Bank does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material 
adverse effect on the Bank’s financial conditions, results of operations or cash 
flows.
3
Partly paid investments
This represents amount remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid 
investments. 
4
Liability on account of forward 
exchange and derivative contracts
The Bank enters into foreign exchange contracts, currency options, forward rate 
agreements, currency swaps and interest rate swaps with inter-bank participants 
on its own account and for customers. Forward exchange contracts are 
commitments to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at the contracted 
rate. Currency swaps are commitments to exchange cash flows by way of 
interest / principal in one currency against another, based on predetermined 
rates. Interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange fixed and floating 
interest rate cash flows. The notional amounts of financial instruments such as 
foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with 
instruments recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the 
amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments 
and, therefore, do not indicate the Bank’s exposure to credit or price risks. The 
derivative instruments become favorable (assets) or unfavorable (liabilities) as a 
result of fluctuations in market rates or prices relative to their terms. 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
425
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
5
Guarantees given on behalf of 
constituents, acceptances, 
endorsements and 
other obligations
As a part of its commercial banking activities, the Bank issues documentary credit 
and guarantees on behalf of its customers. Documentary credits such as letters of 
credit enhance the credit standing of the Bank’s customers. Guarantees generally 
represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of 
the customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
6
Other items for which the Bank is 
contingently liable
These include: a) Credit enhancements in respect of securitised-out loans; b) Bills 
rediscounted by the Bank; c) Capital commitments; d) Underwriting commitments; 
e) Investment purchases pending settlement; f) Amount transferred to the RBI 
under the Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEA Fund).
 
*Also refer Schedule 12 - Contingent liabilities
33. Small and micro industries
 
 Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from October 02, 2006, 
certain disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. There have been no reported 
cases of delays in payments to micro and small enterprises or of interest payments due to delays in such payments during 
the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024. The above is based on the information available with the Bank which 
has been relied upon by the auditors.
34. Corporate social responsibility
 
 The details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities carried out in line with the CSR Policy of the Bank are 
given below:
(` crore)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
1
Amount required to be spent by the Bank during the year
1,060.03
950.28
2
Amount of expenditure incurred*
1,068.03
945.06
3
Amount available for set off from preceding financial years
0.86
6.24
4
Amount required to be setoff for the financial year
-
5.22
5
Shortfall at the end of the year
-
-
6
Details of unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years
-
-
7
Reason for shortfall
-
-
8
Nature of CSR activities
- 
Education
- 
Livelihood 
and Skill   
development
- 
Rural 
Development
- 
Health and 
Sanitation
- 
Environmental 
sustainability
- 
Education
- 
Livelihood and Skill 
development
- 
Rural Development
- 
Health and 
Sanitation
- 
Financial literacy      
& Inclusion
- 
Natural Resource 
Management
9
Details of related party transactions, e.g. contribution to a trust controlled by the 
Bank in relation to CSR expenditure as per relevant Accounting Standard
-
-
10 Where a provision is made with respect to a liability incurred by entering into a 
contractual obligation, the movements in the provision
-
-
 
* Indicates the amount disbursed by the Bank during the ﬁnancial year.
35. Investor education and protection fund
 
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection
 
Fund by the Bank during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.

HDFC Bank Limited
426
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
36. Disclosure under Rule 11 (e) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014
 
 The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances to its constituents including foreign entities 
with permission to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like in other entities identified by such constituents. 
Similarly, the Bank accepts deposits from its constituents, who may instruct the Bank to lend/invest/provide guarantee or 
security or the like against such deposit in other entities identified by such constituents.
 
 These transactions are part of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted after exercising proper due diligence 
including adherence to “Know Your Customer” guidelines as applicable in respective jurisdiction.
 
 Other than the nature of transactions described above, the Bank has not advanced / lent / invested / provided guarantee 
or security to or in any other person with an understanding to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to or 
in any other person. Similarly, other than the nature of transactions described above, the Bank has not received any funds 
from any other person with an understanding that the Bank shall lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to 
or in any other person.
37. Audit trail 
 
 As per the requirements of rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules 2014 the Bank uses only such accounting software 
for maintaining its books of account that have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log). This feature of recording audit trail 
has operated throughout the year and was not tampered with, except that the audit trail feature was not enabled for part of 
the year for certain masters in two accounting software and two databases, and throughout the year for other databases. 
Further, the Bank has preserved the audit trail for the prior financial year in compliance with statutory record retention 
requirements, except in relation to certain software and databases for which audit trail feature was not enabled. The Bank 
has established and maintained an adequate internal control framework and based on its assessment, believes that this 
was effective as of March 31, 2025.
38. Comparative figures
 
 Figures for the previous year have been regrouped and reclassified wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s 
presentation. The previous year comparative numbers were jointly audited by M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants 
and Price Waterhouse LLP, Chartered Accountants.
As per our report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP
For Batliboi & Purohit
Atanu Chakraborty
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part-time Chairman of the Board
Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 
ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264   
101048W
M. D. Ranganath
Sunita Maheshwari 
Independent Director
Independent Director
Sharad Vasant
Janak Mehta
Partner
Partner
Lily Vadera
Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 
Membership No.: 101119
Membership No.: 116976
Independent Director
Independent Director 
  
Bhavesh Zaveri 
V. S. Rangan 
Executive Director
Executive Director
Renu Karnad 
Keki Mistry 
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan  
Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary

The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) requires banks to make Pillar 3 disclosures including leverage ratio, liquidity coverage ratio 
and net stable funding ratio under the Basel III Framework. These disclosures are available on HDFC Bank’s website under the 
‘Regulatory Disclosures’ section. The link to this section is given below:  
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/resources/regulatory-disclosures
The Regulatory Disclosures section contains the following disclosures:
• 
Qualitative and quantitative Pillar 3 disclosures:
 
Scope of application 
 
 
Capital adequacy 
 
 
Credit risk  
 
 
Credit risk: Portfolios subject to the standardised approach
 
 
Credit risk mitigation: Disclosures for standardised approach
 
 
Securitisation exposures 
 
 
Market risk in trading book  
 
 
Operational risk  
 
 
Asset Liability Management (‘ALM’) risk management 
 
 
General disclosures for exposures related to counterparty credit risk
 
 
Equities: Disclosure for banking book positions
• 
Composition of capital and reconciliation requirements
• 
Main features and full terms and conditions of regulatory capital instruments
• 
Leverage ratio disclosures
• 
Liquidity coverage ratio disclosure
• 
Net stable funding ratio disclosure
B A S E L  I I I  -  P I L L A R  3  D I S C L O S U R E S
As at March 31, 2025
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
427

HDFC Bank Limited
428
I N D E P E N D E N T  A U D I T O R ’ S  R E P O R T
To the Members of HDFC Bank Limited
Report on Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Opinion
1. 
 We have jointly audited the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of HDFC Bank Limited (hereinafter referred 
to as the “Bank” or the “Parent”) and its subsidiaries (Parent and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”) and 
Employee Welfare Trust, which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, and the Consolidated 
Profit and Loss Account and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter 
referred to as “the Consolidated Financial Statements”).
2. 
 In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Consolidated 
Financial Statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act”) in the manner so required for banking companies and are in conformity with accounting principles generally 
accepted in India and give a true and fair view of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group and Employee Welfare Trust 
as at March 31, 2025, and the consolidated profit and the consolidated cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3. 
 We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act 
and other applicable authoritative pronouncements issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). 
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Group and Employee Welfare Trust, 
in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements in India 
in terms of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI and the relevant provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we 
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe 
that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports 
referred to in sub-paragraphs 18 of the “Other Matters” section below is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion. 
Key Audit Matters
4. 
 Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025. These matters were addressed in the context of 
our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide 
a separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be 
communicated in our report.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
429
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Identification and Provisioning of Non-performing Advances (NPA): 
Total NPA as at March 31, 2025: ` 35,194.95 crores 
Provision for NPA as at March 31, 2025: ` 23,874.52 crores
(Refer Schedule 9 and Schedule 17 (D)(3))
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank is required to comply with the Master Circular dated 
April 02, 2024 issued by the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) on 
“Prudential Norms on Income Recognition, Asset Classification 
and Provisioning pertaining to Advances” (the “IRAC norms”) 
and amendments thereto, which prescribe the guidelines for 
identification and classification of Non-performing Advances and 
the minimum provision required for such assets.
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to determine 
the identification and provision required against Non-performing 
Advances considering various quantitative as well as qualitative 
factors. The identification of Non-performing Advances is also 
affected by factors like stress and liquidity concerns in certain 
sectors.
The provision for identified Non-performing Advances is estimated 
based on ageing and classification of Non-performing Advances, 
nature of product, value of security etc., and is also subject to 
the minimum provisioning norms specified by RBI. Since the 
identification of Non-performing Advances and provisioning for Non-
performing Advances requires considerable level of management 
estimation, application of various regulatory requirements and in 
view of its significance to the overall audit, we have identified this as 
a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included the following:
 
¾
Understood the process and controls, and tested the 
design and operating effectiveness of key controls, including 
Information Technology based controls, and focused on the 
following:
• 
Monitoring of credit quality which amongst other things 
includes the monitoring of overdue loan accounts and 
drawing power, pending security creation;
• 
Identification 
and 
classification 
of 
Non-performing 
Advances in accordance with IRAC norms and 
consideration of qualitative factors; and
• 
Testing of application controls including testing of 
automated controls, reports and system reconciliations.    
 
¾
Evaluated the governance process and controls over 
calculations of provision for Non-performing Advances and 
tested that the basis of provisioning is in accordance with the 
Board of Directors approved policy and IRAC norms.
 
¾
On a sample basis, recomputed the Days Past Due and 
verified the date of Non-performing Advances and verified the 
classification of Non-performing Advances. 
 
¾
On a test check basis, verified the classification of accounts 
reported by the Bank as Special Mention Accounts (‘SMA’) 
in RBI’s Central Repository of Information on Large Credits 
(‘CRILC’).
 
¾
With respect to provisions recognised towards Non-
performing Advances, calculated provision on a sample 
basis taking into consideration the value of security, where 
applicable, the IRAC norms and the policy of the Bank, and 
compared our outcome to that prepared by the management 
and evaluated relevant assumptions and judgements and 
other qualitative factors considered by the management.

HDFC Bank Limited
430
I N D E P E N D E N T  A U D I T O R ’ S  R E P O R T
Information Technology (“IT”) Systems and Controls impacting Financial Reporting
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The IT environment of the Bank is complex and involves a large 
number of independent and interdependent IT systems used in the 
operations of the Bank for processing and recording a large volume 
of transactions.
As a result, there is a high degree of reliance and dependency on 
such IT systems for the financial reporting process of the Bank. 
Appropriate IT general controls and IT application controls are 
required to ensure that such IT systems are able to process the 
data as required, completely, accurately, and consistently for reliable 
financial reporting.
We have identified certain key IT systems (“in-scope” IT systems) 
which have an impact on the financial reporting process and the 
related controls testing as a key audit matter because of the high 
level of automation, significant number of systems being used by 
the Bank for processing financial transactions, the complexity of the 
IT architecture and its impact on the financial records and financial 
reporting process of the Bank.
Our procedures with respect to this matter included the following:
 
¾
In assessing the controls over the IT systems of the Bank, we 
involved our technology specialists to obtain an understanding 
of the IT environment, IT infrastructure and IT systems. We 
evaluated and tested relevant IT general controls over the “in-
scope” IT systems and IT dependencies identified as relevant 
for our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and 
financial reporting process of the Bank. On such “in-scope” 
IT systems, we tested key IT general controls with respect to 
the following domains:
• 
Program change management, which includes that 
program changes are moved to the production 
environment as per defined procedures and relevant 
segregation of environment is ensured.
• 
User access management, which includes user access 
provisioning, de-provisioning, access review, password 
management, sensitive access rights and segregation 
of duties to ensure that privilege access to applications, 
operating systems and databases in the production 
environment were granted only to authorized personnel.
• 
Program development, which includes controls over IT 
application development or implementation and related 
infrastructure, which are relied upon for financial reporting.
• 
IT operations, which includes job scheduling, monitoring 
and backup and recovery.
 
¾
We also evaluated the design and tested the operating 
effectiveness of relevant key IT dependencies within the key 
business process, which included testing automated controls, 
automated calculations / accounting procedures, interfaces, 
segregation of duties and system generated reports, as 
applicable.
 
¾
We communicated with those charged with governance and 
management and tested a combination of compensating 
controls or remediated controls and / or performed alternative 
audit procedures, where necessary.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
431
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
5. 
 The following Key Audit Matters were reported to us by the joint auditors, G. M. Kapadia & Co. and B S R & Co. LLP, of 
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Parent, vide their communication dated April 18, 2025 which 
are reproduced by us as under:
Appropriateness of the Timing of Revenue Recognition in the proper period in accordance with applicable guidelines / accounting standards
Key Audit Matter
How our audit has addressed the key audit matter
During the year, the Holding Company has recognised premium 
revenue of ` 3,336,530 lakhs towards new business (first year 
premium and single premium). Out of the total revenue recognised, 
` 1,096,923 lakhs were recognised during the last quarter.
This area was considered a key audit matter because of the 
significant concentration of revenue during the last quarter of 
financial year (including cut-off at the Balance sheet date). Due to 
the nature of the industry, revenue is skewed towards the balance 
sheet date. Hence, there is a need to have adequate control 
environment and accurate cut-off procedures to mitigate inherent 
risk of misstatement related to the timing of revenue recognition.
In view of the significance of the matter, we applied the following 
audit procedures in this area, among others:
        Understood and evaluated the design and controls and 
tested the operating effectiveness of key controls relating 
to recognition of revenue including controls over timing of 
recognition and policy issuance procedure. 
2) 
 Performed testing on a sample basis for policies issued around 
the year-end including effectiveness of controls relating to cut-
off procedures to confirm if related procedural compliances with 
regard to acceptability of the terms of policy were completed 
before or after the year end to verify appropriate accounting of 
revenue in accordance with applicable guidelines / accounting 
standards.
3) 
 Verified on a sample basis that policy sales of the next financial 
year are not accounted for in the current period.
4) 
 Tested on a sample basis, the unallocated premium to 
corroborate that there were no policies where risk commenced 
prior to balance sheet but revenue was not recognised. 
5) 
 Tested the manual accounting journal entries relating to 
revenue on a sample basis so as to identify unusual or irregular 
items. We agreed the journal entries tested to supporting 
evidence.
6) 
 Tested on a sample basis cheques receipt with the time stamp 
in case of products like Unit Linked Insurance Plan to confirm 
the recognition of the revenue in correct accounting period. 
7) 
 Tested the automated control that the issuance of the policy is 
done after the payment is received.

HDFC Bank Limited
432
I N D E P E N D E N T  A U D I T O R ’ S  R E P O R T
Valuation of Investments Portfolio (31 March 2025: ` 33,628,153, 31 March 2024: ` 29,222,008) (` in lakhs)
Key Audit Matter
How our audit has addressed the key audit matter
The Holding Company’s investment portfolio consists of 
Policyholders investments (unit linked and non-linked) and 
Shareholders investments. Total investment portfolio represents 
around 99 % of the Holding Company’s total assets as at 31 March 
2025. 
As prescribed by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
of India (the “IRDAI”) investments including derivative instruments, 
should be made in accordance with the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority of India (Investment) Regulations, 2016 
(the “Investment Regulations”) and policies approved by Board of 
Directors of the Holding Company.
Investments in unit linked portfolio of  ` 10,162,815 lakhs are valued 
based on observable inputs as per their accounting policy and 
gains / losses are recognised in revenue account. These unit linked 
portfolio investments do not have risk of significant misstatement. 
The valuation of unlisted or not frequently traded investments 
involves management judgement. Due to their significance to 
consolidated financial statements, the same is considered as key 
audit matter.
Investments in non-linked and shareholders portfolio of ` 23,465,338 
lakhs are valued as per the accounting policy, based on which:
• 
the unrealized gains / losses arising due to changes in fair value 
of listed equity shares and mutual fund units are recorded in 
the “Fair Value Change Account” in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet; and
• 
debt securities and unlisted equity shares are valued at 
historical cost.
Further, investments in the non-linked and shareholders portfolio 
are assessed for impairment as per the Company’s Board approved 
impairment policy which involves the Holding Company’s judgement. 
There is increased economic stress on account of external factors, 
which may impact the valuation of these investments.
Accordingly, valuation of investments was considered to be one of 
the areas which required significant auditor attention and was one of 
the matters of significance in the consolidated financial statements.
In view of the significance of the matter, we applied the following 
audit procedures in this area, among others:
1) 
 Obtained an understanding of the Company’s process and 
controls over the valuation of investments. The understanding 
was obtained by performance of walkthroughs, which 
included inspection of documents produced by the Company 
and inquiries with those involved in the pertinent process;
2) 
 Examined the design, implementation and operating 
effectiveness of key controls over the valuation process. 
Assessed the Holding Company’s assessment and approval 
of assumptions used for the valuation including key 
authorisation and data input controls thereof;
3) 
 Obtained independent balance confirmations for investments 
as at balance sheet date from the custodians and depository 
participants appointed by the Holding Company to check the 
units of securities for the purpose of valuation re-computation;
4) 
 On a test check basis, recomputed valuation of different 
class of investments to assess valuation methodologies 
with reference to the Regulations along with the Holding 
Company’s Board approved valuation policy;
5) 
 Examined movement and accounting in Fair Value Change 
account for specific investments. Further, in case of revaluation 
done for investment properties, examined the underlying 
valuation report recomputed the movement in “Revaluation 
reserve”;
6) 
 Obtained written representations from the Holding Company 
on compliance of valuation of investments with the regulations 
and adequacy of impairment recorded for the year.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
433
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Information Technology (IT) systems and controls related to financial reporting process. 
Key Audit Matter
How our audit has addressed the key audit matter
The Holding Company is highly dependent on its Information 
Technology (IT) infrastructure comprising hardware, software, 
multiple applications, automated interfaces and controls in systems 
for recording, storing and reporting of financial transactions.
The Holding Company’s key financial accounting and reporting 
processes recording premium, commission, benefits paid, 
investments amongst others are highly dependent on IT systems 
including automated controls, to process and record large volume 
of transactions on daily basis. Accordingly, there exists a risk that 
deficiencies / gaps in the IT control environment (including General 
IT Controls and automated application controls) could result in a 
significant misstatement in the financial statements.
Given the pervasive nature and criticality of the IT environment 
to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, we 
have identified the testing of IT systems and the related control 
environment as a key audit matter for the current year.
In view of the significance of the matter, we involved Information 
technology specialist to assess IT systems and controls with respect 
to consolidated financial statements and applied the following audit 
procedures in this area, among others:
1) 
 Obtained an understanding of the Holding Company’s General 
IT Control (GITC) over key financial accounting and reporting 
systems, and related applications (collectively referred to as 
“in-scope systems”);
2) 
 Tested the design and operating effectiveness of key GITCs 
for in-scope systems, including;
• 
Logical access controls (e.g. segregation of duties, role-
based access, user provisioning and de-provisioning), 
• 
Periodic user access reviews and recertifications,
• 
Password and authentication policies, and 
• 
Change management controls, including testing and 
approvals of system changes in segregated environments.
3) 
 Examined automated control and system interfaces relating 
to process such as premium income, commission expense, 
benefits paid, and investment accounting. This included 
testing of: 
• 
Automated data interfaces and reconciliations,
• 
System logic, validations, and data flows,
• 
Processing controls for completeness and accuracy of 
financial data, 
4) 
 Assessed policies and strategies adopted by the Holding 
Company in relation to security of key information 
infrastructure, 
data 
and 
maintaining 
information 
and 
monitoring.
5) 
 Reviewed the Holding Company’s policies and governance 
practices related to cybersecurity, infrastructure security, 
and client data protection, including strategies adopted for 
incident prevention, detection, and response.
6) 
 Examined compensating controls and alternate procedures, 
where deficiencies existed.
7) 
 Obtained 
written 
representations 
from 
management 
confirming the design and operating effectiveness of IT 
General Controls and application-level controls over financial 
reporting.

HDFC Bank Limited
434
I N D E P E N D E N T  A U D I T O R ’ S  R E P O R T
6. 
 The following Key Audit Matters were included in the audit report issued by the joint auditors, G.D. Apte & Co. and 
Kalyaniwalla & Mistry LLP, of HDB Financial Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Parent, dated April 15, 2025, containing 
an unmodified audit opinion on the special purpose financial information of HDB Financial Services Limited, reproduced 
by us as under:
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Provisioning for Non-performing Advances based on RBI Guidelines
Refer to the accounting policies in ‘Note 2.3 – Advances of Schedule 18 to the Special purpose financial information’
Advances are classified as standard, sub-standard and 
doubtful based on Company policy approved by the Board 
of Directors, which is aligned with the extant RBI guidelines. 
The Company assesses all advances for their recoverability 
and accordingly recognizes provision for non-performing 
assets as per Company approved policy. The Company 
is also required to apply its judgment to determine the 
identification and provision required against Non-performing 
Advances considering various quantitative as well as 
qualitative factors in each product.
The aforesaid is identified as Key Audit Matter considering 
the significance of the management’s judgement involved in 
determining the non-performing advances and adequacy of 
the provision, and in the view of the significance of provision 
on non-performing advances to the overall audit.
Our key audit procedures included: 
• 
Review of the Board approved Policy and approach concerning 
the assessment of credit and other risks and ascertainment /
ageing of default by the borrowers and procedures in relation 
to NPA identification and provision computation. 
Review the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of 
controls.
• 
Understood the process and controls, and tested the 
design and operating effectiveness of key controls, including 
Information Technology based controls.
• 
Assessing the design, implementation and operating 
effectiveness of key internal financial controls including 
monitoring, identification and stamping of NPA accounts; and 
measurement of provision.
• 
Involvement of Information Technology experts in the audit 
team to obtain comfort over data integrity and process of 
report generation through interface of various systems.
With respect to classification of Non-performing Advances, verified 
the date of Non-performing Advances and recomputed the Days 
Past Due on a sample basis.
Verified the calculation of NPA provisions, as at the year-end by 
assessing the completeness, accuracy and relevance of data used 
for the NPA provision and checking the arithmetical accuracy by 
re-computation on a sample basis, to ensure that the same is in 
compliance with the Board approved policy and the extant RBI 
regulations in this regard.
 
 Note 2.3 of Schedule 18, as described in the above paragraph, are included in the Schedule 17 D(3) of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
435
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Information Technology
IT systems and controls 
The Company’s key financial accounting and reporting 
processes are highly dependent on information technology 
considering the significant number of transactions that are 
processed daily across multiple and distinct Information 
Technology (‘IT’) systems. The Financial accounting system 
of the Company is interfaced with several other IT systems 
including Loan Management & Originating systems as well 
as several other systemic workflows.
IT general and application controls are critical to ensure 
that IT systems are able to process the data, completely, 
accurately and consistently for reliable financial reporting, 
changes to applications and underlying data are made in 
an appropriate manner. Adequate controls contribute to 
mitigating the risk of potential fraud or errors as a result of 
changes to the applications and data.
These includes implementation of preventive and detective 
controls across critical applications and infrastructure.
Due to the pervasive nature of role of information technology 
systems in financial reporting, we planned our audit by 
assessing the risk of a material misstatement arising from 
the technology as significant for the audit, hence the Key 
Audit Matter.
During the course of audit, we deployed our internal experts to carry 
out the review of IT general controls. Our key audit processes were 
as under:
• 
Review of the IT applications and IT infrastructure of the 
Company in order to identify the IT applications and the 
infrastructure which has a significant impact on the financial 
reporting process, as “Key IT systems / applications”.
• 
Obtaining an understanding of Company’s Key IT applications, 
databases and operating systems.
• 
Review of reports of information security audits conducted by 
the Company either internally or through external experts.
• 
Testing design and operating effectiveness of IT controls such 
as IT governance and policy framework, access controls, 
change management controls, program development & 
system implementation, IT operations & backup controls, 
data integrity and protection controls, business continuity and 
disaster recovery, incident management, batch processing & 
monitoring etc.
• 
Testing the accuracy of the information produced by the 
Company’s key IT systems / applications.
• 
Testing of compensating controls and performing alternate 
procedures, whenever necessary.
• 
Testing of compliance with the requirements relating to ‘Audit 
Trail’ under ‘the Companies Act, 2013’.
We employed various techniques such as inquiry, review of 
documentation / record / reports, observation, and re-performance 
for the purpose of ITGC review.

HDFC Bank Limited
436
I N D E P E N D E N T  A U D I T O R ’ S  R E P O R T
7. 
 The following Key Audit Matters were reported to us by the joint auditors, G. M. Kapadia & Co. and B S R & Co. LLP, of 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Parent, vide their communication dated April 18, 
2025 which are reproduced by us as under:
Information Technology systems and controls (IT Control Relating to Financial Reporting):
Key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Company is highly dependent on data from various information 
technology systems including automated controls to process and 
record large volume of transactions, such that there exists a risk 
that gaps in the IT control environment could result in the financial 
accounting and reporting records being materially misstated.
Due to the pervasive nature, complexity and importance of the 
impact of the IT systems and related control environment on the 
Company’s Special purpose financial information, we have identified 
testing of such IT systems and related control environment as a key 
audit matter for the current year audit.
Our audit procedures included the following:
• 
We involved our IT specialists for assessment of the IT 
systems and controls over financial reporting;
• 
Understood General IT Controls (GITC) over key financial 
accounting and reporting systems (referred to as “in-scope 
systems”) which covered access controls, program / system 
changes, program development and computer operations;
• 
Understood the IT infrastructure i.e. operating systems and 
databases and related data security controls;
• 
Tested controls over IT infrastructure covering user access 
including privilege users and system changes;
• 
Evaluated design and operating effectiveness for in-scope 
systems and application controls which covered segregation 
of duties, system interfaces, completeness and accuracy of 
data feeds and system reconciliation controls; and
• 
Evaluated policies and strategies adopted by the Company in 
relation to operational security of key information infrastructure, 
data and client information management and monitoring.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
437
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Valuation and impairment determination of Investments 
Refer Schedule 8 of the Special Purpose Financial Information
Key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Company’s investment portfolio has been bifurcated into 
Policyholders investments and Shareholders investments in terms 
of IRDAI guidelines. Total investments represent 85.11 percent of 
the Company’s total assets as at 31 March 2025. 
Investments are valued in accordance with the provisions of the 
Insurance Act, the IRDA Financial Statements Regulations, orders / 
directions / circulars issued by IRDAI and / or policies as approved 
by the Board of Directors of the Company (collectively the “Valuation 
Policy”).
Investments amounting to ` 26,685.26 crores are valued as per 
their accounting policy, based on which:
• 
the unrealized gains / losses arising due to changes in fair 
value of listed equity shares, additional Tier I bonds and 
mutual fund units are recorded in the “Fair Value Change 
Account” in the Balance Sheet; and
• 
debt securities and unlisted equity shares are valued at 
historical cost.
Investments in listed equity shares, additional Tier I bonds 
and mutual funds does not represent higher risk of material 
misstatement, however, is considered to be a key audit matter due 
to its materiality to the special purpose financial information.  
Further, investments in debt securities and unlisted equity shares 
are assessed for impairment as per the Company’s investment 
policy which involves significant management judgement. There is 
increased economic stress on account of external factors, which 
may impact the determination of impairment of these investments.
Accordingly, valuation of investments (including impairment 
assessment) was considered to be one of the areas which required 
significant auditor attention and was one of the matters of most 
significance in the special purpose financial information.
Our audit procedures included the following:
• 
Understood the Company’s process and tested the controls 
on the valuation of investments;
• 
Evaluated design, implementation and operating effectiveness 
of key controls over the valuation process including 
impairment, including management’s review and approval 
of the estimates and assumptions used for the valuation 
including key authorization and data input controls;
• 
Evaluated appropriateness of valuation methodologies with 
reference to the Valuation Policy;
• 
Performed independent price-verification for samples using 
external quoted prices and by agreeing the management’s 
observable inputs used in valuation techniques to external 
data for listed and unlisted investments on test check basis;
• 
Examined movement and appropriateness of accounting in 
Fair Value Change Account for specific investments;
• 
For selected samples of investments measured at historical 
cost, we have tested the Company’s assessment of 
impairment and evaluated whether the same was in 
accordance with the Company’s impairment policy; and
• 
Evaluated 
appropriateness 
and 
reasonableness 
of 
methodology, assumptions and judgements used by 
management with reference to the Company’s investment 
valuation and impairment assessment as per policy.
Schedule 8, as described in the above paragraph, is included in the Schedule 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

HDFC Bank Limited
438
I N D E P E N D E N T  A U D I T O R ’ S  R E P O R T
Other Information
8. 
 The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information 
included in the Annual report but does not include the Consolidated Financial Statements and our and other auditor’s 
report thereon. The Annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
 
 Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
 
 In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to 
be materially misstated.
 
 When we read the Annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the relevant 
laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of the Management and those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
9. 
 The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these Consolidated Financial Statements 
in terms of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated 
financial performance and consolidated cash flows of the Group including the Employee Welfare Trust in accordance with 
the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards specified under Section 133 
of the Act, and the provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 and circulars, guidelines and directions 
issued by the RBI from time to time. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and the 
Trustees of Employee Welfare Trust are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group including the Employee Welfare Trust and for preventing 
and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements by the Board of Directors of the Bank, as aforesaid.
10.  In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the 
Group and the Trustees of Employee Welfare Trust are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group and the Employee 
Welfare Trust to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the 
going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Group and the Employee 
Welfare Trust or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
11.  The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and the Trustees of Employee Welfare Trust are 
responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process of the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust.
 Auditor’s Responsibilities for the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
12.  Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs 
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users 
taken on the basis of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
439
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
13.  As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 
or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the 
Bank and it’s subsidiaries incorporated in India, has adequate internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by the management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant 
doubt on the ability of the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are 
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust to cease to continue as a going concern. 
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the Consolidated Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a 
manner that achieves fair presentation. 
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the companies or business activities 
within the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust to express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements. We 
are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of 
such companies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, of which we are the independent auditors. For the 
other companies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such 
other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We 
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
14.  We communicate with those charged with governance of the Bank and such other companies included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.
15.  We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought 
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
16.  From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the current year and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the 
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication. 

HDFC Bank Limited
440
I N D E P E N D E N T  A U D I T O R ’ S  R E P O R T
Other Matters
17.  The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bank for the year ended March 31, 2024, were jointly audited by M M Nissim 
& Co LLP and Price Waterhouse LLP, under the Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 who, vide their report dated April 
20, 2024, expressed an unmodified opinion on those Consolidated Financial Statements. Accordingly, Batliboi & Purohit 
do not express any opinion on the figures reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended March 
31, 2024. 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
18.  The standalone financial information of 7 subsidiaries and consolidated financial information of 3 subsidiaries included 
in the Consolidated Financial Statements, reflect total assets of ` 514,517.90 crores and net assets of ` 49,721.01 crores 
as at March 31, 2025, total revenue of ` 135,536.03 crores, net profit after tax of ` 8,133.46 crores and net cash inflows 
amounting to ` 1,372.89 crores for the year ended March 31, 2025. These financial information have been audited by other 
auditors, whose reports and other communications have been furnished to us by the Bank’s Management, and our opinion 
on the Consolidated Financial Statements in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of 
these subsidiaries and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid 
subsidiaries, is based on the reports and other communications of the other auditors and the procedures performed by 
us.  
19.  We did not audit the financial information of the Employee Welfare Trust, whose financial information reflect total assets 
of ` 833.80 crores and net assets of ` 738.70 crores as at March 31, 2025, total revenue of ` 158.76 crores, profit after 
tax of ` 170.00 crores and cash outflow amounting to ` 2.63 crores for the year ended March 31, 2025, as considered in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial information are unaudited and have been furnished to us by the 
Bank’s Management, and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements in so far as it relates to the amounts and 
disclosures included in respect of the Employee Welfare Trust and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of 
the Act including report on Other Information in so far as it relates to the aforesaid Employee Welfare Trust, is based solely 
on such unaudited financial information. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by 
the Management, these financial information are not material to the Group.
 
 Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, and our report on the section ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements’ below, is not modified in respect of the above matters stated in paragraphs 18 and 19 with respect to our 
reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors and the financial information certified by the Management 
of the Bank.
20.  The following other matter paragraph has been included in the audit report on the special purpose consolidated financial 
information of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (‘HDFC Life / the Parent Company’ referred to in its report), a 
subsidiary of the Bank, issued by their joint statutory auditors, vide their report dated April 18, 2025: 
 
 “The actuarial valuation of liabilities for life policies in-force and for policies where premium has been discontinued but 
liability exists as at 31 March 2025 has been duly certified by the Holding Company’s Appointed Actuary. The Holding 
Company’s Appointed Actuary has also certified that, in her opinion, the assumptions for such valuation are in accordance 
with the generally accepted actuarial principles and practices, requirements of the Insurance Act, regulations notified by 
the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (“IRDAI”) and Actuarial Practice Standards issued by the 
Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the 
Authority.”
21.  The following other matter paragraph has been included in the audit report on the special purpose financial information of 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (‘the Company’ as referred to in its report), a subsidiary of the Bank, 
issued by their joint statutory auditors, vide their report dated April 15, 2025: 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
441
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 “The actuarial valuation of liabilities is the responsibility of the Company’s Appointed Actuary (the “Appointed Actuary”). 
The actuarial valuation of the outstanding claims reserves that are estimated using statistical methods, Premium Deficiency 
Reserve (the “PDR”), Incurred but Not Reported (“IBNR”) including Incurred but Not Enough Reported (“IBNER”) as at 31 
March 2025 has been duly certified by the Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, the assumptions for such valuation are in 
accordance with the guidelines and norms issued by IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the 
Authority. We have relied upon the Appointed Actuary’s certificate in this regard for forming our opinion on the valuation 
of liabilities for outstanding claims reserves that are estimated using statistical methods, PDR, IBNR (including IBNER) 
reserves, as contained in the special purpose financial information of the Company.”
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the matters stated in paragraph 20 and 21 above.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
22.  In our opinion, the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account have been drawn up in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Section 133 of the Act. 
23. As required by sub-section (3) of Section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that:
 
(a) 
 We have obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were necessary 
for the purpose of our audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
 
(b) 
 The transactions of the Bank, which have come to our notice, have been within the powers of the Bank, other than 
those relating to leasing of immovable properties acquired on amalgamation of the erstwhile HDFC Limited with the 
Bank, as disclosed in Schedule 18 note (1) to the Consolidated Financial Statements; and
 
(c) 
 During the course of our audit we have visited 73 branches to examine the books of accounts and other records 
maintained at the branch and performed other relevant audit procedures. Since the key operations of the Bank are 
automated with the key applications integrated to the core banking system, the audit is carried out centrally at Bank’s 
Head office located in Mumbai, as all the necessary records and data required for the purposes of our audit are 
available therein.
24. Further, as required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
 
(a) 
 We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
(b) 
 In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid Consolidated 
Financial Statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports and 
other communications of the statutory auditors of the subsidiary companies incorporated in India, except for the 
matters stated in paragraph 24(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 (as amended) (“the Rules”).
 
(c) 
 The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and the Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement dealt with by this report are in agreement with the relevant books of account and records maintained for 
the purpose of preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
(d) 
 In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified 
under Section 133 of the Act, to the extent they are not inconsistent with the accounting policies prescribed by RBI.
 
(e) 
 On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Bank as at March 31, 2025 taken on 
record by the Board of Directors of the Bank and the reports and other communications of the statutory auditors of 

HDFC Bank Limited
442
I N D E P E N D E N T  A U D I T O R ’ S  R E P O R T
its subsidiary companies incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Bank and the subsidiaries incorporated in 
India is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
 
(f) 
 With respect to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith, reference is made to our 
comment in paragraph 24(b) above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 24(h)(vi) below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of the Rules, by us with respect to Bank and based on the reports and other communications of the 
statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies, incorporated in India.
 
(g) 
 With respect to the adequacy of internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 
Bank and it’s subsidiaries which are incorporated in India, and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to 
our separate report in Annexure A.
 
(h) 
 With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
 
 
i. 
 The Consolidated Financial Statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated financial 
position of the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust – Refer Schedule 12(I) and 12(II), Schedule 17 D(25), 
Schedule 18 note 10 and note 20(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
ii. 
 Provision has been made in the Consolidated Financial Statements, as required under the applicable law or 
accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses on long-term contracts including derivative contracts as at 
March 31, 2025 – Refer Schedule 17 D(10) and 17 D(25), Schedule 18 note 10 and note 20(b) to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in respect of such items as it relates to the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust. 
 
 
iii. 
 There has been no delay in transferring amounts required to be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Bank and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India during the year.
 
 
iv. 
 (a) The respective Managements of the Bank and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India, 
whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, have represented to us and the other auditors of 
such subsidiaries, respectively, that to the best of their knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in Schedule 
18 note 23, no funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned 
or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank or 
any of such subsidiaries to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly, 
lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company or 
any of such subsidiaries (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries.
 
 
 
 (b) The respective Managements of the Bank and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India, 
whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and the other auditors of 
such subsidiaries respectively that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in Schedule 
18 note 23, no funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the Bank 
or any of such subsidiaries from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company or any of such subsidiaries 
shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
 
 
 
 (c) Based on the audit procedures, that has been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, 
performed by us and those performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
443
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
India, whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, nothing has come to our or other auditors’ 
notice that has caused us or the other auditors to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of 
Rule 11(e) contain any material misstatement.
           
v. 
 The dividend declared and paid during the year by the Bank and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India, 
is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
 
 
vi. 
 Based on our examination, which included test checks, and that performed by the respective auditors of the 
subsidiaries, which are companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the 
Act, except for the instances mentioned below, the Bank and such subsidiaries have used accounting software 
for maintaining books of account which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and that has 
operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software. Further, during the course of 
performing the procedures, we, and the respective auditors of such subsidiaries, did not notice any instance of 
the audit trail feature being tampered with. Additionally, other than as described below, the audit trail has been 
preserved by the Bank and such subsidiaries, as per the statutory requirements for record retention.
Description of Instances
Number of instances
Instances of inability of the auditor to comment on certain software, in the absence of comprehensive 
information, on whether audit trail feature is enabled for direct changes to data while using certain access 
rights.
For one subsidiary
Instances where either the audit trail feature is not enabled for part of the year in case of certain masters of 
two accounting software and two databases, also for other databases, audit trail feature is not enabled for 
full year.
For the Bank
Instances where the audit trail feature was not enabled throughout the year for application layer of an 
accounting software.
For one subsidiary 
Instances where audit trail is not preserved as per the statutory requirements for record retention.
For the Bank and four 
subsidiaries 
25.  In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the provisions of Section 
197 of the Act are not applicable to the Bank by virtue of Section 35B(2A) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Accordingly, 
the reporting under Section 197(16) of the Act regarding payment / provision for managerial remuneration in accordance 
with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act, is not applicable.
 
 Based on the consideration of reports and other communications of the joint statutory auditors of HDFC Life Insurance 
Company Limited and HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited, the subsidiary companies, the remuneration paid 
for managerial renumeration was in accordance with the provisions of section 197 of the Act, read with section 34A of the 
Insurance Act, 1938. Further, based on the consideration of reports and other communications of the statutory auditors of 
other subsidiaries incorporated in India, the remuneration paid / provided for managerial renumeration was in accordance 
with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act. 
For Price Waterhouse LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 
301112E/E300264
For Batliboi & Purohit 
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 
101048W
Sharad Vasant
Partner
Membership Number: 101119
UDIN: 25101119BMIFBB3673
Janak Mehta  
Partner
Membership Number: 116976
UDIN: 25116976BMOKOW2322
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025

HDFC Bank Limited
444
I N D E P E N D E N T  A U D I T O R ’ S  R E P O R T
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 24(g) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of HDFC Bank Limited on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements under 
clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1. 
 In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bank as of and for the year ended March 
31, 2025, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of HDFC 
Bank Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Bank” or the “Parent”) and its subsidiary companies, which are companies 
incorporated in India, as of that date (the Bank and its subsidiaries together referred to as the “Group”). 
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
2. 
 The respective Board of Directors of the Group, to whom reporting under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the 
Act in respect of the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements is 
applicable, which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls based on internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Group considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(“the Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring 
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding 
of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3. 
 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI and the 
Standards on Auditing deemed to be prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable 
to an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an audit of internal financial controls and both issued by the ICAI. 
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
4. 
 Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
system with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing 
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures 
selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5. 
 We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of 
their reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls system with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
445
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
6. 
 A Bank’s internal financial control with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A Bank’s internal financial control with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance 
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
Bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of Consolidated 
Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of 
the Bank are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the Bank; and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the Bank’s 
assets that could have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements
7. 
 Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or 
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8. 
 In our opinion, the Group, have, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements and such internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
were operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established 
by the Group considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
Other Matters
9. 
 Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements insofar as it relates to 8 subsidiary companies, which are 
companies incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated 
in India. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
For Price Waterhouse LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 
301112E/E300264
For Batliboi & Purohit 
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: 
101048W
Sharad Vasant
Partner
Membership Number: 101119
UDIN: 25101119BMIFBB3673
Janak Mehta  
Partner
Membership Number: 116976
UDIN: 25116976BMOKOW2322
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025
 

C O N S O L I D AT E D  B A L A N C E  S H E E T
As at March 31, 2025
HDFC Bank Limited
446
C C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital
1
 765.22 
 759.69 
Employees stock options outstanding
18 (5)
 3,805.19 
 2,652.72 
Reserves and surplus
2
 517,218.98 
 452,982.84 
Minority interest
2A
 16,359.04 
 13,383.40 
Deposits
3
 2,710,898.23 
 2,376,887.28 
Borrowings
4
 634,605.57 
 730,615.46 
Other liabilities and provisions
5
 188,163.66 
 174,832.07 
Policyholders' funds
 320,601.53 
 278,080.80 
Total
 4,392,417.42 
 4,030,194.26 
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India
6
 144,390.25 
 178,718.67 
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice
7
 105,557.65 
 50,115.84 
Investments
8
 1,186,472.89 
 1,005,681.63 
Advances
9
 2,724,938.16 
 2,571,916.65 
Fixed assets
10
 15,257.94 
 12,603.76 
Other assets
11
 215,800.53 
 211,157.71 
Total
 4,392,417.42 
 4,030,194.26 
Contingent liabilities
12
 2,709,921.85 
 2,344,487.73 
Bills for collection
 70,679.55 
 65,332.87 
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet.
17 & 18
As per our report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP
For Batliboi & Purohit
Atanu Chakraborty
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part-time Chairman of the Board
Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 
ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264   
101048W
M. D. Ranganath
Sunita Maheshwari 
Independent Director
Independent Director
Sharad Vasant
Janak Mehta
Lily Vadera
Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 
Partner
Partner
Independent Director
Independent Director 
Membership No.: 101119
Membership No.: 116976
  
Bhavesh Zaveri 
V. S. Rangan 
Executive Director
Executive Director
Renu Karnad 
Keki Mistry 
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan  
Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
447
C O N S O L I D AT E D  P R O F I T  A N D  L O S S  A C C O U N T
For the year ended March 31, 2025
C in crore
Schedule
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
  Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I. INCOME
Interest earned
13
 336,367.43 
 283,649.02 
Other income
14
 134,548.50 
 124,345.75 
Total
 470,915.93 
 407,994.77 
II. EXPENDITURE
Interest expended
15
 183,894.20 
 154,138.55 
Operating expenses
16
 176,605.07 
 152,269.34 
Provisions and contingencies
18 (10)
 36,976.49 
 36,140.38 
Total
 397,475.76 
 342,548.27 
III. PROFIT
Consolidated Net Profit for the year before Minority Interest
 73,440.17 
 65,446.50 
Less : Minority Interest
 2,647.92 
 1,384.46 
Consolidated Net Profit for the year attributable to the group
 70,792.25 
 64,062.04 
Brought forward consolidated profit attributable to the group
 150,045.57 
 120,369.35 
Addition on amalgamation (net)
18 (1)
 -   
 3,570.10 
Total
 220,837.82 
 188,001.49 
IV. APPROPRIATIONS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve
 17,260.30 
 15,684.72 
Transfer to General Reserve
 6,734.74 
 6,081.23 
Transfer to Special Reserve
 3,200.00 
 3,000.00 
Transfer to Capital Reserve
 507.00 
 4,166.41 
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve Account (net)
 -   
 529.42 
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 -   
 378.00 
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year
 14,826.19 
 8,404.42 
Transfer to / (from) Minority Interest (opening adjustment)
 (382.96)
 (288.28)
Balance carried over to consolidated balance sheet
 178,692.55 
 150,045.57 
Total
 220,837.82 
 188,001.49 
V. EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE (Face value ` 1/- per share) 
18 (19)
`
`
Basic 
 92.81 
 90.42 
Diluted 
 92.39 
 90.01 
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated  Profit and Loss 
Account. 
17 & 18
As per our report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP
For Batliboi & Purohit
Atanu Chakraborty
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part-time Chairman of the Board
Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 
ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264   
101048W
M. D. Ranganath
Sunita Maheshwari 
Independent Director
Independent Director
Sharad Vasant
Janak Mehta
Partner
Partner
Lily Vadera
Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 
Membership No.: 101119
Membership No.: 116976
Independent Director
Independent Director 
  
Bhavesh Zaveri 
V. S. Rangan 
Executive Director
Executive Director
Renu Karnad 
Keki Mistry 
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan  
Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary

HDFC Bank Limited
448
C O N S O L I D AT E D  C A S H  F L O W  S TAT E M E N T
For the year ended March 31, 2025
CC in crore
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
  Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Cash flows from operating activities:
Consolidated profit before income tax and after minority interest
 93,594.13 
 75,184.14 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation on fixed assets
 3,805.23 
 3,092.08 
(Profit) / loss on revaluation of investments
 3,909.10 
 (6,957.14)
Amortisation of premium on investments
 87.07 
 966.09 
Profit on sale of fixed assets
 (22.03)
 (75.36)
(Profit) / loss on sale of investment in subsidiary
 8.00 
 (7,341.42)
Provision / charge for non performing assets
 15,385.24 
 12,540.05 
Floating provisions
 -   
 10,900.00 
Provision / (write-back) for standard assets and contingencies
 (1,210.63)
 1,578.23 
Employee stock options / units expense
 2,086.05 
 1,731.73 
 117,642.16 
 91,618.40 
Adjustments for:
Increase in investments
 (180,362.67)
 (88,411.63)
Increase in advances
 (169,918.22)
 (312,488.37)
Increase in deposits
 334,010.95 
 336,964.81 
Increase in other assets
 (10,829.67)
 (27,919.59)
Increase in other liabilities and provisions 
 13,117.98 
 6,420.40 
Increase in policyholders' funds
 43,289.99 
 35,728.16 
 146,950.52 
 41,912.18 
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds)
 (19,708.68)
 (22,842.84)
Net cash flows from operating activities
 127,241.84 
 19,069.34 
 
Cash flows from investing activities:
Purchase of fixed assets 
 (4,075.89)
 (4,286.72)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets
 100.72 
 99.82 
Proceeds from sale of investment in subsidiary (net)
 192.00 
 9,500.67 
Investment in subsidiaries
 (67.47)
 -   
Net cash flow from / (used in) investing activities
 (3,850.64)
 5,313.77 
Cash flows from financing activities:
Increase in minority interest
 2,382.88 
 1,201.66 
Proceeds from exercise of convertible equity warrants 
 -   
 3,192.81 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
449
C O N S O L I D AT E D  C A S H  F L O W  S TAT E M E N T
For the year ended March 31, 2025
CC in crore
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
  Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Proceeds from issue of share capital other than warrants
 6,346.50 
 5,249.73 
Proceeds from issue of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments
 1,182.00 
 2,350.00 
Redemption of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments
 (500.00)
 (230.00)
Decrease in other borrowings
 (97,062.73)
 (7,342.84)
Dividend paid during the year
 (14,826.19)
 (8,404.42)
Net cash flow used in financing activities
 (102,477.54)
 (3,983.06)
Effect of fluctuation in foreign currency translation reserve
 199.73 
 104.94 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
 21,113.39 
 20,504.99 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 228,834.51 
 197,147.81 
Cash and cash equivalents acquired on amalgamation 
 -   
 11,181.71 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 249,947.90 
 228,834.51 
Cash and cash equivalents include Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India and Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 
(Refer Schedule 6 and Schedule 7). 
 
As per our report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP
For Batliboi & Purohit
Atanu Chakraborty
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part-time Chairman of the Board
Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 
ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264   
101048W
M. D. Ranganath
Sunita Maheshwari 
Independent Director
Independent Director
Sharad Vasant
Janak Mehta
Partner
Partner
Lily Vadera
Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 
Membership No.: 101119
Membership No.: 116976
Independent Director
Independent Director 
  
Bhavesh Zaveri 
V. S. Rangan 
Executive Director
Executive Director
Renu Karnad 
Keki Mistry 
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan  
Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary

HDFC Bank Limited
450
SCHEDULE 1 - CAPITAL
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
Authorised Capital
11,90,61,00,000 (31 March, 2024: 11,90,61,00,000) Equity Shares of  C 1/- each
 1,190.61 
 1,190.61 
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital
7,65,22,21,674 (31 March, 2024 : 7,59,69,10,662) Equity Shares of C 1/- each
 765.22 
 759.69 
Total
 765.22 
 759.69 
SCHEDULE 2 - RESERVES AND SURPLUS
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.     Statutory Reserve
Opening balance
 88,114.32 
 64,373.87 
Addition on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 8,055.73 
Additions during the year
18 (6)
 17,260.30 
 15,684.72 
Closing balance
 105,374.62 
 88,114.32 
II.  General Reserve
Opening balance
 53,877.70 
 24,892.80 
Addition on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 22,902.33 
Additions during the year
18 (6)
 7,863.74 
 6,082.57 
Closing balance
 61,741.44 
 53,877.70 
III.    Balance in Profit and Loss Account
 178,692.55 
 150,045.57 
IV.  Share Premium
Opening balance
 127,053.27 
 66,539.42 
Addition on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 51,728.83 
Additions during the year
 7,064.09 
 8,785.02 
Closing balance
 134,117.36 
 127,053.27 
V.  Special Reserve
Opening balance
 26,268.18 
 500.00 
Addition on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 22,768.18 
Additions during the year
18 (6)
 3,200.00 
 3,000.00 
Closing balance
 29,468.18 
 26,268.18 
VI.  Amalgamation Reserve - I
Opening balance
 1,063.56 
 1,063.56 
Additions / (deductions) during the year
 -   
 -   
Closing balance
18 (6)
 1,063.56 
 1,063.56 
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
451
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
VII.  Amalgamation Reserve - II
Opening balance
 (13,947.06)
 -   
Additions / (deductions) on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 (13,947.06)
Closing balance
18 (6)
 (13,947.06)
 (13,947.06)
VIII.  Capital Reserve
Opening balance
 9,794.18 
 5,627.54 
Addition on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 0.04 
Additions during the year
18 (6)
 507.00 
 4,166.60 
Closing balance
 10,301.18 
 9,794.18 
IX.  Investment Reserve Account
Opening balance
 529.42 
 -   
Additions during the year
18 (6)
 -   
 529.42 
Deductions during the year
18 (6)
 (529.42)
 -   
Closing balance
 -   
 529.42 
X.  Investment Fluctuation Reserve 
Opening balance
 5,032.00 
 3,701.00 
Addition on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 953.00 
Additions during the year
18 (6)
 529.42 
 378.00 
Closing balance
 5,561.42 
 5,032.00 
XI.  Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
Opening balance
 883.79 
 778.85 
Additions during the year
 199.73 
 104.94 
Closing balance
18 (6)
 1,083.52 
 883.79 
XII.  Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
Opening balance
 832.30 
 (84.06)
Additions on amalgamation
18 (1)
 -   
 937.05 
Additions / (deductions) during the year
 (924.46)
 (20.69)
Closing balance
18 (6)
 (92.16)
 832.30 
XIII.  Other Reserves 
Opening balance
 145.58 
 -   
Additions / (deductions) during the year
 (131.56)
 145.58 
Closing balance
18 (6)
 14.02 
 145.58 
XIV.  AFS Reserve
Opening Balance
 -   
 -   
Additions / (deductions) during the year
18 (6)
 616.85 
 -   
Closing balance
 616.85 
 -   
XV.  Capital Reserve on Consolidation (net of goodwill)
18 (6)
 3,223.50  
 3,290.03 
Total
 517,218.98 
 452,982.84 

HDFC Bank Limited
452
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 2A - MINORITY INTEREST
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
Minority interest at the date on which parent subsidiary relationship came into existence
 11,260.45 
 27.60 
Addition on amalgamation
 -   
 11,232.85 
Subsequent increase
 5,098.59 
 2,122.95 
Minority interest on the date of balance sheet
 16,359.04 
 13,383.40 
SCHEDULE 3 - DEPOSITS
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
A.  I.  
Demand deposits
  
  
(i)  
From banks
 4,149.85 
 3,704.74 
  
  
(ii)  From others
 307,274.93 
 304,071.93 
Total
 311,424.78 
 307,776.67 
 
II.     Savings bank deposits
 630,465.95 
 598,743.72 
    
III.    Term deposits
        
(i)   From banks
 32,599.29 
 17,767.08 
        
(ii)  From others
 1,736,408.21 
 1,452,599.81 
 
Total
 1,769,007.50 
 1,470,366.89 
 
Total
 2,710,898.23 
 2,376,887.28 
B.  I.   Deposits of branches in India
 2,686,792.91 
 2,354,694.75 
     II.  Deposits of branches outside India
 24,105.32 
 22,192.53 
 
Total
 2,710,898.23 
 2,376,887.28 
Deposits include lien marked deposits of C  369,435.40 crore (previous year: C  292,100.75 crore).
SCHEDULE  4 - BORROWINGS
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.     Borrowings in India 
(i)  
Reserve Bank of India
 6,335.00 
 4,556.00 
 
(ii)  Other banks
 77,221.99 
 138,414.60 
 
(iii)  Other institutions and agencies
 114,912.83 
 148,410.04 
 
(iv)  Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments
 30,936.89 
 30,583.32 
     (v)  Other bonds and debentures
 275,808.83 
 299,626.91 
Total
 505,215.54 
 621,590.87 
II.    Borrowings outside India
 129,390.03 
 109,024.59 
Total
 634,605.57 
 730,615.46 
Secured borrowings included in I & II above: C  77,656.02 crore (previous year: C  68,131.87 crore) except borrowings of  C  13,039.60 crore (previous 
year: C  5,654.13 crore) under repurchase transactions (including tri-party repo) and transactions under Liquidity Adjustment Facility.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
453
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SCHEDULE  5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.     Bills payable
 13,653.91 
 13,932.56 
II.    Interest accrued
 25,618.40 
 23,853.43 
III.  Contingent provisions against standard assets
 11,315.90 
 11,005.15 
IV.  Others (including provisions)
 137,267.86 
 126,040.93 
V. 
Deferred Tax Liabilities
 307.59 
 -   
 
Total
 188,163.66 
 174,832.07 
SCHEDULE 6  -  CASH AND BALANCES WITH  RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I. 
Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)
 12,162.88 
 13,060.08 
II.  
Balances with Reserve Bank of India:
 
(a)  In current accounts
 132,027.37 
 131,892.59 
 
(b)  In other accounts
 200.00 
 33,766.00 
 
Total
 132,227.37 
 165,658.59 
 
Total
 144,390.25 
 178,718.67 
SCHEDULE  7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.   In India
   
(i)  
Balances with banks:
           
(a)  In current accounts
 1,258.21 
 1,036.55 
           
(b)  In other deposit accounts
 4,582.85 
 5,247.91 
 
Total
 5,841.06 
 6,284.46 
   
(ii)  Money at call and short notice:
            
(a)  With banks
 -   
 200.00 
            
(b)  With other institutions
 35,598.84 
 3,819.32 
 
Total
 35,598.84 
 4,019.32 
 
Total
 41,439.90 
 10,303.78 
II.   Outside India
       (i)  
In current accounts 
 19,083.75 
 10,324.23 
      (ii)  In other deposit accounts
 12,469.64 
 11,933.99 
     (iii)  Money at call and short notice 
 32,564.36 
 17,553.84 
 
Total
 64,117.75 
 39,812.06 
 
Total
 105,557.65 
 50,115.84 

HDFC Bank Limited
454
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE  8 - INVESTMENTS
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
A.  Investments in India in
    
(i)   Government securities
 775,264.24 
 654,866.87 
   
(ii)   Other approved securities
 -   
 -   
  
(iii)    Shares
 8,075.45 
 5,116.10 
   
(iv)   Debentures and bonds
 38,285.78 
 20,395.38 
   
(v)   Investments - Policyholders
 330,941.32 
 293,986.13 
    
(vi)   Subsidiaries / joint ventures
 -   
 200.00 
    
(vii)   Others (Units of Mutual funds / AIFs / REITs, CDs, CPs, PTCs and security receipts)
 31,263.84 
 29,044.34 
 
Total
 1,183,830.63 
 1,003,608.82 
B.    Investments outside India in
   
(i)    Government securities (including local authorities)
 918.09 
 248.04 
   
(ii)   Other investments
       
(a)   Shares
 96.47 
 21.53 
       
(b)   Debentures and bonds
 1,381.78 
 1,627.48 
   
(iii)   Investments - Policyholders
 245.92 
 175.76 
 
Total
 2,642.26 
 2,072.81 
 
Total
 1,186,472.89 
 1,005,681.63 
C.  Investments
 
I.  
Investments in India
    
 
(i)   Gross value of investments
 1,128,476.66 
 999,371.75 
   
 
(ii)   Aggregate of provisions for (depreciation)  / appreciation 
 55,353.97 
 4,237.07 
  
 
(iii)    Net investments
 1,183,830.63 
 1,003,608.82 
 
II.    Investments outside India
    
 
(i)   Gross value of investments
 2,615.27 
 2,079.98 
   
 
(ii)   Aggregate of provisions for (depreciation)  / appreciation 
 26.99 
 (7.17)
  
 
(iii)    Net investments
 2,642.26 
 2,072.81 
 
Total
 1,186,472.89 
 1,005,681.63 
SCHEDULE  9 - ADVANCES
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
A.   (i)   Bills purchased and discounted
 34,964.61 
 24,032.92 
     (ii)   Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand
 714,525.81 
 633,264.78 
      (iii)   Term loans
 1,975,447.74 
 1,914,618.95 
 
Total
 2,724,938.16 
 2,571,916.65 
Net of Bills Rediscounted: Nil (previous year: C  3,500.00 crore) and Inter-Bank 
Participatory Certiﬁcates of  C  77,703.73 crore (previous year: C  62,920.05 crore)
B.  (i)  
Secured by tangible assets*
 2,083,626.00 
 1,979,133.27 
     (ii)  Covered by bank / government guarantees
 60,543.40 
 41,598.52 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
455
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
    
(iii)  Unsecured
 580,768.76 
 551,184.86 
 
Total
 2,724,938.16 
 2,571,916.65 
     * Including advances against book debts
C. 
I.  
Advances in India
      
(i)  
Priority sector
 880,033.65 
 780,715.25 
    
 
(ii)  Public sector
 121,469.63 
 140,554.70 
    
 
(iii)  Banks
 2,122.41 
 2,567.12 
    
 
(iv)  Others
 1,675,153.87 
 1,609,430.44 
 
Total
 2,678,779.56 
 2,533,267.51 
C.  II.  
Advances outside India
      
(i)  
Due from banks
 2,769.89 
 2,756.16 
    
 
(ii)  Due from others
               
(a)  Bills purchased and discounted
 544.10 
 714.86 
               
(b)  Syndicated loans
 581.73 
 1,180.49 
               
(c)  Others
 42,262.88 
 33,997.63 
 
Total
 46,158.60 
 38,649.14 
 
 Total
 2,724,938.16 
 2,571,916.65 
SCHEDULE 10 - FIXED ASSETS
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
A.  Premises (including land)
        Gross block
        At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
 5,054.62 
 2,462.70 
        Additions during the year
 661.01 
 399.31 
        Additions on amalgamation
 -   
 2,218.19 
        Deductions during the year
 (63.18)
 (25.58)
 
Total  
 5,652.45 
 5,054.62 
      Depreciation
       As at 31st March of the preceding year
 1,530.64 
 820.30 
       Charge for the year
 197.98 
 99.56 
       Additions on amalgamation
 -   
 631.54 
       On deductions during the year
 (48.52)
 (20.76)
 
Total  
 1,680.10 
 1,530.64 
       Net block
 3,972.35 
 3,523.98 
B.  Other fixed assets (including furniture and ﬁxtures)
        Gross block
        At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
 25,172.80 
 18,756.18 

HDFC Bank Limited
456
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
        Additions during the year
 6,074.19 
 4,934.43 
        Additions on amalgamation
 -   
 2,152.97 
        Deductions during the year
 (1,770.62)
 (670.78)
 
Total  
 29,476.37 
 25,172.80 
      Depreciation
       As at 31st March of the preceding year
 16,095.77 
 12,116.02 
        Charge for the year
 3,600.88 
 2,994.24 
        Additions on amalgamation
 -   
 1,531.52 
        On deductions during the year
 (1,499.02)
 (546.01)
 
Total  
 18,197.63 
 16,095.77 
       Net block
 11,278.74 
 9,077.03 
C. 
Assets on lease (plant and machinery)
        Gross block
        At cost on 31st March of the preceding year
 38.91 
 454.69 
        Additions during the year
 11.34 
 2.05 
        Additions on amalgamation
 -   
 43.97 
        Deductions during the year
 (4.12)
 (461.80)
 
Total  
 46.13 
 38.91 
        Depreciation
        As at 31st March of the preceding year
 36.16 
 410.45 
        Additions on amalgamation
 -   
 42.18 
        Charge for the year
 7.24 
 0.87 
        On deductions during the year
 (4.12)
 (417.34)
 
Total  
 39.28 
 36.16 
      Lease adjustment account
       As at 31st March of the preceding year
 -   
 44.24 
       On deductions during the year
 -   
 (44.24)
 
Total  
 -   
 -   
       Unamortised cost of assets on lease
 6.85 
 2.75 
 
Total  
 15,257.94 
 12,603.76 
SCHEDULE 11 - OTHER ASSETS
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.      Interest accrued
 34,028.94 
 25,472.97 
II.     Advance tax / tax deducted at source (net of provisions)
 16,646.31 
 17,438.99 
III.    Stationery and stamps
 66.00 
 64.73 
IV.    Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims
 991.24 
 1,140.56 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
457
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
V.     Security deposit for commercial and residential property
 1,233.92 
 982.49 
VI.    Deferred Tax Assets
 7,137.50 
 9,301.96 
VII.   Others
 155,696.62 
 156,756.01 
 
Total
 215,800.53 
 211,157.71 
SCHEDULE  12 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
C in crore
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
  As at 
March 31, 2024
I.    Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts  - taxation
 6,737.94 
 6,313.40 
II.   Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts - others
 265.67 
 242.49 
III.  Liability for partly paid investments
 904.28 
 729.97 
IV.  Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts
 1,293,492.47 
 1,212,552.79 
V.   Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts
 1,156,136.09 
 914,436.99 
VI.   Guarantees given on behalf of constituents - in India
 149,228.23 
 126,031.26 
                                                                          - outside India
 250.65 
 287.53 
VII.  Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
 96,684.87 
 71,008.38 
VIII.  Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable
 6,221.65 
 12,884.92 
 
Total
 2,709,921.85 
 2,344,487.73 

HDFC Bank Limited
458
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
For the year ended March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED
C in crore
Schedule
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I.    Interest / discount on advances / bills
 251,953.60 
 217,979.34 
II.   Income on investments
 73,912.07 
 57,524.80 
III.  Interest on balance with RBI and other inter-bank funds
 3,172.52 
 2,634.63 
IV. 
Others
 7,329.24 
 5,510.25 
 
Total
 336,367.43 
 283,649.02 
SCHEDULE  14 - OTHER INCOME
C in crore
Schedule
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
  Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I.    Commission, exchange and brokerage
 35,029.85 
 30,621.36 
II.   Profit / (loss) on sale of investments (net)
 14,325.38 
 20,095.80 
III.  Profit / (loss) on revaluation of investments (net)
 (3,909.10)
 6,957.14 
IV.  Profit / (loss) on sale of building and other assets (net)
 156.20 
 199.85 
V.   Profit / (loss) on exchange / derivative transactions (net)
 5,026.29 
 3,870.27 
VI.  Premium and other operating income from insurance business
 78,589.17 
 57,858.60 
VII.  Miscellaneous income
 5,330.71 
 4,742.73 
 
Total
 134,548.50 
 124,345.75 
SCHEDULE 15 - INTEREST EXPENDED
C in crore
Schedule
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I.    Interest on deposits
 125,216.63 
 99,401.50 
II.   Interest on RBI / inter-bank borrowings
 52,486.78 
 50,244.76 
III.  Other interest
 6,190.79 
 4,492.29 
 
Total
 183,894.20 
 154,138.55 
SCHEDULE 16 - OPERATING EXPENSES
C in crore
Schedule
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I.     Payments to and provisions for employees
 34,135.75 
 31,023.00 
II.     Rent, taxes and lighting
 3,601.92 
 3,023.34 
III.    Printing and stationery
 922.54 
 1,021.67 
IV.    Advertisement and publicity
 1,533.33 
 1,259.35 
V.     Depreciation on bank's property
 3,805.23 
 3,092.08 
VI.    Directors' fees / remuneration, allowances and expenses
 32.14 
 27.07 
VII.   Auditors' fees and expenses
 22.69 
 26.11 
VIII.  Law charges
 420.54 
 398.68 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
459
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
C in crore
Schedule
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
IX.    Postage, telegram, telephone etc.
 1,124.43 
 1,050.67 
X.     Repairs and maintenance
 3,943.56 
 3,255.75 
XI.    Insurance
 3,125.61 
 2,486.77 
XII.   Claims and benefits paid pertaining to insurance business
 47,576.09 
 38,159.35 
XIII.  Other expenses pertaining to insurance business^
 46,861.30 
 40,154.11 
XIV.  Other expenditure*
 29,499.94 
 27,291.39 
 
Total
 176,605.07 
 152,269.34 
^ Includes commission expenses and change in valuation of liability  in respect of insurance policies.
* Includes professional fees, commission to sales agents, card and merchant acquiring expenses and system management fees.

HDFC Bank Limited
460
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE 17 – Significant accounting policies 
appended to and forming part of the consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended March 31, 
2025
A. Background
 
 HDFC Bank Limited (‘HDFC Bank’ or the ‘Bank’ or ‘the 
Holding Company’), incorporated in Mumbai, India is a 
publicly held banking company. The Bank is governed 
by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the Companies 
Act, 2013. The Bank together with its subsidiaries is 
engaged in providing a range of banking and financial 
services, including retail banking, wholesale banking, 
treasury operations, insurance, asset management, 
stock broking and other financial services business. The 
Bank has overseas branch operations in Bahrain, Hong 
Kong, Dubai, Singapore and an Offshore Banking Unit at 
International Financial Service Centre (IFSC), GIFT City, 
India. These consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared by giving effect to the Scheme referred to in 
Schedule 18(1) from July 01, 2023 onwards.
B. Principles Of Consolidation 
 
 The consolidated financial statements comprise the 
financial statements of the Bank and its subsidiaries 
constituting the ‘Group’. The Bank consolidates its 
subsidiaries in accordance with Accounting Standard 
AS-21, Consolidated Financial Statements, specified 
under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, on a line-
by-line basis by adding together the like items of assets, 
liabilities, income and expenditure, after elimination of 
intra-group transactions and intra-group balances, 
except for equity investment held in group entities 
through policyholder’s funds. Capital reserve / goodwill 
on consolidation represent the difference between the 
Group’s share in the net worth of the subsidiary and the 
cost of acquisition at the time of making the investment 
in / acquisition of the subsidiary. Minority interest 
representing the part of net results of operations and 
of the net assets of subsidiary, attributable to interests 
not owned directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, is 
presented separately from liabilities and equity.
 
 The Group does not consolidate entities where the 
control / significant influence is intended to be temporary 
or entities which operate under severe long-term 
restrictions that impair their ability to transfer funds to 
parent / investing entity or where the objective of control 
is not to obtain economic benefit from their activities.  For 
certain investments, even though the shareholding may 
be below 20%, the Group may be eligible for nominee 
directors in the investee company. Such investments are 
considered to be at par with other companies where 
investment may be bought and sold depending upon 
market condition. Right to appoint nominee director in 
the investee companies with protective rights, as such 
does not result in control or significant influence on 
such companies.
 
The consolidated financial statements present the accounts of HDFC Bank Limited with its following subsidiaries:
Name
Relation
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership interest %
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
HDFC Life Insurance Company 
Limited (HLIC)
Subsidiary
India
50.32%
50.37%
HDFC Pension Fund Management 
Limited
HLIC's subsidiary
India
100.00%
100.00%
HDFC International Life and Re 
Company Limited
HLIC's subsidiary
Dubai
100.00%
100.00%
HDFC Asset Management Company 
Limited (AMC)
Subsidiary
India
52.47%
52.55%
HDFC AMC International (IFSC) 
Limited
AMC's Subsidiary
India
100.00%
100.00%
HDFC Trustee Company Limited
Subsidiary
India
100.00%
100.00%
HDFC Sales Private Limited
Subsidiary
India
100.00%
100.00%
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited
Subsidiary
India
89.34%
89.00%
HDFC ERGO General Insurance 
Company Limited
Subsidiary
India
50.33%
50.48%

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
461
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 The financial statements of certain subsidiaries are 
prepared in accordance with notified Indian Accounting 
Standards (‘Ind AS’) or applicable local generally 
accepted accounting principles. The financial statements 
of such subsidiaries used for consolidation are special 
purpose financial information prepared in accordance 
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India 
(‘GAAP’) specified under Section 133 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2021.
 
 The Bank had not consolidated its subsidiaries viz. HDFC 
Credila Financial Services Limited (‘HDFC Credila’) and 
HDFC Education and Development Services Private 
Limited (‘HEADS’) under AS-21 as the control of these 
subsidiaries was intended to be temporary (as directed 
by RBI) on the date of their acquisition. Subsequently, the 
Bank had diluted its holding in HDFC Credila to 9.99% as 
on March 31, 2024 and entire stake in HEADS is divested 
during the year ended March 31, 2025.
 
 The audited special purpose financial information of 
foreign subsidiaries used in consolidation are drawn up 
to the same reporting date as that of the Group.
C. ACCOUNTING METHODOLOGY 
 
 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
and presented under the historical cost convention and 
accrual basis of accounting, unless otherwise stated and 
are in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles in India (‘Indian GAAP’), statutory requirements 
prescribed under the Third Schedule of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949, directions, circular, notifications 
and the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India 
(RBI) (‘RBI Guidelines’), Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (‘SEBI’), Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India (‘IRDAI’) from time to time, Accounting 
Standards (‘AS’) specified under Section 133 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2021, as applicable to relevant entities 
and practices generally prevalent in the banking industry 
in India. In case the accounting policies followed by a 
subsidiary is different from those followed by the Bank, 
the same have been disclosed separately.
 
Use of estimates
 
 The preparation of consolidated financial statements in 
conformity with Indian GAAP requires the management 
to make estimates and necessary assumptions in the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities (including 
contingent liabilities) as at the date of the consolidated 
financial statements and the reported income and 
expenses for the reporting year. Management believes that 
the estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual 
results could differ from these estimates. The impact of 
any revision in the accounting estimates is recognised 
prospectively from the period of change.
D. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1. 
Investments
 
Bank
 
 The RBI, vide its master direction dated September 
12, 2023, issued revised norms for the classification, 
valuation and operation of investment portfolio of banks, 
which became applicable from April 01, 2024 (here in 
after referred as ‘revised norms on investments’). 
Name
Relation
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership interest %
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Griha Investments
Subsidiary
Mauritius
100.00%
100.00%
Griha Pte Limited
Subsidiary
Singapore
100.00%
100.00%
HDFC Securities Limited (HSL)
Subsidiary
India
94.55%
95.13%
HDFC Securities IFSC Limited (w.e.f. 
01.10.2024)
HSL’s Subsidiary
India
100.00%
-
HDB Financial Services Limited
Subsidiary
India
94.32%
94.64%
HDB Employee Welfare Trust
*
India
*
*
 
 *  HDB Employee Welfare Trust, a trust established for providing general welfare measures such as medical relief and educational assistance to 
the employees of the Bank and their dependents has been consolidated.

HDFC Bank Limited
462
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
 
Classification:
 
 In accordance with the revised norms on investments, 
investments are classified on the date of purchase into 
“Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’), “Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) and 
“Fair value through Profit and Loss” (‘FVTPL’) categories 
(hereinafter called “categories”). “Held for Trading” (‘HFT’) 
is a separate investment sub-category within FVTPL. All 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 
are categorised in a distinct category Group companies 
(“Group cos”). Under each of these categories, 
investments are further classified under six groups 
(hereinafter called “groups”) - Government Securities, 
Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and 
Bonds, Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and 
Other Investments. 
 
 Hitherto, investments were classified on the date of 
purchase into “Held for Trading” (‘HFT’), “Available for 
Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’) categories 
(hereinafter called “categories”). Subsequent shifting 
amongst the categories was done in accordance with 
the RBI guidelines. Under each of these categories, 
investments were further classified into six groups 
(hereinafter called “groups”), Government securities, 
Other approved securities, Shares, Debentures and 
Bonds, Investments in subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and 
Other Investments.
 
 Purchase and sale transactions in securities are 
accounted on settlement date except in the case of 
equity shares which are accounted on trade date.
 
Basis of classification:
 
 Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity 
and contractual terms there of gives rise to cash flows 
that are solely payment of principal and interest on 
principal outstanding (SPPI) are classified under HTM 
category. All investments in subsidiaries / associates / 
joint ventures are classified under the category of Group 
Companies (Group cos). Investments which the Bank 
acquires with an objective that is achieved by both 
collecting contractual cashflows and selling securities 
and where the contractual terms of the investment meet 
the SPPI criterion are classified under AFS category. 
Investments not classified in any of the above categories 
are classified under FVTPL category. HFT, which is a 
sub-category of FVTPL consists of all instruments that 
meet the specifications for HFT instruments prescribed 
by the RBI.
 
 Hitherto, investments which the Bank intended to hold 
till maturity were classified under HTM category and 
investments that were held for resale within 90 days 
from the date of purchase were classified under HFT. 
Investments which were not classified in either of the 
above categories were classified under AFS category.
 
Acquisition cost:
 
 Costs, including brokerage and commission paid at 
the time of acquisition of investments and broken 
period interest on debt instruments, are recognised in 
the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and are not 
included in the cost of acquisition.
 
Valuation:
 
In accordance with the revised norms on investments,
 
• 
 Investments classified under FVTPL and AFS 
categories are fair valued individually. Net gain or 
loss arising on such valuation of FVTPL category is 
directly taken to the Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Account. The net appreciation or depreciation 
(adjusted for the effect of applicable taxes, if any) 
in AFS Category is directly taken to AFS reserve 
without routing through the Consolidated Profit 
& Loss Account. Hitherto, investments  classified 
under AFS and HFT categories were marked to 
market individually, and depreciation / appreciation 
was aggregated for each group. Net depreciation, if 
any, compared to the acquisition cost, in any of the 
six groups, was charged to the Consolidated Profit 
and Loss Account and net appreciation, if any, in 
any of the six groups was not recognised except to 
the extent of depreciation provided earlier.
 
• 
 Quoted investments are valued based on the trades 
/ quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or 
prices published by Financial Benchmarks India 
Private Limited (FBIL) or Fixed Income Money Market 
and Derivatives Association (FIMMDA). Investments 
denominated in foreign currencies are valued based 
on the prices provided by market information 
providers such as Bloomberg, Refinitiv, etc.
 
• 
 Unquoted Government of India securities, state 
government securities and special bonds such as oil 
bonds, fertilizer bonds etc. issued by the Government 
of India are valued as per the prices published by 
FBIL. The valuation of other unquoted fixed income 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
463
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
securities (viz. other approved securities and bonds 
and debentures), and preference shares, is done 
with appropriate mark-up, i.e., applicable FIMMDA 
published credit spreads over the Yield to Maturity 
(YTM) rates for Government of India securities as 
published by FBIL.
 
• 
 Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-
up value, ascertained from the company’s latest 
balance sheet. The date as on which the latest 
balance sheet is drawn up does not precede the 
date of valuation by more than 18 months. In case 
the latest audited balance sheet is not available or 
is more than 18 months old, the shares are valued 
at ` 1 per company.
 
• 
 Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest Net 
Asset Value (NAV) declared by the mutual fund. 
 
• 
 Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of 
deposits being discounted instruments, are valued 
at carrying cost. 
 
• 
 Investments in Security Receipts (SRs) and 
unquoted units of Infrastructure Investment Trust 
(InvIT) are valued as per the net asset value provided 
by the issuing Asset Reconstruction Company and 
InvIT respectively. 
 
• 
 Investments in unquoted units of Alternative 
Investment Fund (AIF) are valued at NAV provided 
by the AIF based on its financial statements. Where 
an AIF fails to carry out and disclose the valuation of 
its investments by an independent valuer as per the 
frequency mandated by SEBI, the value of its units 
is treated as ` 1. In case AIF is not registered under 
SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulation, 
2012, and the latest disclosed valuation of its 
investments by an independent valuer precedes the 
date of valuation by more than 18 months the value 
of its units is treated as ` 1.
 
• 
 Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) including Priority 
Sector-PTCs are valued by using FIMMDA credit 
spreads as applicable for the NBFC category, 
based on the credit rating of the respective PTC over 
the YTM rates for Government of India securities 
published by FBIL. 
 
• 
 Investments classified under HTM and Group Cos. 
category are carried at their acquisition cost and 
not marked to market. Any diminution, other than 
temporary, in the value of investments in HTM and 
Group Cos. category is provided for. Hitherto, 
any premium on investments classified under 
HTM category, was amortised over the remaining 
maturity period of the security on a constant yield-
to-maturity basis.
 
• 
 For all debt securities meeting SPPI criteria (except 
short sale securities), any discount or premium 
on acquisition is accreted or amortised over the 
remaining maturity period of the security on a 
constant yield to maturity basis. Such accretion or 
amortisation of discount or premium is classified 
under interest income from investments.
 
• 
 The investment portfolio is categorised into three fair 
value hierarchies viz. Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3:
 
 
 
 Level 1 Financial Instruments are valued with 
inputs such as quoted prices in active markets 
for identical instruments.
 
 
 
 Level 2 Financial Instruments are valued with 
inputs other than quoted prices, that are 
observable for asset or liability either directly 
or indirectly.
 
 
 
 Level 3 Financial Instruments are valued using 
unobservable inputs.
 
• 
 All investments are measured at fair value on 
initial recognition. Unless facts and circumstances 
suggest that the fair value is materially different 
from the acquisition cost, it is presumed that the 
acquisition cost is the fair value. In case of Level 
1 and Level 2 instruments, when acquisition cost 
is not equal to fair value, any Day 1 gain / loss is 
recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Account. In case of Level 3 instruments, any Day 
1 loss is recognised immediately in the Profit and 
Loss Account whereas any Day1 gain is deferred. In 
case of Level 3 debt instruments, the Day 1 gain is 
amortized on a straight-line basis up to the maturity 
date (or earliest call date for perpetual instruments), 
while for unquoted Level 3 equity instruments, the 
gain is set aside as a liability until the security is 
listed or derecognised.

HDFC Bank Limited
464
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
 
• 
 Non-performing investments (NPIs) are identified, 
and provision is made thereon based on the RBI 
guidelines. Provision for NPIs is not set-off against 
appreciation in respect of performing investments. 
Appreciation, if any, in the value of a NPI is not 
recognised. Income on NPIs is not recognised 
until received.
 
Disposal of investments:
 
 In accordance with the revised norms on investments, 
Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid 
categories is recognised in the Consolidated Profit and 
Loss Account except for equity instruments designated 
under AFS at the time of initial recognition, in respect 
of which the gains and losses are transferred from AFS 
Reserve to the Capital Reserve. Hitherto, entire Profit 
/ Loss on sale of investments, were recognised in the 
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
 
 Cost of investments is determined based on the weighted 
average cost method. The profit from sale of investment 
under HTM and Group Cos. categories, net off taxes 
and transfer to statutory reserve is appropriated from 
the Profit and Loss Account to “Capital Reserve”, in 
accordance with RBI guidelines.
 
Short sale:
 
 The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central 
Government dated securities in accordance with the RBI 
guidelines. The short position is categorised under HFT 
and netted off from investments in government securities. 
The short position along with other government securities 
under HFT portfolio is marked to market and the resultant 
MTM profit or loss, is taken to the Consolidated Profit and 
Loss Account. Profit / Loss on short sale is recognised 
on settlement date. 
 
Life Insurance
 
 Investments are made in accordance with the Insurance 
Act, 1938 (amended by the Insurance Laws (Amendment) 
Act, 2015), the IRDAI (Investment) Regulations, 2016, 
and various other circulars / notifications issued by the 
IRDAI in this context from time to time. Investments 
are recognised at cost on the date of purchase, which 
include brokerage and taxes, if any, but exclude interest 
accrued (i.e. since the previous coupon date) as on the 
date of purchase.
 
 Classification and valuation of investment (other 
than linked business) is done on the following 
basis: 
 
 Investments are classified under six groups (hereinafter 
called “groups”) – Government Securities, Other 
Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, 
Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and Other 
Investments. Purchase and sale transactions in securities 
are accounted on trade date. Securities lent under the 
Securities Lending and Borrowing scheme (SLB) continue 
to be recognised as investments since all the associated 
risks and rewards of these securities are retained. 
a)  
Debt securities 
 
 Debt securities, including Government Securities are 
considered as “held to maturity” and accordingly valued 
at historical cost, subject to amortisation of premium or 
accretion of discount, if any, over the period of maturity 
/ holding on a straight-line basis.
 
 Money market instruments like Commercial Papers, 
Certificate of Deposit, Treasury Bills (T-Bills) and Tri-Party 
Repo (TREPS) are valued at historical cost, subject to 
amortisation of premium or accretion of discount over 
the period of maturity / holding on a straight-line basis. 
Fixed Deposits and Reverse Repo are valued at cost.
 
 Investments in Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) and 
Security Receipts are valued at cost, subject to provision 
for diminution, if any, in the value of such investments 
determined separately for each individual investment. 
b)  
 Equity shares, Equity Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), 
Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs), Real Estate 
Investment Trusts (REITs) and Additional Tier I Bonds 
(AT1 Bonds).
 
 Listed equity shares, equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs are 
valued at fair value, being the last quoted closing price 
on the primary exchange as at the Balance Sheet date. In 
case, the equity shares and equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs 
are not traded on the primary exchange on the Balance 
Sheet date, the closing price on the secondary exchange 
is considered. If the equity shares are not traded on any 
exchange on the Balance Sheet date, then the price 
at which the equity shares are traded on the earliest 
previous day is considered for valuation, provided such 
previous day price is not more than 30 days prior to the 
Balance Sheet date.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
465
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 In case the equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs are not traded 
either on the primary or the secondary exchange on the 
Balance Sheet date, then the equity ETFs are valued at 
the latest available Net Asset Value (NAV) and in case of 
InvITs and REITs where the market quote is not available 
for the last 30 days, the InvITs and REITs are valued at the 
latest NAV (not more than 6 months old) as published by 
the Infrastructure Investment Trust / Real Estate Trusts. 
 
 The AT1 Bonds are valued at market value, using 
applicable market yields published by SEBI registered 
rating agency Credit Rating Information Services of India 
Limited (‘CRISIL’), using Bond Valuer at deemed maturity 
date of 100 years from the date of issue.
 
 Unrealised gains or losses arising due to changes in 
fair value are recognised under the head ‘Reserves and 
Surplus’ under “Other reserves” in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet. Such reserve will not be available 
for distribution.
 
 Unlisted equity shares, listed equity shares and unlisted 
equity warrants that are not regularly traded in active 
markets and which are classified as “thinly traded” as per 
the SEBI guidelines governing mutual funds for valuation 
of thinly traded securities are valued at historical cost, 
subject to provision for diminution, if any, in the value 
of such investments determined separately for each 
individual investment. Listed equity ETFs that are not 
regularly traded in the active markets, and which are 
classified as “thinly traded” as per the aforesaid SEBI 
guidelines are valued at the latest available NAV.
 
 Bonus entitlements are recognised as investments on 
the ‘ex-bonus date’. Right entitlements are accrued and 
recognised on the date the original share (on which 
the right entitlement accrues) are traded on the stock 
exchange on an ‘ex-rights date’.
c)  
Preference Shares
 
 Redeemable preference shares are considered as 
“held to maturity” and accordingly valued at historical 
cost, subject to amortisation of premium or accretion 
of discount.
 
 Listed preference shares other than redeemable 
preference shares are valued at fair value, being the 
last quoted closing price on the primary exchange at 
the Balance Sheet date. In case, the preference shares 
are not traded on the primary exchange on the Balance 
Sheet date, the closing price on the secondary exchange 
is considered.
 
 If preference shares are not traded either on any exchange 
on the Balance Sheet date, then the price at which the 
preference shares are traded on the earliest previous 
day is considered for valuation, provided such previous 
day price is not more than 30 days prior to the Balance 
Sheet date.
 
 Unrealised gains or losses arising due to changes in 
fair value are recognised under the head ‘Reserves and 
Surplus’ under “Other reserves” in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet. 
 
 Unlisted preference shares (other than redeemable 
preference shares) and listed preference (other than 
redeemable preference) shares that are not regularly 
traded in active markets and which are classified as “thinly 
traded” as per the aforesaid SEBI guidelines are valued at 
historical cost, subject to provision for diminution in the 
value, if any, of such investments determined separately 
for each individual investment.
d)  
Mutual fund 
 
 Mutual fund units held at the Balance Sheet date are 
valued at previous business day’s Net Asset Value (NAV) 
per unit. Unrealised gains or losses arising due to changes 
in the fair value of mutual fund units are recognised under 
the head ‘Reserves and Surplus’ under “Other reserves” 
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
 Classification and valuation of investment (linked 
business) is done on the following basis. 
a) 
Debt Securities
 
 Debt securities, including Government Securities are 
valued at market value, using CRISIL Bond Valuer / 
CRISIL Gilt Prices, as applicable. 
 
 Money market instruments like Commercial Papers, 
Certificate of Deposits, Treasury Bills (T-Bills) and Tri-
Party Repo (TREPS) are valued at historical cost, subject 
to amortisation of premium or accretion of discount over 
the period of maturity / holding on a straight-line basis.
 
 Fixed Deposits and investment in Reverse Repo are 
valued at cost.

HDFC Bank Limited
466
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
 
 Unrealised gains or losses arising on valuation of debt 
securities are accounted for in the Consolidated Profit 
and Loss Account.
 
 Securities with call options are valued at the lower of 
the values as obtained by valuing the security to the 
final maturity date or to the call option date by using the 
benchmark rate based on the matrix released by CRISIL 
on daily basis. In case there are multiple call options, the 
security is valued at the lowest value obtained by valuing 
the security to the various call dates or to the final maturity 
date. Securities with put options are valued at the higher 
of the value as obtained by valuing the security to the 
final maturity date or to the put option date by using the 
benchmark rate based on the matrix released by CRISIL 
on daily basis. In case there are multiple put options, the 
security is valued at the highest value obtained by valuing 
the security to the various put option dates or to the final 
maturity date. Tier II Bonds are valued at their maturity 
date through bond valuer.
 
 Securities with both put and call options on the same day 
are deemed to mature on the put and call option day and 
would be valued on a yield to maturity basis, by using the 
benchmark rate based on the matrix released by CRISIL 
on daily basis.
b) 
 Equity shares, Equity Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), 
Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs), Real Estate 
Investment Trusts (REITs), Additional Tier I Bonds (AT1 
Bonds) and Preference shares.
 
 Listed equity shares, equity ETFs, preference shares, 
Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) and Real Estate 
Investment Trusts (REITs) are valued and stated at fair 
value, being the last quoted closing price on the primary 
exchange at the Balance Sheet date. In case, the equity 
shares, equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs are not traded on 
the primary exchange on the Balance Sheet date, the 
closing price on the secondary exchange is considered.
 
 If equity shares / preference shares are not traded either 
on NSE or BSE on the Balance Sheet date, then the price 
at which the equity shares / preference shares are traded 
on the earliest previous day is considered for valuation, 
provided such previous day price is not more than 30 
days prior to the Balance Sheet date.
 
 In case the equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs are not traded 
either on NSE or BSE on the Balance Sheet date, then 
the equity ETFs are valued at the latest available NAV. 
In case of InvITs and REITs where the market quote is 
not available for the last 30 days, the InvITs shall be 
valued at the latest NAV (not more than 6 months old) as 
published by the Infrastructure Investment Trust / Real 
Estate Trusts.
 
 Unrealised gains or losses arising on such valuations 
are accounted for in the Consolidated Profit and 
Loss Account.
 
 Listed equity shares that are not regularly traded in active 
markets, and which are classified as “thinly traded” as 
per the guidelines governing mutual funds for valuation of 
thinly traded securities laid down by SEBI, are valued at 
historical cost, subject to provision for diminution, if any, 
in the value of such investment determined separately for 
each individual investment.
 
 Listed equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs that are not regularly 
traded in the active markets and which are classified as 
“thinly traded” as per the guidelines governing Mutual 
Funds for valuation of thinly traded securities laid down 
by SEBI, are valued at the latest available NAV.
 
 Bonus entitlements are recognised as investments on 
the ‘ex-bonus date’. Right entitlements are accrued and 
recognised on the date the original shares (on which 
the right entitlement accrues) are traded on the stock 
exchange on the ‘ex-rights date’.
 
 All unlisted redeemable preference shares are considered 
as held to maturity and stated at historical cost.
c) 
Mutual funds
 
 Mutual fund units held at the Balance Sheet date 
are valued at previous business day’s NAV per unit. 
Unrealised gains or losses arising due to change in 
the fair value of mutual fund units are recognised in the 
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
 
Impairment of Investments:
 
 The life insurance entity periodically assesses at each 
Balance Sheet date whether there is any indication of 
impairment of investments or reversal of impairment 
loss earlier recognised. An impairment loss is accounted 
for as an expense in the Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Account to the extent of the difference between the re-
measured fair value of the investments and its weighted 
acquisition cost as reduced by any earlier impairment 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
467
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
loss accounted for as an expense in the Consolidated 
Profit and Loss Account. Any reversal of impairment 
loss earlier recognised in Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Account, is accounted in the Consolidated Profit and 
Loss Account.
 
 Purchase and sale transactions between unit 
linked funds:
 
 The purchase and sale of equity, preference shares, 
ETFs, InvITs, REITs and Government Securities between 
unit linked funds is accounted for at the prevailing market 
price on the date of purchase or sale of investments, if 
prevailing market price of any security is not available on 
the date of transfer of investment, then the last available 
price is considered. In case of debt securities other 
than Government Securities, transfer of investments is 
accounted at previous day valuation price in accordance 
with IRDAI (Investment) Regulations, 2016.
 
General Insurance 
 
Classification:
 
 Investments are classified under six groups (hereinafter 
called “groups”) – Government Securities, Other 
Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, 
Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and Other 
Investments. Purchase and sale transactions in securities 
are accounted on trade date. Investments are recorded 
at cost, which include brokerage, taxes, if any, stamp 
duty and excludes broken period interest. 
 
Valuation:
 
 Investments are made and accounted in accordance 
with the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended by Insurance 
Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority (Investment) Regulations, 
2000, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
of India (Actuarial, Finance and Investment Functions of 
Insurers) Regulations, 2024 as amended and various 
other circulars / notifications issued by the IRDAI in this 
context from time to time.
 
 All debt securities excluding AT I Bonds, and non-
convertible preference shares are stated at historical 
cost subject to amortisation of premium or accretion 
of discount on constant yield to maturity basis in the 
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account over the period of 
maturity / holding.
 
 All mutual fund investments are valued at NAV as at 
reporting date.
 
 Equity shares actively traded and convertible preference 
shares as at the reporting date are stated at fair value, 
being the last quoted closing price on the primary 
exchange i.e., NSE. However, in case of any stock not 
being listed on NSE, the same is valued based on the 
last quoted closing price on BSE. Investment in unlisted 
shares is stated at historical cost. AT I Bond Investments 
are fair valued at market yield rates published by rating 
agency registered with SEBI.
 
 Any unrealized gains / losses arising due to change in 
fair value of mutual fund investments, listed equity shares 
and AT I Bonds are accounted in “Other reserves” and 
carried forward in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and 
is not available for distribution.
 
 Pursuant to the provisions of IRDAI Circular, the 
Investment made by the general insurance entity, and fair 
value change account are bifurcated into Policyholders 
and Shareholders funds on notional basis.
 
 The general insurance entity assesses whether any 
impairment has occurred on its investments at each 
reporting date. If any such indication exists, then carrying 
value of such investment is reduced to its recoverable 
amount / market value on the reporting date and the 
impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Profit 
and Loss Account. If at the reporting date, there is any 
indication that a previously assessed impairment loss no 
longer exists, then impairment loss earlier recognised 
in Consolidated Profit and Loss Account is reversed in 
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and the investment 
is restated to that extent.
 
Other Subsidiaries
 
Classification:
 
 With effect from April 01, 2024, investments are classified 
on the date of purchase into “Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’), 
“Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Fair value through Profit 
and Loss” (‘FVTPL’) categories, (hereinafter called 
“categories”). All investments in subsidiaries, associates 
and joint ventures are categorized in a distinct category 
- Group companies (“Group cos”).  Under each of these 
categories, the investments are further classified under 
six groups (hereinafter called “groups”) - Government 
Securities, Other Approved Securities, Shares, 

HDFC Bank Limited
468
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
Debentures and Bonds, Investments in Subsidiaries 
/ Joint Ventures and Other Investments. Hitherto, 
investments were classified into long term and current 
investments in accordance with Accounting Standard 
13 (AS-13) “Accounting for Investments”.
 
 Purchase and sale transactions in securities are 
accounted on settlement date except in the case of 
equity shares which are accounted on trade date.
 
Basis of classification:
 
 Investments which the company intends to hold till 
maturity and where their contractual terms give rise 
to cash flows that are solely payment of principal and 
interest on principal (SPPI) outstanding are classified 
under HTM category. Investments which are acquired 
with an objective that is achieved by both collecting 
contractual cash flows and selling securities and where 
the contractual term of the investment gives rise to cash 
flows that are solely payment of principal and interest 
on principal outstanding are classified under AFS 
category. Investments not classified in either of the above 
categories are classified under FVTPL category. Hitherto, 
investments that were intended to be held for more than 
one year from the date on which the investments were 
made, were classified as long term investments and 
investments, which were intended to be held for less 
than one year from the date on which the investments 
were made, were classified as current investments.
 
Acquisition cost: 
 
 Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition of investment classified under HTM or AFS 
are added to the fair value of the investment on initial 
recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition of investments classified under FVTPL are 
recognised immediately in statement of Consolidated 
Profit and Loss Account.
 
Disposal of investments:
 
 Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid 
categories is recognised in the Consolidated Profit and 
Loss Account except for equity investment designated 
as AFS at the time of initial recognition wherein the gains 
and losses therefrom are transferred from AFS Reserve 
to the Capital Reserve.
 
Valuation:
 
• 
 Initial Recognition: All investments are measured 
at fair value on initial recognition unless facts 
and circumstances suggest that the fair value is 
materially different from the acquisition cost. 
 
• 
 Subsequent Measurement: Investments classified 
under FVTPL and AFS categories are fair valued 
individually. Net gain or loss arising on such valuation 
of FVTPL category is directly credited or debited 
to the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account. The 
net appreciation or depreciation (adjusted for the 
effect of applicable taxes, if any) in AFS Category is 
directly credited or debited to AFS reserve without 
routing through the Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Account. Hitherto, current investments were valued 
at cost or market / fair value whichever was lower 
and Provision for diminution was recognised for a 
decline, if any, which was other than temporary in 
the value of long-term investments.
 
• 
 Investment portfolio is categorised into three fair 
value hierarchies viz. Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3:
 
 
 
 Level 1 – the financial instruments are valued 
with inputs such as quoted prices in active 
markets for identical instruments.
 
 
 
 Level 2 – the financial instruments are valued 
with inputs other than quoted prices, that are 
observable for asset or liability either directly 
or indirectly.
 
 
 
 Level 3 – the financial instruments are valued 
using unobservable inputs.
 
• 
 Investments classified under HTM and Group Cos. 
categories are carried at their acquisition cost and 
not marked to market. Any diminution, other than 
temporary, in the value of investments in HTM and 
Group Cos. category is provided for.
 
• 
 For all debt securities meeting SPPI criteria, any 
discount or premium on acquisition is accreted or 
amortised over the remaining maturity period of 
the security. 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
469
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
2. 
Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions:
 
 Repurchase (Repo) and reverse repurchase (Reverse 
Repo) transactions are reported as borrowing and 
lending (lending above 14 days tenor reported as 
advances) respectively. 
 
 Borrowing cost on repo transactions is accounted 
as interest expense and revenue on reverse repo 
transactions is accounted as interest income.
3. 
Advances
 
Bank
 
Classification:
 
 Advances are classified as performing and non-
performing based on the RBI guidelines and are stated 
net of bills rediscounted, inter-bank participation with 
risk, specific loan loss provision, interest suspense 
for non-performing advances, claims received from 
Credit Guarantors, provision for funded interest term 
loan and provision for diminution in the fair value of 
restructured assets.
 
 The Bank classifies its loans and investments, including 
overseas branches and overdues from crystallised 
derivative contracts, into performing assets and non-
performing assets (NPAs) in accordance with RBI 
guidelines. Further, the NPAs are classified into sub-
standard, doubtful and loss assets based on the criteria 
stipulated by RBI. Non-performing assets are upgraded 
into standard as per the extant RBI guidelines.
 
Provisioning:
 
 Specific loan loss provision in respect of non-performing 
advances is made based on management’s assessment 
of the degree of impairment of advances, subject to the 
minimum provisioning prescribed by the RBI. 
 
 The specific loan loss provision for retail non-performing 
advances is also made based on the nature of product 
and delinquency levels. 
 
 Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance 
with the Bank’s policy. Recoveries from bad debts 
written-off are included under other income. 
 
 Loans reported as frauds are classified as loss assets 
and fully provided for immediately without considering 
the value of security.
 
 The Bank maintains general provision for standard 
assets including credit exposures computed as per the 
current marked to market values of interest rate and 
foreign exchange derivative contracts and gold. The 
Bank also maintains general provision for unhedged 
foreign currency exposures of borrowers, provision on 
loans to specific borrowers in specific stressed sectors, 
provision on exposures to step-down subsidiaries of 
Indian companies and provision on specified borrowers 
as prescribed by RBI. In the case of overseas branches, 
general provision on standard assets is maintained at the 
higher of the levels stipulated by the respective overseas 
regulator or RBI. The provision for standard assets is 
included under other liabilities.
 
 In addition to the above, the Bank on a prudent basis 
makes provision on advances or exposures which 
are not NPAs but has reasons to believe on the basis 
of the extant environment or specific information or 
basis regulatory guidance / instructions, of a possible 
slippage of a specific advance or a group of advances or 
exposures or potential exposures. These are classified as 
contingent provisions and included under other liabilities.
 
 Provision made in addition to the Bank’s policy for specific 
loan loss provision for non-performing assets, possible 
slippage of specific exposures and regulatory general 
provision is categorised as floating provision. Creation of 
floating provision is considered by the Bank up to a level 
approved by the Board of Directors. Floating provisions 
are used only for contingencies under extraordinary 
circumstances and for making specific provisions 
for non-performing accounts. Floating provisions are 
included under other liabilities.
 
 Further, to the provisions required to be held according 
to the asset classification status, provision is held for 
individual country exposures (other than for home country 
exposure). Countries are categorised into risk categories 
as per Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India 
Limited (‘ECGC’) guidelines and provisioning is made in 
respect of that country where the net funded exposure is 
one percent or more of the Bank’s total assets. Provision 
for country risk is included under other liabilities.
 
 In accordance with the RBI guidelines on the prudential 
framework for resolution of stressed assets and the 

HDFC Bank Limited
470
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
resolution frameworks for COVID-19 related stress and 
its Board approved policy, the Bank has implemented 
resolution plans for eligible borrowers. The asset 
classification and necessary provision thereon is made 
in accordance with the said RBI guidelines. Restructured 
assets involving compromise settlements where the 
time for payment of the agreed settlement amount 
exceeds three months are classified and provided for in 
accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI from 
time to time.
 
 The restructured loans are upgraded into standard 
category as per the extant RBI guidelines. Further, in 
respect of restructuring of loans pertaining to projects 
under implementation, the asset classification and 
necessary provision thereon is made in accordance with 
the said RBI guidelines.
 
Non Banking ﬁnance companies  
 
Classification:
 
 Advances are classified as standard, sub-standard and 
doubtful assets as per the policy approved by the Board 
of the respective entity and as per RBI guidelines. The 
rates applied for making provisions on non-performing 
assets (NPA) are higher than those prescribed by the 
relevant RBI guidelines. Interest on non-performing 
assets is transferred to an interest suspense account 
and not recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Account until received. Advances are recognised on 
disbursement of loan and in case of new asset financing 
on the transfer of ownership. The non-banking finance 
entity provides 0.40% on standard assets as stipulated 
by RBI guidelines. The NBFCs assesses all advances for 
their recoverability and accordingly recognises provision 
for non-performing and doubtful assets as per approved 
policies and guidelines. The non-banking finance entity 
ensures provisions made are not lower than as stipulated 
by RBI guidelines.
 
Loan origination costs:
 
 Brokerage, commission, incentive to employee, etc. 
paid at the time of acquisition of loans are charged 
to expenses.
 
Life Insurance
 
Classification:
 
 Advances are classified as performing and non-
performing and are valued at historical cost and are 
stated net of loan loss provision.
 
Provisioning:
 
 All assets where the interest and / or instalment of 
principal repayment remain overdue for more than 90 
days at the Balance Sheet date are classified as non-
performing assets (NPA) and provided for in the manner 
required by the IRDAI regulations on this behalf. In line 
with the guidelines on prudential norms for income 
recognition, asset classification, provisioning, and other 
related matters in respect of debt portfolio, life insurance 
entity has provided minimum percentage on the value of 
the standard assets. The provision for standard assets 
is included under other liabilities.
 
 Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance 
with the policy as approved by the Board of life insurance 
entity. Recoveries from bad debts written-off are included 
under other income.
4. 
Securitisation and transfer of assets
 
 Assets transferred through securitisation and direct 
assignment of cash flows are de-recognised in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet when they are sold (true sale 
criteria being fully met with) and consideration is received. 
Sales / transfers that do not meet true sale criteria are 
accounted for as borrowings. For a securitisation or direct 
assignment transaction, the Group recognises profit 
upon receipt of the funds and loss is recognised at the 
time of sale. Unrealised gains, associated with expected 
future margin income is recognised in Consolidated Profit 
and Loss Account on receipt, after absorbing losses, 
if any.
 
 On sale of stressed assets, if the sale is at a price 
below the net book value (i.e., funded outstanding less 
specific provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the 
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and if the sale is 
for a value higher than the net book value, the excess 
provision is credited to the Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Account in the year when the sum of cash received by 
way of initial consideration and / or redemption or transfer 
of security receipts issued by Securitisation Company 
(‘SC’) / Reconstruction Company (‘RC’) exceeds the 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
471
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
net book value of the loan at the time of transfer. Where 
the sale consideration is comprised of only cash and 
SRs guaranteed by the Government of India, the excess 
provision is credited to the Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Account in the year of transfer.
 
 In respect of stressed assets sold under an asset 
securitisation, where the investment by the Group in SRs 
issued against the assets transferred by it is more than 10 
percent of such SRs, provisions held against outstanding 
SRs are higher of the provisions required in terms of net 
asset value declared by the SC / RC and provisions 
as per the extant norms applicable to the underlying 
loans, notionally treating the book value of these SRs as 
the corresponding stressed loans assuming the loans 
remained in the books of the Group. 
 
 The Group invests in PTCs issued by Special Purpose 
Vehicles (SPVs). These are accounted at acquisition cost 
and are classified as investments. The Group also buys 
loans through the direct assignment route which are 
classified as advances. PTCs are carried at acquisition 
cost unless it is more than the face value, in which case 
the premium is amortised based on effective interest 
rate method.
 
 The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank 
participation with and without risk. In the case of 
participation with risk, the aggregate amount of the 
participation issued by the Bank is reduced from 
advances. In case where the Bank is assuming risk by 
participation, the aggregate amount of the participation 
is classified under advances. In the case of issue of 
participation certificate without risk, the aggregate 
amount of participation issued by the Bank is classified 
under borrowings and where the Bank is acquiring 
participation certificate, the aggregate amount of 
participation acquired is shown as due from banks 
under advances.
5. 
Fixed assets and depreciation
 
 Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation as adjusted for impairment, if any. Cost 
includes cost of purchase and all expenditure like site 
preparation, installation costs and professional fees 
incurred on the asset before it is ready to use. Cost 
of an intangible asset includes purchase price, non-
refundable taxes and duties and any other directly 
attributable expenditure on making the asset ready for its 
intended use and net of any trade discounts and rebates. 
Subsequent expenditure incurred on assets put to use 
is capitalised only when it increases the future benefit / 
functioning capability from / of such assets. 
 
 Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of 
the fixed asset on a straight-line basis except for freehold 
land. The management believes that the useful life of 
assets assessed by the Group, pursuant to Part C of 
Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013, taking into 
account changes in environment, changes in technology, 
the utility and efficacy of the asset in use, fairly reflects its 
estimate of useful lives of the fixed assets. The estimated 
useful lives of key fixed assets are given below:
Asset
Estimated useful life as 
assessed by the Group
Owned Premises
50 to 60 years
Automated Teller Machines (ATMs)
10 years
Electrical equipments and 
installations
6 to 10 years
Office equipments
3 to 10 years
Computers
2 to 5 years
Modems, routers, switches, 
servers, network and related IT 
equipments
3 to 6 years
Motor cars
4 to 8 years
Safe deposit lockers
21 years
Furniture and fittings
3 to 16 years
Salvaged vehicles
5 years
Computer software licenses
3 to 5 years
Electronic trading platform 
(Website)
5 years
Bombay Stock Exchange card 
10 years
 
• 
 Leasehold land is depreciated over the period 
of lease.
 
• 
 Improvements to leasehold premises are amortised 
over the remaining period of lease for other than 
Asset Management entity. In case of Asset 
Management entity, amortisation is made over the 
lease term or 5 years, whichever is less.
 
• 
 Software and system development expenditure is 
amortised over a period upto 5 years.
 
• 
 Point of Sales (PoS) terminals (including sound box) 
are depreciated over a period of 4 years.
 
• 
 For assets purchased and sold during the year, 
depreciation is provided on pro-rata basis.

HDFC Bank Limited
472
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
 
• 
 Whenever there is a revision of the estimated 
useful life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable 
amount is charged over the revised remaining useful 
life of the said asset.
 
• 
 Profit on sale of immovable property net of taxes 
and transfer to statutory reserve, are transferred to 
capital reserve by the Bank.
 
• 
 Assets (other than PoS terminals) costing less than 
` 5,000 individually are fully depreciated in the year 
of purchase except general insurance entity.
 
• 
 Goodwill generated through amalgamation / 
acquisition of rights to operate, administer and 
manage the mutual fund schemes has been 
amortized equally over a period of 10 years by Asset 
Management entity.
6. 
Non-Banking Assets
 
 Non-Banking Assets (NBAs) acquired in satisfaction 
of claims are carried at lower of net book value or net 
realizable value. 
7. 
Impairment of assets
 
 The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date 
whether there is any indication that an asset may be 
impaired. Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent 
the carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated 
recoverable amount.
8. 
Unclaimed amount of policyholders
 
Life Insurance
 
 Assets held for unclaimed amount of policyholders 
are created and maintained in accordance with the 
requirement of Master circular on Unclaimed Amount 
of Policyholders and Investment Regulations, 2016 as 
amended from time to time.
 
a) 
 Unclaimed amount of policyholder’s liability is 
determined on the basis of NAV of the units 
outstanding as at the valuation date and is 
disclosed in “Other liabilities and provisions” in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
b) 
 The life insurance entity maintains a single 
segregated fund to manage all unclaimed amounts 
and the sum of such fund is invested in money 
market instruments, liquid mutual funds and / or 
fixed deposits of scheduled banks which is valued 
at historical cost, subject to amortisation of premium 
or accretion of discount over the period of maturity 
/ holding on a straight-line basis. Such assets of 
unclaimed amount of policyholders is disclosed in 
“Other assets” in Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
c) 
 Income on unclaimed amount of policyholders 
is accreted to respective unclaimed fund and is 
accounted for on an accrual basis, net of fund 
management charges. 
 
d) 
 Amounts remaining unclaimed for a period of 10 
years as on 30th September every year along with 
all respective accretions to the fund are deposited 
into the Senior Citizen Welfare Fund (SCWF) as per 
requirement of IRDAI regulations.
 
General insurance 
 
 Unclaimed amounts may arise in respect of premium 
due for refund and indemnity claims. Income earned on 
unclaimed amounts is accreted and accounted on an 
accrual basis. After 10 years, the unclaimed amounts 
and their accretions are deposited into the Senior Citizen 
Welfare Fund as per IRDAI regulations. 
9. 
Translation of foreign currency items
 
 Foreign currency income and expenditure items of 
domestic operations are translated at the exchange 
rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. Income 
and expenditure items of integral foreign operations 
(representative offices) are translated at the weekly 
average closing rates and of non-integral foreign 
operations (foreign branches and offshore banking units) 
and foreign subsidiaries at the average closing rates.
 
 Outstanding foreign currency monetary assets and 
liabilities of domestic and integral foreign operations 
are translated at the closing exchange rates notified by 
Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) 
and RBI in case of Bank and subsidiaries, respectively, as 
at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting net revaluation 
profit or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Profit and 
Loss Account.
 
 Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency 
assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations 
/ subsidiaries are translated at closing exchange rates 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
473
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss 
arising from exchange differences are accumulated in the 
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve until disposal of the 
non-integral foreign operations in accordance with AS-11, 
The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates and 
the extant RBI guidelines.
 
 Foreign currency denominated contingent liabilities 
on account of foreign exchange and derivative 
contracts, guarantees, letters of credit, acceptances 
and endorsements are translated at closing rates of 
exchange notified by FEDAI and RBI in case of Bank and 
subsidiaries, respectively, as at the Balance Sheet date.
10. Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
 
 Foreign exchange spot and forward contracts, 
outstanding as at the Balance Sheet date and held for 
trading, are revalued at the closing spot and forward 
rates respectively as notified by FEDAI and at interpolated 
rates for contracts of interim maturities. The USD-INR 
exchange rate for valuation of contracts having longer 
maturities i.e., greater than one year, is derived using 
the USD-INR spot rate as well as relevant INR yield 
curve and USD yield curve. For other currency pairs 
and non-deliverable contracts, the forward points (for 
rates / tenors not published by FEDAI) are obtained / 
derived basis data published by Refinitiv or Bloomberg 
for valuation of the contracts. Valuation is considered on 
present value basis. For this purpose, the forward profit 
or loss on the contracts are discounted to the valuation 
date using the discounting yields. The resulting profit or 
loss on valuation is recognised in the Consolidated Profit 
and Loss Account. Marked to market value of foreign 
exchange contracts are classified as assets when the 
fair value is positive or as liabilities when the fair value 
is negative.
 
 The Group recognises all derivative contracts at fair 
value, on the date on which such derivative contracts 
are entered into and are re-measured at fair value as at 
the Balance Sheet date. Marked to market values of such 
derivatives are classified as assets when the fair value is 
positive or as liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
 
 The Group as part of its risk management strategy, makes 
use of derivative instruments, including foreign exchange 
forward contracts, interest rate derivative contract for 
hedging the risk embedded in some of its financial assets 
or liabilities recognised on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet. The Group identifies the hedged item (asset or 
liability) at the inception of the transaction itself. Hedge 
effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception 
of the hedge and at the reporting date thereafter.
 
 Foreign exchange forward contracts and Principal only 
swaps (POS) not intended for trading, that are entered into 
to establish the amount of reporting currency required or 
available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are 
outstanding at the Balance Sheet date, are accounted in 
accordance with AS-11. Accordingly, such contracts are 
not marked to market and only translated at spot rate. 
The premium or discount arising at the inception of such 
forward exchange contract is amortised on a straight-line 
basis as expense or income over the life of the contract. 
The interest income / expense on such POS transaction 
is accounted on accrual basis.
 
 In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair 
value of the hedging instruments and hedged items are 
recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 
and in case of cash flow hedges, the changes in fair 
value of effective portion are recognised in Reserves and 
Surplus under ‘Cash flow hedge reserve’ and ineffective 
portion of an effective hedging relationship, if any, is 
recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account. 
The accumulated balance in the cash flow hedge reserve, 
in an effective hedging relationship, is recycled in the 
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account at the same time 
that impact from the hedged item is recognised in the 
consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
 
 In relation to derivative contracts with non-performing 
borrowers, the Group makes provision for the entire 
amount of overdue and future receivables relating 
to positive marked to market value of the said 
derivative contracts.
 
 Further, in addition to above, the Life Insurance entity 
accounts the Interest rate derivative contracts for 
hedging of highly probable forecasted transactions on 
insurance contracts and investment cash flows in life, 
pension and annuity business, in the manner specified 
in accordance with ‘Guidance Note on Accounting for 
Derivative Contracts (Revised 2021)’ issued by the ICAI 
and IRDAI Investment Master Circular.

HDFC Bank Limited
474
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
11.  Revenue recognition
 
a. 
Banking: 
 
• 
 Interest income is recognised in the Consolidated 
Profit and Loss Account on an accrual basis, except 
in the case of non-performing assets which is 
recognised when realised. 
 
• 
 Interest income on investments in PTCs and loans 
bought out through the direct assignment route is 
recognised at their effective interest rate. 
 
• 
 Income on non-coupon bearing discounted 
instruments is recognised over the tenor of the 
instrument on a constant yield basis.
 
• 
 Dividend on equity shares and preference shares is 
recognised as income when the right to receive the 
dividend is established.
 
• 
 Income from units of mutual funds / AIF is recognised 
on cash basis.
 
• 
 Loan processing fee is recognised as income 
when due. Syndication / Arranger fee is recognised 
as income when a significant act / milestone 
is completed.
 
• 
 Gain / loss on sell down of loans is recognised in 
line with the extant RBI guidelines.
 
• 
 Guarantee commission, commission on letter of 
credit, annual locker rent fees and annual fees 
for credit cards are recognised on a straight-
line basis over the period of contract. Other fees 
and commission income are recognised when 
due, where the Bank is reasonably certain of 
ultimate collection.
 
• 
 Fees paid / received for priority sector lending 
certificates (PSLC) is recognised on straight-line 
basis over the period of the certificate.
 
b. 
Life Insurance:
 
• 
 Premium income from non-linked business including 
rider premium (net of Goods & Services Tax) is 
accounted for when due from the policyholders. 
In case of linked business, premium income is 
accounted for when the associated units are 
created. Premium on lapsed policies is accounted 
for as income when such policies are reinstated. 
Premium for products having regular premium 
paying plans with limited and / or predetermined 
policy term is considered as regular premium. 
Premium on products other than as mentioned 
above is considered as single premium. Top up 
premium is considered as single premium.
 
• 
 Gross reinsurance premium written comprise the 
total premiums receivable for the whole period of 
cover provided by contracts entered into during the 
year and are recognised on the date on which the 
cover commences in the Consolidated Profit and 
Loss Account. Premiums include any adjustments 
arising in the year for premiums receivable in respect 
of business written in prior years.
 
• 
 Income from linked policies, which includes fund 
management charges, policy administration 
charges, mortality charges and other charges, 
wherever applicable, is recovered from the linked 
funds in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of the policies and is accounted for as income 
when due.
 
• 
 Interest income on policy reinstatement is 
accounted for on received basis. Interest income on 
investments and policy loans is accounted for on an 
accrual basis. Amortisation of premium or accretion 
of discount computed at the time of purchase of 
debt securities is recognised over the remaining 
period of maturity / holding on a straight-line basis.
 
• 
 Fees received on lending of equity shares under 
Securities Lending and Borrowing scheme (SLB) is 
recognised as income over the period of the lending 
on a straight-line basis.
 
• 
 Profit or loss on sale / redemption of equity 
shares / Equity Exchange Traded funds (ETFs), 
Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs), Real Estate 
Investments Trusts (REITs), preference shares and 
units of mutual fund is calculated as the difference 
between sale proceeds / redemption proceeds 
net of sale expenses and the weighted average 
book value as on date of sale. In case of other than 
linked business, profit or loss on sale / redemption 
of equity shares / equity ETFs, InvITs, REITs, 
preference shares, AT I Bonds and units of mutual 
fund includes the accumulated changes in the fair 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
475
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
value previously recognised under “other reserves” 
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
• 
 In case of linked business, profit or loss on sale /
redemption of debt securities is calculated as the 
difference between net sale proceeds / redemption 
proceeds and the weighted average book cost. In 
case of other than linked business, profit or loss on 
sale / redemption of debt securities is calculated as 
the difference between sales proceeds / redemption 
proceeds net of sale expenses and the weighted 
average amortised cost.
 
• 
 Dividend income is accounted for on “ex-dividend” 
date in case of listed equity and preference shares 
and in case of unlisted equity and preference shares, 
when the right to receive dividend is established.
 
c. 
General insurance:
 
• 
 Premium including reinsurance accepted (net of 
Goods & Services Tax) is recognised as income over 
the contract period or period of risk, as appropriate, 
after adjusting for unearned premium (unexpired 
risk). Any subsequent revisions to or cancellations 
of premiums are accounted for in the period in 
which they occur. Instalment cases are recorded on 
instalment due dates. In case of long-term policies, 
premium collected at the time of sale for the entire 
policy duration, is recognised on a yearly basis i.e. 
on ‘1/n’ basis where ‘n’ is the policy duration, in 
terms of IRDAI Master Circular on Actuarial, Finance 
and Investment Functions of Insurers dated May 
17, 2024. Commission on reinsurance ceded is 
recognised as income on ceding of reinsurance 
premium as per treaty terms. Profit commission 
under reinsurance treaties, wherever applicable, is 
recognised in the year of final determination of the 
profits and as intimated by the Reinsurer.
 
• 
 Interest income from investments is recognised 
on an accrual basis. Accretion of discount and 
amortisation of premium relating to debt securities 
is recognised over the holding / maturity period on 
a constant yield to maturity basis.
 
• 
 The net realised gains or losses on the debt 
securities are the difference between the net sale 
consideration and the amortised cost, which is 
computed on a weighted average basis, as on the 
date of sale. In case of listed equity shares / mutual 
fund units, the profit or loss on sale of investment 
includes the accumulated changes in the fair value 
previously recognised under “Other reserves”. The 
difference between the acquisition price and the 
maturity value of treasury bills is recognised as 
income in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, 
as the case, may be, over the remaining term of 
these instruments on a yield to maturity basis. Sale 
consideration for the purpose of realised gain / loss 
is net of brokerage and taxes, if any, and excludes 
interest received on sale.
 
• 
 Dividend on equity and preference shares is 
recognised as income when the right to receive the 
dividend is established.
 
d. 
Asset Management:
 
• 
 Investment management fees, portfolio 
management fees and other advisory fees are 
recognised on an accrual basis.
 
• 
 Interest income  is recognised using constant yield 
to maturity basis.
 
• 
 Gains / losses on sale of investments are recognised 
in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account. Profit 
/ loss on sale of investments is determined on a 
weighted average cost basis.
 
• 
 Income from Investment in VCF / AIF is recognised 
on the basis of income distribution by the respective 
VCF / AIF.
 
• 
 Dividend is recognised as income when the right to 
receive the dividend is established.
 
e. 
Stock Broking:
 
• 
 Income from services rendered as a broker is 
recognised upon rendering of the services.
 
• 
 Fees for subscription based services are received 
periodically but are recognised as earned on a pro-
rata basis over the term of the contract.
 
• 
 Commissions from distribution of financial products 
are recognised upon allotment of the securities to 
the applicant or as the case may be, issue of the 
insurance policy to the applicant.

HDFC Bank Limited
476
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
 
• 
 Interest income is recognised on a time proportion 
basis taking into account the amount outstanding 
from customers or on the financial instrument and 
the rate applicable.
 
• 
 Dividend income is recognised when the right to 
receive the dividend is established.
 
f. 
Others:
 
• 
 Commission, brokerage, trusteeship, management 
/ performance fees, consultancy fees and other 
service charges are recognised on an accrual 
basis upon rendering of services to the extent that 
it is probable that the economic benefits will flow 
to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably 
measured regardless of when the payment is 
being made.
 
• 
 Dividend income is accounted for when the right 
to receive the income is established. Dividends 
from units of mutual funds, where received, are 
accounted on receipt of such amounts.
 
• 
 Interest income (net of amortized premium / 
accreted discount, if any) is recognised on a time 
proportion basis.
 
• 
 Gains or losses arising from disposal of fixed assets 
are measured as the difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and carrying amount of the asset 
and is recognised in the Consolidated Profit and 
Loss Account when the asset is disposed.
 
• 
 In case of pension business, point of presence 
income includes account opening fees, contribution 
processing fees, persistency income and exit 
charges Account opening fees are due and 
recognised on generation of Permanent Retirement 
Account Number (PRAN). Contribution processing 
fees are recognised on receipt of contribution from 
the customer. Persistency income is recognised 
on subscriber accounts active for more than six 
months. Exit charges are recognised on processing 
of exit of the member from NPS.
12. Employee benefits
 
Stock based Employee Compensation: 
 
 The Employee Stock Option Scheme / Employee Stock 
Incentive Master Scheme formulated by Holding or 
subsidiary companies provides for the grant of options 
/ Restricted Stock Units (units) to eligible employees 
and whole time directors to acquire equity shares of the 
entities they belong to. The options / units granted shall 
vest as per their vesting schedule and these may be 
exercised within a specified period. 
 
 The Group followed the intrinsic value method to account 
for its stock-based employee compensation plans 
in respect of options granted up to March 31, 2021. 
Compensation cost was measured by the excess, if 
any, of the market price of the underlying stock over the 
exercise price as determined under the option plan. The 
market price is the closing price on the stock exchange 
where there is highest trading volume on the working 
day immediately preceding the date of grant. In case 
of unlisted subsidiaries, the fair value is considered in 
absence of market price.
 
 Effective April 01, 2021, the fair value of share-linked 
instruments on the date of grant for all instruments granted 
after March 31, 2021, is recognised as an expense in 
accordance with the RBI guidelines on Compensation of 
Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material 
Risk Takers and Control Function staff. The fair value of 
the stock-based employee compensation is estimated 
on the date of grant using Black-Scholes model. 
 
 The compensation cost is amortised on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period after adjusting estimated 
forfeiture as applicable. Ultimately, the cost for all 
instruments that vest is recognised. The compensation 
expense is recognised in the Consolidated Profit and 
Loss Account with a corresponding credit to Employee 
Stock Options Outstanding. On exercise of the stock 
options, corresponding balance in Employee Stock 
Options Outstanding is transferred to Share Premium. 
In respect of the options which expire unexercised, 
the balance standing to the credit of Employee Stock 
Options Outstanding is transferred to General Reserve.
 
Gratuity:
 
 The Group has an obligation towards gratuity, a defined 
benefit retirement plan covering all eligible employees. 
The plan benefit vests upon completion of minimum 
prescribed period of continuous service in accordance 
with the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 and is in the form 
of lump sum amount, without an upper limit, equivalent 
to 15 days’* basic salary payable for each completed 
year of service to all eligible employees on resignation, 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
477
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
retirement or death while in employment or on termination 
of employment. The Group makes contributions to a 
recognised Gratuity Trust administered by trustees and 
whose funds are managed by insurance companies. 
In respect of erstwhile Lord Krishna Bank (eLKB) 
employees, the Bank makes contribution to a fund set 
up by eLKB and administered by the Board of Trustees. 
 
 * One month basic salary to eHDFC Limited employees 
for each completed year of service till the effective date of 
amalgamation, one month basic salary to employees of 
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited for each completed year 
of service or part of the year in excess of 6 months and 
15 days basic salary to employees of General Insurance 
entity payable for each completed year of service if the 
service is less than or equal to 9 years and one-month 
basic salary payable for each completed year of service 
if the service is greater than or equal to 10 years.
 
 The defined gratuity benefit plans are valued by an 
independent actuary as at the Balance Sheet date using 
the projected unit credit method as per the requirement of 
AS-15, Employee Benefits, to determine the present value 
of the defined benefit obligation and the related service 
costs. The actuarial calculations entail assumptions 
about demographics, early retirement, salary increases 
and interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is recognised in 
the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account. 
 
Superannuation:
 
Bank
 
 The Bank has a superannuation plan under which 
employees of the Bank, above a prescribed grade, are 
entitled to receive retirement benefits either through salary 
or under a defined contribution plan. For those opting for 
a defined contribution plan, the Bank contributes a sum 
equivalent to 13% of the employee’s eligible annual basic 
salary (15% for the whole time directors and for certain 
eligible employees of the erstwhile Centurion Bank of 
Punjab (eCBoP staff) to a Trust administered by trustees 
and whose funds are managed by insurance companies. 
The Bank has no liability towards future superannuation 
fund benefits other than its contribution and recognises 
such contribution as an expense in the year incurred.
 
Other subsidiaries
 
 Obligations for contributions to superannuation fund 
are recognised as an employee benefit expense 
in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account in the 
periods during which the related services are rendered 
by employees.
 
Provident fund:
 
Bank
 
 The Bank is covered under the Employees Provident 
Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and 
accordingly all employees of the Bank are entitled 
to receive benefits under the provident fund. The 
Bank contributes an amount, on a monthly basis, at 
a determined rate (currently 12% of employee’s basic 
salary). Of this, the Bank contributes an amount equal 
to 8.33% of employee’s basic salary up to a maximum 
salary level of ` 15,000/- per month, to the Pension 
Scheme administered by the Regional Provident Fund 
Office. The balance amount out of the 12% Bank’s share 
is contributed to an exempted Trust set up by the Bank 
and administered by the Board of Trustees. The Bank 
recognises such contributions as an expense in the year 
in which it is incurred. 
 
 Interest payable to the members of the exempted trust 
shall not be lower than the statutory rate of interest 
declared by the Central Government under the Employees 
Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 
and shortfall, if any, shall be made good by the Bank.
 
 The guidance note on implementing AS-15, Employee 
Benefits, states that benefits involving employer 
established provident funds, which require interest 
shortfalls to be provided, are to be considered as defined 
benefit plan. Actuarial valuation of this Provident Fund 
interest shortfall is done as per the guidance note issued 
in this respect by The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI) 
and provision towards this liability is made.
 
 The overseas branches of the Bank make contribution 
to the respective applicable government social security 
scheme calculated as a percentage of the employees’ 
salaries. The Bank’s obligations are limited to these 
contributions, which are expensed when due, as such 
contribution is in the nature of defined contribution.
 
Other Subsidiaries
 
 The employees of subsidiaries which are covered under 
the Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous 
Provisions Act, 1952 are entitled to receive benefits under 
the provident fund.

HDFC Bank Limited
478
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
 
 The  subsidiaries recognise contribution payable to the 
provident fund scheme (which is a defined contribution 
plan) as an expenditure in the Consolidated Profit and 
Loss Account in the periods during which the related 
services are rendered by employees. The subsidiaries 
have no obligation, other than the contribution payable 
to the provident fund.
 
Pension:
 
 In respect of pension payable to certain eLKB employees 
under the Lord Krishna Bank (Employees) Pension 
Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme, the Bank 
contributes 10% of basic salary to a pension trust set up 
by the Bank and administered by the Board of Trustees 
and an additional amount towards the liability shortfall 
based on an independent actuarial valuation as at the 
Balance Sheet date, which includes assumptions about 
demographics, early retirement, salary increases and 
interest rates.
 
 In respect of certain eLKB employees who had moved to 
a Cost to Company (CTC) based compensation structure 
and had completed less than 15 years of service, the 
contribution which was made until then, is maintained as 
a fund and will be converted into annuity on separation 
after a lock-in-period of two years. For this category 
of employees, liability stands frozen and no additional 
provision is required except for interest as applicable to 
Provident Fund, which is provided for.
 
 In respect of certain eLKB employees who moved to 
a CTC structure and had completed service of more 
than 15 years, pension would be paid on separation 
based on salary applicable as on the date of movement 
to CTC structure. Provision thereto is made based on 
an independent actuarial valuation as at the Balance 
Sheet date.
 
National Pension System (NPS):
 
 In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the 
NPS, the Group contributes certain percentage of the 
basic salary of employees to the aforesaid scheme, 
a defined contribution plan, which is managed and 
administered by pension fund management companies. 
The Group has no liability other than its contribution 
and recognises such contributions as an expense in the 
year incurred.
 
Short-term employee benefits:
 
 Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured 
on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the 
related service is provided. A liability is recognised for the 
amount expected to be paid, if the Group have a present 
legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a 
result of past service provided by the employee, and the 
amount of obligation can be estimated reliably.
 
Other long term employee benefits:
 
 Other long term employee benefits include accumulated 
long term compensated absences and long term 
incentive plans which can be carried to future periods 
and are expected to be availed / encashed in more 
than twelve months immediately following the year in 
which the employee has rendered service / Balance 
Sheet date, as the case may be. The Group’s liability 
is accrued and provided for on the basis of an actuarial 
valuation using the Projected Unit Credit Method at the 
end of the reporting period. Actuarial gains or losses, if 
any, due to experience adjustments and the effects of 
changes in actuarial assumptions are accounted for in 
the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, as the case 
may be, in the period in which they arise.   
13. Debit and credit cards reward points
 
 The Bank estimates the probable redemption of debit 
and credit card reward points and cost per point using 
an actuarial method by employing an independent 
actuary, which includes assumptions such as discount 
rate, block, withdrawal, cost per reward point, mortality, 
redemption and spends. Provisions for liabilities on 
the outstanding reward points are made based on an 
independent actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet 
date and included in other liabilities and provisions.
14. Bullion
 
 The Bank imports bullion including precious metal bars 
on a consignment basis or through exchange (India 
International Bullion Exchange – Gift City). The imports 
are typically on a back-to-back basis and are priced to the 
customer based on the price quoted by the supplier. The 
difference between the price recovered from customers 
and cost of bullion is accounted at the time of sale to the 
customers and reported as “Other Income”.
 
 The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending 
basis and the interest thereon is accounted as interest 
expense / income respectively.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
479
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
15. Lease accounting
 
 Lease payments including cost escalation for assets 
taken on operating lease are recognised as an expense in 
the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account over the lease 
term on a straight-line basis in accordance with the AS-
19, Leases. Rental income from assets given on operating 
lease is recognised as income in the Consolidated Profit 
and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease 
term in accordance with the AS-19, Leases.
 
 Finance lease is a lease which confers substantially all 
the risks and rewards of the leased assets on the lessee. 
Assets given under a finance lease are recorded as a 
receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in 
the lease. Finance lease income is based on a pattern 
reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on the net 
investment of the lessor outstanding in respect of the 
finance lease. 
 
 Asset taken under finance lease are capitalised at the 
lower of the fair value of the asset and present value 
of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the 
lease term and are disclosed as leased assets. Lease 
payments are apportioned between the finance charges 
and the corresponding liability to achieve a constant 
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. 
Finance charges are charged to the Consolidated Profit 
and Loss Accounts. Leased assets capitalised under 
finance lease are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term.
16. Reserve for unexpired risk  
 
General insurance
 
 Reserve for unexpired risk represents that part of the net 
premium written which is attributable to and allocated to 
the succeeding accounting period. Reserve for unexpired 
risk is calculated on the basis of 1/365th method in all 
segments subject to a minimum of 100% in case of 
marine hull business. 
17. Policyholders’ funds
 
Life Insurance
 
 The actuarial liabilities, for all in force policies and policies 
where premiums are discontinued but a liability exists as 
at the valuation date, are calculated in accordance with 
the generally accepted actuarial principles and practices, 
requirements of Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from 
time to time including amendment brought by the 
Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, regulations 
notified by the IRDAI and Actuarial Practice Standard 
(APS) issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India with the 
concurrence of the IRDAI. These liabilities are presented 
as a part of Policyholders Funds on liability side of the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
 The specific principles adopted for the valuation of policy 
liabilities are set out as per the IRDAI (Assets, Liabilities 
and Solvency Margin of Life Insurance Business) 
Regulations, 2016 and the APS2 & APS7 issued by the 
Institute of Actuaries of India.
 
A brief of the methodology used is as given below:
 
1. 
 The policy liabilities are valued on policy by policy 
basis, i.e., each policy is valued separately.
 
2. 
 The reserves for linked business (individual and 
group) comprise unit reserves and non-unit 
reserves. The unit reserves are determined on 
the basis of NAV of the units outstanding as at the 
valuation date and non-unit reserves are calculated 
using gross premium valuation method.
 
3. 
 The liabilities for individual non-linked non-
participating and participating business are 
calculated using gross premium valuation method 
and are subject to the minimum floor of surrender 
value. Additionally, individual non-linked participating 
policies also have a reference to the asset share of 
policies at valuation date.
 
4. 
 The liabilities for one year renewable group protection 
business are calculated on the unexpired risk 
premium basis. For other than one year renewable 
group protection business, the liabilities are 
calculated using gross premium valuation method.
 
5. 
 The liabilities for the group non-linked savings 
products are determined as the higher of policy 
account balances (including accrued interest /
bonuses) and reserves calculated by gross premium 
valuation method.
 
6. 
 The liabilities in respect of rider benefits are 
determined as the higher of unexpired premium 
reserves and reserves calculated by gross premium 
valuation method.

HDFC Bank Limited
480
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
 
7. 
 Additional reserves are determined to:
 
a. 
 allow for the claims that may have occurred already 
but not yet reported (Incurred but Not Reported).
 
b. 
 allow for the servicing of existing policies if Life 
Insurance were to close the new business one year 
from the valuation date (Closure to New Business).
 
c. 
 meet the expected liabilities that would arise on 
the revival of lapsed policies, on the basis of the 
proportion of the policies expected to be revived 
based on the revival experience of Life Insurance 
(Revival Reserve).
 
d. 
 allow for the additional amount required to be paid 
on account of cancellation of policies due to look- 
in, on the basis of the proportion of the policies 
expected to exercise the look-in option based on 
the experience Life Insurance (Look-in Reserve).
 
e. 
allow for the cost of guarantees, wherever applicable.
 
 The Funds for Future Appropriations (FFA), in the 
participating segment, represents the surplus, which 
is not allocated to policyholders or shareholders as at 
the Balance Sheet date. Transfers to and from the fund 
reflect the excess or deficit of income over expenses 
respectively and appropriations in each accounting 
period arising in the Policyholders’ Fund. Any allocation 
to the par policyholders would also give rise to a 
transfer to Consolidated Profit and Loss Account in the 
required proportion.
18. Reinsurance premium ceded
 
Life Insurance
 
 Reinsurance premium ceded is accounted for on due 
basis in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
reinsurance treaties. Profit commission on reinsurance 
ceded (if applicable) is netted off against premium ceded 
on reinsurance.
 
General Insurance 
 
 Reinsurance premium ceded is accounted in the year in 
which the risk commences and over the period of risk 
in accordance with the treaty arrangements with the 
reinsurers. Reinsurance premium ceded on unearned 
premium is carried forward to the period of risk and is set 
off against related unearned premium. Any subsequent 
revisions to or cancellations of premiums are accounted 
for in the year in which they occur. Premium on excess 
of loss reinsurance cover is accounted as per the terms 
of the reinsurance arrangements.
19.  Claims paid and other expenses pertaining to 
insurance business
 
I. 
Benefits paid 
 
 
Life Insurance 
 
 
 Benefits paid consist of policy benefit amounts and 
claim settlement costs, where applicable.
 
 
Non-linked business: 
 
 
 Death and rider claims are accounted for on receipt 
of intimation. Annuity benefits, periodical benefit 
and maturity claims are accounted for when due. 
Surrenders are accounted for on the receipt of 
consent from the insured to the quote provided by 
the life insurance entity.
 
 
Linked business: 
 
 
 Death and rider claims are accounted for on receipt 
of intimation. Maturity claims are accounted for on 
due basis when the associated units are cancelled. 
Surrenders and withdrawals are accounted for 
on receipt of intimation when associated units 
are cancelled. Amount payable on lapsed /
discontinued policies are accounted for on expiry 
of lock in period of these policies. Surrenders, 
withdrawals and lapsation are disclosed at net of 
charges recoverable.
 
 
 Claims receivable from reinsurance companies are 
accounted for in the period in which the concerned 
claims are intimated and netted off against the 
benefits paid.
 
 
 Repudiated claims and other claims disputed before 
judicial authorities are provided for on prudent basis 
as considered appropriate by management.
 
II. 
Claims incurred
 
 
General insurance 
 
 
 Claims incurred comprises of claims paid (net of 
salvage and other recoveries), change in estimated 
liability for outstanding claims made following a loss 
occurrence reported, change in estimated liability 
for claims incurred but not reported (IBNR) and 
claims incurred but not enough reported (IBNER) 
and specific settlement costs comprising survey, 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
481
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
legal and other directly attributable expenses. IBNR 
and IBNER is classified as part of policyholders’ 
funds in the financial statements. Provision is made 
for estimated value of outstanding claims at the 
reporting date net of reinsurance, salvage and other 
recoveries. Such provision is made on the basis of 
the ultimate amounts that are likely to be paid on 
each claim, established by the management in light 
of past experience and progressively modified for 
changes as appropriate, on availability of further 
information and include claim settlement costs 
likely to be incurred to settle outstanding claims. 
Claims (net of amounts receivable from reinsurers /
co-insurers) are recognised on the date of intimation 
based on estimates from surveyors / insured. The 
estimated liability for IBNR and IBNER has been 
estimated by the Appointed Actuary in compliance 
with guidelines issued by IRDAI and applicable 
provisions of the Institute of Actuaries of India. The 
Appointed Actuary has used generally accepted 
actuarial methods for each product category 
as considered appropriate depending upon the 
availability of past data as well as appropriateness 
of the different methods to the different lines of 
businesses. The above elements of estimates of 
liability for claims are periodically reviewed by the 
Appointed Actuary and adjusted based on recent 
experience and emerging trends.
 
 
Premium Deficiency
 
 
 Premium deficiency is recognised as a whole on 
an annual basis. Premium deficiency is recognised 
if the sum of the expected claim costs, related 
expenses and maintenance cost (related to claims 
handling) exceeds related reserve for unexpired risk. 
The expected claim costs are calculated and duly 
certified by an appointed actuary.
 
III. Acquisition costs 
 
 
 Acquisition costs are the costs that vary with and 
are primarily related to the acquisition of new and 
renewal insurance contracts. These costs are 
expensed in the period in which they are incurred. 
20. Contribution to Pool Funds
 
General Insurance
 
 In accordance with the requirements of IRDAI, the 
general insurance entity, together with other insurance 
companies, participates in the Terrorism Pool, Marine 
Cargo Pool for Excluded Territories – Russia, Ukraine, 
Belarus (“MCPET”). This pool is managed by the 
General Insurance Corporation of India (“GIC”). Amounts 
collected as terrorism premium in accordance with the 
requirements of the Tariff Advisory Committee (“TAC”) 
are ceded at 100% of the terrorism premium collected 
to the Terrorism Pool and Amounts collected as MCPET 
premium in accordance with the requirements of the 
MCPET Agreement, are ceded at 96% to the MCPET 
Pool, after utilising the obligatory cession. The reinsurance 
accepted on account of these pool have been recorded 
in accordance with the last statement received from GIC. 
The general insurance entity has ensured that it has 
created liability, to the extent of premium retroceded to 
the entity, through reserve for unexpired risks, classified 
as part of other liabilities.
 
 The entity also provides for contribution to Solatium Fund 
established by the Central Government as a percentage 
of gross written premium for all motor policies written 
during that year, till the year ended March 31, 2010. 
Further, General Insurance Council in its meeting held on 
April 1, 2010, recommended that the contribution should 
be a percentage of gross written third party premiums.
21. New Fund Offer (NFO) Expenses & Commission
 
 New Fund Offer (NFO) expenses on the launch of mutual 
fund schemes are borne by the Asset Management entity 
and recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Account as and when incurred. Any other brokerage or 
commission paid by the Asset Management entity in line 
with the applicable regulations is being amortised over 
the contractual period. Pursuant to circulars issued by 
SEBI in this regard, with effect from October 22, 2018, all 
the scheme expenses including commission on mutual 
fund schemes, subject to certain permitted exceptions, 
are being borne by the respective schemes.
22. Income tax
 
 Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current 
tax and deferred tax expense incurred by the Group. The 
current tax expenses is determined in accordance with 
the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and 
rules framed there under and considering the material 
principles set out in Income Computation and Disclosure 
Standards to the extent applicable. The tax expenses 
relating to overseas subsidiaries are in accordance 
with the tax laws applicable in countries where such 
subsidiaries are domiciled. Deferred tax expense is 
determined as per AS-22, Accounting for Taxes on 
Income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised 
for the future tax consequences of timing differences 

HDFC Bank Limited
482
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As at March 31, 2025
between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and 
their respective tax bases, and operating loss carried 
forward, if any. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
measured using the enacted or substantively enacted 
tax rates as at the Balance Sheet date. Current tax assets 
and liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
off-set when they relate to income taxes levied by the 
same taxation authority, when the entity has a legal 
right to off-set and when the entity intends to settle on a 
net basis.
 
 Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent 
there is reasonable certainty that the assets can be 
realised in future. In case of unabsorbed depreciation 
or carried forward loss under taxation laws, deferred 
tax assets are recognised only if there is virtual certainty 
of realisation of such assets. Deferred tax assets are 
reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and appropriately 
adjusted to reflect the amount that is reasonably / virtually 
certain to be realised.
 
 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are computed 
at an individual entity level and aggregated for 
consolidated reporting.
23. Segment information 
 
 The disclosure relating to segment information is in 
accordance with AS-17, Segment Reporting and as per 
guidelines issued by RBI.
24. Earnings per share
 
 The Group reports basic and diluted earnings per equity 
share in accordance with AS-20, Earnings per Share. 
Basic earnings per equity share has been computed 
by dividing net profit for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding for the year. Diluted earnings per 
share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if 
securities or other contracts to issue equity shares 
were exercised or converted to equity during the year. 
Diluted earnings per equity share are computed using 
the weighted average number of equity shares and the 
dilutive potential equity shares outstanding during the 
year except where the results are anti-dilutive.
25.  Accounting for provisions, contingent liabilities 
and contingent assets
 
 In accordance with AS-29, Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets, the Group recognises 
provisions when it has a present obligation as a result of 
a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits will be required to settle 
the obligation and when a reliable estimate of the amount 
of the obligation can be made. 
 
 Provisions are determined based on management 
estimate required to settle the obligation at the 
Balance Sheet date, supplemented by experience 
of similar transactions. These are reviewed at each 
Balance Sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current 
management estimates. 
 
A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
 
• 
 a possible obligation arising from a past event, 
the existence of which will be confirmed by the 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more 
uncertain future events not within the control of the 
Group; or
 
• 
 a present obligation arising from a past event 
which is not recognised as it is not probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount of the 
obligation cannot be made.
 
 When there is a possible obligation or a present 
obligation in respect of which the likelihood of outflow 
of resources is remote, no provision or disclosure is 
made. Contingent assets, if any, are not recognised 
in the financial statements since this may result in the 
recognition of income that may never be realised. 
26. Cash and cash equivalents 
 
 Cash and cash equivalents include cash, gold in hand, 
rupee digital currency with RBI, balances with RBI, 
balances with other banks and money at call and short 
notice.   
27. Share issue expenses
 
 Share issue expenses are adjusted against Share 
Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
28. Corporate social responsibility 
 
 Expenditure towards corporate social responsibility, in 
accordance with Companies Act, 2013, is recognised in 
the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
483
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SCHEDULE 18 - Schedules forming part of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2025
Amounts in notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 are denominated in 
rupee crore to conform to extant RBI guidelines, except where stated otherwise.
1. 
Amalgamation of HDFC Limited 
 
 The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 04, 2022, approved a composite Scheme of amalgamation (“Scheme”), 
for the amalgamation of: (i) erstwhile HDFC Investments Limited (“eHDFC Investments”) and erstwhile HDFC Holdings 
Limited (“eHDFC Holdings”), with and into erstwhile Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (“eHDFC Limited”); 
and thereafter (ii) eHDFC Limited into HDFC Bank Limited (“Bank”), and their respective shareholders and creditors, under 
Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws including the rules and regulations. The Scheme 
was approved by the shareholders at the National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”) convened meeting of the shareholders 
of the Bank held on November 25, 2022. The NCLT, in accordance with Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and rules thereunder, vide its order dated March 17, 2023 sanctioned the Scheme. Upon receipt of all requisite approvals, 
the Bank filed form INC 28 with Registrar of Companies on July 01, 2023 and accordingly, the Scheme became effective 
on July 01, 2023. As per the Scheme, the appointed date for the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into the Bank is 
the same as effective date of the Scheme i.e. July 01, 2023. The Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 
March 31, 2025 include the operations of eHDFC Limited and its subsidiaries (which became subsidiaries of the Bank on 
amalgamation) effective from July 01, 2023 and hence are not comparable with the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 
for the year ended March 31, 2024.
 
 The amalgamation was accounted under the ‘pooling of interest’ method as prescribed in Accounting Standard-14 
“Accounting for amalgamation” (“AS-14”). Outstanding balances between eHDFC Limited and the Bank were eliminated as 
on July 01, 2023. All assets and liabilities of eHDFC Limited were recognised by the Bank at their carrying amounts as on 
that date except for adjustments to bring about uniformity of accounting policies as required under AS-14. The share capital 
of ` 311.04 crore issued by the Bank as consideration pursuant to the Scheme was adjusted against the corresponding 
share capital of eHDFC Limited of ` 370.29 crore and the difference was adjusted to Amalgamation Reserve. Further, 
excess of cost over face value of Investment in shares of the Bank by eHDFC Limited of ` 14,006.31 crore was adjusted 
to Amalgamation Reserve. Consequently, the Bank recognised a debit balance of ` 13,947.06 crore in the Amalgamation 
Reserve as a result of these adjustments.
 
 Summarized values of assets and liabilities taken over as at July 01, 2023 in accordance with the terms of the Scheme is 
as detailed below:
Particulars
(` crore)
Assets taken over
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice
5,408.87 
Investments
146,773.54  
Advances
          605,664.86 
Fixed assets
1,442.60 
Other assets
14,338.34 
Total Assets (A)
773,628.21 
Liabilities, reserves and surplus taken over
 
Equity share warrants
    265.64 
Employees stock options outstanding
123.81
Reserves and surplus
111,005.85 

HDFC Bank Limited
484
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Particulars
(` crore)
Deposits
157,259.22 
Borrowings
477,539.07 
Other liabilities and provisions
27,064.33 
Total Liabilities, reserves and surplus (B)
773,257.92 
Net Assets C = (A-B)
   370.29 
 
 Consequent upon amalgamation becoming effective, the authorised share capital of the Bank stood increased to ` 1,190.61 
crore (11,90,61,00,000 shares of ` 1/- each) on account of transfer to and amalgamation / combination of authorised capital 
of eHDFC Limited with the authorised share capital of the Bank. In terms of the Scheme, the Bank issued and allotted 
3,11,03,96,492 equity shares to the shareholders of eHDFC Limited as on July 13, 2023, being the record date fixed by the 
Board of Directors as per the Scheme, in accordance with the share exchange ratio i.e. 42 equity shares of face value of 
` 1/- each of the Bank for every 25 equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each of eHDFC Limited. Accordingly, the paid-up 
share capital of the Bank increased from ` 559.18 crore consisting of 5,59,17,98,806 equity shares of ` 1/- each to ` 753.76 
crore consisting of 7,53,75,69,464 equity shares of ` 1/- each, post cancellation of 1,16,46,25,834 equity shares held by 
eHDFC Limited in the Bank on that date in accordance with the provisions of the Scheme.
 
 As part of the Scheme, certain leased out immovable properties of eHDFC Limited were transferred to the Bank on 
amalgamation. The Bank has initiated necessary steps to foreclose these leases.
 
 Upon Scheme becoming effective from July 01, 2023, the following entities (subsidiaries of eHDFC Limited) became the 
subsidiaries of the Bank. Consequently, the opening balances as on July 01, 2023 are shown as “Addition on amalgamation” 
in the consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2024.
Name of the Entity
Relationship
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited
Direct Subsidiary
HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited
Indirect Subsidiary
HDFC Pension Fund Management Limited
Indirect Subsidiary
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited
Direct Subsidiary
HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited
Indirect Subsidiary
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Sales Private Limited
Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited
Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Trustee Company Limited
Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited (‘HDFC Credila’) (up to March 19, 2024)
Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited (‘HEADS’) (up to October 18, 2024)
Direct Subsidiary
Griha Pte Limited
Direct Subsidiary
Griha Investments 
Direct Subsidiary
 
 The Bank had not consolidated its subsidiaries viz., HDFC Credila and HEADS under AS-21 as the control of these 
subsidiaries was intended to be temporary (as directed by RBI) on the date of their acquisition. Subsequently, the Bank had 
diluted its holding in HDFC Credila to 9.99% during the year ended March 31, 2024 and entire stake in HEADS is divested 
during the year ended March 31, 2025.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
485
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
2. 
Proposed dividend
 
 The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 19, 2025 proposed a dividend of ` 22.00 per equity share (previous year: 
` 19.50 per equity share) aggregating to ` 16,834.89 crore subject to the approval of shareholders at the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting. During the year ended March 31, 2025, the dividend paid by the Bank in respect of the previous year 
ended March 31, 2024 was `  14,813.98 crore. In terms of the AS-4 “Contingencies and events occurring after the balance 
sheet date”, the Bank has not appropriated the proposed dividend from the Profit and Loss Account and the same will 
be recognised in the year of actual payout post approval. However, effect of the proposed dividend has been reckoned in 
determining capital funds in computation of the capital adequacy ratio.
3. 
Change in accounting policy
 
 The RBI, vide its master direction dated September 12, 2023, issued revised norms (herein after referred as ‘revised norms 
on investments’) for the classification, valuation and operation of investment portfolio of banks, which became applicable 
from April 01, 2024. While hitherto, the investment portfolio was classified under the held to maturity (HTM), available for 
sale (AFS) and held for trading (HFT) categories, the revised norms bring in a principle-based classification of investment 
portfolio and a symmetric treatment of fair value gains and losses. In accordance with the revised norms and the Bank’s 
board approved policy, the Bank has classified its investment portfolio as on April 01, 2024 under the categories of held 
to maturity (HTM), available for sale (AFS), subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and fair value through profit and loss 
(FVTPL) with held for trading (HFT) as a sub-category of FVTPL, and from that date, measures and values the investment 
portfolio under the revised framework. For the purpose of consolidation, all the subsidiaries of the Bank and EWT have 
followed the revised framework of the Bank except for HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (“HDFC Life”) and HDFC 
ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (“HDFC ERGO”), (the subsidiaries regulated by IRDAI), which continue to follow 
IRDAI guidelines. On transition to the revised norms on investment on April 01, 2024, the group recognised a net gain of 
` 1,113.78 crore (net of tax of ` 405.86 crore and minority interest of ` 914.25 crore) which has been credited to general 
reserve, in accordance with the said norms. The impact of the revised framework for the period subsequent to the transition 
is not ascertainable and as such the income / profit or loss from investments for the year ended March 31, 2025 is not 
comparable with that of the previous year. 
4. 
Capital infusion
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank allotted 5,53,11,012 equity shares (previous year: 4,66,21,586 equity shares) 
aggregating to face value of ` 5.53 crore (previous year: ` 4.66 crore) on exercise of stock options / units. Accordingly, the 
share capital increased by ` 5.53 crore (previous year: ` 4.66 crore) and the share premium increased by ` 6,340.97 crore 
(previous year: ` 5,245.07 crore).
 
 During the previous year, the Bank issued and allotted 3,11,03,96,492 equity shares to the shareholders of eHDFC Limited 
in terms of the Scheme. Accordingly, the paid-up share capital of the Bank increased from ` 559.18 crore consisting of 
5,59,17,98,806 equity shares of ` 1/- each to ` 753.76 crore consisting of 7,53,75,69,464 equity shares of ` 1/- each, 
post cancellation of 1,16,46,25,834 equity shares held by eHDFC Limited in the Bank on that date in accordance with the 
provisions of the Scheme. Further, share premium increased by ` 51,728.83 crore on amalgamation of eHDFC Limited.
 
 During the previous year, the Bank allotted 2,47,75,632 equity shares pursuant to exercise of convertible share warrants 
issued by eHDFC Limited. Accordingly, the share capital and share premium of the Bank increased by ` 2.48 crore and 
` 3,455.79 crore respectively, including money received by eHDFC Limited at the time of allotment of share warrants.

HDFC Bank Limited
486
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
The details of the movement in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank are given below:   
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
759.69
557.97
Addition pursuant to stock options / units / warrants exercised
5.53
7.14
Addition pursuant to amalgamation (net of cancellation) (Refer Schedule 18(1))
-
194.58
Closing balance
765.22
759.69
5. 
Employees stock options outstanding
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Group recognised employee stock options / units expense of ` 2,086.05 crore 
(previous year: ` 1,731.73 crore) being fair valuation of share-linked instruments, with a corresponding credit in Employees 
stock options outstanding. In addition, the Bank pursuant to the Scheme has taken over ` 123.81 crore as Employees stock 
options outstanding on the appointed and effective date i.e. July 01, 2023. During the year ended March 31, 2025, an amount 
of ` 723.11 crore (previous year: ` 84.18 crore) is transferred to Share Premium, ` 195.25 crore (previous year: ` 234.51 
crore) is transferred to minority interest and ` 15.22 crore (previous year: ` 1.34 crore) is transferred to General Reserve.
 
Accounting for employee share based payments
 
HDFC Bank
 
 The shareholders of the Bank approved the grant of equity stock options under Plan “C” in June 2005, Plan “D” in June 
2007, Plan “E” in June 2010, Plan “F” in June 2013, Plan “G” in July 2016 and Plan “H” in August 2024. The Bank also 
approved the Employee Stock Incentive Master Scheme in May 2022. Under the terms of each of these plans, the Bank 
may issue to its employees and Whole Time Directors, Equity Stock Options (‘ESOPs’) or Restricted Stock Units (‘Units’) 
each of which is convertible into one equity share. Further, pursuant to the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into 
Bank effective from July 01, 2023, the existing ESOP Schemes of the eHDFC Limited comprising of eHDFC 2007, eHDFC 
2008, eHDFC 2014, eHDFC 2017 and eHDFC 2020 were taken over by the Bank. 
 
 All the plans were framed in accordance with the SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme & Employee Stock Purchase 
Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to time and as applicable at the time of the grant. The accounting for the 
stock options has been in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits 
and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and RBI guidelines to the extent applicable.
 
 The plans provide for the issuance of options at the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of 
the Board (‘NRC’) at the closing price on the working day immediately preceding the date when options are granted. This 
closing price is the closing price of the Bank’s equity share on an Indian stock exchange with the highest trading volume 
as of the working day preceding the date of grant. Further, the units are issued at the face value of the equity share of ` 1/- 
each. The vesting conditions applicable to the options / units are at the discretion of the NRC. These options / units are 
exercisable on vesting, for a period as set forth by the NRC at the time of the grant. The period in which the options and 
units may be exercised cannot exceed five years and one year respectively from the date of vesting period.
 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
487
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
Movement in the options / units outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans / Restricted Stock Units
 
• 
 Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025 and March 
31, 2024:
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2024
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
17,56,59,424
1,307.93
15,16,82,461
1,264.86
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18 
(1))
-
-
4,85,59,681
1,124.77
Granted during the year
2,31,46,660 
1,729.84 
2,43,84,690
1,611.84
Exercised during the year
5,29,55,047 
1,198.42
4,63,04,966
1,133.72
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
44,76,527 
1,458.89 
26,62,442
1,096.34
Options outstanding at the end of the year
14,13,74,510 
1,413.25
17,56,59,424
1,307.93
Options exercisable
8,13,35,537 
1,279.91
9,88,29,856
1,201.65
 
• 
 Movement in the Units outstanding under the Employees’ Stock Incentive Master Scheme as at March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024:
Particulars
Number of Units
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of Units
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2024
Units outstanding at the beginning of the year
1,17,21,804
1.00
28,91,000
1.00
Granted during the year
62,54,575 
1.00
93,54,224
1.00
Exercised during the year
23,55,965
1.00
3,16,620
1.00
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
7,34,986
1.00
2,06,800
1.00
Units outstanding at the end of the year
1,48,85,428
1.00
1,17,21,804
1.00
Units exercisable
12,07,198
1.00
3,76,070
1.00
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Plan
Number of 
shares arising 
out of options
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted 
average life 
of options (in 
years)
Weighted 
average exercise 
price (`)
Plan E
47,93,680
1,636.90
4.96
1,636.90
Plan F
1,14,90,680
1,636.90
4.94
1,636.90
Plan G
7,49,81,293
882.85 to 1,673.10
2.48
1,368.83
Plan H
2,25,72,860
1,677.30 to 1,734.20
6.06
1,733.15
e-HDFC 2007
44,411
255.83
-
255.83
e-HDFC 2008
40,942
160.79
-
160.79
e-HDFC 2014
12,483
603.95
-
603.95
e-HDFC 2017
2,34,032
934.44 to 1,242.15
1.48
1,151.06
e-HDFC 2020
2,72,04,129
1,076.64 to 1,535.27
2.58
1,142.74

HDFC Bank Limited
488
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
• 
The following table summarises the information about Units outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Plan
Number of 
shares arising 
out of Units
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted 
average
life of Units (in
years)
Weighted 
average exercise 
price (`)
ESIS - 2022
1,48,85,428
1.00
2.39
1.00
 
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Plan
Number of shares 
arising out of 
options
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted average 
life of options (in 
years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Plan E
50,75,360
1,636.90
5.92
1,636.90
Plan F
1,55,51,708
716.60 to 1,636.90
4.84
1,458.30
Plan G
11,54,13,810
882.85 to 1,673.10
2.66
1,333.78
e-HDFC 2007
44,411
255.83
-
255.83
e-HDFC 2008
40,942
160.79
-
160.79
e-HDFC 2014
12,483
603.95
-
603.95
e-HDFC 2017
6,13,926
934.44 to 1,242.15
1.84
1,070.72
e-HDFC 2020
3,89,06,784
1,076.64 to 1,535.27
3.51
1,134.61
 
• 
The following table summarises the information about Units outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Plan
Number of shares 
arising out of Units
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted average 
life of Units (in 
years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESIS - 2022
1,17,21,804
1.00
2.65
1.00
 
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Dividend yield
0.77% - 1.36%
0.65% - 0.91%
Expected volatility
21.64% - 27.7%
22.01% - 29.45%
Risk-free interest rate
6.73% - 7.19%
7.17% - 7.54%
Expected life of the options
1 to 8 Years
1 to 8 Years
 
 
 The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the Units granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Dividend yield
0.83% - 1.58%
0.59% - 1.85%
Expected volatility
20.05% - 24.95%
17.68% - 27.50%
Risk-free interest rate
6.82% - 6.88%
7.18% - 7.50%
Expected life of the units
1 to 5 Years
1 to 5 Years

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
489
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
HDFC Securities Limited (HSL)
 
 On 21 June 2019, 14 December 2020, 16 September 2021, 13 January 2022, 13 October 2022, 30 August 2023, 12 
January 2024, 12 April 2024, 19 September 2024 and 28 November 2024, HSL has granted share options that entitles the 
employees and the key management personnel (KMP) to purchase the shares in HSL. Holders of the vested stock options 
are entitled to purchase shares at the exercise price of the shares.
 
Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans of HSL
• 
Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025 and as at 
March 31, 2024:
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2024
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
5,61,930
 6,116.95 
2,95,625
6,456.00
Granted during the year
 3,34,287 
 7,193.93 
3,75,700
5,909.00
Exercised during the year
 1,18,768 
 6,029.42 
73,820
 6,137.33 
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
 31,315 
 6,573.90 
35,575
 6,692.68 
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 7,46,134 
 6,594.22 
5,61,930
 6,116.95 
Options exercisable
 1,43,393 
 6,188.00 
46,875
 6,412.37 
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Plan
Number of 
shares arising 
out of options
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted 
average life 
of options (in 
years)
Weighted 
average exercise 
price (`)
Company Options
7,46,134
5,458 - 8,051
6.20
6,594.22
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Plan
Number of shares 
arising out of 
options
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted average 
life of options (in 
years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Company Options
5,61,930
4,844 – 8,051
6.20
6,116.95
 The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Dividend yield
6.83%
7.45%
Expected volatility
50.40% - 52.26%
40.12% - 46.54%
Risk-free interest rate
6.77% - 6.78%
7.02% - 7.04%
Expected life of the options
3 to 5 Years
3 to 5 Years
 

HDFC Bank Limited
490
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFS)
 
 In accordance with resolution approved by the shareholders, HDBFS has reserved shares, for issue to employees through 
Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOP). On the approval of Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC), each ESOP 
is issued. The NRC has approved ESOP-10 on October 13, 2017, ESOP-11 on January 15, 2019, ESOP-12 on October 05, 
2020, ESOP-13 on January 14, 2021, ESOP-13A on August 31, 2021, ESOP-14 on October 27, 2021, ESOP-15A on May 
18, 2022, ESOP-15B on October 31, 2022, ESOP-16A on June 12, 2023, ESOP-16B on October 23, 2023, ESOP-16C on 
October 23, 2023, ESOP-17A on June 17, 2024 and ESOP-17B on September 16, 2024. Under the term of the ESOP, HDBFS 
may issue stock options to employees and directors of HDBFS, each of which is convertible into one equity share.
 
 Such options vest at a definitive date, save for specific incidents, prescribed in the scheme as framed / approved by the 
NRC. Such options are exercisable for a period following vesting at the discretion of the NRC, subject to a maximum of 
four years from the date of vesting.
 
Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans of HDBFS
 
• 
 Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025 and March 
31, 2024:
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2024
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
87,28,798
472.43
75,79,538
456.57
Granted during the year
 25,55,350 
 534.00 
32,45,570
486.66
Exercised during the year
 27,01,779 
461.24
16,75,483
426.48
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
 2,26,258 
502.91
4,20,827
479.42
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 83,56,111 
494.05
87,28,798
472.43
Options exercisable
 19,53,960 
450.94
16,76,263
423.28
 
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Plan
Number of 
shares arising 
out of options
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted 
average life 
of options (in 
years)
Weighted 
average exercise 
price (`)
ESOP – 11
 4,960 
 274.00 
0.84
 274.00 
ESOP – 12
 1,01,990 
 300.00 
1.59
 300.00 
ESOP – 13
 1,67,725 
 348.00 
2.84
 348.00 
ESOP – 13A
 20,000 
 409.00 
3.42
 409.00 
ESOP – 14
 3,98,337 
 433.00 
3.59
 433.00 
ESOP – 15A
 8,38,120 
 457.00 
4.17
 457.00 
ESOP – 15B
 16,73,081 
 509.00 
4.59
 509.00 
ESOP – 16A
 11,53,546 
 424.00 
8.25
 424.00 
ESOP – 16B
 3,07,774 
 533.00 
8.59
 533.00 
ESOP – 16C
 11,45,528 
 533.00 
8.59
 533.00 
ESOP – 17A
 20,26,050 
 534.00 
9.25
 534.00 
ESOP – 17B
 5,19,000 
 534.00 
9.51
 534.00 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
491
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Plan
Number of shares 
arising out of 
options
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted average 
life of options (in 
years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOP – 10
42,000
 213.00 
0.59
 213.00 
ESOP – 11
16,150
 274.00 
1.84
 274.00 
ESOP – 12
1,57,517
 300.00 
2.59
 300.00 
ESOP – 13
3,22,595
 348.00 
3.84
 348.00 
ESOP – 13A
23,000
 409.00 
4.42
 409.00 
ESOP – 14
12,10,134
 433.00 
4.59
 433.00 
ESOP – 15A
10,35,390
 457.00 
5.17
 457.00 
ESOP – 15B
27,30,822
 509.00 
5.59
 509.00 
ESOP – 16A
13,44,770
 424.00 
9.25
 424.00 
ESOP – 16B
4,27,020
 533.00 
9.59
 533.00 
ESOP – 16C
14,19,400
 533.00 
9.59
 533.00 
 
 
 The fair value of options has been estimated on the dates of each grant using the Black-Scholes model. The shares 
of HDBFS are not listed on any stock exchange. Accordingly, HDBFS had considered the volatility of the Company’s 
stock price based on historical volatility of similar listed enterprises.
 
 
 The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Dividend yield
0.58%
0.21% - 0.38%
Expected volatility
39.56% - 40.50%
38.75% - 45.70%
Risk-free interest rate
6.64% - 6.88%
6.83% - 7.26%
Expected life of the options
4.39 Years
3.46 to 3.49 Years

HDFC Bank Limited
492
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (HDFC ERGO)
 
 HDFC ERGO had introduced an Employee Stock Option Plan 2009 (as amended) (“ESOP 2009”) in financial year 2009-
10. ESOP 2009 provides that eligible employees are granted options to acquire equity shares of HDFC ERGO that vest in 
graded manner. The options will vest over a period of two to four or five years as per the terms of the respective tranches 
from the date of grant and are exercisable over a period of five years from the respective dates of vesting. During the year, 
options vested aggregated to 18,37,637. In accordance with the RBI clarification dated August 30, 2021, HDFC ERGO 
has estimated the fair value of the options granted after March 31, 2021 using Black-Scholes model. This is recognised as 
compensation expense over the vesting period of the options with effect from April 01, 2021. 
 
Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans of HDFC ERGO
 
• 
Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025:
Particulars
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average exercise 
price (`)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the year
81,08,484
495.00
Granted during the year
 12,20,200 
654.00
Exercised during the year
 21,41,673 
397.55
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
 4,62,433 
553.04
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 67,24,578 
550.90
Options exercisable
 11,56,327 
499.20
 
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Plan
Number of 
shares arising 
out of options
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted 
average life 
of options (in 
years)
Weighted 
average exercise 
price (`)
ESOP 2009
67,24,578
151 - 654
5.74 Years
550.90
 
• 
Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2024:
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023
86,81,867
490.07
Granted during the period
-
-
Exercised during the period
3,55,101
363.28
Forfeited / lapsed during the period
2,18,282
513.36
Options outstanding at the end of the year
81,08,484
495.00
Options exercisable
81,08,484
495.00
 
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Plan
Number of shares 
arising out of 
options
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted average 
life of options (in 
years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOP 2009
81,08,484
151 - 539
4 to 7 Years
495.00

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
493
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
 The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 
31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Dividend yield
  0.00%
-
Expected volatility
 25.33% - 30.47% 
-
Risk-free interest rate
 7.01% - 7.02%
-
Expected life of the options
 6 Years
-
 
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited (HDFC Capital)
 
 The Shareholders of HDFC Capital at the extra-ordinary general meeting held on December 22, 2021 approved issuance 
of 3,52,528 equity shares of ` 10 each of HDFC Capital under ESOP-2021 to eligible employees as defined thereunder. Out 
of the total options approved under ESOP-2021, the Board of Directors of HDFC Capital at its meeting held on December 
23, 2021 granted 2,82,020 stock options to eligible employees and reserved the remaining for future employees of HDFC 
Capital. There is no other stock option plan formulated by HDFC Capital. The scheme was amended and shareholders of 
the company at the extra-ordinary general meeting held on December 19, 2022 approved the aforesaid amendments to 
the ESOP–2021.
 
 Subject to fulfilling the conditions specified in ESOP-2021 and in terms of the revised vesting schedule 50% of the options 
granted shall vest on the completion of 1 year from the grant date, 25% of the options granted shall vest on the completion 
of 2 years from the grant date and remaining 25% of the options granted shall vest on the completion of 3 years.
 
 Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions requires use of an appropriate valuation model. HDFC Capital 
measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with Option holders using Black-Scholes-Merton formula to determine 
the fair value of the options on the grant date. 
 
Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans of HDFC Capital
 
• 
Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025:
Particulars
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the year
1,41,008
928.86
Granted during the year
 -   
-
Exercised during the year
 69,330 
928.86
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
 -   
-
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 71,678 
928.86
Options exercisable
 71,678 
928.86 
 
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Plan
Number of 
shares arising 
out of options
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted 
average life 
of options (in 
years)
Weighted 
average exercise 
price (`)
ESOS 21
71,678
928.86
-
928.86
 

HDFC Bank Limited
494
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
• 
Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2024:
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023
1,41,008
928.86
Granted during the period
-
-
Exercised during the period
-
-
Forfeited / lapsed during the period
-
-
Options outstanding at the end of the year
1,41,008
928.86
Options exercisable
1,41,008
928.86
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Plan
Number of shares 
arising out of 
options
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted average 
life of options (in 
years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 21
1,41,008
 928.86
7.02 years
928.86
 
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (HDFC Life)
 
 HDFC Life has granted options to its employees under the ESOS 2014, ESOS 2015, ESOS 2016, ESOS 2017, ESOS 2018, 
ESOS 2019, ESOS 2022 and ESOS 2024 schemes. The said schemes are directly administered by HDFC Life. For all the 
grants, the mode of settlement is through equity shares. All the grants have graded vesting. The exercise price of ESOS 
2014, ESOS 2015 and of ESOS 2016 schemes is based on the fair market value as determined by the Category I Merchant 
Banker registered with SEBI. The exercise price, of the options granted under ESOS 2017, ESOS 2018, ESOS 2019, ESOS 
2022 and ESOS 2024 is based on the market price of the shares of HDFC Life, as defined in the respective ESOS scheme.
 
The fair value of options has been calculated using the Black-Scholes model.
 
Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans
 
• 
Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025:
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2016 (01-10-2016)
ESOS 2017 (14-03-2018)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 
year
 20,200 
190.00
1,24,744
441.95
Granted during the year
 -   
 -   
-
 -   
Exercised during the year
 12,000 
190.00
1,92,702
441.95
Forfeited / lapsed during the year*
 8,200 
190.00
(71,900)
441.95
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 -   
 -   
3,942
441.95
Options exercisable
 -   
 -   
3,942
441.95
 
 
*Options forfeited / lapsed are net of options reinstated during the year

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
495
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2017 (Trust) (14-03-2018)
ESOS 2018 (01-10-2018)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 
year
 1,69,956 
441.95
 1,87,103 
391.60
Granted during the year
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Exercised during the year
 -   
 -   
 79,630 
391.60
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
 72,838 
441.95
 1,420 
391.60
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 97,118 
441.95
 1,06,053 
391.60
Options exercisable
 97,118 
441.95
 1,06,053 
391.60
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (19-09-2019)
ESOS 2019 (19-10-2020)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 
year
 28,21,779 
539.10
 1,65,750 
561.15
Granted during the year
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Exercised during the year
 4,93,124 
539.10
 31,250 
561.15
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
 14,000 
539.10
 3,500 
561.15
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 23,14,655 
539.10
 1,31,000 
561.15
Options exercisable
 23,14,655 
539.10
 1,31,000 
561.15
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (17-03-2021)
ESOS 2019 (22-10-2021)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 
year
 2,38,966 
703.05
 3,96,871 
694.55
Granted during the year
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Exercised during the year
 -   
 -   
 2,000 
694.55
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
 -   
 -   
 21,141 
694.55   
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 2,38,966 
703.05
 3,73,730 
694.55
Options exercisable
 2,38,966 
703.05
 3,36,438 
694.55
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (15-03-2022)
ESOS 2022 (20-10-2022)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 
year
 2,94,313 
512.45
 97,17,410 
531.55
Granted during the year
 -   
 -   
-
 -   
Exercised during the year
 46,313 
512.45
 11,93,641 
531.55
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
 -   
 -   
 7,45,082 
531.55   
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 2,48,000 
512.45
 77,78,687 
531.55
Options exercisable
 2,48,000 
512.45
 40,80,578 
531.55

HDFC Bank Limited
496
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2022 (20-01-2023)
ESOS 2022 (04-10-2023)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 
year
 5,26,000 
605.25
 11,20,881 
633.55
Granted during the year
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Exercised during the year
 4,800 
605.25
 -   
 -   
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
 8,000 
 605.25   
 62,000 
 633.55   
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 5,13,200 
605.25
 10,58,881 
633.55
Options exercisable
 72,000 
605.25
 3,17,665 
633.55
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (04-10-2023)
ESOS 2022 (14-03-2024)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 
year
 1,20,000 
 633.55 
 42,000 
 610.05 
Granted during the year
 -   
 -   
 -   
Exercised during the year
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 1,20,000 
 633.55 
 42,000 
 610.05 
Options exercisable
 -   
 -   
 12,600 
 610.05 
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (14-03-2024)
ESOS 2022 (02-09-2024)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 
year
 1,70,000 
 610.55 
 -   
 -   
Granted during the year
 -   
 -   
 2,90,794 
 738.70 
Exercised during the year
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 1,70,000 
 610.55 
 2,90,794 
 738.70 
Options exercisable
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2024 (02-09-2024)
ESOS 2022 (13-03-2025)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 
year
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Granted during the year
 3,96,252 
 738.70 
 1,67,000 
 632.00 
Exercised during the year
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 3,96,252 
 738.70 
 1,67,000 
 632.00 
Options exercisable
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
497
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Plan
Number of 
shares arising 
out of options
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted 
average life 
of options (in 
years)
Weighted 
average exercise 
price (`)
ESOS 2017
 3,942 
 441.95 
 0.95 
 441.95 
ESOS (Trust) 2017
 97,118 
 441.95 
 0.95 
 441.95 
ESOS 2018
 1,06,053 
 391.60 
 1.42 
 391.60 
ESOS 2019
 19,33,403 
 539.10 
 1.62 
 539.10 
ESOS 2019
 1,31,000 
 561.15 
 1.62 
 561.15 
ESOS 2019
 2,38,966 
 703.05 
 1.62 
 703.05 
ESOS 2019
 2,99,145 
 694.55 
 1.62 
 694.55 
ESOS 2019
 2,48,000 
 512.45 
 1.62 
 512.45 
ESOS 2019
 3,81,252 
 539.10 
 4.75 
 539.10 
ESOS 2019
 37,293 
 694.55 
 4.75 
 694.55 
ESOS 2022
 40,79,978 
 531.55 
 4.99 
 531.55 
ESOS 2022
 72,000 
 605.25 
 4.99 
 605.25 
ESOS 2022
 3,17,665 
 633.55 
 4.99 
 633.55 
ESOS 2022
 12,600
 610.05
 4.99
 610.05
 
• 
Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2024:
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2016 (01-10-2016)
ESOS 2017 (14-03-2018)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023
28,270
190.00
2,19,685
441.95
Granted during the period
-
-
-
-
Exercised during the period
8,070
190.00
94,800
441.95
Forfeited / lapsed during the period
-
-
141
441.95
Options outstanding at the end of the year
20,200
190.00
1,24,744
441.95
Options exercisable
20,200
190.00
1,24,744
441.95
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average  
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average  
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2017 (Trust) (14-03-2018)
ESOS 2018 (01-10-2018)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023
2,07,634
441.95
2,34,668
391.60
Granted during the period
-
-
-
-
Exercised during the period
-
-
47,565
391.60
Forfeited / lapsed during the period
37,678
441.95
-
-
Options outstanding at the end of the year
1,69,956
441.95
1,87,103
391.60
Options exercisable
1,69,956
441.95
1,87,103
391.60

HDFC Bank Limited
498
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (19-09-2019)
ESOS 2019 (19-10-2020)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023
34,82,239
539.10
1,84,000
561.15
Granted during the period
-
-
-
-
Exercised during the period
6,10,460
539.10
11,250
561.15
Forfeited / lapsed during the period
50,000
539.10
7,000
561.15
Options outstanding at the end of the year
28,21,779
539.10
1,65,750
561.15
Options exercisable
28,21,779
539.10
1,65,750
561.15
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (17-03-2021)
ESOS 2019 (22-10-2021)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023
2,38,966
703.05
4,17,233
694.55
Granted during the period
-
-
-
-
Exercised during the period
-
-
-
-
Forfeited / lapsed during the period
-
-
20,362
694.55
Options outstanding at the end of the year
2,38,966
703.05
3,96,871
694.55
Options exercisable
2,38,966
703.05
3,17,086
694.55
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2019 (15-03-2022)
ESOS 2022 (20-10-2022)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023
2,94,313
512.45
1,03,74,109
531.55
Granted during the period
-
-
-
-
Exercised during the period
-
-
4,71,699
531.55
Forfeited / lapsed during the period
-
-
1,85,000
531.55
Options outstanding at the end of the year
2,94,313
512.45
97,17,410
531.55
Options exercisable
2,94,313
512.45
25,55,034
531.55
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2022 (20-01-2023)
ESOS 2019 (04-10-2023)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023
5,38,000
605.25
-
-
Granted during the period
-
-
1,20,000
633.55
Exercised during the period
-
-
-
-
Forfeited / lapsed during the period
12,000
605.25
-
-
Options outstanding at the end of the year
5,26,000
605.25
1,20,000
633.55
Options exercisable
40,800
605.25
-
-

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
499
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2022 (04-10-2023)
ESOS 2019 (14-03-2024)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023
-
-
-
-
Granted during the period
11,20,881
633.55
1,70,000
610.05
Exercised during the period
-
-
-
-
Forfeited / lapsed during the period
-
-
-
-
Options outstanding at the end of the year
11,20,881
633.55
1,70,000
610.05
Options exercisable
-
-
-
-
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2022 (14-03-2024)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023
-
-
Granted during the period
42,000
610.05
Exercised during the period
-
-
Forfeited / lapsed during the period
-
-
Options outstanding at the end of the year
42,000
610.05
Options exercisable
-
-
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Plan
Number of shares 
arising out of 
options
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted average 
life of options (in 
years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2016
20,200
190.00
0.50
190.00
ESOS 2017
1,24,744
441.95
1.95
441.95
ESOS (Trust) 2017
1,69,956
441.95
1.95
441.95
ESOS 2018
1,87,103
391.60
2.09
391.60
ESOS 2019
23,14,305
539.10
2.58
539.10
ESOS 2019
5,07,474
539.10
5.50
539.10
ESOS 2019
1,65,750
561.15
2.58
561.15
ESOS 2019
2,38,966
703.05
2.58
703.05
ESOS 2019
3,17,086
694.55
2.58
694.55
ESOS 2019
79,785
694.55
5.50
694.55
ESOS 2019
2,94,313
512.45
2.58
512.45
ESOS 2022
96,17,410
531.55
5.81
531.55
ESOS 2022
1,00,000
531.55
7.86
531.55
ESOS 2022
1,36,000
605.25
5.81
605.25
ESOS 2022
3,90,000
605.25
7.86
605.25
ESOS 2022
11,20,881
633.55
5.81
633.55
ESOS 2019
1,20,000
633.55
5.50
633.55
ESOS 2022
42,000
610.05
5.81
610.05
ESOS 2019
1,70,000
610.05
5.50
610.05

HDFC Bank Limited
500
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
 
 The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 are 
given below:
Particulars
ESOS 2016
ESOS 2017
ESOS (Trust) 2017
Dividend yield
0.88%
0.74%
0.74%
Expected volatility*
10.00%
28.96%
28.96%
Risk-free interest rate
6.57% - 6.80%
6.76% - 7.27%
6.76% - 7.27%
Expected life of the options
1.75 to 3.75 Years
1.75 to 3.75 Years
1.75 to 3.75 Years
Particulars
ESOS 2018
ESOS 2019
ESOS 2022
Dividend yield
0.40%
0.23% to 0.41%
0.28% to 0.32%
Expected volatility*
29.09%
29.12% - 39.73%
25.17% - 33.47%
Risk-free interest rate
8.02% - 8.15%
4.43% - 6.34%
6.70% - 7.53%
Expected life of the options
1.75 to 3.74 Years
1.68 to 5.27 Years
2.07 to 6.50 Years
Particulars
ESOS 2024
Dividend yield
0.30%
Expected volatility*
30.34% - 30.90%
Risk-free interest rate
7.00% - 7.03%
Expected life of the options
5.50 to 6.50 Years
 
 The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2024 are 
given below:
Particulars
ESOS 2012
ESOS 2014
ESOS 2015
Dividend yield
0.00%
1.06%
1.04%
Expected volatility*
30.44% - 36.53%
33.23% - 37.15%
34.21% - 38.38%
Risk-free interest rate
8.19% - 8.74%
7.73% - 8.28%
7.41% - 7.58%
Expected life of the options
1.37 to 3.45 Years
1.75 to 3.75 Years
1.75 to 3.75 Years
Particulars
ESOS 2016
ESOS 2017
ESOS (Trust) 2017
Dividend yield
0.88%
0.74%
0.74%
Expected volatility*
10.00%
28.96%
28.96%
Risk-free interest rate
6.57% - 6.80%
6.76% - 7.27%
6.76% - 7.27%
Expected life of the options
1.75 to 3.75 Years
1.75 to 3.75 Years
1.75 to 3.75 Years
Particulars
ESOS 2018
ESOS 2019
ESOS 2022
Dividend yield
0.40%
0.23% to 0.41%
0.28% to 0.32%
Expected volatility*
29.09%
29.12% - 39.73%
27.75% - 33.47%
Risk-free interest rate
8.02% - 8.15%
4.43% - 6.34%
7.13% - 7.53%
Expected life of the options
1.74 to 3.74 Years
1.68 to 5.27 Years
2.07 to 5.07 Years

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
501
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (HDFC AMC)
 
 Under Employees Stock Option Scheme 2020 (ESOS 2020) of HDFC AMC, the options shall vest in three tranches. Each 
of these tranches consisting of 1/3 of the options granted shall vest on the completion of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd year from the 
date of the grant respectively. Any fractional residue shall be settled in the 3rd tranche. The options can be exercised over 
a period of five years from the date of respective vesting.
 
Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans
 
• 
Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025:
Particulars
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the year
23,16,200
2,387.88
Granted during the year
 97,500 
 3,755.75 
Exercised during the year
 3,09,086 
 2,242.63 
Forfeited / lapsed during the year
 86,585 
 2,004.59 
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 20,18,029 
 2,492.66 
Options exercisable
 12,95,700 
 2,713.34 
 
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:
Plan
Number of 
shares arising 
out of options
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted 
average life of 
options 
(in years)
Weighted 
average exercise 
price (`)
ESOS 2020
20,18,029
1,780.90 - 3,834.55 
2.90 to 6.80
2,492.66
 
• 
Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2024:
Particulars
Number of options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023
23,60,420
2,342.71
Granted during the period
38,800
3,415.25
Exercised during the period
14,520
669.13
Forfeited / lapsed during the period
68,500
1,777.65
Options outstanding at the end of the year
23,16,200
2,387.88
Options exercisable
12,03,001
2,863.25
 
• 
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:
Plan
Number of shares 
arising out of 
options
Range of exercise 
price (`)
Weighted average 
life of options 
(in years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
ESOS 2020
23,16,200
1,780.90 - 3,415.25
3.90 to 6.78
2,387.88

HDFC Bank Limited
502
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
 
 The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024 are given below:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Dividend yield
0.84% - 2.48%
0.84% - 2.48%
Expected volatility
27.75% - 37.08%
27.75% - 37.08%
Risk-free interest rate
5.04% - 6.96%
5.04% - 6.96%
Expected life of the options
3.5 to 5.5 Years
3.5 to 5.5 Years
6. 
Reserves and Surplus
 
Statutory Reserve
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank and HDBFS have made an appropriation of ` 17,260.30 crore (previous 
year: ` 15,684.72 crore) out of profits for the year to the Statutory Reserve pursuant to the requirements of Section 17 of 
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 read with RBI guidelines and 45 IC of the RBI Act, 1934 respectively.
 
General Reserve
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Group has made an appropriation of ` 6,734.74 crore (previous year: ` 6,081.23 
crore) out of profits for the year to the General Reserve. Further, the Group has transferred ` 15.22 crore (previous year: 
` 1.34 crore) from Employees Stock Options Outstanding to General Reserve on lapses of share-linked instruments.
 
 On transition to the revised norms on investments, the group has recognised a net gain of ` 1,113.78 crore (net of tax 
` 405.86 crore and minority interest of ` 914.25 crore) which has been credited to General Reserve.
 
Special Reserve
 
 During the year ended March 31,2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 3,200.00 crore (previous year: ` 3,000.00 
crore) to the Special Reserve as per Section 36(1) (viii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
 
Amalgamation Reserve I
 
 The balance of ` 1,063.56 crore represents excess of net assets taken over the paid-up value of equity shares issued as 
consideration with respect to amalgamation of Times Bank Limited during FY 2000 and Centurion Bank of Punjab Limited 
during FY 2009 with the Bank.
 
Amalgamation Reserve II
 
 During the previous year, the share capital of ` 311.04 crore issued by the Bank as consideration pursuant to the Scheme 
was adjusted against the corresponding share capital of eHDFC Limited of ` 370.29 crore and the difference was adjusted 
to Amalgamation Reserve. Further, excess of cost over face value of investment in shares of the Bank by eHDFC Limited 
of ` 14,006.31 crore was adjusted to Amalgamation Reserve. Consequently, the Bank recognised a debit balance of 
` 13,947.06 crore in the Amalgamation Reserve as a result of these adjustments.
 
Capital Reserve
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 507.00 crore (previous year: ` 4,166.42 
crore), being the profit on sale of investments under HTM category and profit on sale of immovable properties, net of taxes 
and transfer to Statutory Reserve, from the Profit and Loss Account to the Capital Reserve. 

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
503
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
Investment Reserve Account
 
 On transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has transferred ` 529.42 crore from the Investment Reserve 
Account (IRA) to Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR).
 
 In the previous year, the Bank had transferred ` 529.42 crore (net) from the Profit and Loss Account to the IRA as per the 
RBI guidelines. 
 
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 
On transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has transferred ` 529.42 crore from the IRA to IFR.
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` Nil (previous year: ` 378.00 crore) to 
IFR. As per RBI guidelines, banks are required to maintain an IFR equivalent to 2.00% of their AFS and FVTPL investment 
portfolios. The balance in the IFR as at March 31, 2025 is 2.55% (previous year: 3.48%^) of the Bank’s AFS and FVTPL 
investment portfolios.
 
 ^  For the year ended March 31, 2024 the ratio represents closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of 
investments in AFS and HFT categories.
 
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
 
 As at March 31, 2025, the Group has recognised ` 1,083.52 crore (previous year: ` 883.79 crore) as Foreign Currency 
Translation Reserve on account of translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations.
 
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
 
 As at March 31, 2025, the Group has recognised debit of ` 92.16 crore (previous year: credit of ` 832.30 crore) as Cash 
Flow Hedge Reserve on derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedge.
 
Other Reserve
 
 As at March 31, 2025, Other Reserve represents fair value change account of ` 14.02 crore (previous year: ` 145.58 crore) 
recognised by insurance entities.
 
AFS Reserve
 
 Pursuant to the revised norms on investments, the net appreciation or depreciation on all performing investments held under 
AFS category is directly credited or debited to AFS Reserve. Accordingly, as at March 31, 2025 the Group has recognised 
` 616.85 crore, net of taxes as AFS Reserve.
 
Capital reserve on consolidation (net of goodwill)
 
 On consolidation the Group has recognised net Capital Reserve of ` 3,223.50 crore  ( previous year: ` 3,290.03 crore) net 
of goodwill of ` 501.56 crore (previous year: ` 488.97 crore).

HDFC Bank Limited
504
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
7. 
Deposit under lien and Securities kept as margin:
 
 Balances with banks in other deposit accounts under Schedule 7 include ` 4,638.47 crore (previous year: ` 4,402.62 crore) 
which are under lien.
The details of securities under Schedule 8 that are kept as margin:
(` crore)
Sr. No. Particulars
Face value as at March 31
2025
2024
I.
Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards:
a) 
Collateral and funds management – Securities segment
 9,720.00 
9,547.00
b) 
Collateral and funds management –Tri-party Repo
 116,355.00 
39,053.00
c) 
Default fund – Forex Forward segment
 362.10 
247.10
d) 
Default fund – Forex Settlement segment
 86.05 
51.05
e) 
Default fund – Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) segment
 199.15 
199.15
f) 
Default fund – Securities segment
 271.00 
263.00
g) 
Default fund –Tri-party repo segment
 61.00 
59.00
II.
Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards:
a) 
Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
 91,562.48 
64,687.48
b) 
Repo transactions
 174,419.38 
65,172.27
III.
Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 
(NSCCIL) towards NSE Currency Derivatives segment.
-
-
IV.
Securities kept as margin with Indian Clearing Corporation Limited towards BSE 
Currency Derivatives segment.
458.72
358.72
V.
Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 
(NSCCIL) towards Capital market.
 2,625.36 
2,116.11
VI.
Mutual funds marked as lien with stock exchange for margin requirement.
 239.39 
-
8. 
Details of derivatives contracts for Group
 
 The Group enters into various types of currency / interest rate derivative contracts which include forwards, swaps, futures, 
and options. The notional amounts of financial instruments such as foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a 
basis for comparison with the instruments recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of 
future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Group’s exposure 
to credit or price risks. The notional principal amounts outstanding for such derivatives contracts are as under:
(` crore)
Particulars 
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Purpose
Interest rate derivative
810,553.44 
551,311.15
Trading
Interest rate derivative
270,143.12 
291,364.53
Hedging
Forward contracts
1,224,428.67
1,151,750.54
Trading
Forward contracts
69,063.80
60,802.25
Hedging
Currency derivative
53,216.03
41,318.47
Trading
Currency derivative
22,223.51
30,442.83
Hedging
 
 For the purpose of this disclosure; currency derivatives include currency options purchased and sold and cross currency 
swaps; forward contracts include foreign exchange spot, forward and swap contracts; interest rate derivatives include 
interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and interest rate caps and floors.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
505
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
9. 
Penalties levied by the RBI
 
During the year ended March 31, 2025, RBI has levied following penalties on the Bank:
 
 • 
 RBI vide its letter dated September 10, 2024 levied a penalty of ` 10,000,000 on the Bank for giving gifts to the 
depositors at the time of accepting deposits, for opening certain savings accounts in the names of ineligible entities 
and for failure to ensure that customers are not contacted after 7 pm and before 7am, in contravention to the Reserve 
Bank directions on 'lnterest Rate on Deposits' and 'Recovery Agents engaged by Banks'.
 
• 
 RBI vide its letter dated March 26, 2025 levied a penalty of ` 7,500,000 on the Bank for not categorising certain 
customers into low, medium and high-risk category based on its assessment and risk perception and for allotting 
multiple customer identification code to certain customers instead of a Unique Customer ldentification Code (UCIC) 
for each customer, which were in contravention to Reserve Bank directions on ‘Know Your Customer (KYC)'.
 
 The penalties have been paid by the Bank and has initiated / taken corrective measures, as necessary, to align the operations 
/ procedures in line with the applicable regulations.
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2024, RBI vide its letter dated November 30, 2023 levied a penalty of ` 10,000 on the 
Bank under Section 11(3) of FEMA, 1999 towards not obtaining RBI’s approval for maintaining current and fixed deposit 
accounts of a foreign bank post cancellation of their license by RBI, which was in contravention to the para 13 of AP (DlR 
Series) Circular no. 67 dated May 05, 2016. The penalty was paid by the Bank.
10. Provisions and contingencies
The break-up of ‘Provisions and contingencies’ included in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account is given below:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Provision for income tax1  
- Current
20,942.26 
13,948.91
- Deferred
1,859.62 
(2,826.81)
Provision for NPAs2
15,543.54 
12,532.49
Provision for diminution in value of non-performing investments
(158.30)
7.56
Provision for standard assets
309.96 
1,215.10
Floating provisions
-
10,900.00
Other provisions and contingencies3
(1,520.59)
363.13
Total
36,976.49 
36,140.38
1.  Provision for income tax is net of write-back of provision no longer required of Nil (previous year: ` 6,325.04 crore), pursuant to favourable 
orders received by the Bank.
2.  Includes loss on sale of NPAs / stressed assets.
3.  Includes provisions / (write-back) for tax, legal and other contingencies ` (866.83) crore (previous year: ` (644.55) crore), provisions / (write-back) 
for securitised-out assets Nil (previous year: ` (26.81) crore) and provision / (write-back) towards investments in Alternate Investment Funds 
` (746.24) crore (previous year: ` 1,034.49 crore).

HDFC Bank Limited
506
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
11. Other liabilities
 
 The Group has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and 
gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other liabilities as at 
March 31, 2025 include unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 14,092.54 crore (previous year: 
` 10,513.94 crore).
 
 As at March 31, 2025, the Group has recorded deferred tax liabilities of ` 307.59 crore (previous year: Nil). The break-up of 
the same is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax liability arising out of:
 
Investments and derivatives
94.42
-
Depreciation
234.59
-
Others
3.56
-
Total (a)
332.57
-
Deferred tax asset arising out of:
 
Employee benefits
  10.99
-
Depreciation
  11.49
-
Others
 2.50
-
Total (b)
24.98
-
Deferred tax liability (a-b)
307.59
-
12. Other fixed assets
 
 Other fixed assets include amount capitalised relating to software, licenses, BSE card and electronic trading platform etc. 
Details regarding the same are tabulated below:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Cost
As at March 31 of the previous year
7,801.61
5,474.26
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))
-
1,003.14
Additions during the year
 2,014.82 
1,346.83
Deductions during the year
 (103.56)
(22.62)
Total (a)
9,712.87
7,801.61
Depreciation
As at March 31 of the previous year
5,544.19
3,947.61
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))
-
696.35
Charge for the year
 1,148.80 
922.86
On deductions during the year
 (102.39)
(22.63)
Total (b)
 6,590.60 
5,544.19
Net value (a-b)
 3,122.27 
2,257.42

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
507
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
13. Other assets
 
 Other assets include deposits placed with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB on account of shortfall in lending to priority sector of 
` 107,160.11 crore (previous year: ` 118,007.02 crore).
 
 The Group has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and 
gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other assets as at 
March 31, 2025 include unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 18,786.22 crore (previous year: 
` 11,789.89 crore).
 
 As at March 31, 2025, the Group has recorded deferred tax asset of ` 7,137.50 crore (previous year: ` 9,301.96 crore). The 
break-up of the same is as follows:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax asset arising out of:
Loan loss and contingencies
 12,834.70 
12,951.90
Employee benefits
 1,384.99 
1,096.90
Depreciation
 89.23 
101.42
Others
371.39
784.00
Total (a)
14,680.31
14,934.22
Deferred tax liability arising out of:
-
Special reserve u/s 36(1)(viii) of the Income tax Act, 1961
6,191.81
5,385.82
Investments and derivatives
985.26
216.55
Depreciation
31.46
25.14
Others
334.28
4.75
Total (b)
7,542.81
5,632.26
Deferred tax asset (a-b)
7,137.50 
9,301.96
14. Other income
 
Commission, exchange and brokerage income
 
Commission, exchange and brokerage income is presented net of related commission expenses for the Bank.
15. Employee benefits
 
Gratuity
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1
1,920.70
1,175.17
Liabilities assumed on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))
-
618.83 
Interest cost
134.43
 98.40 
Current service cost
338.48
 236.88 
Benefits paid
(147.58)
 (201.56)

HDFC Bank Limited
508
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:  
Experience adjustment
(21.60)
(27.36)
Assumption change
67.63
20.34
Present value of obligation as at March 31
2,292.06 
1,920.70
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1  
1,967.55
 1,091.61 
Assets assumed on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))
-
 573.67 
Expected return on plan assets
133.32
 106.43 
Contributions
121.21
 82.96 
Benefits paid
(137.52)
 (178.05)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment
24.84
290.93
Assumption change
-
-
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31  
2,109.40
1,967.55
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31  
2,109.40
1,967.55
Present value of obligation as at March 31
(2,292.06)
(1,920.70)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31
(182.66)
46.85
Expenses recognised in Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost
 134.20 
96.35
Current service cost
 338.48 
236.88
Expected return on plan assets
 (133.09)
(104.38)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year
 21.20 
(297.96)
Net cost
360.79
(69.11)
Actual return on plan assets
 158.16 
397.36 
Estimated contribution for the next year
 295.06
165.92
Assumptions
Discount rate
6.50% - 6.75% p.a.
7.15% - 7.21% p.a.
Expected return on plan assets  
6.50% - 6.75% p.a.
6.50% - 7.21% p.a.
Salary escalation rate
4.00% - 14.00% p.a.
3.00% - 15.00% p.a.
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion 
and other relevant factors.
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Group at the beginning of the 
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets 
are given below:
Category of plan assets
% of fair value to total plan assets as at
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Government securities
45.54%
47.62%
Debenture and bonds
17.88%
17.59%
Equity shares
30.63%
30.34%
Others
5.95%
4.45%
Total
100.00%
100.00%

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
509
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
Experience adjustment
(` crore)
Particulars
Years ended March 31,
2025
2024
2023
2022
2021
Plan assets
2,109.40
1,967.55
1,091.61
1,001.91
834.44
Defined benefit obligation
2,292.06
1,920.70
1,175.17
1,090.59
1,017.22
Surplus / (deficit)
(182.66)
46.85
(83.56)
(88.68)
(182.78)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan assets
 24.84 
290.93
(38.70)
22.14
107.65
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan liabilities
 (21.60)
(27.36)
8.44
(51.23)
41.30
Pension
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation
Present value of obligation as at April 1
103.47
107.82
Interest cost
7.05
7.61
Current service cost
2.57
1.83
Past service cost
-
-
Benefits paid
(11.17)
(9.85)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:  
Experience adjustment
17.40
16.83
Assumption change
6.99
(20.77)
Present value of obligation as at March 31
126.31
103.47
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1  
16.16
0.31
Expected return on plan assets
1.05
0.53
Contributions
9.99
24.18
Benefits paid
(11.17)
(9.85)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:
Experience adjustment
0.13
0.99
Assumption change
-
-
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31  
16.16
16.16
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31  
16.16
16.16
Present value of obligation as at March 31
(126.31)
(103.47)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31
(110.15)
(87.31)
Expenses recognised in Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Interest cost
7.05
7.61
Current service cost
2.57
1.83
Past service cost
-
-
Expected return on plan assets
(1.05)
(0.53)

HDFC Bank Limited
510
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year
24.26
(4.94)
Net cost
32.83
3.97
Actual return on plan assets
1.18
1.53
Estimated contribution for the next year
12.98
7.78
Assumptions
Discount rate
6.70% p.a.
7.20% p.a.
Expected return on plan assets  
6.50% p.a.
6.50% p.a.
Salary escalation rate
7.00% p.a.
7.00% p.a.
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion 
and other relevant factors.
 
 Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Group at the beginning of the 
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets 
are given below.
Category of plan assets
% of fair value to total plan assets as at
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Government securities
8.81%
8.81%
Debenture and bonds
1.06%
1.02%
Others
90.13%
90.17%
Total
100.00%
100.00%
 
Experience adjustment
(` crore)
Particulars
Years ended March 31,
2025
2024
2023
2022
2021
Plan assets
16.16
16.16
0.31
0.88
0.33
Defined benefit obligation
126.31
103.47
107.82
88.02
89.99
Surplus / (deficit)
(110.15)
(87.31)
(107.51)
(87.14)
(89.66)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan assets
0.13
0.99
0.22
0.39
(0.20)
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan liabilities
17.40
16.83
3.32
6.44
31.41
 
Provident fund
 
 The guidance note on AS-15 “Employee Benefits”, states that employer established provident funds, where interest is 
guaranteed are to be considered as defined benefit plans and the liability has to be valued. The Institute of Actuaries of 
India (IAI) has issued a guidance note on valuation of interest rate guarantees on exempt provident funds. The actuary has 
accordingly valued the same and as at March 31, 2025, no provision is required (previous year: Nil), towards the present 
value of the guaranteed interest benefit obligation. The actuary has followed the deterministic approach as prescribed by 
the guidance note.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
511
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
Assumptions
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Discount rate (GOI security yield)
6.70% p.a.
7.20% p.a.
Expected guaranteed interest rate
8.25% p.a.
8.25% p.a.
 
 The Group contributed ` 1,110.49 crore (previous year: ` 990.58 crore) to the provident fund, ` 34.49 crore (previous year: 
` 18.80 crore) to the National Pension Scheme (for employees who opted) and ` 96.66 crore (previous year: ` 92.70 crore) 
to the superannuation plan.
 
Compensated absences
The actuarial liability of compensated absences of accumulated privileged and sick leaves of the employees of the Group 
is given below
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Privileged leave
158.95
129.38
Sick leave
13.48
10.69
Total actuarial liability
172.43
140.07
Assumptions
Discount rate 
5.75% - 6.75% p.a.
5.20% - 7.21% p.a.
Salary escalation rate
5.00% - 14.00% p.a.
4.00% - 10.48% p.a.
The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘the Code’) relating to employee benefits, during the employment and post-employment, 
has received Presidential assent on September 28, 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Further, 
the Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on November 13, 2020. The effective date 
from which the changes are applicable is yet to be notified and rules for quantifying the financial impact are not yet issued. 
The Group will assess the impact of the Code and will give appropriate impact in the consolidated financial statements 
in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
16. Segment reporting
 
Business segments
 
 Business segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the target customer profile, the nature of products 
and services, the differing risks and returns, the organisation structure, the internal business reporting system and the 
guidelines prescribed by RBI. The Group operates in the following segments:
 
a) 
Treasury
 
 
 The treasury segment primarily consists of net interest earnings from the Bank’s investment portfolio, money market 
borrowing and lending, gains or losses on investment operations and on account of trading in foreign exchange and 
derivative contracts.
 
b) 
Retail banking
 
 
i. 
Digital banking 
 
 
 
 
 The digital banking segment represents business by Digital Banking Units (DBUs) of the Bank. The said DBUs 
serves retail customers through the Bank’s digital network and other online channels. This segment raises 
deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers. 

HDFC Bank Limited
512
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
 
 
 Revenues of the DBUs are derived from interest earned on retail loans, fees from services rendered, etc. Expenses 
of this segment primarily comprise of interest expense on deposits, infrastructure and premises expenses for 
operating the DBUs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of specialist product groups.
 
 
ii. 
Non digital banking
 
 
 
 The retail banking segment serves retail customers through the Bank’s branch network and other channels. 
This segment raises deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers with the help 
of specialist product groups. Exposures are classified under retail banking taking into account the status of the 
borrower (orientation criterion), the nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum thereof.
 
 
 
 Revenues of the retail banking segment are derived from interest earned on retail loans, interest earned from other 
segments for surplus funds placed with those segments, subvention received from dealers and manufacturers, 
fees from services rendered, foreign exchange earnings on retail products etc. Expenses of this segment primarily 
comprise interest expense on deposits, commission paid to retail assets sales agents, infrastructure and premises 
expenses for operating the branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads 
and allocated expenses of specialist product groups, processing units and support groups.
 
c) 
Wholesale banking
 
 
 The wholesale banking segment provides loans, non-fund facilities and transaction services to large corporates, 
emerging corporates, public sector units, government bodies, financial institutions and medium scale enterprises. 
Revenues of the wholesale banking segment consist of interest earned on loans made to customers, interest / fees 
earned on the cash float arising from transaction services, earnings from trade services and other non-fund facilities 
and also earnings from foreign exchange and derivative transactions on behalf of customers. The principal expenses 
of the segment consist of interest expense on funds borrowed from external sources and other internal segments, 
premises expenses, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of delivery channels, specialist 
product groups, processing units and support groups.
 
d) 
Other banking Operations
 
 
 This segment includes income from parabanking activities such as credit cards, debit cards, third party product 
distribution, primary dealership business and the associated costs.
 
e) 
Insurance business
 
 
 This segment includes the operations of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (consolidated) and HDFC ERGO 
General Insurance Company Limited.
 
f) 
Others
 
 
Includes the operations of consolidated entities of the Bank, not covered in any of the above segments.
 
g) 
Unallocated
 
 
 All items which are reckoned at an enterprise level are classified under this segment. This includes capital and reserves, 
minority interest, debt classified as Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital and other unallocable assets and liabilities such as deferred 
tax, etc.
 
 
 Segment revenue includes earnings from external customers plus earnings from funds transferred to other segments. 
Segment result includes revenue less interest expense less operating expense and provisions, if any, for that segment. 
Segment-wise income and expenses include certain allocations. Interest income is charged by a segment that provides 
funding to another segment, based on yields benchmarked to an internally approved yield curve or at a certain agreed 
transfer price rate. Transaction charges are levied by the retail banking segment to the wholesale banking segment for 
the use by its customers of the retail banking segment’s branch network or other delivery channels. Segment capital 
employed represents the net assets in that segment.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
513
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
Geographic segments
 
 The geographic segments of the Bank are categorised as domestic operations and foreign operations. Domestic operations 
comprise branches in India and foreign operations comprise branches outside India.
 
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2025 is given below:
 
Business segments:
(` crore) 
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Treasury
Retail banking
Wholesale 
banking
Other 
banking 
business
Insurance 
business
Other
Total
Digital 
banking # 
Non digital 
banking
1
Segment revenue
62,227.48 
8.59 
283,426.20 
191,964.51 
35,449.05 
107,630.27 
17,136.34 
697,842.44 
2
Unallocated revenue
-
3
Less: Inter-segment 
revenue
226,926.51
4
Income from operations 
(1) + (2) - (3)
470,915.93 
5
Segment results
4,605.36
0.04
27,309.07
44,543.96
14,363.75
5,953.61
1,810.38
98,586.17 
6
Unallocated expenses
2,344.12
7
Income tax expense 
(including deferred tax)
22,801.88 
8
Net profit (5)-(6)-(7)
73,440.17 
9
Segment assets
991,874.12
81.15
1,533,809.12
1,247,937.97
112,358.81
372,256.74
109,961.74
4,368,279.65 
10
Unallocated assets
24,137.77
11
Total assets (9)+(10)
4,392,417.42 
12
Segment liabilities
83,340.18
86.16
2,312,429.69
956,136.34
8,513.18
358,568.57
86,926.10
3,806,000.22 
13
Unallocated liabilities
48,268.77
14
Total liabilities (12) + (13)
3,854,268.99 
15
Capital employed (9) 
- (12) (Segment assets - 
Segment liabilities)
562,279.43 
16
Unallocated (10) - (13)
(24,131.00) 
17
Total (15) + (16)
538,148.43 
18
Capital expenditure
71.43 
- 
4,399.07 
400.46 
833.05 
701.81 
340.72 
6,746.54 
19
Depreciation
30.20 
- 
2,774.26 
250.78 
324.23 
219.26 
206.50 
3,805.23 
20
Provisions for non - 
performing assets / 
others*
-
- 
9,138.23 
(1,729.99) 
4,241.18 
61.19 
2,464.00 
14,174.61 
21
Unallocated other 
provisions*
-
-
 
 
 
 
 
* Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
# Information about Digital Banking Segment reported as a sub-segment of Retail Banking Segment is related to Digital  Banking Units of the Bank.

HDFC Bank Limited
514
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
Geographic segments:
(` crore) 
Particulars
Domestic
International
Total
Revenue
 465,946.32
 4,969.61 
 470,915.93 
Assets
 4,299,887.56 
 92,529.86 
 4,392,417.42 
Capital expenditure
 6,737.00 
 9.54 
 6,746.54 
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2024 is given below:
 
Business segments:
(` crore) 
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Treasury
Retail banking
Wholesale 
banking
Other 
banking 
operations
Insurance 
business
Other
Total
Digital 
banking 
#
Non digital 
banking
1
Segment revenue
61,653.66
3.37
233,634.50
175,520.23
30,050.38
86,877.22
13,536.00
601,275.36
2
Unallocated revenue
-
3
Less: Inter-segment 
revenue
193,280.59
4
Income from operations 
(1) + (2) - (3)
407,994.77
5
Segment results**
14,190.10
(1.23)
15,661.14
32,280.98
11,104.00
3,321.30
2,352.00
78,908.29
6
Unallocated expenses
2,339.69
7
Income tax expense 
(including deferred tax)
11,122.10
8
Net profit (5) - (6) - (7)
65,446.50
9
Segment assets
822,926.80
51.34
1,395,037.69
1,274,899.43
97,097.23
322,984.00
89,587.20
4,002,583.69
10
Unallocated assets
27,610.57
11
Total assets (9) + (10)
4,030,194.26
12
Segment liabilities**
94,557.67
56.18
2,046,617.47
973,987.85
8,212.98
311,998.00
71,040.35
3,506,470.50
13
Unallocated liabilities
53,945.11
14
Total liabilities  
(12) + (13)
3,560,415.61
15
Capital employed (9) - 
(12) (Segment assets 
- Segment liabilities)
496,113.19
16
Unallocated (10) - (13)
(26,334.54)
17
Total (15) + (16)
469,778.65
18
Capital expenditure
31.45
-
4,168.78
49.06
532.55
313.99
239.96
5,335.79
19
Depreciation
26.01
-
2,343.71
204.67
235.71
125.77
156.21
3,092.08
20
Provisions for non - 
performing assets / 
others*
-
-
12,798.00
6,781.15
3,913.00
(56.01)
1,582.14
25,018.28
21
Unallocated other 
provisions*
-
-
 
* 
Represents material non-cash charge other than depreciation and taxation.
 
**  Segment Results and Liabilities are after considering the impact of Floating Provisions in the respective segments.
 
#   Information about Digital Banking Segment reported as a sub-segment of Retail Banking Segment is related to Digital  Banking Units of the 
Bank.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
515
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
Geographic segments:
(` crore) 
Particulars
Domestic
International
Total
Revenue
403,356.00
4,638.77
407,994.77
Assets
3,954,614.44
75,579.82
4,030,194.26
Capital expenditure
5,334.46
1.33
5,335.79
17. Related party disclosures
 
 As per AS-18, Related Party Disclosures read with RBI Master Direction on Financial Statements – Presentation and 
Disclosures, the HDFC Bank Group’s related parties are disclosed below:
 
Subsidiaries
 
 HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited (ceased to be a related party with effect from October 18, 
2024)
 
Key management personnel
 
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
 
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director
 
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director
 
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director
 
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
 
 Ms. Nagsri Sashidhar, Mr. Dhruv Sashidhar, Mr. Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Ms. Mythra Mahesh, Mr. Mahesh Babu 
Ramamurthy, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories, Ms. Havovi Bharucha, Mr. Huzaan Bharucha, Mr. Danesh Bharucha, 
Mr. Darius Bharucha, Ms. Dilnaaz D Bharucha, Ms. Mala B. Zaveri, Ms. Bhakti Zaveri, Mr. Akash Metawala, Ms. Niharika 
Zaveri, Mr. Dev Metawala, Mr. Paresh Zaveri, Ms. Kavita Zaveri, Mr. Hitesh Zaveri, Mr. Tushar Pandey (with effect from 
February 23, 2025), Aurionpro Solutions Limited, Trejhara Solutions Limited, Ms. S. Anuradha, Ms. V. Jayam, Ms. S. 
Abinaya Rangan.
 
 A specific related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in 
that category.
 
• 
Interest paid: Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 7.98 crore
 
• 
 Interest received: Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 0.09 crore; Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri ` 0.04 crore; Ms. S. Abinaya Rangan 
` 0.03 crore
 
• 
 Rendering of services: Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ` 2.54 crore; Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 1.24 crore; Aurionpro Solutions 
Limited ` 0.55 crore
 
• 
Receiving of services: Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 12.03 crore
 
• 
 Dividend paid: Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ` 4.14 crore; Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 3.40 crore; Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan 
` 2.91 crore 
 
• 
Fixed Assets purchased from: Trejhara Solutions Limited ` 9.98 crore; Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 9.55 crore 

HDFC Bank Limited
516
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
The Group’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2025 are summarised as follows:
(` crore) 
Items / Related party
Subsidiaries*
Key 
management 
personnel 
(KMP)
Relatives of 
KMP & their 
interested 
entities
Total
Deposits taken
 - 
 11.31 
 195.53 
 206.84 
(20.27)
(32.51)
(195.53)
(248.31) 
Deposits placed
-
 0.02 
 0.02 
 0.04 
-
(0.02)
(0.02)
(0.04)
Advances given
-
 2.74 
 0.31 
 3.05 
-
(2.74)
(0.61)
(3.35)
Fixed assets purchased from
-
-
  19.53 
  19.53 
Fixed assets sold to
-
-
-
-
Interest paid to
 0.64
 0.64 
 8.31 
 9.59
Interest received from
-
 0.13 
 0.03 
 0.16 
Income from services rendered to
 0.07
 3.97
0.97
 5.01 
Expenses for receiving services from
-
 0.12 
  13.25 
13.37 
Equity investments
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
(200.00)
-
-
(200.00)
Other investments
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Dividend paid to
-
 10.82
 1.74 
 12.56 
Dividend received from
-
-
 - 
 - 
Receivable from / Advance paid
 - 
-
-
 - 
(0.05)
-
-
(0.05)
Payable to
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Guarantees given
-
-
 73.42 
 73.42 
-
-
(84.76)
(84.76)
Remuneration paid
-
 34.62 
-
 34.62 
* 
Subsidiaries which are not consolidated.
# 
Denotes amount less than  ` 1 lakh.
• 
Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each 
quarter-end.
• 
Remuneration paid is ` 11.23 crore to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, ` 8.02 crore to Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, ` 6.52 crore to Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri 
and ` 8.85 crore to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan. (excluding value of employee stock options exercised during the year).
• 
Bonus and retiral beneﬁts for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key 
managerial personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2025, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect 
of earlier years was ` 14.51 crore.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
517
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
The Group’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2024 are summarised as follows:
 
Promoter
Erstwhile Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (amalgamated with and into the Bank with effect from July 
01, 2023)
 
Subsidiaries
Pursuant to the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into the Bank, following entities became subsidiaries 
of the Bank with effect from July 01, 2023
HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited (ceased to be a related party with effect from March 19, 2024)
HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited
 
Key management personnel
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director (appointed with effect from April 19, 2023)
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director (appointed with effect from November 23, 2023)
 
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
Ms. Nagsri Sashidhar, Mr. Dhruv Sashidhar, Mr. Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Ms. Mythra Mahesh, Mr. Mahesh Babu 
Ramamurthy, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories, Ms. Havovi Bharucha, Mr. Huzaan Bharucha, Mr. Danesh Bharucha, 
Mr. Darius Bharucha, Ms. Dilnaaz D Bharucha 
With effect from April 19, 2023 – Ms. Mala B. Zaveri, Ms. Bhakti Zaveri, Mr. Akash Metawala, Ms. Niharika Zaveri, Mr. Dev 
Metawala, Mr. Paresh Zaveri, Ms. Kavita Zaveri, Mr. Hitesh Zaveri, Aurionpro Solutions Limited, Trejhara Solutions Limited
With effect from November 23, 2023 – Ms. S. Anuradha, Ms. V. Jayam, Ms. S. Abinaya Rangan
A specific related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in 
that category.
• 
 Interest paid: HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited ` 7.70 crore, Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited 
` 3.06 crore
• 
Interest received: HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited ` 200.31 crore
• 
 Rendering of services: Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited ` 161.72 crore, HDFC Credila Financial 
Services Limited ` 37.28 crore
• 
 Receiving of services: Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited ` 236.64 crore, HDFC Credila Financial 
Services Limited ` 42.14 crore
• 
Dividend paid: Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ` 4.25 crore; Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 2.90 crore; Ms. Mala B. Zaveri ` 1.09 crore
• 
Dividend received: Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 0.01 crore
• 
Fixed Assets purchased from: Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 12.53 crore

HDFC Bank Limited
518
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(` crore) 
Items / Related party
Promoter
Subsidiaries*
Key 
management 
personnel 
(KMP)
Relatives of 
KMP & their 
interested 
entities
Total
Deposits taken
-
22.89
8.54
37.65
69.08
(6,503.24)
(377.56)
(20.56)
(37.65)
(6,939.01)
Deposits placed
-
-
0.02
0.02
0.04
(0.49)
-
(0.02)
(0.02)
(0.53)
Advances given
-
-
2.42
0.43
2.85
-
(3,399.05)
(2.77)
(1.03)
(3,402.85)
Fixed assets purchased from
-
-
-
13.13
13.13
Fixed assets sold to
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Interest paid to
3.06
8.52
0.44
0.99
13.01
Interest received from
-
200.31
0.29
0.03
200.63
Income from services rendered to
161.72
37.43
0.25
0.49
199.89
Expenses for receiving services from
236.64
42.14
0.12
13.86
292.76
Equity investments
-
200.00
-
-
200.00
-
(2,634.97)
-
#
(2,634.97)
Other investments
-
-
-
-
-
-
(49.26)
-
-
(49.26)
Dividend paid to
-
-
7.78
1.41
9.19
Dividend received from
-
-
-
0.01
0.01
Receivable from / Advance paid
-
0.03
-
-
0.03
(0.58)
(18.89)
-
-
(19.47)
Payable to
-
-
-
-
-
(81.70)
(16.41)
-
-
(98.11)
Guarantees given
-
-
-
68.43
68.43
(0.02)
-
-
(68.43)
(68.45)
Remuneration paid
-
-
27.18
-
27.18
Loans purchased from
11,632.00
-
-
-
11,632.00
          *       Subsidiaries which are not consolidated.
 
#       Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
 
• 
 Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each 
quarter-end.
 
• 
 Remuneration paid is ` 9.91 crore to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, ` 9.92 crore to Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, ` 5.05 crore to Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri and 
` 2.30 crore to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan. (excluding value of employee stock options exercised during the year).
 
• 
 Bonus and retiral beneﬁts for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key 
managerial personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2024, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect 
of earlier years was ` 10.87 crore.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
519
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
18. Leases
 
Operating Lease
Operating leases primarily comprise office premises, staff residences and Automated Teller Machines (‘ATM’s), which are 
renewable at the option of the Group.
 
Lease Payments
The details of maturity profile of future operating lease payments are given below:
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Not later than one year
 2,466.94 
2,121.60 
Later than one year and not later than five years
 9,009.13 
 7,773.98 
Later than five years
 11,564.04 
 9,974.32 
Total
 23,040.11 
19,869.90
Total of minimum lease payments recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 
for the year
 2,935.60 
2,446.08
Total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-
cancellable sub-leases
 4.31 
14.28
Sub-lease amounts recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year
 1.84 
6.01
Contingent (usage based) lease payments recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Account for the year
 279.35 
470.37
 
The Bank has sub-leased certain of its properties taken on lease.
 
Lease Income
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Gross carrying amount of the assets
 16.59 
43.29 
Accumulated depreciation of the assets
 3.45 
1.32
Accumulated impairment loss of the assets
 - 
-
Total depreciation recognized in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year
 0.27 
0.23
Total impairment losses recognized in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the 
year
 - 
-
Total impairment losses reversed in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year
 - 
-
Contingent lease income recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the 
year
 - 
-
 
Future minimum lease rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases as at the end of the year
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Not later than one year
 2.15 
4.11
Later than one year and not later than five years
 2.15 
6.54
Later than five years
 - 
-
Total
4.30
10.65

HDFC Bank Limited
520
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
19. Earnings per equity share
 
 Basic and diluted earnings per equity share have been calculated based on the consolidated net profit after tax attributable 
to the Group of ` 70,792.25 crore (previous year: ` 64,062.04 crore) and the weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the year of 7,62,77,93,180 (previous year: 7,08,48,07,443). The dilutive impact is on account of stock 
options / units granted to employees by the Bank. There is no impact of dilution on the profits in the current year and 
previous year.
 
Following is the reconciliation between the basic and diluted earnings per equity share:
Particulars
For the years ended
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Nominal value per share (`)
1.00
1.00
Basic earnings per share (`)
92.81
90.42
Effect of potential equity shares (per share) (`)
(0.42)
(0.41)
Diluted earnings per share (`)
92.39
90.01
Following is the reconciliation of the weighted average number of equity shares used in the computation of basic and 
diluted earnings per share:
Particulars
For the years ended
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing basic earnings per equity 
share
7,62,77,93,180 
7,08,48,07,443
Effect of potential equity shares outstanding
3,41,77,391
3,24,45,707
Weighted average number of equity shares used in computing diluted earnings per equity 
share
7,66,19,70,571
7,11,72,53,150
Equity shares issued as consideration under the Scheme are included in the weighted average number of shares with effect 
from appointed and effective date of the amalgamation.
20. Provisions and contingent liabilities
 
Given below is the movement in provisions and a brief description of the nature of contingent liabilities recognised by 
the Group
 
a)  Provision for credit card and debit card reward points
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening provision for reward points
863.54
696.31
Provision for reward points made during the year
933.51
792.11
Utilisation / write-back of provision for reward points
(749.61)
(624.88)
Closing provision for reward points
1,047.44
863.54

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
521
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
b)  Provision for legal and other contingencies
(` crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening provision
1,059.38
553.22
Additions on amalgamation
-
429.46
Movement during the year (net)
198.82
76.70
Closing provision
1,258.20 
1,059.38
c)  Description of contingent liabilities
Sr. 
No.
Contingent liability*
Brief description
1
Claims against the Bank not 
acknowledged as debts – taxation
The Group is a party to various taxation matters in respect of which appeals are 
pending. The Group expects the outcome of the appeals to be favorable based on 
decisions on similar issues in the previous years by the appellate authorities, based 
on the facts of the case and taxation laws.
2
Claims against the Bank not 
acknowledged as debts – others
The Group is a party to various legal proceedings in the normal course of business.
The Group does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s financial conditions, results of operations or cash 
flows.
3
Partly paid investments
This represents amount remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid 
investments.
4
Liability on account of forward 
exchange and derivative contracts
The Group enters into foreign exchange contracts, currency options, forward 
rate agreements, currency swaps and interest rate swaps with inter-bank 
participants on its own account and for customers. Forward exchange contracts 
are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at the contracted 
rate. Currency swaps are commitments to exchange cash flows by way of interest 
/ principal in one currency against another, based on predetermined rates. Interest 
rate swaps are commitments to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash flows. 
The notional amounts of financial instruments such as foreign exchange contracts 
and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the 
Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows 
involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate 
the Group’s exposure to credit or price risks. The derivative instruments become 
favorable (assets) or unfavorable (liabilities) as a result of fluctuations in market 
rates or prices relative to their terms.
5
Guarantees given on behalf 
of constituents, acceptances, 
endorsements and other obligations
As a part of its commercial banking activities, the Bank issues documentary credit 
and guarantees on behalf of its customers. Documentary credits such as letters of 
credit enhance the credit standing of the Bank’s customers. Guarantees generally 
represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of 
the customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
6
Other items for which the Bank is 
contingently liable
These include: a) Credit enhancements in respect of securitised-out loans; b) Bills 
rediscounted by the Bank; c) Capital commitments; d) Underwriting commitments;
e) Investment purchases pending settlement; f) Amount transferred to the RBI 
under the Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEA Fund); g) Bank 
guarantees taken.
 
* Also refer Schedule 12 - Contingent liabilities

HDFC Bank Limited
522
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
21. Additional information pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013
(` crore)
Name of entity
Net assets as of March 31, 2025
Profit or (loss) for the year ended 
March 31, 2025
As % of 
consolidated net 
assets**
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount
Parent:
HDFC Bank Limited
93.18%
501,424.64
91.70%
67,347.36
Subsidiaries:
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited 
(Consolidated)*1
3.00%
16,153.93
2.39%
1,757.94
HDB Financial Services Limited*
3.00%
16,142.41
2.88%
2,117.32
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited 
(Consolidated)*2
1.51%
8,130.96
3.35%
2,456.68
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited*
0.97%
5,201.60
0.66%
485.82
HDFC Securities Limited (Consolidated)*3
0.62%
3,340.85
1.51%
1,111.42
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited*
0.08%
428.16
0.19%
141.33
HDFC Sales Private Limited*
0.05%
273.26
0.10%
71.07
Griha Pte Limited
0.01%
39.17
(0.01%)
(4.62)
Griha Investments
0.00%
6.86
(0.01%)
(3.98)
HDFC Trustee Company Limited*
0.00%
3.88
0.00%
0.57
Entity over which control is exercised:
HDB Employee Welfare Trust*
0.14%
738.73
0.23%
169.79
Minority Interest
3.04%
16,359.04
3.61%
2,647.92
Inter-company adjustments
(5.60%)
(30,095.06)
(6.60%)
(4,858.45)
Total
100.00%
538,148.43
100.00%
73,440.17
*  The subsidiaries are Indian entities.
**  Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities.
1. HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary - HDFC Pension Fund Management 
Limited and wholly owned foreign subsidiary - HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited.
2. HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary - HDFC AMC International 
(IFSC) Limited.
3. HDFC Securities Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary – HDFC Securities IFSC Limited.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
523
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(` crore)
Name of entity
Net assets as of March 31, 2024
Profit or (loss) for the year ended March 
31, 2024
As % of 
consolidated net 
assets**
Amount
As % of 
consolidated profit 
or loss
Amount
Parent:
HDFC Bank Limited
93.71%
440,245.80
92.92%
60,812.27
Subsidiaries:
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited 
(Consolidated)*1
3.12%
14,666.39
1.68%
1,099.42
HDB Financial Services Limited*
3.01%
14,128.12
3.68%
2,408.26
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited 
(Consolidated)*2
1.28%
5,996.80
1.76%
1,153.05
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited*
0.94%
4,448.02
0.33%
217.31
HDFC Securities Limited*
0.42%
1,970.86
1.48%
967.44
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited*
0.06%
261.77
0.12%
76.13
HDFC Sales Private Limited*
0.04%
202.19
0.06%
39.45
Griha Pte Limited
0.02%
76.41
(0.01%)
(7.00)
Griha Investments
0.00%
10.65
(0.03%)
(19.53)
HDFC Trustee Company Limited*
0.00%
3.07
0.00%
0.24
Entity over which control is exercised:
HDB Employee Welfare Trust*
0.04%
171.56
0.00%
 (0.49) 
Minority Interest
2.85%
13,383.40
2.11%
 1,384.46 
Inter-company adjustments
(5.49%)
(25,786.39)
(4.10%)
 (2,684.51) 
Total
100.00%
469,778.65
100.00%
65,446.50
 
* 
The subsidiaries are Indian entities.
 
**  
Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities.
 
1. 
 HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary - HDFC Pension Fund Management 
Limited and wholly owned foreign subsidiary - HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited.
 
2. 
 HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary - HDFC AMC International 
(IFSC) Limited.
22. Additional disclosure
 
 Additional statutory information disclosed in the separate financial statements of the Bank and its Subsidiaries have no 
material bearing on the true and fair view of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the information pertaining to such 
items which are not material have not been disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
23. Disclosure under Rule 11 (e) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014
 
 The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances to its constituents including foreign entities 
with permission to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like in other entities identified by such constituents. 
Similarly, the Bank accepts deposits from its constituents, who may instruct the Bank to lend / invest / provide guarantee 
or security or the like against such deposit in other entities identified by such constituents.

HDFC Bank Limited
524
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 
 These transactions are part of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted after exercising proper due diligence 
including adherence to “Know Your Customer” guidelines as applicable in respective jurisdiction.
 
 Other than the nature of transactions described above, the Banks and subsidiaries incorporated in India have not advanced 
/ lent / invested / provided guarantee or security to or in any other person with an understanding to lend / invest / provide 
guarantee or security or the like to or in any other person. Similarly, other than the nature of transactions described above, 
the Bank and subsidiaries incorporated in India has not received any funds from any other person with an understanding 
that the Bank shall lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to or in any other person. 
24.  Implementation of Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’)
 
 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs, in its press release dated January 18, 2016, had issued a roadmap for implementation of 
Ind AS for scheduled commercial banks, insurers / insurance companies and non-banking financial companies. However, 
the RBI and IRDAI have deferred implementation of Ind AS for banks and insurance companies until further notice. 
 
 Presently, the Bank prepares and submits Ind AS Proforma information to the RBI on a half-yearly basis. The Bank is well 
prepared for the Ind AS implementation as and when it becomes applicable, with due consideration to updated regulations, 
accounting standards / guidance and business strategy at the date of actual transition. The RBI, vide its circular dated 
September 12, 2023, revised the norms of classification, measurement, and valuation of investments, in view of the 
significant development in the global standards. These norms are closer to Ind AS. The Bank has implemented the revised 
norms with effect from April 01, 2024.
 
 With respect to the insurance subsidiaries, the life insurance subsidiary was identified by IRDAI under Phase 1 for Ind-AS 
implementation effective April 01, 2027 as per the regulator’s communication date October 10, 2024. The subsidiary is in 
the final stages of onboarding technology and knowledge partners to support the implementation. It is in the process of 
preparing Proforma Ind AS financial statements for FY 2024, which will be subject to limited review by independent audit 
/ actuarial firms.
 
 The general insurance subsidiary conducted gap assessment during the year covering aspects such as data, systems, 
resources, and other implementation-related requirements. A report in the prescribed format has been filed with IRDAI. The 
subsidiary has onboarded implementation partners and finalised the necessary software tools. Proforma Ind AS financial 
statements, as required by IRDAI, are being prepared for submission to the regulator.
 
 The Group remains committed to ensuring a smooth and timely transition to Ind AS in accordance with regulatory 
requirements and industry best practices.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
525
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
25. Comparative figures
 
 Figures for the previous year have been regrouped and reclassified wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s 
presentation.  The previous year comparative numbers were jointly audited by M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants 
and Price Waterhouse LLP, Chartered Accountants.
As per our report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board
For Price Waterhouse LLP
For Batliboi & Purohit
Atanu Chakraborty
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part-time Chairman of the Board
Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 
ICAI Firm Registration No.:
301112E/E300264   
101048W
M. D. Ranganath
Sunita Maheshwari 
Independent Director
Independent Director
Sharad Vasant
Janak Mehta
Partner
Partner
Lily Vadera
Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 
Membership No.: 101119
Membership No.: 116976
Independent Director
Independent Director 
  
Bhavesh Zaveri 
V. S. Rangan 
Executive Director
Executive Director
Renu Karnad 
Keki Mistry 
Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan  
Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
 
                                                                   

S TAT E M E N T  P U R S U A N T  T O  S E C T I O N  1 2 9
of the Comapnies Act, 2013
Form AOC – 1: Pursuant to the first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with rule 5 
of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries, associate companies and joint ventures
Part A: Subsidiaries  
(As at / for the year ended March 31, 2025) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(H crore)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the 
subsidiary
HDB 
Financial 
Services 
Limited
HDFC 
Securities 
Limited
HDFC 
Securities 
(IFSC) 
Limited3,9
HDFC Asset 
Management 
Company 
Limited
HDFC AMC 
International 
(IFSC) 
Limited4
HDFC Life 
Insurance 
Company 
Limited
HDFC 
Pension 
Management 
Company 
Limited5
HDFC 
International 
Life and Re 
Company 
Limited 5,6
HDFC 
ERGO 
General 
Insurance 
Company 
Limited
HDFC 
Capital 
Advisors 
Limited
HDFC 
Sales 
Private 
Limited 
HDFC 
Trustee 
Company 
Limited
Griha 
Investments6
Griha Pte 
Limited7
1
The date since when 
subsidiaries was acquired
  August 31, 
2007
September 
28, 2005
October 01, 
2024
  July 01, 
2023
  July 01, 
2023
  July 01, 
2023
  July 01, 
2023
  July 01, 
2023
  July 01, 
2023
  July 01, 
2023
  July 01, 
2023
  July 01, 
2023
  July 01, 
2023
  July 01, 
2023
2
Share capital 
 795.78 
 17.77 
 - 
 106.90 
 34.00 
 2,152.99 
 54.00 
 252.15 
 725.83 
 2.21 
 122.00 
 0.10 
 0.34 
 7.14 
3
Reserves & surplus
 15,023.97 
 3,330.82 
 (0.57)
 8,027.24 
 (4.13)
 13,971.97 
 13.66 
 (14.66)
 4,475.74 
 425.54 
 146.61 
 3.78 
 6.54 
 32.02 
4
Total assets
 108,663.29 
 14,031.11 
 0.29 
 8,753.63 
 31.06 
 349,133.34 
 125.96 
398.53
 31,353.85 
 523.00 
 561.58 
 4.45 
 7.12 
 40.05 
5
Total Liabilities
 92,843.54 
 10,682.52 
 0.86 
 619.49 
 1.19 
 333,008.38 
 58.31 
 161.04 
 26,152.28 
 95.25 
 292.97 
 0.57 
 0.24 
 0.90 
6
Investments
 2,060.13 
 1,050.87 
 - 
 8,288.87 
 - 
 336,281.53 
 70.67 
300.27
 27,373.43 
 278.74 
 - 
 3.00 
 - 
 - 
7
Turnover8
 16,300.28 
 3,264.86 
 - 
 4,058.26 
 1.84 
96,969.66
 75.87 
270.08
11,206.39
 318.09 
 1,143.47 
 3.24 
 5.83 
 2.74 
8
Profit before taxation
 2,927.80 
 1,496.16 
 (0.56)
 3,286.44 
 (0.87)
 1,277.88 
 8.58 
10.15
 663.93 
 193.05 
 115.22 
 0.76 
 (4.01)
 (4.90)
9
Provision for taxation
 751.88 
 371.13 
 - 
 825.39 
 - 
 (524.24)
 3.16 
 - 
 163.76 
 48.32 
 39.13 
 0.19 
 - 
 (0.25)
10
Profit after taxation
 2,175.92 
 1,125.03 
 (0.56)
 2,461.05 
 (0.87)
 1,802.12 
 5.42 
 10.15 
 500.17 
 144.73 
 76.09 
 0.57 
 (4.01)
 (4.65)
11
Dividend Paid
238.10
898.34
 - 
 1,495.05 
 - 
430.20
 - 
 - 
145.17
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 35.04 
12
% of shareholding
94.32%
94.55%
100.00%
52.47%
100.00%
50.32%
100.00%
100.00%
50.33%
89.34%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
Notes: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
The audited financial statements of the above subsidiaries have been drawn up to the same reporting date as that of the Bank, i.e. March 31, 2025.
2 
The financial information is extracted from the audited financial statements prepared in accordance with the accounting standards / regulations as applicable 
to the respective subsidiaries. 
3 
HDFC Securities (IFSC) Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of HDFC Securities Limited. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4  
HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of HDFC Asset Management Company Limited.
5 
HDFC Pension Management Company Limited and HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited ( “HILRCL” ) are wholly-owned subsidiaries of HDFC 
Life Insurance Company Limited.
HDFC Bank Limited
526

S TAT E M E N T  P U R S U A N T  T O  S E C T I O N  1 2 9
of the Comapnies Act, 2013
6 
The financial information of HILRCL and Griha Investments is translated into Indian Rupees using the closing exchange rate as at March 31, 2025 of 1 USD 
= ` 85.475.
7 
The financial information of Griha Pte Limited is translated  into Indian Rupees using the closing exchange rate as at March 31, 2025 of 1 SGD = 
` 63.71. 
8 
Turnover reported hereinabove is the aggregate income reported by the Bank’s subsidiaries in their respective financial statements.
9 
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: HDFC Securities (IFSC) Limited.
10 
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year: HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited.
Part B: Associate Companies and Joint Ventures 
Not Applicable
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
527

HDFC Bank’s sustainability journey began about a decade 
ago when it officially adopted ‘Sustainability’ as the fifth value, 
alongside customer focus, operational excellence, product 
leadership and people.  We have built upon our commitment 
every year since then.
In the Financial Year 2024-25, we continued to embed 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) principles into 
our operations, decision-making and stakeholder engagement 
while driving growth that is inclusive, resilient and future-
ready. Several initiatives were adopted to reduce emissions 
from our own operations including increase in the renewable 
energy mix, deployment of IT solutions to track and optimise 
energy consumption, and shift to energy efficient equipment, 
amongst others. 
The Bank scaled up its commitment to Sustainable Finance, 
supporting a diverse portfolio of sustainable projects 
ranging from clean energy to electric mobility and MSMEs to 
affordable housing. In 2024, we issued our first Sustainable 
Bond, mobilising resources to fund impactful green and social 
initiatives that support underserved communities and climate-
conscious businesses. 
Environmental and social yardsticks have been integrated into 
our credit evaluation processes, ensuring that sustainability risks 
and opportunities are appropriately factored into our lending 
decisions. Our business teams are sensitised periodically on 
Environmental, Social and Governance aspects preparing the 
Bank to meet the commitment on Sustainable Finance.
Sustainability is a shared journey, and at HDFC Bank, we 
remain deeply committed to collaborating with partners, 
regulators and communities to create long-term value – socially, 
environmentally and economically. During the year, we have 
played a pivotal role in supporting the government’s flagship 
schemes across micro-insurance, pensions, MSME funding, 
digitisation initiatives, agriculture and livelihood. 
Our efforts toward social development through our CSR 
programme, Parivartan, touched millions of lives across India. 
We strengthened rural livelihoods, enhanced financial literacy, 
supported healthcare infrastructure, empowered communities 
through education and skill development, especially in regions 
most in need.
At HDFC Bank, we recognise that the future of finance lies in 
enabling solutions that strike a balance between economic 
well-being and protecting the planet, and we are fully committed 
to this.
 
Kaizad Bharucha
Deputy Managing Director
Statement by the Director Responsible for the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
HDFC Bank Limited
528
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. 
Details
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L65920MH1994PLC080618
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
HDFC Bank Limited
3.
Year of Incorporation 
1994
4.
Registered office address
HDFC Bank House, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400 013
5.
Corporate address
HDFC Bank House, Shiv Sagar Estate, Dr Annie Besant Road, Worli, Mumbai 
– 400 018
6.
E-mail id
esg@hdfcbank.com
7.
Telephone
022 – 6652 1000
8.
Website
www.hdfcbank.com
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being done
April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 2024-25)
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
BSE Limited; National Stock Exchange of India Limited, American Depository 
Shares (ADS) listed on the New York Stock Exchange (Depository for ADS is 
represented in India by JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association)
11.
Paid-up capital 
` 765.22 Crore  
12.
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) 
of the person who may be contacted in case of any 
queries on the BRSR report
Mr. Ritesh Sinha
Head - ESG 
Telephone number:  +91-22-3075 3894
E-mail id: ritesh.sinha2@hdfcbank.com
13.
Reporting boundary 
Are the disclosures under this report made on a 
standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on a 
consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the 
entities which form a part of its consolidated financial 
statements, taken together).
Disclosures made in this report are on a standalone basis and pertain only to 
HDFC Bank Limited.
14.
 Name of assurance provider
SGS India Private Limited
15.
 Type of assurance obtained
Reasonable assurance on BRSR Core KPIs and Limited Assurance for select 
non-core BRSR KPIs.
For further details, refer Reasonable Assurance Report and Limited Assurance 
Report issued by SGS India Private Limited.
II. 
Products / services
16. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover)
S. 
No.
Description of main activity
Description of business activity
% of turnover of the 
entity
1.
Financial and Insurance Service
HDFC Bank operates in three business verticals - Wholesale, Retail and 
Treasury. All products and services are offered under these segments.
100
17.  Products / services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover)
S. 
No.
Product / Service
NIC Code
% of total turnover 
contributed
1.
Banking activities by central, commercial and savings banks 
64191
100
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
529
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

III. Operations
18. Number of locations where plants and / or operations / offices of the entity are situated
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
National  
Not Applicable (N.A.)
Retail Branches: 9,441 
ATMs & Cash Deposit & Withdrawal Machines: 21,139 
Presence in 4,150 towns and cities
International
N.A.
Branches: 5 (Hong Kong, Singapore, Bahrain, Dubai International Financial Centre and GIFT 
City*) 
Representative offices: 4 (Dubai, Kenya, Abu Dhabi and United Kingdom)
*International Banking Unit located at Gift City, Gandhinagar, Gujarat
19. Markets served by the entity
 
a. 
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of states)
28 states and 8 union territories in India
International (No. of countries)
7
 
b. 
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
 
 
Given the nature of the banking business, this is not applicable.
 
c. 
A brief on types of customers
 
 
 The Bank caters to a diverse customer base.  As of March 31, 2025, the Bank had 97 million customers. To effectively 
meet the needs of this wide customer base, the Bank operates through three key business verticals:
Retail Banking
Wholesale / Corporate Banking
Commercial / Rural Banking
The 
retail 
business 
division 
serves 
individuals, salaried professionals, micro 
and small businesses, self-help groups, 
non-resident Indians and high net worth 
individuals. This entails loans, deposits 
and a wide range of financial products and 
services.
The 
target 
segment 
are 
large 
corporates, 
public 
sector 
units, 
government entities and multinational 
corporations. This entails commercial, 
transactional and investment banking 
services.
The commercial segment focuses on Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), 
emerging 
corporates, 
commercial 
agriculture, small and marginal farmers 
and other businesses which have a strong 
presence in semi-urban and rural areas.
IV. Employees
20. Details as of March 31, 2025 
 
a. 
Employees (including differently abled)
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
2,14,521
1,58,449
74
56,072
26
2.
Other than permanent (E)*
31
24
77
7
23
3.
Total employees (D + E)
2,14,552
1,58,473
74
56,079
26
WORKERS^
4.
Permanent (F)
0
0
-
0
-
5.
Other than permanent (G)
0
0
-
0
-
6.
Total workers (F + G)
0
0
-
0
-
 
 
Note: *Employees employed on a contract basis. 
 
 
 
  ^ All employees of the Bank are categorised as permanent or other than permanent i.e. on a contract basis. The Bank does not 
employ any workers; accordingly, worker-related KPIs are nil and the same have not been included in any of the prescribed tables 
in the BRSR.
HDFC Bank Limited
530
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

 
b. 
Differently abled employees
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
212
168
79
44
21
2.
Other than permanent (E)
0
0
0
0
0
3.
Total differently abled employees (D + E)*
212
168
79
44
21
 
 
*Based on voluntary disclosures by employees and/or disability certificates.    
21. Participation/inclusion/representation of women
Total (A)
No. and percentage of females
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors
13
3
23
Key Management Personnel*
6
0
0
 
*Comprises 4 Executive Directors, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary.
22. Turnover rate for permanent employees (%)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees (%)
22.2
23.7
22.6
26.5
28.2
26.9
34.2  
34.1
34.2
V. 
Holding, subsidiary and associate companies (including joint ventures)
23. (a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures (As of March 31, 2025)
S. 
No.
HDFC Securities IFSC Limited  
Indicate whether holding / Subsidiary / Associate / 
Joint Venture
% of shares held by 
listed entity
1
HDFC Sales Private Limited
Subsidiary 
100.00
2
Griha Investments (Mauritius)
Subsidiary
100.00
3
Griha Pte. Limited (Singapore)
Subsidiary
100.00
4
HDFC Trustee Company Limited
Subsidiary
100.00
5
HDFC Securities Limited 
Subsidiary
94.55
6
HDB Financial Services Limited
Subsidiary
94.32
7
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited
Subsidiary
89.34
8
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited
Subsidiary
52.47
9
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited
Subsidiary
50.32
10
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company 
Limited
Subsidiary
50.33
11
HDFC Securities IFSC Limited  
Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Securities Ltd.)
94.55
12
HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited 
Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Asset Management 
Co. Ltd.)
52.47
13
HDFC Pension Management Company Limited
Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Life Insurance Co. 
Ltd.)
50.32
14
HDFC International Life and Re Co. Ltd.  
Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Life Insurance Co. 
Ltd.)
50.32
 
 Does the entity indicated in column A participate in the Business Responsibility initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes / No) 
 
 No. The subsidiary companies undertake their own business responsibility initiatives and do not participate in the Business 
Responsibility initiatives of the Bank. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
531
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

VI. CSR Details
24. (i) 
Whether CSR is applicable as   per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013:  Yes
 
(ii) Turnover: ` 3,46,149.32 crore 
 
(iii) Net worth: ` 4,88,899.89 crore
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25.  Complaints / grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC)
Stakeholder 
group
from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanisms in Place (Yes  / No)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
(If yes, then provide web-link 
for grievance redress policy)
Number of 
complaints 
filed during
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities Yes
Issues and grievances by 
community stakeholders are 
addressed at: 
CSR-compliance@hdfcbank.
com
8
1
-
0
0
-
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Yes
Grievance redressals for 
investors are part of the 
terms of reference of the 
Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee detailed in the 
Corporate Governance 
Report.
0
0
-
1
0
-
Shareholders Yes
Grievance redressals for 
investors form part of the 
terms of reference of the 
Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee. Details of the 
Shareholders’ Helpdesk are 
elucidated in the Report on 
Corporate Governance. 
E-mails for grievances /
investor related activities: 
hdinvestors@datamaticsbpm.
com
shareholder.grievances@
hdfcbank.com
155
5
Non-receipt 
of the Annual 
Report, 
Communications 
inter alia 
pertained 
to dividend, 
transfer / 
transmission 
of shares, and 
queries on IEPF 
claims
183
5
Communications 
inter alia 
pertained 
to dividend, 
non-receipt 
of the  Annual  
Report, transfer 
/ transmission of 
shares, merger 
related issues 
and queries on 
IEPF claims
HDFC Bank Limited
532
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

Stakeholder 
group
from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanisms in Place (Yes  / No)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
(If yes, then provide web-link 
for grievance redress policy)
Number of 
complaints 
filed during
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Employees
Yes.  Employee concerns 
may be raised internally 
through ‘My Concern Portal’, 
available to all employees 
under the Human Capital 
Management (HCM) portal. 
This platform helps 
employees to raise their 
concerns in a secure and 
seamless manner for a timely 
resolution of the same.
Employee related grievances 
are also received through the 
whistleblower mechanism of 
the Bank.
Whistleblower Policy
 (link below)
77
28
Nature of 
grievances 
inter alia entails 
breach of Code 
of Conduct, 
improper 
business 
practices
114
43
Nature of 
grievances 
inter alia entails 
breach of Code 
of Conduct, 
improper 
business 
practices, 
behavioural 
issues 
Customers
Yes
Grievance Redressal Policy 
(link below)
4,57,466
 16,306
Refer Annex 
on Customer 
Complaints 
and Grievance 
Redressal for 
further details. 
Cases pending 
are within the 
stipulated 
turnaround time 
of the Bank
4,85,339
14,232
Refer Annex 
on Customer 
Complaints 
and Grievance 
Redressal for 
further details. 
Cases pending 
are within the 
stipulated 
turnaround time 
of the Bank
Value Chain 
Partners
Yes  
Whistleblower Policy (link 
below)
3
0
Improper 
business 
practice /
behavioural 
issue
3
0
Improper 
business 
practice / 
behavioural 
issue
Others 
Yes
Whistleblower Policy (link 
below)
14
6
Breach of code 
of conduct, 
improper 
business 
practices, 
people related 
issues
26
13
Breach of code 
of conduct, 
improper 
business 
practices, 
people related 
issues
 
Note: 
 
1. 
 Number of complaints / pending resolutions for employees, value chain and others are grievances received under the 
Whistleblower Policy of the Bank. 
 
2. 
 Customer complaints and grievance redressal are as per disclosures in the Annex to the Directors’ Report for the 
current and previous year.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
533
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

 
Weblinks:
 
Whistleblower Policy  
 
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/?path=/Footer/About%20
Us/Corporate%20Governance/Codes%20and%20Policie/pdf/Whistleblower-Policy-2019.pdf
 
Grievance Redressal Policy
 
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/?path=/Footer/Useful%20
Links/Our%20Corporate%20Commitment/pdfs/Grievance_Redressal_Policy_Version_1_1_3.pdf
26. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues.
 
 Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or 
mitigate the risk, as per the following format:
Sr. 
No
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for 
identifying the risk / 
opportunity
Approach to adapt or mitigate
Positive / 
Negative 
Implications
1 
Financial 
inclusion and 
deeper financial 
penetration
Opportunity
The Bank has a multi- 
pronged approach to 
enable the efficient 
distribution of last mile 
funding and facilitating 
deeper financial 
inclusion.  
Besides focused 
efforts on expanding 
our footprint into 
deeper geographies, 
the Bank is also 
working on leveraging 
digital initiatives to 
extend its reach in the 
deeper geographies.  
We also recognise the 
role of government 
as a key stakeholder 
and the importance 
of helping the 
government fulfil its 
financial inclusion 
agenda through 
various government 
sponsored finance 
schemes. 
Housing fulfils a key 
social objective. Given 
the housing shortage 
in the country, the 
Bank recognises the 
potential to ncrease 
mortgage penetration 
in India.
The Bank sees immense potential in increasing 
financial penetration across the country.  
We expanded our reach to over 2,35,000 villages, 
with 51% of the branches in rural and semi-urban 
areas. This strategy is in alignment with the Bank’s 
vision of taking banking to the unbanked.
We provide customised banking solutions to meet 
customer requirements across all income segments. 
During the year, the Bank launched GIGA, a complete 
financial suite of products for the gig workers.
In FY 2024-25, the Bank enrolled 4.5 million 
customers under various social security schemes 
of the government. These schemes inter alia entail 
enrolment for basic banking accounts, low-cost 
insurance to underprivileged segments of society, 
guaranteed pension for the unorganised sector 
employees and other pension schemes.  
The Bank actively supports several schemes of 
the government which inter alia include loans to 
street vendors, artisans, MSMEs, loans to women 
entrepreneurs, farmers, support towards agri-
infrastructure projects, micro food processing, agri 
clinics and agri-business centres, and livelihood 
missions. These schemes support underprivileged 
segments of society and help create employment                
opportunities.
The Bank is committed to offering home loan 
solutions to all income categories. Of the home loans 
approved during the year, 37% in value terms and 
64% in volume terms were to customers from the 
economically weaker segments (EWS), low-income 
group (LIG) and middle-income groups (MIG) where 
annual household incomes are up to ` 3 lakh, ` 6 
lakh and ` 18 lakh respectively.
Of the total home loans disbursed during the year, 
72% of the loans in value terms were to women 
borrowers.
Positive  
HDFC Bank Limited
534
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

2
Responsibility 
towards Society
Opportunity
The Bank is 
committed to 
transforming the lives 
of millions of Indians 
through its initiatives. 
The vision is to 
contribute to the 
social and economic 
development of 
the community by 
empowering them 
and driving a positive 
change in their lives, 
that in turn enables 
them to actively 
participate in the 
growth of the nation.
The core focus areas of Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) of the Bank entail:
• 
Rural development
• 
Promotion of education
• 
 Skill, training and livelihood enhancement
• 
Healthcare and hygiene
• 
Financial literacy and inclusion
• 
Natural resource management
The Bank has cumulatively impacted 105.6 million 
lives on a pan-India basis through its social initiatives.
In FY 2024-25 the Bank spent an amount of ` 1,068 
crore towards CSR.
Positive
3
Responsible 
Lending
Opportunity
Risk
The Bank sees 
opportunities in 
supporting customers 
in transitioning to 
greener pathways.
The Bank is also 
cognisant of climate-
related financial risks 
and the need to 
address these issues.
Risks entail possible 
physical and transition 
risks, pertaining 
to the Bank’s own 
assets and its lending 
portfolio. The Bank 
recognises the 
importance of making 
better climate-
informed financial 
decisions. 
There could arise 
reputational risks if 
the Bank is unable 
to meet changing 
requirements of its 
key stakeholders 
pertaining to its 
climate-related 
financial disclosures.
The Bank has a Sustainable Finance Framework 
which inter alia focuses on 10 green categories: 
Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency, Pollution 
Prevention and Control,  Sustainable Water 
and Wastewater Management, Environmentally 
Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources 
and Land Use,  Terrestrial and Aquatic Biodiversity, 
Clean Transportation, Climate Change Adaptation, 
Circular Economy and Green Buildings. These are 
some areas where the Bank sees opportunities 
through the provision of transition financing.   
The Bank has an ESG Risk Management Framework 
for lending wherein certain wholesale borrowers with 
direct risk appetite above a prescribed threshold 
undergo enhanced Environmental and Social 
(E&S) due diligence as part of the Credit Appetite 
Memorandum.  The Bank also has an exclusion 
list for lending, wherein it will not lend to specified 
sectors/categories which in the Bank’s assessment 
are detrimental from an environmental and social 
(E&S) risk perspective.  
The Bank on a voluntary basis has been making 
climate-related financial disclosures.
 
Positive
Negative
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
535
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
 The National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) as prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate
Affairs advocates nine principles referred as P1-P9 as given below:
P1
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is ethical, transparent and accountable
P2
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P3
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
P4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive towards all its stakeholders
P5
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6
Businesses should respect, and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
P7
Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a   manner that is responsible and transparent
P8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
P9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Policy and Management Processes
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Ethics & 
Transparency
Product 
Responsibility
Human 
Resources
Responsiveness 
to Stakeholders
Respect 
for Human 
Rights
Protect 
Environment 
Public 
Policy 
Advocacy
Inclusive 
Growth
Customer 
Engagement
Policy and management processes 
1.
a.  Whether your entity’s 
policy / policies cover 
each principle and its 
core elements of the 
NGRBCs. (Yes / No) 
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
b.
Has the policy been 
approved by the Board? 
(Yes / No) 
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
c.
Web Link of the Policies, 
if available 
The policies have been developed based on best practices or as per regulatory requirements and through appropriate consultation 
with relevant stakeholders. Policies may include a combination of internal policies of the Bank which are accessible to all internal 
stakeholders and policies placed on the Bank’s website. Also refer to Codes and Policies section on our website.
(Refer to Note 1 for further details)
2.
Whether the entity has 
translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes / No) 
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3.
Do the enlisted policies 
extend to your value 
chain partners? (Yes 
/ No) 
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
4.
 Name of the national 
and international codes 
/ certifications / labels / 
standards (e.g., Forest 
Stewardship Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest 
Alliance, Trustee) 
standards (e.g., SA 
8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) 
adopted by your entity 
and mapped to each 
principle. 
Note 2
Note 3
5.
Specific commitments, 
goals and targets set by 
the entity with defined 
timelines, if any. 
Note 4(i)
Note 4(ii)
Note 4(iii)
6.
Performance of the 
entity against the specific 
commitments, goals, 
and targets along-with 
reasons in case the 
same are not met. 
Note 4(i)
Note 4(ii)
Note 4(iii)
HDFC Bank Limited
536
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

Governance, leadership, and oversight 
7.    Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, 
highlighting ESG related challenges, targets, and achievements 
The statement is at the beginning of the BRSR. 
Further details on ESG are elucidated in various sections of the Integrated 
Annual Report.
8.    Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility policy(ies) 
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director  
9.    Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). 
If yes, provide details 
Yes. The CSR and ESG Committee of the Board has direct oversight on ESG 
and sustainability related issues. The Committee is chaired by an independent 
director. The committee meets on a quarterly basis. 
The Deputy Managing Director is responsible for ESG and sustainability related 
issues at the Bank.
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
11.     Has the entity carried out 
independent assessment / 
evaluation of the working of its 
policies by an external agency? 
(Yes / No). If yes, provide the 
name of the agency 
Note 5
Note 6
Note 5
Note 5
Note 5
Note 5
Note 5
Note 5
Note 5
12.     If the answer to the question 
above is “No” i.e. not all 
Principles are covered by a 
policy, reasons to be stated:
-
Subject for Review
Review of principles undertaken by and frequency
Performance against above policies and follow up action
While the CSR & ESG committee meets on a quarterly basis, review of the 
BRSR is done on an annual basis by the Board.
Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to he 
principles 
The Bank is in compliance with the extant regulations, as applicable.
 
Note 1
Principle-wise policies
P1
Ethics & Transparency
Code of Conduct & Ethics Manual  
Conduct Philosophy
Policy on KYC norms, AML and CFT measures
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
Whistleblower Policy
P2
Product Responsibility
Sustainable Finance Framework
Code of Bank’s Commitment to Customers
Fair Practice Code for Lending 
DSA Code of Conduct
P3
Human Resources
Code of Conduct & Ethics Manual
Health, Safety & Wellness Policy
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy
ESG Policy Framework
P4
Responsive to Stakeholders, particularly the marginalised
Sustainable Livelihood Initiative
CSR Policy
ESG Policy Framework
P5
Respect for Human Rights
Human Rights Statement
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy
Code of Conduct & Ethics Manual
P6
Protect Environment
Sustainable Finance Framework
ESG Policy Framework
Environment Policy
P7
Public Policy Advocacy
Conduct Philosophy
P8
Inclusive Growth
CSR Policy
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy
Sustainable Finance Framework
P9
Customer Engagement
Corporate Commitment 
Conduct Philosophy
Grievance Redressal Policy 
Whistleblower Policy
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
537
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

 
 Note 2: As of March 31, 2025, 2,507 of the branches / offices were certified as green by the Indian Green Building Council 
(IGBC).
 
 Note 3: The information security programme is based on ISO 27001: 2013 and NIST framework. The Business Continuity 
Programme is also ISO 22301: 2019 certified. 
 
Note 4: Goals and Targets
 
 
(i) 
 The Bank upholds the principles of an inclusive environment at the workplace and stands committed to increasing 
gender diversity at the workplace. The Bank aims to achieve gender diversity of 27% (share of women employees) 
by FY27.
 
 
(ii) 
 The Bank aspires to be carbon neutral by FY32. For further details, refer to the ‘Environment’ section in the 
Integrated Annual Report. 
 
 
(iii) 
 The Bank has considered multiple targets as part of its ‘Parivartan’ initiative, which is elucidated in the section 
‘Social - Communities’ in the Integrated Annual Report.
 
Note 5: Policies of the Bank are evaluated internally and annually where applicable.  
 
Note 6: The Bank has a Second Party Opinion for its Sustainable Finance Framework by Sustainalytics. 
HDFC Bank Limited
538
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

SECTION C: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1:  BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY AND IN A 
MANNER THAT IS ETHICAL, TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE
Essential Indicators
1. 
 Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial 
year
 
Segment
Total number of training and 
awareness programmes held
Topics / principles covered under the training 
and its impact
% of persons in respective 
category covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of Directors
46
Regulations, cyber security, banking 
technologies, Know Your Customer (KYC) & 
Anti-Money Laundering (AML), Climate Risk, 
Impact of Geopolitical Risks & Supply Chain 
Disruptions, business verticals, customer 
service, subsidiaries, risk management, 
human resources, investments, investor 
relations amongst others.
Impact: Keep the directors and KMPs 
abreast of various developments in the 
Bank, regulatory updates and other requisite 
familiarisation programmes. This enables 
increased strategic inputs.
92
Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMP)
45
98
Employees other 
than Board of 
Directors or KMPs
1,488
Trainings are conducted through external 
and internal programmes. Certain trainings 
are role specific. Training through the Bank’s 
‘MPower’ platform entail a combination of 
mandatory and voluntary trainings.   
Some of the role agnostic trainings inter alia 
are:
• 
Code of Conduct
• 
Cyber Security
• 
Human Rights 
• 
PoSH Policy
• 
KYC & AML
• 
ESG & Sustainability
Impact: Upgradation of skills sets and 
knowledge enhances employee productivity 
and ensures alignment of ethics and values 
that the Bank upholds. 
97^
 
^ As of March 31, 2025, certain newly recruited employees would be in the process of completing trainings. Specific 
timelines are prescribed for employees to complete specified trainings.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
539
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

2. 
 Details of fines / penalties / punishment / award / compounding fees / settlement amount paid in roceedings 
with regulators / law enforcement agencies / judicial institutions in FY 2024-25
 
 (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website:
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory / 
enforcement 
agencies / judicial 
institutions
Amount
(In `)
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes / No)
Penalty/Fine
1
-
Nil
N.A.
N.A.
Settlement
1
RBI
1,00,00,000
Contravention under the Direction issued 
by RBI on 'Interest Rate on Deposits' and 
'Recovery Agents engaged by Banks'
No
Settlement
1
RBI
75,00,000
Contravention under the Direction on 
Know Your Customer (KYC) issued by the 
RBI
No
Compounding Fee
-
-
-
-
-
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory / 
enforcement 
agencies / judicial 
Institutions
Brief of the 
case
Has an appeal been preferred? (Yes / No)
Imprisonment
1
Nil
N.A.
N.A.
Punishment
1
Nil
N.A.
N.A.
3. 
 Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the appeal / revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed. 
 
N.A.
4. 
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
 
Yes, the Bank has an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. The Policy applies to all persons working for or on behalf of 
the Bank, including the third parties the Bank engages with. 
 
Web link:
 
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
5. 
 Number of Directors / KMPs / employees against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery / corruption
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Nil
Nil
Employees
Nil
Nil
HDFC Bank Limited
540
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

6. 
Details of complaints with regards to conflict of interest
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of conflict of interest of directors
Nil
N.A.
Nil
N.A.
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of conflict of interest of KMPs
Nil
N.A.
Nil
N.A.
7. 
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action 
taken by regulators / law enforcement agencies / judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts 
of interest.
 
N.A.
8. 
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the 
following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables
4.6
7.4
 
Note: Numerator consists of sundry creditors for purchase of fixed assets and expenses accrued but not paid (expenses 
payable). The denominator for the above KPI represents ‘purchases’ made from vendors forming part of Schedule 16 and 
additions to fixed assets as per Schedule 10 of the Standalone Audited Financial Statements of the Bank. 
 
An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in 
the table above.
9. 
Openness of Business
 
 Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with loans 
and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
 
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Concentration of
Purchases
a.   Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
-
-
b.   Number of trading houses where purchases are made 
from
-
-
c. Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses
-
-
Concentration of
Sales
a.    Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales
-
-
b.   Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are made
-
-
c. Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total sales 
to dealers / distributors
-
-
Share of RPTs in
a.    Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total 
purchases
1.44%
2.35%
b.   Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
2.17%
1.81%
c. Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related 
parties / total loans & advances)
0.26%
0.39%
d.   Investments (Investments in related parties / Total 
Investments made)
1.66%
1.92%
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
541
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

Note:  
 
• 
There were no purchases from trading houses in FY 2024-25.
 
 • 
 The Bank does not make any sales to dealers / distributors. The Bank’s products and services are offered to 
customers directly.
 
 An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in 
the table above.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial 
year
 
 The Bank actively conducts various awareness programmes for its value chain partners, which may be attributed to Principle 
1, 2 and 4. Elucidated below are some of the awareness programmes:
 
Financial Literacy: The Bank recognises that financial literacy is extremely critical to make financial inclusion meaningful. 
 
 To help increase and strengthen the eco-system of Financial Literacy Centres (FLCs), the rural branches of the Bank 
conducts Financial Literacy Camps for farmers, self-help groups, small and micro entrepreneurs and senior citizens amongst 
others.  The focus of the FLC camps is to create financial literacy awareness and safe usage of digital platforms. The Bank 
has cumulatively covered over 1.84 crore customers through its FLCs.  During the financial year under review, the Bank 
conducted 4.97 lakh FLC camps covering 30.65 lakh participants.
 
 Cyber Security Awareness: HDFC Bank regularly conducts cyber fraud awareness campaigns to educate customers, 
employees, stakeholders, and the general public on Fraud Modus Operandi, Social Engineering Techniques, Cyber Security, 
and Secure Banking Practices. 
 
 During the financial year 2024-25, the Bank conducted over 6,000 Cyber Fraud Awareness Workshops. These workshops 
aimed at educating customers, law enforcement agencies, senior citizens, Self-Help Groups, educational institutions, rural 
customers, vendors, partners and employees, among others. 
 
 Key initiatives include – (i) “Each One Teach One” campaign conducted during Teachers’ Day week reaching 11,400 
participants, (ii) “Teach India” cyber security campaign was conducted engaging over 300,000 participants, and (iii) Webinar 
on Fraud Trends and Safe Digital Banking Practices was conducted for employees across the bank. The webinar was 
addressed by a retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, sharing valuable insights to the Safe Digital Banking Practices.
 
 The Bank’s website also hosts a Secure Banking section with Do’s and Don’ts, Top 10 common scam and details of Cyber 
Crime Helpline to promote safe and secure banking.
 
 A mandatory course on information security awareness is designed by the Bank. All the employees of the Bank are 
mandated to take this course annually. A similar course on information security is mandated for all vendors operating out 
of our offices. 
 
 Direct Selling Agents: The Bank engages and spends a great deal of effort training its direct selling agents especially in 
terms of harnessing the new digital platforms as well as ensuring that they adhere to the Bank’s Model Code of Conduct 
and have the right information to provide customers on various products and services of the Bank.
 
 Capacity Building: Recognizing the Securities and Exchange Board of India’s (SEBI) mandate for value chain disclosures 
under the BRSR Core framework, the Bank actively collaborated with its value chain partners through, (i) Targeted training 
and awareness programs to enhance value chain partners’ understanding of ESG principles and BRSR Core requirements 
and (ii) Strengthening data collection systems to improve transparency and accountability.
HDFC Bank Limited
542
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

2. 
 Does the entity have processes in place to avoid / manage conflict of interests involving members of the 
board? (Yes / No) If yes, provide details of the same.
 
 Yes. The Board of Directors are subject to the Board-approved Code of Ethics / Conduct which mandates that Board 
members shall avoid conflict of interest and disclose to the Board any material transaction or relationship that reasonably 
could be expected to give rise to such a conflict. The Board members are required to disclose any change in their interest 
in any entities to the Board as and when such changes occur and at a minimum at the first meeting of the Board held in 
the financial year.
 
 In line with the extant RBI circulars on ‘fit and proper’ criteria, the Board members are required to provide a declaration 
and undertaking to the Bank on an annual basis and at the time of their appointment / re-appointment. This declaration 
also contains information of entities in which the directors have interest.
 
 As and when any director is appointed / re-appointed, the Bank’s secretarial team carries out a due diligence exercise 
which inter alia examines the possibility of conflict of interest.
 
Web-link: Code Of Ethics / Conduct
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
543
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

PRINCIPLE  2:  
 BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS 
SUSTAINABLE AND SAFE 
Essential Indicators
1. 
 Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by 
the entity, respectively.
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Details of improvements in 
environmental and social impacts
R&D
Nil
Nil
N.A.
Capex
0.51%
Nil
During FY 2024-25, the Bank 
commenced reporting on its capital 
expenditure towards. 
The key initiatives adopted in FY 
2024-25 include installation of (i) 
Energy efficient equipment including 
BEE certified 5-star ACs, CPCB 
IV Compliant Diesel Gensets, (ii) 
Renewable energy infrastructure and 
(iii) Sewage Treatment Plant (STP)
Enhanced energy efficiency and 
shift to renewable energy will result 
in reduction of GHG emissions 
emanating from our day-to-day 
operations.   
 
Note: During the year, the Bank also made capital expenditure towards digitalisation initiatives which results in faster and 
greater efficiencies for customers. From an environmental perspective, this enables reduction in consumption of paper. 
Expense towards these initiatives have not been considered. 
2. 
a. 
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes / No)  
 
 
 Wherever feasible, the Bank actively integrates sustainable sourcing in its operations. For procurement of equipment, 
the Bank ensures that energy efficiency standards are considered during the purchase of electronic equipment such 
as computers, laptops, lighting devices, ACs, amongst others. 
 
 
 As of March 31, 2025, the Bank had 2,507 branches/offices in different cities, certified under the Green Interiors Rating 
System of Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). These green office ratings entail Platinum, Gold and Silver ratings 
from IGBC. 
 
 
 In line with IGBC’s comprehensive rating modules encompassing eco design approach, interior materials, water 
conservation, indoor environment, energy efficiency and innovation, sustainable design elements have been 
incorporated at the Bank’s green certified premises. The Bank uses GreenPro certified materials such as plywood, 
laminates, flooring tiles, false ceiling tiles, paints, adhesives and finishes in these premises.
 
 
 During the year, we launched XPRESSWAY, a digital platform that provides a one-stop destination to avail banking 
products and services via do-it-yourself application, resulting in significant reduction in paperwork. The Bank also 
replaces the use of virgin paper with recycled paper wherever feasible. 
 
b. 
If yes, what % of goods were sourced sustainably?
 
 
 In FY 2024-25, recycled paper constituted 24% of our total paper procurement. Over a quarter of our offices adhered 
to IGBC prescribed sustainable sourcing checklist. Besides this the bank also procures energy efficient electronic 
equipments wherever feasible.
HDFC Bank Limited
544
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

3. 
 Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the 
end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
 
 Given the nature of the  business, the Bank does not have ‘physical’ product offerings in the normal course of its operations 
and hence reclamation of products is not applicable.
4. 
 Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted 
to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
 
 The Bank does not have ‘physical’ product offerings in the normal course of its operations and hence Extended Producer 
Responsibility is not applicable given the nature of business.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details.
 
N.A.
2. 
 If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and / or risks arising from production or disposal 
of your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any 
other means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
 
N.A.
3. 
 Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for 
manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Input material cost
Recycled or re-used input material cost to total material cost
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
24%
15%
 
 Note: Recycled paper is one of the key input materials relevant for provision of banking services. In FY 2024-25, recycled 
paper procured constituted 24% of our total paper procurement which reduced the upstream emissions associated with 
paper procurement by 117.92 tCO2e.
4. 
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Re-used 
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed 
Re-used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including packaging)
-
-
-
-
-
-
E-waste 
-
-
-
-
-
-
Hazardous waste 
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other waste
-
-
-
-
-
-
 
 Note: Given the nature of the business, the Bank does not engage in offering physical products and hence this is 
not applicable.
5. 
 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
 
N.A.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
545
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

PRINCIPLE  3: 
 BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES, 
INCLUDING THOSE IN THEIR VALUE CHAINS
Essential Indicators
1. 
a.  Details of measures for the well-being of employees
Category
% of employees covered by
Total (A)
Health Insurance
Accident Insurance
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care Facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B / A)
Number 
(C)
% (C/A)
Number 
(D)
% (D/A)
Number 
(E)
% (E/A)
Number 
(F)
% (F/A)
Permanent employees
Male
1,58,449
1,58,449
100
1,58,449
100
0
0
1,58,449
100
1,58,449
100
Female
56,072
56,072
100
56,072
100
56,072
100
0
0
56,072
100
Total
2,14,521
2,14,521
100
2,14,521
100
56,072
26
1,58,449
74
2,14,521
100
Other than permanent employees
Male
24
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
7
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total
31
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
 
 Note: All employees are covered under health and accident insurance (within India). Medical expenses and insurance 
to maternity claims are covered under health insurance coverage. Employees based abroad are covered as per benefits 
guided by local regulations in respective countries.
 
The Bank undertakes various employee engagement initiatives for the well-being of its employees. For the physical well-
being of the employees, the Bank offers medical insurance, medical reimbursements and health check-ups.  Some offices 
of the Bank have creche facilities in its premises and for other locations on a pan-India basis, the Bank has tie ups with 
external parties who run day care centres where employees can avail such services. 
 
The Bank supports mental wellbeing of its employees through Employee Assistance Program (EAP) that provides confidential, 
24/ 7 support to employees facing personal or work-related challenges. The Bank also publishes mindfulness series where 
situational coping mechanisms and mindfulness techniques are shared periodically with all employees. Stress management 
and emotional well-being sessions are also conducted periodically. An internal wellness channel is run to create awareness 
about the importance of nutrition, exercise, mindfulness and overall well-being of all the employees. 
 
b. 
Details of measures for the well-being of workers 
         
N.A.   
 
c. 
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of 
the company 
 
0.21% 
0.22%
 
 An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in 
the table above.
 
Note: 
 
• 
 For the numerator, well-being measures for employees represents maternity and paternity leave benefits and expenses 
towards Mediclaim insurance, health check-ups and medical reimbursements.
HDFC Bank Limited
546
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

 
• 
 For the denominator, revenue includes Interest Earned and Other Income, excluding profit/ (loss) on sale of buildings 
& other assets (net) in the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank.
 
• 
 For maternity and paternity benefits, per day salary is calculated basis the fixed pay at the financial year end or the 
fixed pay of the employee on the date of leaving, as applicable. 
2. 
Details of retirement benefits for the current and previous financial year
 
 
Benefits
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No. of employees 
covered as a % of total 
employees
Deducted and 
deposited with the 
authority (Y / N / N.A.)
No. of employees covered 
as a % of total employees
Deducted and deposited 
with the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100
Yes
100
Yes
Gratuity
100
Yes
100
Yes
Employee State Insurance 
(ESI)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Others
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
3. 
Accessibility of workplaces
 
 Are the premises / offices accessible to differently abled employees as per the requirements of the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
 
 The Bank has recognised the importance of improving infrastructure requirements to facilitate fair and free access for all 
employees. 2,044 of the Bank’s branches have ramps installed for facilitating access to differently abled stakeholders.  The 
Bank’s ATM machines for visually challenged customers operate on a voice guided system with braille enabled keys which 
guide in transacting at the ATM.
4. 
 Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If 
so, provide a web-link to the policy.
 
 The ‘Conduct Philosophy’ enshrines that the Bank is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate on the basis 
of race, caste, religion, colour, marital status, gender, sexual orientation, age, nationality or ethnic origin.
 
Web link: Conduct Philosophy 
 
The Diversity, Equity, Inclusion (DEI) Policy adopted by the Bank reiterates on equal opportunities for Persons with Disabilities. 
 
Web link: DEI Policy
5. 
Return to work and retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Benefits
Permanent employees
Return to work rate (%)
Retention rate (%)
Male
99.7
78.1
Female
97.3
71.4
Total
99.1
76.5
 
 Note: Retention rate determines those who returned to work after parental leave ended and were still employed 12 
months later.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
547
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

6. 
 Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
 
Yes, the Bank has a grievance mechanism for employees. The Human Resources department engages closely with 
employees to get a pulse of the sentiment of employees. The employees have access to the ‘My Concern’ portal to put 
forth their grievances, if any. All the concerns are collated and redirected to relevant teams for resolution. 
7. 
Membership of employees in association(s) or unions
Category
FY 2024-25
Total employees in 
respective category (A)
No. of employees in 
respective category, who 
are part of association(s) or 
union (B)
% (B / A)
Total Permanent Employees
2,14,521
208
0.10
Male
1,58,449
153
0.10
Female
56,072
55
0.10
FY 2023-24
Total Permanent Employees
2,13,527
213
0.10
Male
1,57,917
159
0.10
Female
55,610
54
0.10
8. 
Details of training given to employees
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
On health and 
safety/wellness 
measures
On skill   upgradation
Total (D)
On health and safety/
wellness measures
On skill upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
EMPLOYEES
Male
1,58,449
1,58,449
100
1,55,697
98
1,57,917
1,57,917
100
1,53,513
97
Female
56,072
56,072
100
55,246
99
55,610
55,610
100
53,907
97
Total
2,14,521
2,14,521
100
2,10,943
98
2,13,527
2,13,527
100
2,07,420
97
OTHER THAN PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
Male
24
0
0
0
0
31
0
0
0
0
Female
7
0
0
0
0
7
0
0
0
0
Total
31
0
0
0
0
38
0
0
0
0
9. 
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees
 
 The Bank adopts a comprehensive multi-dimensional performance management system that enables strategic alignment, 
individual goal setting, continuous feedback, and career development by carrying out performance reviews twice a year- (i) 
mid-year and (ii) annual review.
 
 Management by Objectives (MBO): Employees set predefined and measurable goals after discussions with their 
supervisors at the beginning of the year. The goals and KRAs are aligned with the strategic objectives set for the year by 
the senior management and cascaded to the rest of the Bank. 
 
 Team Performance Evaluation: The Bank conducts an organization wide survey on sentiment, culture and team 
experience, which is aggregated and the scores of the same are used as inputs during the annual performance review 
discussion of managers. Managers are also evaluated based on their team’s performance and overall competency. 
Development needs are identified basis this exercise. 
HDFC Bank Limited
548
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

 
 Agile Communication: The Bank encourages ongoing performance conversations between employees and their 
supervisors and records it formally during mid-year and annual performance review. The appraiser and the appraisee 
have a joint performance discussion based on the self-evaluation filled by the appraisee. The discussion includes feedback 
on performance, competencies, development needs and career aspirations, post which the appraiser records his/ her 
evaluation and overall feedback in the document.
 
 Performance Grading: Performance is evaluated on a 4-point scale. In addition, the Bank has a talent management and 
review process where HR along with the business or functional heads review the talent at certain periodicity and identifies 
specific development needs to support their career progression. This translates into training and development initiatives 
and lateral career movement opportunities for the talent.
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No.(B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
EMPLOYEES
Male
1,58,287
1,38,899
88
1,57,948
1,35,649
86
Female
56,017
48,266
86
55,617
45,713
82
Total
2,14,304
1,87,165
87
2,13,565
1,81,362
85
 
Note: Column ‘B’ and ‘D’ comprise all employees who are eligible for performance and career development review. Only 
employees who have completed the probation period with the Bank are eligible for performance review.
10. Health and safety management system
 
a. 
 Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? 
(Yes / No). If yes, the coverage such system?
 
 
 HDFC Bank aims to maintain health and safety standards at the workplace. Safety checks and assessments of the 
physical infrastructure are carried out periodically. The Bank also conducts several awareness and training programs 
for its employees and relevant stakeholders. 
 
 
 During the year, the ‘Fire and Life Safety’ module was launched on our learning and development platform MPower 
to ensure employee awareness on how to handle crisis and how to use the life safety equipment. 
 
 
 Emergency evacuation drills and training programmes on ‘How to Use Fire Extinguishers’ are conducted on a 
regular basis.
 
 
 To enhance fire preparedness and to ensure safety of the employees, fire and safety audits are carried out in offices 
on a pan-India basis.
 
b. 
 What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-
routine basis by the entity?
 
 
 The Bank has an internal incident reporting portal which captures incidents across locations. The concerned teams 
compile the root cause analysis of the incidents and maintain the record of incidents, if any, on the portal. 
 
c. 
 Whether you have processes for employees to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. 
 
 
Yes. 
 
d. 
Do the employees have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
 
 
Yes.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
549
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

11. Details of safety related incidents  
Safety Incident / Number  
Category 
FY 2024-25 
FY 2023-24 
Number of Permanent Disabilities 
Employees 
0
0
Workers
0
0
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person 
hours worked)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
No. of fatalities  
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding 
fatalities)  
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
 
Note: 
 
• 
 All employees of the Bank are categorised as permanent or other than permanent i.e. on a contract basis. The Bank 
does not employ any workers; accordingly, worker related KPIs are nil and the same have not been included in any 
of the prescribed tables in the BRSR.
 
• 
 For high consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities), the Bank has considered work-related 
injury or ill-health, which results in an injury from which the employee cannot or is not expected to recover fully to the 
previous health status.
 
• 
 The Bank has considered injuries/fatalities caused due to the nature of the work or directly related to the performance 
of work-related tasks.
 
 An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in 
the table above. 
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
 
The Bank has an Occupational Health and Safety Policy. The Bank also has in-house safety and security professionals to 
help ensure a safe workplace. Awareness programmes on safety are conducted for various stakeholders. During the year, 
bank initiated the ‘3E Program’ – Educate, Enhance & Establish.
 
 Educate – Inculcate the culture of safety by sharing information through internal communication on different subjects and 
ensure that the employees are equipped to handle any kind of crisis.
 
Enhance – On-ground training on ‘Fire & Life Safety’ through evacuation drills is conducted to ensure preparedness. During 
FY 2024-25, 177 fire drills were conducted across locations.  
 
Establish – Multi-lingual poster with emergency contact numbers and evacuation steps are put up in all the branches. 
 
Further, a benchmarking and gap assessment is undertaken periodically to assess requisite up-gradations or changes 
required to benchmark standards on Environment, Health and Safety (EHS).
HDFC Bank Limited
550
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

13. Number of complaints on the following made by employees
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Working conditions
0
0
-
0
0
-
Health and safety
0
0
-
2
0
Behavioural issue 
in one case; 
Other case on 
office amenities 
was found to be 
unsubstantiated 
14. Assessments for the year
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or 
third parties)
Health and safety practices
100% assessment as part of internal audits on safety related issues.
5,770 electrical safety third party audits were carried out on a pan-India basis
Working Conditions
0
15.  Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions.
 
 The Bank recognises the importance of a robust Environment, Health and Safety framework to ensure maintenance of 
benchmark health and safety practices within the organisation. With increased focus on health and well-being, special 
health check-up camps are conducted on a periodic basis for employees.
 
 Further, as a responsible bank, under the Business Continuity Plan, the Bank conducts robust drills on a periodic basis to 
ensure readiness in the eventuality of the BCP needing to be activated.
 
Employees are encouraged to raise safety-related issues, if any, on the ‘My Concern’ portal on the intranet.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of employees 
(Y / N)
 
Yes, the Bank extends a comprehensive compassion package in the event of death of an employee as detailed below:
 
• 
 Payment of Ex-Gratia Scheme: To provide immediate monetary assistance to the distressed family and financial 
support and help to recover from the sudden deprivation of the income of the deceased employee, ex-gratia lumpsum 
amount as per grade up to a certain level is given;
 
• 
 Financial support on education to the dependent children till graduation in India up to a maximum of ` 5 lakh per child 
for 2 children;
 
• 
 Compassionate employment: With an objective to provide support to the family who has lost an earning member 
due to death of an employee, the kin of the employee is offered employment in the Bank based on the respective 
educational qualification of the candidate, subject to fulfilment of other eligibility criteria. The Bank also provides the 
necessary training and skills to the candidate as required.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
551
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

2. 
 Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and 
deposited by the value chain partners.
 
 As per the Bank’s Code of Conduct, it expects its employees and all third parties it deals with, to adhere to the ethics and 
values as elucidated in the code. The Bank ensures that taxes/ statutory dues as applicable to the transactions within the 
remit of the Bank are deducted and deposited in accordance with its laid out standard operating procedures which are 
in line with extant regulations. The Bank expects its value chain partners, including service providers to be compliant with 
statutory dues/ other requirements. These form a part of the covenants in the legal contracts between the Bank and its 
value chain partners.
3. 
 Provide the number of employees having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health / 
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in 
suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected
employees
No. of employees that are rehabilitated and
placed in suitable employment or whose family
members have been placed in suitable
employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees
N.A. There were no work-related injuries.
4. 
 Does the entity provide transition assistance programmes to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement of employment? (Yes / No)
 
 Yes. The Bank offers a comprehensive suite of learning offerings in facilitator led and self-paced learning formats. The 
learning offerings cover a wide range of functional, professional development and leadership development themes. 
 
 The Bank runs a unique retirement transition programme, ‘Life 2.0’. The programme covers financial planning, healthy living 
and other subject areas to ensure retired employees are gainfully engaged post-retirement.
5. 
Details on assessment of value chain partners
% of value chain partners (by value of 
business done with such partners) that 
were assessed
Health and safety practices
Nil
Working conditions
 
Note: As part of the ESG & Climate Risk Assessment in accordance with the ESG Risk Management Framework, certain 
wholesale loans undergo an enhanced E&S assessment. These borrowers provide the Bank with details on their health 
and safety practices and working conditions as part of the social impact assessment. 
6. 
 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising 
from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
 
N.A.
HDFC Bank Limited
552
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

PRINCIPLE 4:    BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL  ITS 
STAKEHOLDERS
Essential Indicators
1. 
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
 
 HDFC Bank maps its stakeholders based on their level of interest, influence, and impact on the Bank. This inter alia includes 
communities, investors, employees, customers, value chain partners, regulators and the government.  
2.   List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group.
Key Stakeholders
Whether identified 
as Vulnerable & 
Marginalised Group
(Yes / No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings,
Notice Board, Website),
Others
Frequency of 
engagement
(Annually / Half yearly 
/ Quarterly
/ others - please
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including
key topics and concerns 
raised during such 
engagement
Communities
Yes, children, youth, 
farmer communities
Planning, Meeting and Exercises 
- Needs Assessment / Baseline / 
Participatory Rural Appraisal
Focused Group Discussions
Consultative Workshops
Awareness Sessions and Field 
Demonstrations
Periodic progress reviews and 
monitoring
Type: Information,
Consultation, 
Participation
Frequency: 
Continuous
engagement / 
Annual performance 
review
Poverty and drudgery
alleviation, Improvement
in quality of education,
Appropriate resource
management, 
Environmental
sustainability, Improvement
in community hygiene
and sanitation
Investors /
Shareholders
No
Quarterly financial reports, press 
releases, results conference 
calls and investor presenations 
and conferences, Analyst days, 
Investor days, interactions with 
shareholders and Annual General 
Meetings (AGMs)
Type: Information, 
Participation
Frequency: 
Continuous 
engagements /  
Quarterly / Annual
Compliance, Governance 
& ethical practices, and 
Economic performance
Employees
No
Employee on-ground and virtual 
connect by human resources, 
leadership and manager connect;
Engagement and Pulse & Vibes 
surveys to assess sentiment of 
employees
Employee connect initiatives like 
talent hunt, wellness initiatives, 
employee engagements among 
others
Type: Information,
Consultation, 
Participation
Frequency: On-
going /
periodic
Employee engagement,
Culture and employee
experience, Employee
wellness and safety,
Learning and 
Development, Inclusive 
work culture,
Work-life balance
Customers
Yes, if they qualify 
based on specified 
criteria such as 
income and/or gender 
or any other criteria
Multiple channels – physical and 
digital, Customer satisfaction 
surveys,
Customer feedbacks, Regular 
interaction with customers
Type: Information,
Consultation
Frequency: 
Continuous
Ease of transacting across 
channels; Innovative 
technology applications; 
Data security; Advanced 
analytics
Value chain 
partners
No
Regular meetings, emails, phone 
calls and surveys
Type: Information
Frequency: 
Continuous
engagement/ Annual
performance review
Partnership, governance 
and ethical practices
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
553
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

Key Stakeholders
Whether identified 
as Vulnerable & 
Marginalised Group
(Yes / No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings,
Notice Board, Website),
Others
Frequency of 
engagement
(Annually / Half yearly 
/ Quarterly
/ others - please
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including
key topics and concerns 
raised during such 
engagement
Regulators & 
Government
No
Regular meetings, policy updates 
and ministry directives, mandatory 
filings with key regulators
Type: Information,
Consultation, 
Participation
Frequency: 
Continuous
engagement or as 
per requirement
Compliance, Social 
Security schemes, 
Relevant national
mandates
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, 
and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the 
Board.
 
 The Bank is dedicated to driving positive change and believes that sustainable growth is key to creating long-term value 
for all the stakeholders. Active engagement on economic, environmental and social matters is conducted with the relevant 
stakeholder groups – customers, employees, shareholders, investors, regulators, vendors and communities – on an 
ongoing basis. 
 
 These engagements take place through multiple channels such as town halls, training sessions, social media platforms, 
customer satisfaction surveys, stakeholder engagement exercises and materiality assessment. 
 
 These forums provide valuable insights that help identify key issues, evaluate business practices, mitigate risks, and enhance 
the Bank’s impact across the ecosystem. Feedback from these engagements is analysed and communicated to the Board 
and Senior Management through a structured process. The Bank ensures that stakeholder concerns are considered in 
strategic decision-making through the following governance mechanisms:
 
• 
 The CSR & ESG Committee of the Board is responsible for overseeing the identification, implementation, and monitoring 
of all the CSR initiatives. It also ensures transparent reporting and effective communication with stakeholders on CSR, 
ESG framework and related strategic goals and disclosures.
 
• 
 The Bank’s Board-level Customer Service Committee is constituted to drive continuous improvements in the quality 
of customer services provided by the Bank and develop innovative measures for enhancing the customer experience 
and quality of customer service. 
2.     Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, 
and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders 
on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.            
 
 Yes. The Bank engages with its key stakeholders on an ongoing basis to identify pertinent environmental and social topics 
of interest to its stakeholders and addresses them through periodic updates through policies and programmes. The Bank 
reviewed its material topics through consultations with multiple stakeholder groups. The exercise was designed to identify 
how various areas impact the Bank’s stakeholders. For each of the material topics identified through this consultation 
process, the Bank has a robust approach, as detailed in its Integrated Annual Report. The Bank will continue to align its 
overall strategy in line with material topics identified.
 
 To quote a few examples, the Bank had aligned its ESG reporting with the requirements of SEBI which is one of its key 
stakeholders. Additionally, the Bank ensures compliance with the requirements of RBI as updated from time to time. The 
Bank is also cognizant of the evolving needs of its customers and offers new products to cater to customers’ preference 
for ease of transactions across channels. Similarly, the Bank continues to offer new technology driven, best-in-class 
learning resources to its employees to cater to their learning and development needs. The Bank’s CSR programmes are 
also designed to cater to the local needs and context of the communities they are designed to serve.
HDFC Bank Limited
554
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

3. 
 Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalised stakeholder groups.
 
 The Bank is committed to addressing the needs of vulnerable and marginalised stakeholder groups through both its 
financial inclusion strategy and community development initiatives. With the guidance of the Board governed Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy, the Bank continues to implement well-structured programmes and interventions aimed 
at improving the well-being of marginalised communities and contributing to their sustainable development.       
 
 The key approach focused on lending to marginal/vulnerable groups is the Bank’s Sustainable Livelihoods Initiative, 
empowering them through access to credit and livelihood support. Over 50% of the Bank’s branches are in rural and 
semi-urban areas, to increase the financial inclusion penetration across the country. 
 
 The Bank actively supports several schemes of the government which inter alia include loans to street vendors, artisans, 
MSMEs, loans to women entrepreneurs, farmers, contributing to employment generation and improved livelihoods. The 
Bank has also extended financial support to agri-infrastructure projects, micro food processing, agri clinics and agri-
business centres and rural and urban livelihood missions. In FY 2024–25, the Bank enrolled 4.5 million customers under 
various government social security schemes, including basic banking accounts, low-cost insurance for underprivileged 
segments, and pension schemes for unorganised sector workers.
 
 Further, the Bank is committed to expand access to affordable housing. During the year, 64% of home loans (in volume 
terms) and 37% (in value terms) were approved for customers from economically weaker sections (EWS), low-income 
groups (LIG), and middle-income groups (MIG). 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
555
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

PRINCIPLE 5: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS
Essential Indicators
1. 
Employees who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies)
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. of 
employees 
covered (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees 
covered (D)
% (D/C)
EMPLOYEES
Permanent
2,14,521
2,04,683
95
2,13,527
1,93,104
90
Other than permanent
31
-
-
38
-
-
Total Employees
2,14,552
2,04,683
95
2,13,565
1,93,104
90
 
Note: Human rights training entails training of the Bank’s policies and procedures with respect to human rights issues. 
2. 
Details of minimum wages paid to employees.
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total (D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. ( C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
EMPLOYEES
Permanent
2,14,521
0
0
2,14,521
100
2,13,527
0
0
2,13,527
100
Male
1,58,449
0
0
1,58,449
100
1,57,917
0
0
1,57,917
100
Female
56,072
0
0
56,072
100
 55,610
0
0
55,610
100
Other than 
Permanent
31
0
0
31
100
38
0
0
38
100
Male
24
0
0
24
100
31
0
0
31
100
Female
7
0
0
7
100
7
0
0
7
100
3. 
a.  Details of remuneration / salary / wages 
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration /
salary / wages of respective category (`)
Number
Median remuneration /
salary / wages of respective category (`)
Board of Directors
10
1,23,50,000
3
84,50,000
Key Managerial Personnel 
2
2,97,91,531
0
0
Employees other than 
BoD and KMP
1,58,443
5,56,005
56,072
3,86,345
 
 Note:   Further categorisation of details of remuneration of employees other than Board of Directors (BoD) and Key 
Managerial Personnel (KMP)
Employees other than
BoD and KMP*
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration / 
salary / wages of respective category  (`)
Number
Median remuneration /
salary / wages of respective category (`)
Senior Management
216
1,23,89,109
25
1,22,67,665
Middle Management
7,959
39,05,221
1,200
39,46,992
Junior Management
28,666
15,12,120
5,499
14,80,000
Non-Supervisory Staff 
(Includes sales officers) 
1,21,602
3,93,363
49,348
3,50,045
HDFC Bank Limited
556
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

3. 
b. 
Gross wages paid to females as % of total remuneration paid
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of wages paid 
20%
19%
 
 Note: The calculation of gross wages paid to female employees excludes retirement benefits, ESOPs and staff 
welfare expenses. 
 
 An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in 
the table above.
4. 
 Do you have a focal point (Individual / Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or  
issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes / No)
 
Yes. Refer Section B for details on the authority responsible for implementation and oversight of business responsibility.
5. 
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues
 
 The Bank strictly adheres to the conduct philosophy adopted, which prohibits the use of child, forced, or compulsory 
labour. The conduct philosophy includes mechanisms to address issues related to mental or physical coercion, verbal 
abuse, sexual harassment, sexual abuse and slavery of employees. The Bank maintains a ‘zero tolerance’ policy on sexual 
harassment. An Internal Complaints Committee is in place to address such complaints. The Bank also has a whistleblower 
mechanism that provides a comprehensive framework for capturing and addressing complaints or grievances from the 
relevant stakeholders.
6. 
Number of complaints on the following made by employees
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
the year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of the 
year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
75
10
-
77
12*
-
Discrimination at workplace
0
0
-
0
0
-
Child Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Wages
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other human rights related issues
0
0
-
0
0
-
 
*Complaints reported as pending at the close of FY 2023-24 were resolved in FY 2024-25.
7. 
 Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013 (PoSH)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total complaints reported under Sexual Harassment of Women at the 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
75
77
Complaints on PoSH as a % of female employees (%)
0.13
0.16*
Number of complaints on PoSH upheld
24
25
 
Note: For the purpose of calculating PoSH complaints as a percentage of female employees, average number of female 
employees is considered, in line with the Industry Standard Forum guidance. 
 
Average number of female employees is computed basis the total female headcount at the beginning of the year and at 
the end of the year. 
 
*Previous year’s number has been revised, accordingly.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
557
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

8. 
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases
 
 As a responsible employer, the Bank is committed to creating a culture which is conducive, fair and harmonious amongst 
its employees. The Bank recognises its responsibility towards safeguarding and protecting women at the workplace from 
harassment.  The Bank has put in place a code of conduct, applicable to all employees of the Bank. The Bank’s Internal 
Committee deals with cases of sexual harassment of women at the workplace and ensures that there is a fair and detailed 
investigation done in utmost confidentiality, thus ensuring protection to the aggrieved party.  Further, the whistleblower policy 
also serves as a safe mechanism which ensures confidentiality and ensures no discrimination towards the complainant. 
9. 
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts (Yes / No)?
 
 Yes, The Bank respects and upholds the principles of human rights as established in the United Nations Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights. Through this commitment, the Bank seeks to institutionalise appropriate policies and processes that 
safeguard the fundamental rights of all relevant stakeholders.
 
 As part of the ESG Risk Management Framework on lending, loans above a stipulated threshold undergo enhanced 
environmental and social due diligence. The Bank’s vendors and suppliers are expected to adhere to all applicable laws 
addressing child, forced or trafficked labour.
10. Assessments for the year
% of offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
Nil
Forced / involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others - please specify
11.  Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 10 above.
 
N.A.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances 
/ complaints.
 
N.A.
2. 
Details of the scope and coverage of any human rights due-diligence conducted.
 
Nil
3. 
 Is the premise / office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
 
 The Bank is committed to improving infrastructure and services to be more inclusive and also ensure fair and free access 
for visitors. In terms of accessibility, 2,044 of the Bank’s branches have ramps installed for facilitating access to differently 
abled stakeholders. Many of the Bank’s premises are located on the ground floor or have elevator access. The Branch ATMs 
are voice-guided and Braille keypads assist visually impaired customers. Further, the Bank also offers doorstep banking 
services for senior citizens and differently abled customers.
HDFC Bank Limited
558
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

4. 
Details on assessment of value chain partners
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others - please specify
 
Note: While assessments by value have not been aggregated, for our service providers, there are enabling clauses in the 
master agreements on adherence to applicable labour legislations. As part of the ESG and Climate Change Assessments 
undertaken for certain wholesale borrowers as per the ESG Risk Management Framework, parameters such as labour/ 
employee health and safety, prohibition of child labour and human rights protection are included in the E&S assessment. 
5. 
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 4 above.
 
N. A.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
559
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

PRINCIPLE 6:  BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE THE 
ENVIRONMENT
Essential Indicators
1.  
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity  
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
From renewable sources (in GJ)
Total electricity consumption (A)
66,436.61
 11,772.84 
Total fuel consumption (B) 
-
 - 
Energy consumption through other sources (C) 
-
 - 
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C) 
66,436.61
11,772.84
From non-renewable sources (in GJ)
Total electricity consumption (D) 
14,10,725.08
25,23,514.68
Total fuel consumption (E) 
5,85,716.08
 4,97,686.11
Energy consumption through other sources (F) 
-
 - 
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F) 
19,96,441.16 
30,21,200.79
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F) (in GJ)
20,62,877.77 
30,32,973.62
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumed / Revenue 
from operations) (GJ per ` in crore)
5.96
9.87
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) (Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for 
PPP) (GJ per USD in million)
12.32
20.39
Energy intensity in terms of physical output (GJ/ Full Time Employees (FTE))
9.62
14.20
 
Note:
 
• 
 Energy consumed from fuels include energy from consumption of petrol and diesel in company-owned vehicles 
and gensets. 
 
• 
 For gensets and company owned vehicles, petrol/ diesel purchase data is extracted from the Bank’s financial records. 
The cost of diesel/ petrol purchased is converted into litres of petrol/ sdiesel using state-wise/ national average rates 
derived from information available in the public domain. 
 
• 
 A combination of consumption based and spend-based approach is adopted to calculate electricity consumption 
from local grids – for branches, offices, ATMs and Data Centers.
 
• 
 Electricity consumption from renewable energy sources is generated through in-house solar rooftops installed at 25 
locations and purchased green power at 19 locations. 
 
• 
 Total energy consumption decreased primarily due to the change in energy accounting methodology. There is a 
transition from a purely spend-based estimation approach to a more refined method that combines actual energy 
consumption data with financial data, resulting in a more accurate reporting of electricity consumption.
 
• 
 All the intensity related computation across energy, emissions, water and waste are based on Total Revenue, which 
includes interest earned under Schedule 13 and other income, excluding profit/ (loss) on sale of buildings & other 
assets (net) earned under Schedule 14 of the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank.  
 
• 
 For the purpose of calculation of intensity, adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP), conversion factor @20.66 INR/
USD as per IMF has been applied consistently for both FY2024-25 and FY2023-24.
HDFC Bank Limited
560
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

 
 Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
If yes, name of the external agency.
 
 Yes, an independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited for the FY 2024-25 indicators 
in the table above.
2. 
 Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y / N) If yes, disclose whether targets set 
under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial 
action taken, if any. 
 
N.A.
3. 
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water.
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
0
0
(ii) Groundwater
0
0
(iii) Third party water
26,02,703.66
24,08,078.16
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
0
0
(v) Others
0
0
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
26,02,703.66
24,08,078.16
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
5,20,540.73
4,81,615.63
Water intensity per ` of turnover (Total water consumption / Revenue 
from operations) (Kilolitre per ` crore)
1.50
1.57
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP) (kilolitre per PPP adjusted million USD)
3.11
3.24
Water intensity in terms of physical output (Total water consumption / 
Full Time Employee) (kilolitre per employee)
2.43
2.26
  
Note: 
 
• 
 Water withdrawn is estimated based on the document by the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA), which specifies 
that an office employee consumes 45 litres per day per head. This amount is recorded as water withdrawn from third 
party source.
 
• 
 Water discharged is considered as 80% of the water withdrawn from source based on Central Pollution Control Board 
(CPCB) database report dated December 24, 2009. Therefore, it is assumed that of the total water withdrawal, only 
20% is consumed. 
 
 Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
If yes, name of the external agency. 
 
 Yes, an independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited for the FY 2024-25 indicators 
in the table above. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
561
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

4. 
Provide the following details related to water discharged
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) To surface water
No treatment
0
0
With treatment - please specify level of treatment
0
0
(ii) To Groundwater
No treatment
0
0
With treatment - please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iii) To Seawater
No treatment
0
0
With treatment - please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iv) Sent to third parties
No treatment
20,82,162.93
19,26,462.53
With treatment - please specify level of treatment
0
0
(v) Others
No treatment
0
0
With treatment - please specify level of treatment
0
0
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
20,82,162.93 
19,26,462.53
 
 Note: Water discharged is considered as 80% of the water withdrawn from source based on CPCB database report dated 
December 24, 2009 and reported as water sent to third parties.
 
 Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
If yes, name of the external agency.
 
 Yes, an independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited for the FY 2024-25 indicators 
in the table above.
5. 
 Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage 
and implementation.
 
The Bank does not generate industrial wastewater, as the operations are primarily service led. The Bank’s facilities are 
either connected to municipal wastewater collection systems or to the facility-owner’s wastewater treatment systems. The 
wastewater generated by the Bank’s activities are therefore directed to established systems where it is treated appropriately 
as per the discretion of the municipal agencies/ facility owner (third parties). 
6. 
Details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
NOx
Metric Tonnes
308.25
-
SOx
Metric Tonnes
24.32
-
Particulate Matter (PM)
Metric Tonnes
9.63
-
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
Metric Tonnes
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
Metric Tonnes
-
-
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
Metric Tonnes
-
-
Others - please specify
Metric Tonnes
-
-
HDFC Bank Limited
562
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

 
 Note: The NOx, SOx and PM emissions provided above are attributed to diesel consumption in  DG sets within the Bank’s 
operational boundary. These emissions have been calculated using site-specific data and emission factors published by 
the USEPA.
 
 While the nature of banking operations does not typically result in significant air emissions, the Bank is cognisant of air quality 
within its premises. As a proactive measure, the Bank has undertaken the estimation and disclosure on air emissions.
7. 
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity
Parameter*
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
CO2
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
CH4 
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
N2O
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
HFCs
(tCO2e)
CO2
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
CH4
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
N2O
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
HFCs 
(tCO2e)
Total Scope 1 
emissions
(GHG: CO2, 
CH4, N2O, 
HFCs)
Metric tonnes 
of CO2 
equivalent
42,024.21
61.21
562.76
35,351.32
35,818.59
51.35
442.51
47,868.03
Total: 77,999.50
Total: 84,180.48
Total Scope 2 
emissions
(GHG: CO2)
Metric tonnes 
of CO2 
equivalent
2,84,877.91
5,01,899.03
Total Scope 
1 and Scope 
2 emission 
intensity 
per ` Crore 
of turnover 
(Total Scope 
1 and Scope 
2 GHG 
emissions / 
Revenue from 
operations)
Metric tonnes 
of CO2e / 
Revenue
(` in crore)
1.05
1.91
Total Scope 
1 and Scope 
2 emission 
intensity per 
Million USD 
of turnover 
adjusted for 
Purchasing 
Power 
Parity (Total 
Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 GHG 
emissions / 
Revenue from 
operations 
adjusted for 
PPP)
Metric tonnes 
of CO2e / 
Revenue
(USD in 
million)
2.17
3.94
Total Scope 
1 and Scope 
2 emission 
intensity 
in terms of 
physical 
output
MTCO2e 
per Full time 
employee 
(FTE)
1.69
2.74
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
563
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

 
Note: 
 
• 
 Scope 1 emissions include emissions from company-owned cars, company-owned diesel gensets, fugitive emissions 
from air conditioners and fire extinguishers.
 
• 
 For the computation of emissions from company-owned cars and company-owned gensets, emission factors from 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) guidelines 2006 have been applied to quantities deemed for energy 
consumption in Principle 6, Essential Indicators: Question 1.
 
• 
 Fugitive emissions from fire extinguishers are estimated using operational assets and public factors on leakage from 
USEPA guidance, with Global Warming Potential (GWP) values derived from IPCC Sixth Assessment Report (AR6).
 
• 
 For air conditioners, the Bank’s operational assets define the boundary. Emissions are estimated using India’s 
refrigerant usage trends, vendor-provided average refrigerant capacities, leakage assumptions from Council on Energy, 
Environment and Water (CEEW) and GWP derived factors from IPCC AR 6. 
 
• 
 Scope 2 emissions are reported using a combination of consumption based and spend-based data. The reported 
figures are derived using market-based approach with grid emission factor from Version 20 of the Central Electrical 
Authority’s CO2 database. 
 
• 
 Scope 1 emissions have reduced largely on account of gradual transition to low GHG fire extinguishers from high 
GHG based fire extinguishers.
 
• 
 The reduction in Scope 2 emissions is primarily attributed to the procurement of renewable energy, sourced through 
rooftop solar installations and green power purchase. In addition, system enhancements during FY 2024-25 enabled 
the shift to a mixed approach of using– consumption and spend-based data, as compared to a complete spend 
based computation adopted in the previous year. 
 
 Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
If yes, name of the external agency.
 
 Yes, an independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited for the FY 2024-25 indicators 
in the table above.
8.   Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
 
 Yes. The Bank is cognisant of its impact on the environment and is actively engaged in reducing its energy consumption 
and emissions across its operations. Automated energy management solutions are deployed at some of the branches, 
which helps monitor energy consumption and control usage. This initiative has resulted in savings of about 623.84 MWh 
in FY 2024-25, leading to avoidance of 453.53 tCO2e emissions. 
 
 The Bank implemented static Power Factor (PF) solutions through the installation of Active Harmonic Filter (AHF) with the 
aim to address the correction of power factor and bring in efficiencies at the branch locations. The project was implemented 
at 84 locations and electricity savings amounted to close to 84.32 MWh in FY 2024-25. 
 
 Wherever feasible, the Bank has adopted renewable energy sources into the overall power consumption. The Bank has 25 
rooftop solar plants with a cumulative capacity of about 743 kWh across the country leading to an emission reduction of 
609.02 tCO2e. During the year, the bank increased the number of locations under green power. As on March 31, 2025, 19 
locations received 100% green power. This resulted in increase in the renewable energy mix of the bank by 17,616.9 MWh, 
resulting in the avoidance of approximately 12,807.48 tCO2e of Scope 2 emissions.
 
 To adopt a more holistic approach to emission reduction within owned operations, the Bank evaluates all the new projects 
for feasibility of green certification by the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). As of March 31, 2025, 2,507 branches and 
offices have been green certified by IGBC. 
HDFC Bank Limited
564
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

9. 
Provide details related to waste management by the entity
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
105.91
252.61
E-waste (B)
165.39
110.58
Bio-medical waste (C)
-
-
Construction and demolition waste (D)
-
-
Battery waste (E)
34.13
20.51
Radioactive waste (F)
-
-
Other Hazardous waste (G) (Includes DG Oil waste)
69.06
89.85
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H)
297.02
288.48
Sector specific - Paper waste (I)
3,401.59
3,441.49
Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H + I)
4,073.10
4,203.52
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations) (MT / ` in crore)
0.01
0.01 
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP)
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
(MT per adjusted USD in million)
0.02
0.03 
Waste intensity in terms of physical output (Total waste generated per 
Full time employee (FTE))
0.02
   0.02
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other 
recovery operations (in metric tonnes) 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Category of waste
(i) Recycled 
Plastic waste (A) 
     11.77
0.00
E-waste (B)
 133.77
   109.74
Bio-medical waste (C)
    -
    -
Construction and demolition waste (D)
    -
    -
Battery waste (E)
      34.13
20.51
Radioactive waste (F)
 -
 -
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
1.90
0.00
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. (Break-up 
by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
  48.36
10.16
Paper waste (I)
   191.89
0.00
(ii) Re-used 
 - 
 - 
(iii) Other recovery operations  
-
-
Total waste diverted from disposal
 421.82
140.41
Total For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Category of waste
(i) Incineration
- 
  - 
(ii) Landfilling
-
-
(iii) Other disposal operations
Plastic waste (A)
  94.14
             252.61
E-waste (B)
 31.62
      0.84
Bio-medical waste (C)
  - 
  - 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
565
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

Construction and demolition waste (D)
  - 
  - 
Battery waste (E)
  - 
0.00
Radioactive waste (F)
  - 
  - 
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any (G) 
67.16
   89.85
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any (Break-up 
by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector) 
 248.66
278.31
Paper waste (I)
    3,209.70
 3,441.49
Total waste diverted to disposal
  3,651.29
 4,063.11
Note:
 
• 
 Due to the nature of operations of the Bank, no bio-medical, construction and demolition, and radioactive waste 
attributable to the Bank was generated. 
 
• 
 E-Waste generated, recycled and disposed, includes IT related e-waste and datacentre e-waste which is centrally 
managed and recycled through authorised vendors.  
 
• 
 Paper waste majorly constitutes paper procured for the Bank’s own use and is shown as sector-specific paper waste. 
The quantity of waste generated is assumed to be disposed through other disposal operations.
 
• 
 The waste quantities presented in the table above are estimated by extrapolating actual data from select locations, 
using employee count as an operational proxy. These figures primarily cover waste from owned facilities with waste 
segregation and recycling practices in place, except for e-waste, battery waste and paper waste, which also include 
data from other locations.
 
• 
 During the reporting period, the Bank implemented several initiatives to reduce the usage of single-use plastic in the 
office premises and also sensitised the workforce towards exploring alternative solutions to replace plastic waste, 
leading to reduction in amount of plastic waste generated.
 
 Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y / N) If yes, name of the external agency. 
 
 Yes, an independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited for the FY 2024-25 indicators 
in the table above.
10.  Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes 
and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
 
 The Bank does not use hazardous and toxic chemicals in its products and processes. However, the Bank has been working 
towards sustainable management of waste generated from day-to-day operations. The Bank has adopted an internal 
Standard Operating Procedure to document its approach to waste segregation and handling in the office premises. The 
Bank segregates and recycles dry waste at select large offices. The dry waste is collected and disposed through authorised 
vendors who eventually recycle the waste. In FY 2024-25, approximately 421.82 tonnes of waste were diverted from landfill 
through recycling initiatives. 
 
 Disposal of Bank’s owned IT e-waste and battery waste was handed over to authorized recyclers, thus ensuring circularity. In 
FY 2024-25, e-waste and battery waste within its premises and co-located data centres led to the generation and recycling 
of 133.77 tonnes of e-waste and 34.13 tonnes of battery waste.
11.  If the entity has operations/offices in / around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) 
where environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details.
 
Given the nature of the business, the Bank does not have any operations or offices in ecologically sensitive areas.
HDFC Bank Limited
566
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

12.  Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year.
 
N.A.
13.  Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law / regulations / guidelines in India; such as the 
Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment 
Protection Act and Rules thereunder (Y / N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances.
 
 The Bank complies with all applicable laws. There have been no instances of non-compliance with respect to the above-
mentioned regulations. 
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres) 
 
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information: 
 
(i) 
Name of the area 
 
(ii) 
Nature of operations 
 
(iii) 
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge 
 
N. A.
2. 
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter*
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
CO2
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
CH4
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
N2O
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
CO2
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
CH4
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
N2O
Emissions 
(tCO2e)
Total Scope 3 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
2,30,310.04
62,945.73
Total Scope 3 emissions 
per ` crore of turnover
Metric tonnes of 
CO2e per ` in crore
0.67
0.20
Total Scope 3 emission 
intensity
tCO2e / Full time 
employee (FTE)
1.07
0.29
 
Note: 
 
 As part of our commitment to capturing value chain impacts, we are enhancing the coverage of our Scope 3 emission 
disclosures. We have included two more categories in the current reporting year, (i) Employee Commute (ii) Fuel and Energy 
Related Activities, in addition to emissions from Waste Generated in Operations, Business Travel and Upstream Leased 
Assets, reported last year. 
 
 
 Financed Emissions: In FY 2024-25, the Bank conducted a comprehensive assessment of financed emissions for 
its business loans with a total exposure of ` 1.90 lakh crore, in line with PCAF’s guidance. The evaluated portfolio, was 
associated with an estimated 23.8 million tonnes of CO2e emissions.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
567
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

3. 
 With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide 
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention 
and remediation activities. 
 
 Given the nature of business, the Bank does not have significant direct impacts on biodiversity. However, the Bank does 
ensure that the large industrial, infrastructure projects it lends to, are in compliance with all extant environmental regulations, 
including those linked to biodiversity.
4. 
 If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please 
provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following:
Sr. No
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative
Outcome of the initiative
1.
On-site Solar Installation
25 Solar rooftop installations 
commissioned so far with a total installed 
capacity of around 743 kWp. 
837.72 MWh of electricity consumed from the 
solar rooftop plants, leading to an emission 
reduction of 609.02 tCO2e.
2.
Green Power
100% of the power consumed at 19 loca-
tions is from green energy sources.
Procurement of 17,616.9 MWh of electricity 
under the green power arrangement during FY 
2024-25, as a result of which, 12,807.48 tCO2e 
emissions were avoided during the year.
3.
Automated Energy Management 
Solutions 
Automated energy management solutions 
that help monitor energy consumption and 
control usage have been implemented in 
350 branches.
Automating energy management has resulted in 
savings of electricity amounting to about 623.84 
MWh during the reporting period, leading to 
avoidance of 453.53 tCO2e emissions.
4.
Active Harmonic Filter (AHF)
Static Power Factor (PF) solutions 
implemented across 84 locations through 
the installation of Active Harmonic Filter 
(AHF) to address the correction of power 
factor and bring in efficiencies at the 
branch locations. 
The project led to electricity savings of 84.32 
MWh resulting in reduction 
of GHG emissions by 61.3 tCO2e 
during the year.
5.
Energy Efficient Equipment
During FY 2024–25, the Bank allocated a 
total of 0.51% of the Bank’s overall capital 
expenditure promote energy efficiency. 
Installation of energy-efficient equipment such as 
BEE 5-star rated air conditioners, and CPCB IV 
compliant diesel generator sets; implementation 
of renewable energy solutions like solar panels 
and installation of sewage treatment plants 
(STPs).
5. 
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan?
 
 Yes, the Bank has a comprehensive Business Continuity Program certified under ISO 22301:2019 that ensures the reliability 
and seamless continuity of operations. Additionally, the Bank’s business continuity programme overseen by the Business 
Continuity Steering Committee and chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, ensures the reliability and continuity of critical business 
operations and the accelerated resumption of services post-incident. The Business Continuity Programme defines clear 
roles and responsibilities across Crisis Management, Business Recovery, Emergency Response and IT Disaster Recovery 
teams. it is subject to regular internal, external and regulatory reviews. 
 
 The Bank imbibes highest standards of information and cyber security practices and data privacy measures. Proactive 
measures are taken to ensure the data protection and maintenance of customer trust. 
6.   Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
 
 The Bank is cognisant of the impact that its value chain may have on the environment. The Bank’s ESG Risk Management 
Framework incorporates Environmental and Social due diligence for specified wholesale loan exposures.  
HDFC Bank Limited
568
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

 
 Beyond verifying the borrowers’ compliance with statutory laws and regulations, the Bank also assesses the corporate 
borrowers in terms of their current position with regards to ESG & climate change, their transition plans and their initiatives on 
mitigation of risks related to ESG and climate change. As regulatory frameworks on value chain and disclosures on Scope 3 
emissions continue to evolve, we ensure ongoing compliance through active monitoring and alignment with best practices.
7.  
 Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts.
 
 As a part of the regular credit monitoring process, the Bank assesses, relevant issues regarding environmental & social 
issues and the impact of climate change on the borrower’s operations. 
8. 
How many green credits have been generated or procured?
 
(a) By the company - Nil
 
(b)  By the top ten (in terms of value of purchases and sales respectively) value chain partners - Data not 
available
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
569
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES, WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY  
 
 
 
  POLICY, SHOULD DO SO IN A MANNER THAT IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT
Essential Indicators
1. 
a. 
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers / associations.
 
 
The Bank is a member of 12 key trade and industry chambers / associations.
 
b. 
List of top 10 the trade and industry chambers / associations the entity is a member of / affiliated to
S. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers / associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers / 
associations (State / National)
1
Bombay Chambers of Commerce and Industry
National
2
National Association of Software and Services Companies
National
3
Indian Banks Association
National
4
Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India (FIMMDA)
National
5
Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI)
National
6
Society of Indian Automobiles Manufacturers
National
7
Indian Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association
National
8
Secondary Loan Market Association
National
9
International Swaps and Derivatives Association
International
10
Primary Dealers’ Association of India
National
2. 
 Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by 
the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
Nil
N.A.
N.A.
 
There have been no cases of anti-competitive conduct by the Bank. 
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity
S. 
No.
Public policy 
advocated
Method resorted 
for such advocacy
Whether information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review by Board 
(Annually / Half yearly / Quarterly / 
Others – please specify)
Web Link, if available
N.A.  The Bank does not engage in policy advocacy. 
The Bank, however, does participate in external meetings pertaining to the banking sector and may provide feedback/
recommendations on emerging regulations and other relevant issues.
HDFC Bank Limited
570
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

PRINCIPLE 8: BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT
Essential Indicators
1. 
 Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year.
 
N.A. 
 
 As per the BRSR, this section pertains to Social Impact Assessment in compliance with Right to Fair Compensation & 
Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. Given the nature of the business of the Bank, 
this is not applicable.
2. 
 Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being 
undertaken by your entity.
 
N.A.
3. 
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
 
 Internally there is a robust mechanism in place for the redressal of all grievances/complaints related to CSR project raised by 
the community stakeholders. There is a dedicated email id CSR-Compliance@hdfcbank.com displayed on the bank’s website 
for receiving community grievances/ complaints. Further there is a designated team and internal committee formed that 
evaluates and redresses such grievances received.
4. 
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers.
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
10%
3%
Directly from within India
98%
98%
 
 An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in 
the table above.
 
Note:  The denominator for the above indicator represents ‘purchases’ made from vendors forming part of Schedule 16 
and additions to fixed assets as per Schedule 10 of the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank. 
5. 
 Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose remuneration paid to persons employed (including employees 
employed on a permanent or contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total remuneration
Location
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Rural 
4%
4%
Semi-urban 
14%
16%
Urban 
22%
21%
Metropolitan*
60%
59%
 
*Metropolitan includes employees posted at overseas locations. 
 
Note: 
 
 For the purpose of categorisation of people employed at locations in rural/ semi-urban/ urban/ metropolitan, the base 
location of employees as at March 31, 2025 has been considered, as per the Reserve Bank of India classification system.
 
 An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in 
the table above.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
571
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above).
 
N.A.
2. 
 Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational 
districts as identified by government bodies.
S. No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (` in crore)
1
Andhra Pradesh
Vizianagaram
                        0.06 
2
Andhra Pradesh
Visakhapatnam
                        3.14 
3
Andhra Pradesh
Y.S.R. Kadapa
                        0.06 
4
Assam
Goalpara
                        0.04 
5
Assam
Barpeta
                        0.28 
6
Assam
Hailakandi
                        1.86 
7
Assam
Baksa
                        2.05 
8
Assam
Darrang
                        0.04 
9
Assam
Udalguri
                        2.04 
10
Assam
Dhubri
                        1.30 
11
Bihar
Sitamarhi
                        0.54 
12
Bihar
Araria
                        2.04 
13
Bihar
Katihar
                        2.04 
14
Bihar
Muzaffarpur
                        0.59 
15
Bihar
Begusarai
                        0.16 
16
Bihar
Khagaria
                        0.04 
17
Bihar
Banka
                        1.12 
18
Bihar
Sheikhpura
                        0.04 
19
Bihar
Aurangabad
                        0.09 
20
Bihar
Gaya
                        0.09 
21
Bihar
Nawada
                        0.68 
22
Bihar
Jamui
                        1.21 
23
Chhattisgarh
Korba
                        1.98 
24
Chhattisgarh
Rajnandgaon
                        0.27 
25
Chhattisgarh
Mahasamund
                        4.31 
26
Chhattisgarh
Kanker
                        0.54 
27
Chhattisgarh
Dantewada
                        0.13 
28
Chhattisgarh
Bijapur
                        0.04 
29
Chhattisgarh
Bastar
                        2.33 
30
Chhattisgarh
Kondagaon
                        0.92 
31
Chhattisgarh
Sukma
                        0.10 
32
Gujarat
Dahod
                        0.04 
33
Gujarat
Narmada
                        0.04 
HDFC Bank Limited
572
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

S. No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (` in crore)
34
Himachal Pradesh
Chamba
                        0.21 
35
Jammu & Kashmir
Kupwara
                        0.93 
36
Jammu & Kashmir
Baramulla
                        1.04 
37
Jharkhand
Garhwa
                        0.04 
38
Jharkhand
Chatra
                        0.09 
39
Jharkhand
Giridih
                        0.16 
40
Jharkhand
Godda
                        1.17 
41
Jharkhand
Sahibganj
                        0.04 
42
Jharkhand
Pakur
                        0.04 
43
Jharkhand
Bokaro
                        2.87 
44
Jharkhand
Lohardaga
                        0.17 
45
Jharkhand
Palamu
                        0.69 
46
Jharkhand
Latehar
                        0.10 
47
Jharkhand
Hazaribagh
                        2.33 
48
Jharkhand
Ramgarh
                        2.60 
49
Jharkhand
Dumka
                        0.73 
50
Jharkhand
Ranchi
                        5.11 
51
Jharkhand
Khunti
                        0.21 
52
Jharkhand
Gumla
                        0.59 
53
Jharkhand
Simdega
                        0.73 
54
Karnataka
Raichur
                        0.59 
55
Karnataka
Yadgir
                        0.73 
56
Kerala
Wayanad
                        0.54 
57
Madhya Pradesh
Chhatarpur
                        1.48 
58
Madhya Pradesh
Damoh
                        0.04 
59
Madhya Pradesh
Barwani
                        0.04 
60
Madhya Pradesh
Rajgarh
                        0.04 
61
Madhya Pradesh
Vidisha
                        0.04 
62
Madhya Pradesh
Guna
                        1.44 
63
Madhya Pradesh
Singrauli
                        1.49 
64
Madhya Pradesh
Khandwa
                        2.47 
65
Maharashtra
Nandurbar
                        0.56 
66
Maharashtra
Washim
                        0.23 
67
Maharashtra
Gadchiroli
                        1.25 
68
Maharashtra
Osmanabad
                        2.35 
69
Manipur
Chandel
                        0.61 
70
Meghalaya
Ribhoi
                        2.72 
71
Odisha
Dhenkanal
                        3.05 
72
Odisha
Gajapati
                        0.04 
73
Odisha
Kandhamal
                        3.08 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
573
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

S. No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (` in crore)
74
Odisha
Balangir
                        0.04 
75
Odisha
Kalahandi
                        3.90 
76
Odisha
Rayagada
                        0.21 
77
Odisha
Koraput
                        0.54 
78
Odisha
Malkangiri
                        2.52 
79
Odisha
Nabarangpur
                        0.08 
80
Odisha
Nuapada
                        0.81 
81
Punjab
Moga
                        3.09 
82
Punjab
Firozpur
                        0.54 
83
Rajasthan
Dholpur
                        0.04 
84
Rajasthan
Karauli
                        2.95 
85
Rajasthan
Jaisalmer
                        0.12 
86
 Rajasthan
Sirohi
                        1.24 
87
Rajasthan
Baran
                        0.49 
88
Sikkim
West Sikkim
                        0.24 
89
Tamil Nadu
Virudhunagar
                        1.82 
90
Tamil Nadu
Ramanathapuram
                        1.30 
91
Telangana
Asifabad
                        0.06 
92
Telangana
Bhadradri
                        0.04 
93
Tripura
Dhalai
                        0.49 
94
Uttar Pradesh
Chitrakoot
                        2.31 
95
Uttar Pradesh
Fatehpur
                        0.04 
96
Uttar Pradesh
Bahraich
                        1.33 
97
Uttar Pradesh
Balrampur
                        3.85 
98
Uttar Pradesh
Siddharthnagar
                        1.39 
99
Uttar Pradesh
Chandauli
                        0.66 
100
Uttar Pradesh
Sonbhadra
                        3.17 
101
Uttarakhand
Udham Singh Nagar
                        3.42 
102
Uttarakhand
Haridwar
                        7.56 
3.   (a)   Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalised / vulnerable groups? (Yes / No)
 
 
No.
 
(b) From which marginalised/vulnerable groups do you procure?
 
 
N.A.
 
(c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
 
 
N.A.
HDFC Bank Limited
574
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

4.    Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity 
(in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge.
 
N.A.
5. 
 Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related 
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
        N.A.
6. 
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects
S. 
No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted 
from CSR projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable 
and marginalised groups
1
Rural development
23,75,952
100
2
Promoting education
4,74,036
100
3
Skill training and livelihood enhancement
8,08,752
100
4
Environmental sustainability
1,30,641
100
5
Healthcare & hygiene
72,876
100
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
575
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

PRINCIPLE 9:  BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CONSUMERS IN A 
RESPONSIBLE MANNER
Essential Indicators
1. 
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
 
 The Bank has adopted a well laid out Customer Service Approach and all its products and processes are customer centric 
to ensure seamless and quality customer service.
 
 Customers are informed about the channels available for redressal of grievances. Some of these channels where complaints 
are received are the retail branch, phone banking call center, e-mails, grievance redressal cell, Principal Nodal Office, social 
media platforms, toll free number, virtual channels, letters amongst others. Complaints are also inter alia received through 
external sources including regulatory bodies, RBI Ombudsman, National Consumer Help Line and Centralised Public 
Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (CPGRAMS).
 
 The Bank has implemented a Complaint Management System, ‘CRM Next’ for recording, resolving and monitoring of the 
complaints received.  The Cards Business Customer Interface system is used for recording of credit card related complaints. 
Turnaround times are prescribed for various categories of complaints. On adequate resolution of the case, the same is 
communicated to the customer.
 
 With a view to improve efficiency of the Grievance Redressal Mechanism in the Bank, a formal four level Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism is available: 
 
Centralised Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System: 
 
Level-1: Resolution of first-time complaints received at any of the customer facing channels 
 
Level-2: Complaints escalated to Grievance Redressal Cell 
 
Level-3: Complaints escalated to the Principal Nodal Officer 
 
Level-4:  If the complaints are still not resolved to the satisfaction of the customer, they have the option to approach the 
RBI Ombudsman. 
 
 A complaint review mechanism has been implemented to ensure a proper review of a rejected customer complaint to ensure 
decisions are unbiased and fair prior to the same being communicated to the customer. Further, as per extant guidelines, the 
Bank has appointed three internal Ombudsmen to ensure that all rejections/ denials are independently reviewed by them.
2. 
Turnover of products and / services as a percentage of turnover from all products / service
As % of total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
N.A. given the nature of the banking business 
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and or safe disposal
HDFC Bank Limited
576
BUS INES S RESPONS IBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT

3. 
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year*
Remarks
Received during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at end 
of year*
Remarks
Data privacy
1
0
-
5
0
-
Advertising
43
1
-
36
0
-
Cyber-security
0
0
-
0
0
-
Delivery of essential 
services
3,166
27
-
3,063
29
-
Restrictive Trade 
Practices
-
-
-
-
-
-
Unfair Trade Practices^
12,100
145
-
11,563
72
-
Others
4,42,156
16,133
-
4,70,672
14,131
-
  
*Pending cases are within the stipulated turnaround time (TAT) of the Bank.
 
^Also includes complaints on Restrictive Trade Practices
4. 
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues 
FY 2024-25
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Nil
-
Forced recalls
Nil
-
5. 
 Does the entity have a framework / policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes / No) If 
available, provide a web-link of the policy.
 
Yes. The links for cyber security and data privacy are as under:  
 
 Cyber Security Measures
 
 Data Privacy
 
The Bank has a board approved Information Security Policy and Cybersecurity Policy. The primary purpose of the Information 
Security Policy is to provide guidance on the Information Security controls that are applicable to various processes, services, 
people, IT and other assets across the Bank. The Bank’s Information Security policy is based the guidelines provided by the 
regulator on Information Security, Electronic Banking, Technology Risk Management and Cyber Frauds (G. Gopalakrishna 
Committee) and industry standards (ISO 27001:13 and NIST 800-53). This inter alia covers critical areas of IT governance, 
information security, IS audit, IT operations, IT services outsourcing, cyber fraud, business continuity planning, customer 
awareness programmes and legal aspects.
 
The Bank’s Cybersecurity Framework ensures that appropriate cyber security practices are followed across the Bank’s 
information systems. The Bank’s Cybersecurity Framework consists of key components -- identify, protect, detect, respond 
and recover. The Bank has a Security Operations Center (SOC), an upgraded monitoring and detection solution, 24x7 
defacement monitoring and vulnerability management of the Bank’s internet properties, a dedicated programme for attack 
surface management, antivirus / malware programme, patch management and penetration testing amongst others to fortify 
the Bank’s assets, infrastructure and applications.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
577
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

 
Data Privacy Framework
 
• 
 Privacy Governance: The Bank has established a robust privacy governance framework that guides data privacy. 
This framework includes a designated data privacy officer (DPO), cross-functional privacy teams and a clear chain of 
responsibility for privacy-related matters. 
 
• 
 Data Collection and Use: The Bank is committed to transparent data collection and responsible use of personal 
information. The Bank communicates the purposes for which the data is collected. Individuals are provided with clear 
and concise privacy notices and are given the opportunity to provide informed consent for data processing activities.
 
• 
 Privacy Education and Awareness: The Bank is committed to fostering a privacy-conscious culture within the 
organisation. The Bank provides privacy training and awareness programmes to employees, emphasising their 
roles and responsibilities in protecting personal information. E-learning programmes, regular privacy updates and 
communication channels are maintained to keep employees informed about privacy-related matters, emerging risks 
and best practices.
 
• 
 Privacy by Design: Privacy is a fundamental consideration in the development of our products, services and systems. 
The Banks embraces the principles of ‘privacy by design’ to embed privacy safeguards into our processes from the 
outset. The Bank has established a process of performing data protection/privacy impact assessment to identify any 
privacy risk in any new/existing offerings of the Bank. 
6. 
 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising and delivery 
of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product 
recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
 
 The Bank’s ‘CRM Next’ system has the capability to record and categorise grievances into various types and maintain 
turnaround times for specific categories and sub-categories of grievances. Through the auto escalation mechanism there 
is more effective monitoring.
7. 
Provide the following information relating to data breaches: 
 
a. 
Number of instances of data breaches: 
 
 
The Bank did not witness any instances of data breaches during the year.
 
b. 
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
  
 
Nil
 
c. 
Impact, if any, of the data breaches
 
 
N.A. 
 
Note:  An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on Question 7(b) for FY 2024-25.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide 
web link, if available).
 
(provide web link, if available).
 
The weblink is: http://www.hdfcbank.com/
 
Details of the nodal officers of the Bank with their contact details are also provided on the website.
HDFC Bank Limited
578
RE ASONABLE AS SUR ANCE REPORT
 

Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
2. 
 Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and / or 
services.
 
The Bank’s Corporate Commitment and Citizens Charter elucidates on these aspects. The link is: 
 
HDFC Bank Citizen’s Charter
 
As a socially responsible corporate and leader in banking, the Bank recognises the importance of educating the public 
about safe banking practices in the era of digital payments. The Bank launched the ‘Vigil Aunty’ campaign to find an 
effective and creative way of educating and protecting Indians from fraudsters in an entertaining way.  Further details are 
in the link below:
 
Vigil Aunty - Use Secure Banking Services for a Fraud Free India | HDFC Bank
3. 
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption / discontinuation of essential services.
 
 The Bank takes proactive measures to ensure the reliability and seamless continuity of its operations. The Bank prioritises 
the highest standards of information and cyber security practices and data privacy measures, ensuring protection of 
sensitive data and maintaining the trust of its customers. Additionally, the ISO 22301:2019 certified Business Continuity 
Programme ensures the reliability and seamless continuity of operations. The Business Continuity Programme is designed 
to align with regulatory guidelines and undergoes thorough reviews and audits. The Bank’s Business Continuity Programme 
helps manage continuity of critical business operations and accelerated resumption of services post the incident.
4. 
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? 
(Yes /No / Not applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to 
consumer satisfaction relating to the major products/services of the entity, significant locations of operation 
of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes / No) 
 
 Customer feedback is critical and respective teams are expected to define actionables to improve the customer experience 
and share best practices to ensure consistent delivery across the bank.  The Bank recognises the importance of the simple 
‘listen-learn-act’ process to build a strong customer-centric culture.
 
 The Bank’s Net Promoter Score (NPS) measures customer satisfaction on a pan-India basis and across a suite of products 
and services. The NPS, which is branded “Infinite Smiles” is an ongoing survey. In FY 2024-25, 3 million customers 
responded to the survey and the overall NPS score stood at 70. 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
579

 
SGS India Private Limited 
4B, Adi Shankaracharya Marg, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083 
+91 080 6938 8888 
+91 22 6640 8888 
www.sgs.com 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 
 
Independent Assurance Statement to HDFC Bank Limited on its BRSR report for the FY 2024-25. 
The Board of Directors, 
 
HDFC Bank Limited 
 
Nature of the Assurance 
SGS India Private Limited (hereinafter referred to as ‘SGS India’) was engaged by HDFC Bank Limited (the ‘Company’) to conduct 
an independent assurance of the Company’s BRSR Core attributes pertaining to the reporting period of April 1, 2024, to March 
31, 2025. SGS India has conducted a Reasonable level of Assurance for BRSR core parameters. This assurance engagement 
was conducted in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) and ISAE 3410. 
Reporting Framework 
The Report has been prepared following the 
1) 
BRSR Core–Framework for assurance and ESG disclosures for value chain (SEBI vide Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122) dated July 12, 2023 
2) 
BRSR reporting guidelines (Annexure II) as per SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD-2/P/CIR/2021/562 dated May 10, 
2021, and incorporated Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 11, 2023, and as amended 
from time to time. 
3) 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol standard 
Intended Users of this Assurance Statement  
This Assurance Statement is provided with the intention of informing all HDFC Bank Limited’s Stakeholders.  
Responsibilities 
The information in the report and its presentation are the responsibility of the management of the Company. SGS India has not 
been involved in the preparation of any of the material information included in the report. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, and statements within the defined scope of assurance, aiming to 
inform the management of the Company, and in alignment with the agreed terms of reference. We do not accept or assume any 
responsibility beyond this specific scope. The Statement shall not be used for interpreting the overall performance of the Company, 
except for the aspects explicitly mentioned within the scope. 
Assurance Standard 
SGS has conducted an engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE) 
3000(revised) and ISAE 3410 (Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information). Our 
evidence-gathering procedures were designed to obtain a ‘Reasonable’ level of assurance, which is a high level of assurance in 
accordance with ISAE 3000(revised) standard but is not absolute certainty. It involves obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence to 
support the conclusion that the information presented in the report is fairly stated and is free from material misstatements. 
Statement of Independence and Competence 
The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and assurance, operating in more than 140 countries and 
providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and 
RE ASONABLE AS SUR ANCE REPORT
 
HDFC Bank Limited
580
RE ASONABLE AS SUR ANCE REPORT
 

Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 
SGS India Private Limited 
4B, Adi Shankaracharya Marg, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083 
+91 080 6938 8888 
+91 22 6640 8888 
www.sgs.com 
training; environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS affirm its independence from HDFC Bank Limited, being 
free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organization, its subsidiaries and stakeholders.  
The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised 
auditors registered with ISO 26000, ISO 20121, ISO 50001, SA8000, RBA, QMS, EMS, SMS, GPMS, CFP, WFP, GHG 
Verification and GHG Validation Lead Auditors and experience on the SRA Assurance. 
Scope of Assurance 
The assurance process involved assessing the quality, accuracy, and reliability of BRSR Core Indicators (KPIs) within the report 
for the period April 1, 2024, to March 31, 2025. The reporting scope and boundaries include HDFC Bank Limited and its regional 
offices spread across Central, North, East, West and South in the different states of India.  
Assurance Methodology 
The assurance comprised a combination of desktop review, interaction with the key personnel engaged in the process of 
developing the report, on-site visits, and remote verification of data. Specifically, SGS India undertook the following activities: 
 
x 
Assessment of the suitability of the applicable criteria in terms of its comprehensiveness, reliability, and accuracy. 
x 
Interaction with key personnel responsible for collecting, consolidating, and calculating the BRSR core KPIs, BRSR 
non-core indicators and assessing the internal control mechanisms in place to ensure data quality. 
x 
Application of analytical procedures and verification of documents on a sample basis for the compilation and reporting 
of the KPIs.  
x 
Assessing the aggregation process of data at the Head Office level.  
x 
Critical review of the report regarding the plausibility and consistency of qualitative and quantitative information related 
to the KPIs. 
Limitations 
The assurance scope excludes: 
x 
Disclosures other than those mentioned in the assurance scope. 
x 
Data review outside the operational sites as mentioned in the reporting boundary. 
x 
Validation of any data and information other than those presented in “Findings and Conclusion”. 
x 
The assurance engagement considers an uncertainty of ±5% based on the materiality threshold for Assumption/ 
estimation/measurement errors and omissions. 
x 
The Company’s statements that describe the expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim to future 
intention provided by the Company, and assertions related to Intellectual Property Rights and other competitive 
issues. 
x 
Strategy and other related linkages expressed in the Report. 
x 
Mapping of the Report with reporting frameworks other than those mentioned in the Reporting Criteria above  
x 
The assurance scope excluded forward-looking statements, product- or service-related information, external 
information sources and expert opinions.  
SGS India verified data on a sample basis; the responsibility for the authenticity of the data entirely lies with the Company. The 
assurance scope excluded forward-looking statements, product- or service-related information, external information sources and 
expert opinions. SGS India has not been involved in the evaluation or assessment of any financial data/performance of the 
company. Our opinion on financial indicators is based on the third-party audited financial reports of the Company. SGS India does 
not take any responsibility for the financial data reported in the audited financial reports of the Company. 
Findings and Conclusions 
Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, we are satisfied that the information presented 
by the Company in its report, on the Core Indicators (Annexure A) is complete, accurate, reliable, has been fairly stated in all 
material respects, and is prepared in line with the BRSR requirements.  
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
581

SGS India Private Limited 
4B, Adi Shankaracharya Marg, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083 
+91 080 6938 8888 
+91 22 6640 8888 
www.sgs.com 
For and on behalf of SGS India Private Limited 
    
 
 
 
 
 
Ashwini K. Mavinkurve, 
 
Head – ESG & Sustainability Services, SGS 
India 
Pune, India 
13th June 2025 
Abhijit Joshi 
Technical reviewer– ESG & 
Sustainability Services, SGS India 
Pune, India 
 
Blessy Sen 
 
Lead Verifier – ESG & Sustainability 
Services, SGS India 
Mumbai, India 
Team Member: Namrata Kamble , 
Vaibhavi Kulkarni and Prasad Borse 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HDFC Bank Limited
582
RE ASONABLE AS SUR ANCE REPORT
 

Statutory Reports and Financial Statements

 
 
SGS India Private Limited 
4B, Adi Shankaracharya Marg, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083 
+91 080 6938 8888 
+91 22 6640 8888 
www.sgs.com 
 
 
Annexure-A 
 
The list of BRSR Core Indicators that were verified within this assurance engagement is given below: 
 
S.No. 
BRSR Core Attribute 
BRSR Core Indicator 
1 
  Greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint  
| Total Scope 1 emissions  
| Total Scope 2 emissions  
| GHG Emission Intensity (Scope 1 +2) 
2 
Water footprint  
| Total water consumption 
| Water consumption intensity 
| Water Discharge by destination and levels of Treatment 
3 
Energy footprint  
| Total energy consumed  
| % of energy consumed from renewable sources 
|  Energy intensity 
4 
Embracing circularity  
| Plastic waste  
| E-waste  
| Bio Medical Waste 
| Construction and demolition waste 
| Battery waste  
| Radioactive waste 
| Other hazardous waste  
| Other non-hazardous waste  
| Total waste generated  
| Waste intensity 
| Each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through 
recycling, re-using or other recovery operations 
| For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature 
of disposal method 
5 
Employee well-being and safety  
| Spending on measures towards well-being of employees as a % of 
total revenue of the Company 
| Details of safety related incidents for employees 
6 
Enabling gender diversity in business  
| Gross wages paid to females as % of wages paid 
| Complaints on POSH  
7 
Enabling inclusive development 
| Input material sourced from MSMEs/ small producers as % of total 
purchases  
| Wages paid to persons employed in smaller towns as % of total wage 
cost 
8 
Fairness in engaging with customers and 
suppliers  
| Instances involving loss/breach of data of customers as a percentage 
of total data breaches or cyber security events  
| Number of days of accounts payable 
9 
Open-ness of business 
| Concentration of purchases & sales done with trading houses, 
dealers, and related parties  
| Loans and advances & investments with related parties 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
583

HDFC Bank Limited
584
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
[April 01, 2025 to March 31, 2026]
Board Meeting for 
consideration of Annual 
Financial Statements  
Saturday, April 19, 2025
Date, Time and Venue of 
the 31st (Thirty First) Annual 
General Meeting 
Friday, August 8, 2025 at  
2:00 p.m. through two-way Video 
Conference
Record date for purpose 
of determining eligibility of 
dividend
Friday, June 27, 2025
Dividend declaration date
Friday, August 8, 2025
Expected date of payment of 
dividend
On or after Monday, August 11, 
2025
Board Meeting for 
consideration of unaudited 
financial results for first three 
quarters of FY 2025-26
Tentatively within 21 days from the 
end of the respective quarter 
LISTING
(i) Listing on Indian Stock Exchanges:
The Equity Shares and Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”)
of the Bank are listed at the following Stock Exchanges:
Sr. No. Name and Address of the Stock Exchange
1
BSE Limited, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, 
Mumbai- 400023
2
National Stock Exchange of India Limited, Exchange Plaza, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai- 400051
The annual listing fees for the FY 2024-25 has been duly paid 
to the above referred Stock Exchanges.
Names of Depositories in India for dematerialization of 
equity shares (ISIN No. INE040A01034)
• 
National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”)
• 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”)
(ii) International Listing of Securities:
Sr.
No.
Security 
Description
Name and address of 
the Stock Exchange
Name & address of 
Depository
1
HDFC Bank 
Limited - 
American 
Depository 
Receipt (“ADR”)
The New York Stock 
Exchange
11 Wall St, New York, 
NY 10005, USA.
J P Morgan Chase 
NA.
Shareowner Services
P.O. Box 64504,
St. Paul, MN 55164-
0504.
The Depository for ADR is represented in India by JP 
Morgan Chase Bank N.A., India Sub Custody, 3rd Floor, JP 
Morgan Tower, OFF C.S.T. Road, Kalina, Santacruz (East), 
Mumbai - 400098.
The annual listing fees of the New York Stock Exchange has 
been duly paid.
OUTSTANDING GDR / ADR OR ANY OTHER 
CONVERTIBLE INSTRUMENTS 
The Bank has 34,27,00,981 ADRs outstanding as on March 31, 
2025. These represent 102,81,02,943 underlying equity shares 
[1 (One) ADR represents 3 (Three) equity shares] constituting 
13.44% of the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank. Since 
the underlying Ordinary (Equity) Shares represented by ADRs 
have been allotted in full, the outstanding ADRs have no 
impact on the equity share capital of the Bank. 
Other than the stock options/restricted stock units granted 
to the employees of the Bank, which will result in an addition 
to the equity share capital of the Bank upon the exercise of 
such options/units and subsequent allotment of equity shares, 
the Bank has no outstanding warrants or other convertible 
instruments as on March 31, 2025 which could have an impact 
on the equity share capital of the Bank.
SHAREHOLDERS HOLDING MORE THAN 1% OF 
THE SHARE CAPITAL OF THE BANK AS ON MARCH 
31, 2025
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Shareholder
No. of Shares 
% to 
Capital
1.
JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA*
1,02,81,02,943**
13.44
2.
SBI NIFTY 50 ETF
48,59,35,660
6.35
3.
Life Insurance Corporation of India
36,07,73,905
4.72
4.
ICICI Prudential Value Discovery 
Fund
21,49,66,966
2.81
5.
Government of Singapore
19,26,77,328
2.52
6.
HDFC Trustee Company Ltd. A/C 
HDFC Balanced Advantage Fund
17,59,18,810
2.30
7.
UTI - Nifty Exchange Traded Fund
13,75,31,862
1.80
8.
Nippon Life India Trustee Ltd-A/C 
Nippon India ETF NIFTY 50 BEES
12,97,11,189
1.70
9.
NPS Trust- A/c HDFC Pension 
Management Company Ltd 
Scheme E - Tier I
11,57,48,627
1.51
10. Government Pension Fund Global
9,50,58,803
1.24
11. Vanguard Total International Stock 
Index Fund
7,97,63,956
1.04
Total 
3,01,61,90,049
39.43
* JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA is a depository for the ADRs of the Bank.
** 3 (Three) equity shares represent 1 (One) ADR.
S H A R E H O L D E R  I N F O R M AT I O N

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
585
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
TOP 10 SHAREHOLDERS OF THE BANK AS ON MARCH 31, 2025
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Shareholder
No. of shares
% to Capital
1.
JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA*
1,02,81,02,943**
13.44
2.
SBI NIFTY 50 ETF
48,59,35,660
6.35
3.
Life Insurance Corporation of India
36,07,73,905
4.72
4.
ICICI Prudential Value Discovery Fund
21,49,66,966
2.81
5.
Government of Singapore
19,26,77,328
2.52
6.
HDFC Trustee Company Ltd. A/C HDFC Balanced Advantage Fund
17,59,18,810
2.30
7.
UTI-Nifty Exchange Traded Fund
13,75,31,862
1.80
8.
Nippon Life India Trustee Ltd-A/C Nippon India ETF NIFTY 50 BEES
12,97,11,189
1.70
9.
NPS Trust- A/c HDFC Pension Management Company Ltd Scheme E - Tier I
11,57,48,627
1.51
10. Government Pension Fund Global
9,50,58,803
1.24
Total 
2,93,64,26,093
38.39
* JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA is a depository for the ADRs of the Bank.
** 3 (Three) equity shares represent 1 (One) ADR.
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS ON MARCH 31, 2025
Shares Range
No. of Shares 
% to Capital 
No. of Holders
% to Total No. of 
Holders
From
To
1
100
6,12,47,295
0.80
32,36,301
84.52
101
1,000
15,28,28,038
2.00
4,86,053
12.69
1,001
5,000
17,07,98,818
2.23
78,153
2.04
5,001
10,000
10,02,65,159
1.31
14,891
0.39
10,001
20,000
8,26,68,213
1.08
6,065
0.16
20,001
30,000
4,38,96,896
0.57
1,795
0.05
30,001
40,000
3,08,53,552
0.40
892
0.02
40,001
50,000
2,49,73,753
0.33
557
0.02
50,001
1,00,000
9,18,25,202
1.20
1,300
0.03
1,00,001
9,99,99,99,999
6,89,28,64,748
90.08
3,139
0.08
TOTAL
7,65,22,21,674
100.00
38,29,146
100.00
38,14,592 shareholders hold 7,64,55,47,584 equity shares in dematerialized form representing 99.92% of the share capital of the 
Bank. Balance 66,74,090 equity shares representing 0.08 % of the share capital are held in physical form by 14,554 shareholders. 
The shares of the Bank are widely traded on the Stock Exchanges in India.

HDFC Bank Limited
586
S H A R E H O L D E R  I N F O R M AT I O N
CATEGORIES OF SHAREHOLDERS AS ON MARCH 31, 2025
Category of Shareholders
 No. of Shares
 % to Capital
Promoters
0
0
ADR 
1,02,81,02,943*
13.44
Foreign Institutional Investors/ Foreign Portfolio Investors/ Foreign Bank
3,19,91,52,912
41.81
Overseas Corporate Bodies, Foreign Bodies, Foreign National, NRI repatriable
3,67,21,675
0.48
Financial Institutions / Banks /Mutual Funds / Central Government / Qualified 
Institutional Buyer
1,79,90,84,521
23.51
Insurance Companies
52,94,89,898
6.92
Indian Companies
12,78,48,495
1.67
Resident Individuals  
82,09,23,140
10.73
Others
11,08,98,090
1.44
TOTAL
7,65,22,21,674
100.00
* 3 (Three) equity shares represent 1 (One) ADR.
Shares held as a percentage of total Share Capital
ADR
Foreign Institutional Investors/ Foreign Portfolio Investors/ 
Foreign Bank
Overseas Corporate Bodies, Foreign Bodies, Foreign 
National, NRI repatriable 
Financial Institutions / Banks /Mutual Funds / Central 
Government / Qualified Institutional Buyer
Insurance Companies
Indian Companies
Resident Individuals  
Others
23.51%
0.48%
6.92%
10.73%
13.44%
1.67%
1.44%
41.81%

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
587
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SHARES 
LYING 
IN 
UNCLAIMED 
SUSPENSE 
ACCOUNT
Shares issued in physical form pursuant to a stock split 
remaining unclaimed, are transferred to the “Unclaimed 
Suspense Account” as per circular no. CIR/CFD/DIL/10/2010 
dated December 16, 2010 issued by Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (“SEBI”). The details of the shares transferred to 
the unclaimed suspense account are given hereunder: 
Particulars
Records / No. 
of shareholders
Equity 
Shares 
(Face value of 
` 1 each)
Opening Balance as on April 
1, 2024
2,190
8,80,944
Less: Claims received and 
shares transferred
83
50,000
Closing Balance as on March 
31, 2025 *
2,107
8,30,944
*   Voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owners 
of such shares claim these shares.
SHARES LYING IN SUSPENSE ESCROW DEMAT 
ACCOUNT
• 
PURSUANT TO THE AMALGAMATION
Pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation of Housing 
Development Finance Corporation Limited (“HDFC Limited”) 
with and into the Bank and in accordance with applicable laws 
mandating issuance of shares solely in dematerialized form, 
all equity shares held in physical form by the shareholders of 
HDFC Limited, were transferred by the Bank to the “Suspense 
Escrow Demat Account”. The details of the shares transferred 
to the suspense escrow demat account are given hereunder:
Particulars
Records / No. 
of shareholders
Equity 
Shares 
(Face value of 
` 1 each)
Opening Balance as on April 
1, 2024
2,572
56,88,658
Less: Claims received and 
shares transferred 
365
9,00,396
Closing Balance as on March 
31, 2025 *
2,207
47,88,262
*  Voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owners 
of such shares claim these shares.
• 
PURSUANT TO SEBI CIRCULAR DATED JANUARY 
25, 2022
In accordance with the SEBI Circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/
MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022, the 
Registrar and Transfer Agent (“RTA”) on receipt of service 
requests shall verify and  process the same and thereafter 
issue a Letter of confirmation in lieu of physical shares 
certificate(s), to the shareholder/claimant within 30 days of its 
receipt of such request.  
In case of shareholders or claimants who fail to submit the 
dematerialization request to their respective Depository 
Participant within 120 days from the date of issuance of the 
Letter of Confirmation by the RTA, the corresponding shares 
are required to be transferred to the “Suspense Escrow Demat 
Account”. 
The details of such shares transferred to the suspense escrow 
demat account are given hereunder:
Particulars
Records / No. 
of shareholders
Equity 
Shares 
(Face value of 
` 1 each)
Opening Balance as on April 
1, 2024
9
4,330
Added during the period
23
9,830
Claims received and released 
during the period
9
4,500
Closing Balance as on March 
31, 2025*
23
9,660
*   Voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owners 
of such shares claim these shares.
DIVIDEND
Receipt of Dividends through Electronic mode
The SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) mandates 
listed companies to make all payments to investors including 
dividend to shareholders, by using any RBI approved electronic 
mode of payment viz., National Automated Clearing House 
(NACH), Direct Credit, Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS), 
National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT), etc.
In order to receive the dividend electronically, all the eligible 
shareholders holding shares in dematerialized/physical mode 
are requested to update with their respective Depository 
Participants/RTA (as the case may be), their correct core 
banking account number, including 9-digit MICR Code and 
11-digit IFSC Code, e-mail ID and Mobile No(s). This will facilitate 
the remittance of the dividend amount, as directed by SEBI, 
directly in the bank account electronically. Updation of e-mail 
IDs and Mobile No(s) will also enable sending communication 
relating to credit of dividend, unclaimed dividend etc. 
In case dividend paid by electronic mode to the shareholders 
holding shares in dematerialized form is returned or rejected 
by the corresponding bank due to any reason, the Bank will 
issue a dividend warrant and print the bank account details 
available in its records on the said dividend warrant to avoid 
fraudulent encashment of the warrants. The dividend warrant 
will be dispatched by the RTA to the registered address of 
the shareholder.

HDFC Bank Limited
588
S H A R E H O L D E R  I N F O R M AT I O N
TRANSFER 
OF 
UNCLAIMED 
DIVIDEND 
AND 
EQUITY SHARES TO INVESTOR EDUCATION AND 
PROTECTION FUND AUTHORITY 
(i) 
Unclaimed Dividend
  Pursuant to the applicable provision of Sections 124(5) of 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), any money transferred to 
the Unpaid Dividend Account of a company in pursuance 
of this section and remaining unpaid or unclaimed for a 
consecutive period of 7 (Seven) years from the date of such 
transfer shall be transferred by the company along with 
interest accrued, if any, thereon to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund (“IEPF”) established by Central Government 
under section 125(1) of the Act. 
  Accordingly, the Bank is required to transfer to the IEPF, all 
dividends remaining unclaimed for a consecutive period of 
7 (Seven) years from the date they become due for payment.
  Dividends of the Bank and HDFC Limited for and up to the 
financial year ended March 31, 2017 have already been 
transferred to the IEPF and the dividends of the Bank and 
HDFC Limited for the financial year ended March 31, 2018 
will be transferred to the IEPF during the current financial 
year. The details of unclaimed dividends for the financial year 
ended 2018 onwards and the last date for claiming such 
dividends are given hereinafter.
Details of dividends of the Bank to be transferred to 
IEPF:
Dividend for the year 
ended
Date of Declaration 
of dividend
Last date for 
claiming dividend
March 31, 2018
July 29, 2018
July 28, 2025
March 31, 2019
July 12, 2019
July 11, 2026
Special Interim 
Dividend 2019-20
July 20, 2019
July 19, 2026
March 31, 2021
July 17, 2021
July 16, 2028
March 31, 2022
July 16, 2022
July 15, 2029
March 31, 2023
August 11, 2023
August 10, 2030
March 31, 2024
August 9, 2024
August 8, 2031
Details of dividends of HDFC Limited to be transferred 
to IEPF:
Dividend for the year 
ended
Date of Declaration 
of dividend
Last date for 
claiming dividend
2017-18 - Final
July 30, 2018
August 28, 2025
2018-19 - Interim
March 6, 2019
April 6, 2026
2018-19 - Final
August 2, 2019
August 31, 2026
2019-20
July 30, 2020
August 28, 2027
2020-21
July 20, 2021
August 20, 2028
2021-22
June 30, 2022
July 29, 2029
2022-23 - Interim
May 4, 2023
June 3, 2030
In accordance with the aforesaid provisions of the Act and 
relevant rules made thereunder, the following unclaimed 
dividends of the Bank and HDFC Limited have been transferred 
to IEPF during the financial year 2024-25:
Particulars
Dividend Amount (`)
Date of transfer
Unclaimed Interim 
Dividend for FY 
2016-17 of HDFC 
Limited
69,17,805
April 24, 2024
Unclaimed Final 
Dividend for FY 
2016-17 of of HDFC 
Limited
3,31,60,965
October 3, 2024
Unclaimed Final 
Dividend for FY 
2016-17 of the Bank
4,87,70,040
August 27, 2024
(ii) Unclaimed Equity Shares
  Pursuant to the applicable provisions of Section 124(6) of 
the Act, all equity shares in respect of which dividend has / 
have remained unpaid or unclaimed for a consecutive period 
of 7 (Seven) years, the corresponding equity shares shall be 
transferred to IEPF as notified by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs (“MCA”), Government of India. In accordance with the 
aforesaid provisions of the Act and rules made thereunder, 
the Bank has, during the financial year 2024-25, transferred 
the following equity shares in respect of which dividend has 
/ have remained unclaimed for a consecutive period of 7 
(Seven) years to IEPF.
Particulars
Number of Equity 
shares
Date of transfer
Equity shares corresponding
to unclaimed interim dividend 
of HDFC Limited for FY 
2016-17
67,265
April 30, 2024
Equity shares corresponding
to unclaimed final dividend of 
HDFC Limited for FY 2016-
17
59,724
October 10, 2024
Equity shares corresponding
to unclaimed final dividend of 
the Bank for FY 2016-17
1,74,623
October 10, 2024

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
589
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Status of shares transferred in favour of  IEPF Authority are 
given below:
Particulars
Number of 
Equity shares 
with IEPF 
Authority
Opening Balance as on April 01, 2024
1,02,83,395 
Less: Claims Settled during the FY 2024-25
1,63,284 
Add: Shares transferred to IEPF during the  
 
 FY 2024-25
3,01,612 
Closing Balance as on March 31, 2025
1,04,21,723
In terms of Section 124(6) of the Act and Rule 7 of the IEPF 
Rules, the shareholders whose dividend and corresponding 
equity shares stand transferred to IEPF can claim those 
dividend and shares from IEPF by making an online application 
in Form IEPF-5 which is available at https://www.iepf.gov.in.
Guidelines to file your claim 
•  
 For claiming the shares and dividend from the IEPF 
Authority, shareholders can make an online web-based 
application through the MCA portal. Shareholders need 
to register themselves on the MCA portal by creating 
Login ID credentials. After successful login into the MCA 
portal, shareholders have to click on “MCA Services” tab 
and choose “IEPF-5” option under “Investor Services” 
and follow the due process for filing the form. 
•  
 Printout of the duly filled Form IEPF-5 with the claimant’s 
and joint holders’ (if any) signatures along with the 
acknowledgment issued after uploading the form 
together with an indemnity bond in original, cancelled 
cheque leaf of active bank account (details of which are 
mentioned by the claimant at the time of uploading the 
web-based form), and other documents as mentioned 
in Form IEPF-5 will have to be submitted to the Nodal 
Officer (IEPF) of the Bank in an envelope marked “Claim 
for refund from IEPF Authority”. Certain information about 
the Bank which will have to be submitted are as under: 
 
a) 
 Corporate Identification Number (CIN) of the 
Bank: L65920MH1994PLC080618 
 
b) 
 Address of registered office of the Bank: HDFC 
Bank House, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel 
(West), Mumbai- 400013 
 
c) 
 Email ID of the Bank: shareholder.grievances@
hdfcbank.com
DEDUCTION OF TAX AT SOURCE ON DIVIDEND 
In terms of the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961 
(“the IT Act”), dividend paid or distributed by a company on or 
after April 1, 2020 is taxable in the hands of the shareholders. 
The company shall therefore be required to deduct tax at 
source at the time of payment of dividend.  The deduction of 
tax at source will be based on the category of shareholders and 
subject to fulfilment of conditions as provided herein below:
(i) For resident shareholders 
Tax will be deducted at source (“TDS”) under Section 194 of 
the IT Act @ 10% on the amount of dividend payable unless 
exempt under any of the provisions of the IT Act. However, 
in case of resident shareholders, TDS would not apply if the 
aggregate of total dividend distributed/paid to them by the 
Bank during a financial year does not exceed ` 10,000/-.
Tax will not be deducted at source in cases where a 
Shareholder provides Form 15G (applicable to all individuals) 
/ Form 15H (applicable to an individual above the age of 60 
years), provided that the eligibility conditions are satisfied. 
NIL / lower tax shall be deducted on the dividend payable 
to following resident shareholders on submission of self-
declaration as listed below:
i. 
 Insurance companies: Declaration that the provisions 
of Section 194 of the IT Act are not applicable to them 
along with self-attested copy of registration certificate 
and Permanent Account Number (“PAN”) card;
ii. 
 Mutual Funds: Declaration by Mutual Fund eligible for 
exemption under section 10(23D) of the IT Act along 
with self-attested copy of registration documents and 
PAN card;
iii. 
 Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) established in 
India: Declaration that the Shareholder is eligible for 
exemption under section 10(23FBA) of the IT Act and they 
are established as Category I or Category II AIF under the 
SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012, 
along with copy of self-attested registration documents 
and PAN card;
iv. 
 New Pension System Trust: Declaration along with self-
attested copy of documentary evidence supporting the 
exemption and self-attested copy of PAN card;
v. 
 Other shareholders: Declaration along with self-attested 
copy of documentary evidence supporting the exemption 
and self-attested copy of PAN card;

HDFC Bank Limited
590
S H A R E H O L D E R  I N F O R M AT I O N
vi. 
 Shareholders who have provided a valid certificate 
issued under section 197 of the IT Act for lower / nil rate 
of deduction or an exemption certificate issued by the 
income tax authorities along with Declaration.
The Bank is obligated to deduct TDS based on the records 
available with RTA and no request will be entertained for 
revision of TDS return.
(ii) For non-resident shareholders (including Foreign 
Portfolio Investors)
Tax is required to be withheld in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 195 and Section 196D of the IT Act at applicable 
rates in force. As per the relevant provisions of the IT Act, 
the tax shall be withheld @ 20% (plus applicable surcharge 
and cess) on the amount of dividend payable. However, as 
per Section 90 of the IT Act, a non-resident Shareholder has 
the option to be governed by the provisions of the Double 
Taxation Avoidance Agreement (“DTAA”) between India and 
the country of tax residence of the Shareholder, if they are 
more beneficial to the Shareholder. For this purpose, i.e. to 
avail the DTAA benefits, the non-resident Shareholder will have 
to provide the following:
i. 
 Self-attested copy of PAN card, if any, allotted by the 
Indian Income Tax Authorities;
ii. 
 Self-attested copy of Tax Residency Certificate (“TRC”) 
obtained from the tax authorities of the country of which 
the Shareholder is resident;
iii. 
 Electronically generated Form 10F from income tax portal;
iv. 
 Self-declaration by the non-resident Shareholder of 
meeting DTAA eligibility requirement and satisfying 
beneficial ownership requirement;
v. 
 In case of Foreign Portfolio Investors, self-attested copy 
of SEBI registration certificate;
vi. 
 In case of Shareholder being tax resident of Singapore, 
along with the above (as may be applicable), please furnish 
the letter issued by the competent authority or any other 
evidences demonstrating the non-applicability of Article 
24 - Limitation of Relief under India-Singapore DTAA.
Application of beneficial DTAA rate shall depend upon the 
completeness and satisfactory review by the Bank, of the 
documents submitted by non-resident shareholders and 
meeting requirement of the Act read with applicable DTAA. It 
must be ensured that self-declaration should be addressed 
to the Bank in the format communicated via emails sent by 
the Bank. In the absence of the same, the Bank will not be 
obligated to apply the beneficial DTAA rate at the time of 
tax deduction on dividends. Form 10F in digital format is 
mandatory for non-resident shareholders having PAN in India 
or who are required to obtain PAN in India. Form 10F in any 
other format will not be considered for treaty benefit.
Higher rate of TDS
• 
 In case of individual shareholders who do not have PAN / 
Invalid PAN/ PAN not linked with Aadhar / not registered 
their valid PAN details in their account, TDS at the rate 
of 20% shall be deducted under Section 206AA of the 
IT Act.
To summarise, dividend will be paid after deducting the tax 
at source as under:
i. 
 NIL for resident shareholders receiving dividend 
upto ` 10,000/- or in case Form 15G / Form 15H (as 
applicable) along with self-attested copy of the PAN card 
is submitted.
ii. 
 10% for other resident shareholders in case copy of PAN 
card is provided / available.
iii. 
 20% for resident shareholders who do not have PAN/
Invalid PAN/PAN not linked with Aadhar/not registered 
their valid PAN details in their account.
iv. 
 Tax will be assessed on the basis of documents submitted 
by the non-resident shareholders.
v. 
 20% plus applicable surcharge and cess for non-
resident shareholders in case the relevant documents 
are not submitted.
vi. 
 Lower/ NIL TDS on submission of self-attested copy of 
the valid certificate issued under section 197 of the IT Act.
In terms of Rule 37BA of Income Tax Rules 1962, if dividend 
income on which tax has been deducted at source is 
assessable in the hands of a person other than the deductee, 
then such deductee should file declaration with the Bank in 
the manner prescribed in the Rules.
In case tax on dividend is deducted at a higher rate in the 
absence of receipt or defect in any of the aforementioned 
details / documents, you will be able to claim refund of the 
excess tax deducted by filing your income tax return. No claim 
shall lie against the Bank for such taxes deducted.

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
591
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
The aforesaid forms can be downloaded from the 
website of the Bank at https://www.hdfcbank.
com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
shareholders-information-and-helpdesk and 
website of RTA at https://www.datamaticsbpm.com/registrar-
and-transfer-agent/information-to-shareholders/.
SHARE TRANSFER PROCESS AND SYSTEM
The Bank’s shares which are in dematerialized form are 
transferable through the depository system. Requests for 
transmission / transposition or for deletion of name in case of 
physical share certificates are processed by the RTA and are 
approved by the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of the 
Bank or authorized officials of the Bank. The service requests 
of such nature are generally processed within a period of 
15 (fifteen) days from the date of receipt of the relevant and 
complete documents by the RTA.
Please note that as per the SEBI Listing Regulations, any 
requests for transfer of securities in physical form shall not 
be processed. 
SHAREHOLDER FEEDBACK
In furtherance to the Bank’s endeavour to continue engaging 
with its shareholders and to understand their perspective of 
the Bank, an online shareholder feedback form seeking their 
views on various matters relating to investor services has 
been provided on the website of the Bank. The summary of 
feedback provided by the shareholders is placed before the 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee of Directors of the Bank.
The web link to access the online shareholder feedback 
form is: https://hdfcbank.syd1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_
b9MyqIaGEzjpCMS.
COMMODITY 
PRICE 
RISKS 
AND 
FOREIGN 
EXCHANGE RISKS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
Being in the business of banking, as per the extant regulations, 
the Bank does not deal in any commodity, though, it can 
be exposed to the commodity price risks in its capacity as 
lender / banker to its customers. Currently, the Bank has open 
exposure in Precious Metals i.e., Gold / Silver and such open 
exposures in Gold / Silver are primarily on account of positions 
created from short term deposits under the Gold Monetization 
Scheme (GMS) raised from Customers and trading positions 
in Gold / Silver. These positions are managed similar to other 
foreign exchange exposures using spot, outright forwards and 
Disclaimer: The information set out herein above is included 
for general information purposes only and does not constitute 
legal or tax advice. Since the tax consequences are dependent 
on facts and circumstances of each case, the investors are 
advised to consult their own tax consultant with respect to 
specific tax implications arising out of receipt of dividend.
UPDATION OF PAN, EMAIL ADDRESS, BANK 
ACCOUNT DETAILS AND CHOICE OF NOMINATION 
BY 
SHAREHOLDERS 
HOLDING 
SHARES 
IN 
ELECTRONIC FORM
Shareholders holding shares in dematerialized mode are 
requested to update their records such as tax residential 
status, PAN, email address, mobile number(s), Bank account 
details and choice of nomination with their relevant depositories 
through their depository participant. 
UPDATION OF PAN, KYC DETAILS & CHOICE OF 
NOMINATION 
BY 
SHAREHOLDERS 
HOLDING 
SHARES IN PHYSICAL FORM 
As per circulars issued by SEBI from time to time, it is 
mandatory for holders of physical securities to furnish PAN, 
KYC details (viz. contact details, mobile number, bank account 
details, signature) and Nomination/Opt-out of Nomination, 
before getting any Investor Service Request processed.
Further, sharesholders holding shares in physical form, whose 
folio(s) do not have PAN or KYC details updated, shall be 
eligible for dividend in respect of such folios, through electronic 
mode with effect from April 1, 2024, only upon furnishing the 
said details in entirety.
Members who are yet to update the said details in their 
physical folios are, therefore, requested  to furnish their PAN, 
KYC details and Choice of Nomination,  by sending a physical 
copy of the prescribed forms duly filled and signed by the 
registered holders to the RTA at the below mentioned address:
Datamatics Business Solutions Limited
Plot No. A 16 & 17, Part B Cross Lane, 
MIDC, Andheri (East), Mumbai- 400093.
On receipt of the said documents and its verification, the RTA 
would update the requested details in its records and dividend 
for the year ended March 31, 2025 will be directly credited to 
the bank account of the shareholder within 15 days from the 
date of receipt of the documents.

HDFC Bank Limited
592
S H A R E H O L D E R  I N F O R M AT I O N
swap transactions in Gold/Silver and monitored as part of 
the trading portfolio within the stipulated trading risk limits 
viz. Net overnight open position limit, Intraday open position 
limit, Value-at-Risk limit, Stop Loss Trigger Level etc. that are 
defined in the Treasury Limits Package.
In addition, Bank is authorized by RBI to import gold and silver 
and the exposure arising out of import of gold and silver on 
consignment basis is covered on back to back basis. The 
spot, forward and swap contracts, outstanding as on the 
Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are revalued at the 
closing spot and forward rates respectively as notified by 
FEDAI (Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India) and 
at interpolated rates for contracts of interim maturities.
The USD/ INR rate for valuation of contracts having longer 
maturities i.e. greater than 1 (One) year is implied from the 
applicable INR and USD swap curves. For other pairs, where 
the rates / tenors are not published by FEDAI, the spot and 
forward points are obtained from Refinitiv or Bloomberg for 
valuation of the foreign exchange deals. The foreign exchange 
profit or loss is arrived on present value basis thereafter, as 
directed by FEDAI, whereby the forward profits or losses on 
the deals, as computed above, are discounted till the valuation 
date using the applicable discounting yields. The resulting 
profit or loss on valuation is recognized in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
Exposure of the Bank to commodity and commodity risks faced by the Bank throughout the year:
a)
Total exposure of the Bank to commodities in INR - NIL
b)
Exposure of the Bank to various commodities:
Commodity Name
Exposure in INR 
towards the particular 
commodity
Exposure in Quantity 
terms towards the 
particular commodity
% of such exposure hedged through commodity derivatives
Domestic Market
International Market
Total
OTC
Exchange
OTC
Exchange
Gold
NIL
NIL
-
-
-
-
-
Silver
NIL
NIL
-
-
-
-
-
c)
Commodity risks faced by the listed entity during the year and how they have been managed - NA
Note: As part of trading position in Gold and Silver, the Treasury Bullion Desk has open position of 89.20 ounce and 0.01 ounce 
respectively, which is equivalent to ` 23,417,425.50 as on March 28, 2025, and was within the NOOP limit prescribed for XAU 
& XAG.
CREDIT RATINGS
The details of all credit ratings obtained by the Bank for all debt 
instruments are furnished in the Directors’ Report.
PLANT LOCATIONS
Being in the banking business, the Bank does not have plants. 
However, the Bank had 9,455 branches and 21,139 ATMs 
across 4,150 cities / towns as on March 31, 2025. The locations 
of the branches are also displayed on the Bank’s website.
DEBENTURE TRUSTEES
The following are the debenture trustees for the privately 
placed NCDs of the Bank:
1.
 Axis Trustee Services Limited, The Ruby, 2nd
Floor, SW, 29, Senapati Bapat Marg, Dadar West,
Mumbai- 400028. Tel: 022 6230 0451
2.
 Vistra ITCL (India) Limited, Office No. 505 A2/ 5th
Floor, B wing, The Capital building, BKC, Bandra E,
Mumbai- 400051. Tel: 022 6930 0000
3.
 SBICAP Trustee Company Limited, 04th Floor, Mistry
Bhavan, 122 Dinshaw Vachha Road, Churchgate,
Mumbai- 400020. Tel: 022 4302 5555
4.
 IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited, Universal Insurance
Building, Ground Floor, Sir Phirozshah Mehta Road, Fort, 
Mumbai- 400001. Tel: 22 4080 7000
SHAREHOLDERS’ HELPDESK
Dividend payments and all other investor related activities are 
attended to and processed at the office of the RTA.
For grievances/complaints/queries/requests, shareholders / 
investors may contact at the following address:

Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
593
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Mr.  Sunny Abraham / Ms. Manisha Parkar / 
Ms. Darshana Champanekar
Datamatics Business Solutions Limited – Registrar and 
Transfer Agent
Plot No. A 16 & 17, Part B Cross Lane, MIDC, Andheri (East), 
Mumbai- 400093
Tel: +91-022 - 66712213-14, 91 22 66712001-6
E-mail: hdinvestors@datamaticsbpm.com
Timings: 10:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (Monday to Friday except 
public holidays)
Shareholders’ Helpdesk Timings: 10:00 a.m. to 3:30 
p.m. Between Monday to Friday (except on Bank holidays) 
Tel: +91 -022- 66316000
Email: shareholder.grievances@hdfcbank.com
For IEPF Related matters: 
Mr. Ajay Agarwal (Nodal Officer) 
Ms. Rupa Joshi and Ms. Vaishali Vyas (Deputy Nodal Officers)
Tel: +91 (22) 66316000
E-mail: shareholder.grievances@hdfcbank.com
Queries relating to the Bank’s financial performance may be 
addressed to: investor.relations@hdfcbank.com
Name of the Compliance Officer of the Bank: 
Mr. Ajay Agarwal
Company Secretary  
Group Head- Secretarial & Group Oversight
Tel: +91 (22) 66316000
SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION ON THE BANK’S WEBSITE
Relevant information regarding shareholders’ services, investor grievance redressal process and other matters concerning 
shareholders have been provided in detail under the Shareholders’ Information and Helpdesk on the Bank’s website.
Further, details on the following matters are hosted on Bank’s website and can be accessed using the links mentioned:
Particulars
Weblink
Investors' 
Grievances 
Contact 
and 
Escalation Matrix
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
shareholders-information-and-helpdesk/investors-grievances-contacts--
escalation-matrix
Shareholder Correspondence
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
shareholders-information-and-helpdesk/shareholders-helpdesk
Shareholder’s Rights
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
shareholders-information-and-helpdesk/shareholders-rights
Shareholder’s FAQ’s
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-
42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/?path=/Footer/About%20Us/Other%20
stakeholders%27%20Information/2025/july/Shareholders-FAQ.pdf
General guidelines on Dematerialization
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-
42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/?path=/Footer/About%20Us/Corporate%20
Governance/Shareholders%27%20Information%20and%20Help/pdf/Mandatory-
dematerialization-of-securities.pdf
Codes and Policies
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/codes-
and-policies

HDFC Bank Limited
594
S H A R E H O L D E R  I N F O R M AT I O N
BANKING CUSTOMER HELPDESK
In the event of any queries / complaints, banking customers 
can directly approach the Branch Manager or can call / write 
to the Bank using the following contact details:
Contact us at:  Our customer care (Phone Banking) numbers 
1800 1600 / 1800 2600 (accessible across India) Customer 
travelling overseas can reach us on 022-61606160 and/or the 
followings websitelink: https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/
need-help/contact-us.
Write to:
For Credit Cards:
For Regular Post: HDFC Bank Cards Division, P.O. Box. 
8654, Ambattur Industrial Estate, P.O., Chennai - 600058.
For Courier: HDFC Bank Cards Division, Door No 94 SP, 
Estate Bus Stand, Wavin Main Road, Mogappair West, 
Chennai 600058.
For Products (other than Credit Cards): HDFC Bank Limited, 
Empire Plaza I, 1st Floor, LBS Marg, Chandan Nagar, Vikhroli 
West, Mumbai- 400083, Email: support@hdfcbank.com.
Contact us online:
Fill up the “Complaint Form” available at the following website 
link: https://leads.hdfcbank.com/applications/webforms/
apply/HDFC_CustomerCenter/. 
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/need-help/contact-us
For grievances other than shareholder grievances please send 
your communication to the following email addresses:
1. 
Depository Services:  dphelp@hdfcbank.com 
2. 
 Retail Banking / ATM / Debit Cards / Mutual Fund: 
support@hdfcbank.com
3. 
 Loans, Advances / Advance against shares: 
loansupport@hdfcbank.com
4. 
 Credit Cards: customerservices.cards@hdfcbank.com 
or visit us at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/need-
help/contact-us for more information.
5. 
 Home Loan: For customer queries, write to customer-
service@hdfcbank.net.
For more information and for grievances, visit us at https://
www.hdfc.com/grievance-redressal.

www.hdfcbank.com


Powering Progress
Together
Banking today is more than managing
money — it’s about fulﬁlling aspirations,
and shaping futures. At HDFC Bank, we
see ourselves not just as custodians
of capital but as partners in progress
for individuals, businesses, and
communities alike. We aim to simplify
complexities, unlock opportunities
and help dreams take ﬂight. Our
ability to evolve with changing times—
powered by innovation, a strong
performance culture and a deep sense
of responsibility—has made us a trusted
ally in the everyday lives of millions
across India.
We believe in creating long-term,
holistic value for all stakeholders.
Whether it’s helping individuals
realise their ﬁnancial aspirations,
enabling entrepreneurs to expand their
businesses, supporting underprivileged
communities through impactful
initiatives or contributing meaningfully
to India’s socio-economic growth—
our role goes far beyond traditional
banking. We are deeply committed to
being a partner in progress both for our
customers and for the nation.
Opportunity Meets Execution Driving Social Impact through Parivartan
One of our key strengths lies in identifying high-potential Our commitment to inclusive development is embodied
opportunities and capitalising on them through execution. in our CSR initiative—Parivartan, which means
With a robust and well-integrated physical and digital ‘Transformation’. Through Parivartan, we are creating
infrastructure we are able to extend top-tier banking lasting impact in six important areas: Rural Development,
services across the length and breadth of the country—from Promotion of Education, Skill Development & Livelihood
urban hubs to remote rural locations. This reach, combined Enhancement, Healthcare & Hygiene, Financial Literacy
with our in-depth understanding of the market, has enabled & Inclusion and Natural Resource Management. These
us to scale sustainably. Our performance reﬂects this initiatives aim to empower communities, foster self-reliance
strength—consistent growth in our balance sheet and and contribute to equitable societal progress.
proﬁtability, underpinned by prudent risk management and 
 Growing with our People
a best-in-class asset quality. 
 We recognise that our people are our greatest strength.
The Power of the Group 
 At HDFC Bank, we foster a culture of inclusivity, respect and
The successful merger of HDFC Limited with and into meritocracy. We are focused on creating an environment
HDFC Bank, has been a transformative milestone creating where every employee is encouraged to grow, thrive and
a stronger ﬁnancial services entity. Through this integration, contribute meaningfully. From leadership development to
we have acquired a trusted and widely recognised home bridging the gender gap, we are committed to building a
loan product, along with other subsidiaries such as HDFC workplace that champions diversity, nurtures talent and
Life Insurance Company Ltd, HDFC ERGO General inspires excellence.
Insurance Company Ltd and HDFC Asset Management 
 Sustainability: A Core Commitment
Company. This enables us to serve customers more 
comprehensively across their ﬁnancial lifecycle. The Bank Sustainability is a core value of the Bank. Integrating ESG
now has enhanced cross-selling opportunities, giving it factors into our credit appraisal and due diligence processes
the ability to offer end-to-end ﬁnancial solutions under one is a priority. Our goal is clear: To become carbon-neutral
roof. This enables us to redeﬁne customer convenience and in our operations by FY32. Through enhanced disclosures,
strengthen our market position. transparent reporting and proactive initiatives, we continue
 to strengthen our sustainability framework year after year.
Banking for Indians 
 Governance Anchored in Trust
Our extensive portfolio encompasses a wide range of 
offerings—from personal loans, credit cards and mortgages Even as we pursue ambitious growth, we remain ﬁrmly
for individuals to working capital, trade ﬁnance, and anchored in our principles of integrity and accountability.
cash management solutions for MSMEs and emerging Our governance practices are aligned with the highest
corporates. Whether in metros, semi-urban towns or rural standards, ensuring compliance, risk mitigation and robust
heartlands, we serve customers at every stage of their internal controls. This strong governance framework
ﬁnancial journey. underpins our efforts to generate sustainable value for all
 our stakeholders.
Digital First, Customer Always 
 Partnering India’s Journey Forward
In an era of digital disruption, our focus is on making 
banking seamless, intuitive and personal. We leverage data As India positions itself as major global player, the role of
analytics, AI and automation to offer personalised services, Banking has perhaps never been more critical. HDFC Bank
improve response times and ensure 24x7 connectivity. This is playing its part through ﬁnancial innovation, strategic
relentless focus on digital innovation enhances operational partnerships, fostering digital inclusion, and creating
efﬁciency while deepening customer engagement sustainable social impact. We are proud of the opportunity
and loyalty. of contributing to India’s progress.
What's Inside  
Overview Responsible Business 
About the Report ............................ 04 ESG Strategy encompassing 
Highlights ........................................ 06 Sustainable Finance ............................ 112 
 Environment ........................................ 118 
Who Governs Us  
 Customer Centricity ............................136 
Chairman's Message ...................... 08 Future Ready Digital Bank ...................142 
Message from the MD & CEO ..........12 Social - People ....................................150 
Board of Directors ........................... 18 Social - Community.............................168 
Senior Management Team  ............. 28 Nation Building ....................................192 
 Connecting the Capitals ......................196 
Introduction to HDFC Bank  
 10 year Financial Highlights .................198 
Our Presence .................................. 34 Awards & Accolades  ......................... 200 
Our Journey .................................... 36 Assurance Statement ..........................201 
 GRI Index  .......................................... 204 
Our Performance  
 Statutory Reports and 
Financial Performance ..................... 40  
Business Segments ........................ 42 Financial Statements 
Home Loan Advantage ................... 44  
 Directors Report & Annexures ............ 208 
Commercial and Rural Cluster ........ 46  
 Certiﬁcate on Corporate 
Power of the Group ......................... 48  
 Governance ........................................277 
 Certiﬁcate on SEBI Listing ...................278 
How We Create Value  
 Report on Corporate Governance ...... 280 
Our Value Creation Model ............... 54  
 Independent Auditor's Report for 
Stakeholder Engagement ................ 56  
 Standalone Financials .........................310 
Materiality ........................................ 60  
 Standalone Balance Sheet ..................320 
 Standalone Proﬁt and Loss Account ..... 321 
Our Strategy  
 Standalone Cash Flow Statement .......322 
Strategy in Action .............................74  
 Schedules to the 
External Environment ...................... 90  
 Financial Statements ...........................324 
Risk Management ........................... 96  
 Independent Auditor's Report for 
Business Continuity Management,  
 Consolidated Financials ......................428 
Information & Cyber Security Practices  
 Consolidated 
and Data Privacy Measures ........... 106  
 Balance Sheet .................................... 446 
 Consolidated 
  
Wholesale Proﬁt and Loss Account ......................447 
  
Banking Consolidated 
 Cash Flow Statement ......................... 448 
 Schedule to the 
Retail Consolidated Statement ..................... 450 
Banking Statement Pursuant sed here
 to Section 129 .....................................526 Online version of th
 Business Responsibility and report can be acces
 Sustainability Report ...........................528 
  
Treasury Shareholder Information ..................... 584 e
  Overview 
Our Performance   
Balance Sheet Size (I Cr) Profit After Tax (I Cr) Earnings Per Share (I) 
39,10,199 67,347 88.3 
8.1% 10.7% 2.9% 
39,10,199 67,347 88.3 
36,17,623 60,812 85.8 
Deposits (I Cr) Advances (I Cr) Return on Equity (%) 
27,14,715 26,19,609 14.6 
14.1% 5.4%  
27,14,715 26,19,609 14.6 
23,79,786 24,84,862 16.1 
Dividend Return on Assets Cost to Income 
Per Share (I) (Average) (%) Ratio (%) 
22.0^ 1.91 40.5 
22.0 1.91 40.5 
19.5 1.98 40.2 
Note: The results for the year ended March 31, 2025 include the operations of HDFC Limited and its subsidiaries (which became subsidiaries   
 of the Bank on amalgamation) effective from July 01, 2023 and hence are not comparable with results for the year ended March 31, 2024.  
FY25
 FY24
^Proposed
YoY   
  Integrated Annual Report 2024-25 03
A B O U T   T H E   R E P O R T  
  
The Integrated Annual Report for and also contains disclosures with Assurance Statement
 reference to Global Reporting Initiative 
FY 2024-25 reﬂects HDFC Bank’s  Reasonable assurance on BRSR
 (GRI) Standards (2021), Task Force on 
(referred to as ‘We’, ‘Us’, or ‘the  Core KPIs and limited assurance on
 Climate related Financial Disclosures 
Bank’) commitment to create  the select indicators in the BRSR &
 (TCFD), Business Responsibility Integrated Annual Report respectively
meaningful value for a diverse array  
 and Sustainability Report (BRSR) has been provided by SGS India
of stakeholders including customers,  
 and United Nations Sustainable Pvt. Ltd. as per the SEBI guidelines
shareholders, investors, regulators,  
 Development Goals (UN SDGs). in accordance with the ISAE 3000
employees, and society at large.  
  (Revised), GHG Protocol and ISAE
Beyond ﬁnancial metrics, the report  
 There are no restatements of 
  3410 Standards. The assurance
explores non-ﬁnancial performance,  
 information provided in the integrated reports attached in the report
strategic priorities, and sustainability  
 report during the reporting year. contains details of the subject matter,
efforts of the Bank. It provides  
  criteria, procedures performed,
insights into HDFC Bank's wholistic Materiality and Scope and reasonable assurance opinion
value creation model, operational  and limited assurance conclusion,
 This report includes information which 
landscape, stakeholder concerns,  as applicable.
 is material to all stakeholders of the 
strategic and ESG pillars, and  
 Bank and provides an overview of 
  Responsibility Statement
corporate governance framework.  
 its business and related activities. 
These aspects are underpinned by a  The content of this report has been
 The report discloses matters that 
robust risk management framework  reviewed by the senior management
 substantially impact or affect the 
integral to the Bank's operations. As  of the Bank and is reviewed and
 Bank’s ability to create value and 
we near 2 years since the merger,  approved by the Board of Directors
 could inﬂuence decisions of providers 
this report captures HDFC Bank’s  to ensure accuracy, completeness
 of ﬁnancial capital. In FY23, the 
journey of progress in integration and  and relevance of the information
 material matters thus identiﬁed 
growth. It highlights how synergies  presented in line with the principles
 were reviewed and refreshed to 
have supported expansion supported  and requirements of the Integrated
 integrate the concept of double 
by the Bank’s focus on a stable  Reporting <IR> Framework.
 materiality in accordance with GRI 
and cohesive culture. Through  
 Standards 2021. For GRI topics and 
  Governance over Integrated
collaboration and innovation, HDFC  
 relevant disclosures, please refer 
Bank continues to drive sustainable  Reporting Process
 to the GRI Content Index, provided 
progress endeavouring to make a  
 in the report. During the year, we The FY2024-25 Integrated
lasting impact on all those it serves.  
 conducted an internal reassessment Annual Report reﬂects a rigorous
 of the material topics identiﬁed in organisation-wide process, overseen
Reporting Principles and  
 the previously and reafﬁrmed their by the Group Executives and the
Framework  
 continued relevance. This evaluation Board, showcasing the organisation’s
The ﬁnancial information presented considered our operational context, integrated thinking. The report
in this report is in line with the including regulatory compliances, outlines the Bank's value creation
requirements of evolving industry trends, and our process, considering its operating
 risk landscape. environment, external factors, and
− The Companies Act, 2013 (including  
  its short, medium, and long-term
the rules made thereunder) Read more on Pg. 60 
  objective. The report aligns with the
− The Companies (Accounting  
  Integrated Reporting Framework, its
Standards) Rules, 2021  
 Reporting Boundary contents detailing the performance of
− The Securities and Exchange  this value creation process. Led by the
 The non-ﬁnancial information in 
Board of India (Listing Obligations  Group CFO, the report is informed by
 this report covers the activities and 
and Disclosure Requirements)  extensive discussions across various
 progress of the Bank on a standalone 
Regulations, 2015  functions and board meetings. After
 basis. It covers information pertaining 
  multiple drafts and reviews, the CFO
− The Banking Regulation Act, 1949  
 to the period from April 1, 2024, to 
  and Senior Management ensure its
and other relevant RBI regulations  
 March 31, 2025. The last report was 
  accuracy before presenting it to the
The report has been prepared in published for the period April 1, 2023 - 
  Board of Directors.
alignment with the <IR> framework March 31, 2024. The Integrated Report 
prescribed by the IFRS Foundation for FY 2023-24 can be accessed here. 
 The Value created, preserved or depleted through our business activities across the    
   6 capitals as per the <IR> framework  
Financial Manufactured Human Intellectual Social & Relationship Natural
Capital Capital Capital Capital Capital Capital
F M H I SR N
We ensure Our pan India Our people are We leverage Building trust- We rely on natural
consistent network of our greatest asset. innovative technology based stakeholder resources like
shareholder banking outlets, Through innovation, for operational relationships is key energy and
returns through ofﬁces, ATMs, and collaboration, efﬁciency and to our success. water to run our
robust ﬁnancial touchpoints, along and inclusivity, competitive We responsibly business and
practices, utilising with strong IT we empower edge, built on contribute to deliver services.
customer deposits, infrastructure their growth and deep expertise, the economy, We manage waste
shareholder and security well-being, driving agile systems, cultivating long-term and minimise our
equity, retained measures, engages exceptional service and the Group's relationships with environmental
earnings, and stakeholders and and success. esteemed reputation. customers, partners, impact on climate
external borrowings. supports growth   merchants, and and ecosystems.
 through ﬁnancial   the community. 
 inclusion initiatives.    
 Committed to a Enabling Last-Mile
Strong Financials  
 Sustainable Future Access
K26,19,609 crore  
Advances 18.69% 9,455
 Financing towards green Branches
 and social sectors (Including 5 overseas
K27,14,715 crore  branches and 9 DBUs)
Deposits  
 3.22% 
 Share of RE in our 15,399
1.33% electricity mix (Increase Total Business
Gross NPA  
 from 0.39% in FY24) Correspondents
19.6%  
 K1,068 crore 21,139
Capital Adequacy Ratio  
 CSR Spend on Total ATMs + Cash
 Parivartan projects Recycler Machines
  Network
1.91%  
Return on Average  
  
Assets  4,150
  Cities & Towns covered
  2,35,000+
  Villages where Bank
  is present
Strengthening Embracing a A Brand Built on Trust
Human Capital Digital-ﬁrst Era and Transparency
2,14,521 97% $44.96 billion*
 Of all financial Brand Valuation
Total Employees  
 transactions enabled 
 through digital channels 
  70
26.1%  
  Bottoms Up NPS Score
Women in Workforce  
 3.7 crore+ 
 customer 
  85th Percentile
1.25+ crore  
 Engagements (monthly) 
  S&P Corporate
Learning Hours  
 On HDFC Bank One 
  Sustainability
 Platform 
  Assessment
 99% 
 Personal Loans 
 Originated Digitally 
As a Group, we have
a much broader
responsibility to our
stakeholders across
the entities.
Dear Stakeholders, Global GDP growth slowed to 3.3 Order. Global monetary policy in the
 per cent, tempered by slowing major advanced economies, after periods
Greetings !  
 economies, disruptions and capital of tightening, has moved towards
I am pleased to present to you the ﬂow realignments. The geopolitical policy easing since mid-2024. Trade
Integrated Annual Report of the Bank for tensions, wars in Ukraine and the policies turned restrictive, and levels of
the Financial Year 2024-25. Middle East persisted, and we also public debt remain high in developed
 have a dispensation in the US that has economies. The economic outlook for
External Environment and  
 a fairly tough stance on tariffs. These the year ahead is uncertain and muted,
Performance Resilience developments unsettled supply chains, in view of the unfolding trade wars. This
 ampliﬁed risk aversion, caused exchange could further upend trade ﬂows and
Financial Year 2024–25 was  
 rate volatilities and underscored the moderate global growth momentum
characterised by global recalibration with  
 continuing inter-dependence of the in merchandise, commodities
rapidly shifting monetary policy stances,  
 global economies highlighting the and services.
emerging economic vulnerabilities  
 uncertainties of the Global Economic 
and persistent geopolitical tensions.  
The Indian economy, despite global of policy rates are expected to give a 
headwinds, has demonstrated great ﬁllip to private capex which has so far 
resilience with stable and predictable remained muted. 
  The HDFC
policy actions in the ﬁscal and monetary  
 Merged Strengths Bank Group is
domain that ensured we continue to  
sustain the growth momentum coming Two years back we concluded the now a ﬁnancial
  
out of the shocks of the preceding years. merger of HDFC Limited into HDFC conglomerate in
The economy grew at 6.5 per cent in Bank, bringing HDFC Limited and 
  the true sense of
the ﬁscal year 2024-25 with inﬂation diverse ﬁnancial services entities within 
moderating to 4.6 per cent, performing the Bank’s fold thus transforming the the term. It now
under a shifting domestic policy stance Bank into one of the leading ﬁnancial has a sizeable
  
that transitioned from a “Withdrawal of institutions of India. The HDFC Bank presence in
Accommodation” to “Accommodative” Group is now a ﬁnancial conglomerate in 
  insurance (both
and back to “Neutral” recently. Our the true sense of the term. It now has a 
regulator has been proactive in its policy sizeable presence in insurance (both life life and general),
response, with inﬂation under reasonable and general), mutual funds, brokerage mutual funds,
  
control, despite pressures coming in and alternative investments. FY25 brokerage and
from a sharp depreciation of the rupee. marked the ﬁrst full year of operations 
  alternative
It has rationalised regulatory burden and of the combined Group and it now 
removed restriction on ﬁnancial sectors stands strengthened, much bigger in investments.
through its policy actions. The national scale, broadened in capability and more FY25 marked the first
economic policy regime has stepped up uniﬁed in purpose. The operational 
  full year of operations
to stabilise the economy, adhering to its aspects of the integration are now 
  of the combined
stated objective of balancing the budget substantially complete. The expansion 
  Group and it now
and keeping the ﬁscal deﬁcit within of home loans across our network, 
limits thereby creating space for private greater choice of Group products to the stands strengthened,
players in the credit ﬂow. There has been expanded customer base and a more 
  much bigger in scale,
policy action towards lowering policy cohesive branding have contributed to 
  broadened in capability
rates, enhancing liquidity in the system the growth of the Bank, which is at the 
  and more unified in
through reduction in CRR and attempt apex of the Group. As a Group, we have 
at ensuring a less volatile exchange rate. a much broader responsibility to our purpose.
It is expected that the economic growth stakeholders, across the entities. 
would continue to show momentum,  
 Financial Performance 
despite the global vulnerabilities,  
particularly affecting global merchandise The year under review was the ﬁrst full 
trade. We are well positioned to take year after the merger which had resulted 
advantage of the realignments in in a marked increase in the size of the 
international trade ﬂows and supply Bank’s balance sheet and a change in 
chains that are now unfolding. Looking its composition. The merger witnessed 
ahead, the Indian economy is poised substantial improvement in the asset 
to grow 6.5 per cent or even higher, quality with durable high-quality assets 
supported by slight upward trend in coming on board. However, it was 
domestic rural demand on the back a merger of two entities that were 
of healthy agricultural production, differently regulated. On the liability 
moderation in inﬂation and tax cuts that side it brought in considerable amount 
can potentially support urban demand. of debt that had to be pared down. 
A pick-up in government spending and Through much of FY25, monetary 
easing of liquidity with potential lowering policy stance was one of “Withdrawal 
of Accommodation”, which constrained  regulatory excellence. Internal systems
system-wide credit growth during  have been recalibrated to ensure full
the year on account of restricted As global shifts adherence to statutory requirements
liquidity. Against this backdrop, the continue to test and transparent reporting. We also
  
Bank recalibrated its strategy with the institutional continue to invest in technology-led
objective of increasing the proportion of  solutions to ensure accuracy, timeliness
 resilience, 
deposits in the funding mix and reducing  and accountability across all aspects of
 your Bank remains 
the loan to deposit ratio.  regulatory requirements.
 anchored in purpose, 
Proactive management of the balance  In order to address our enhanced
 core values and discipline. 
sheet, in order to meet regulatory  stature as a ﬁnancial conglomerate
requirements, resulted in deposit  we have strengthened our oversight
growth of 14.1 per cent during the year  on the Group companies, comprising
while advances growth was tempered  the asset management company,
at 5.4 per cent. Proﬁt After Tax grew  insurance companies, investment
by 10.7 per cent to H67,347.4 crore in  advisory company, and the various other
the last ﬁnancial year and Net Interest  entities in the fold, while being mindful
Margin stood at 3.48 per cent, reﬂecting  of not impeding the independence
resilience in core income. Gross Non-  of the respective entities. We have a
Performing Assets stood at just 1.33 per  dedicated Group Oversight Department
cent, reﬂecting the Bank’s unwavering  which monitors the implementation
focus on maintaining its asset quality.  of the Group Oversight Framework
I am pleased to report that the Board  and this function reports into one of
of Directors recommended a dividend  the Executive Directors of the Bank.
of H22.0 per equity share of H1 for the  This function also briefs the Board of
year ended March 31, 2025, subject to  Directors on critical updates, if any,
shareholder approval at the forthcoming  regarding the Group companies. The
annual general meeting.  Board and its committees endeavour to
  ensure accountability and responsibility
The Bank has a clear roadmap for  
  of the senior management in adhering to
growth anchored on values that  
  established principles of Governance.
have served the Group well for over  
four decades. The report covers in  
  Customer Experience and
considerable detail the Bank’s ﬁnancial  
  Building Technology for
performance and its strategy for  
  the Future
the future. Our commitment 
  
 to giving back to Customer focus and customer
Governance  
  satisfaction remains the cornerstone
 the communities 
As we navigate the post-merger  of the Bank’s growth strategy. A sharp
environment, we remain aware of the where we operate increase in the number of customers has
enhanced regulatory expectations is of utmost made us more conscious and focussed
  
placed on us as a Domestic Systemically importance... on this objective. We strive to set high
Important Bank (D-SIB) listed on the  standards of response to customer
 Over ten crore 
stock exchanges. In the past ﬁnancial  grievances and continuously analyse
 people have benefitted 
year, we undertook a signiﬁcant  and mitigate the root causes and irritants
transformation of our compliance through our CSR that come in the way of enhanced
function, reinforcing our commitment  customer experience at our branches or
 programmes 
to governance, transparency and  in the digital interfaces. We seek to align
incentives to employees with parameters  of our integrated model and the
 Social Value Creation 
of customer satisfaction.  synergies we continue to realise across
 Inclusive banking is the cornerstone of 
  the Group, position us well to navigate
In an increasingly digital world, the Inclusion and is a major policy of the 
  what lies ahead.
customer journey design is guided by a Government. Credit ﬂow to underserved 
clear ambition to serve customers better, sections is also done through Priority I take this opportunity to welcome
faster and at scale. This year, we have Sector Lending. Your Bank has steadily Mr. Santhosh Keshavan as an
made strong progress across the ﬁve improved the quantum of organic Independent Director to the Board.
key pillars of technology, viz. Journeys, lending and reduced dependence on He was appointed w.e.f. November
Channels, Core, Data, and Security. Priority Sector Lending Certiﬁcates. 18, 2024, for a period of three years.
 The Bank has been taking recourse His appointment was approved by the
To strengthen execution and accelerate  
 to various credit support mechanisms shareholders of the Bank via Postal
delivery, we continued to mature the  
 sponsored by the government to Ballot on January 11, 2025. I thank the
technology use cases that help us make  
 maintain the asset quality. Board members for their contributions
your Bank, the ‘bank of the future’. This  
  during the year.
model enabled parallel development Our commitment to giving back to the 
of high-impact initiatives during FY25, communities where we operate is of I would be failing in my duty if I do not
reducing time-to-market and enhancing utmost importance. We collaborate with acknowledge the pivotal role of the
reusability across platforms. grassroot organisations, policymakers Union Government and various State
 and local bodies to ensure that our Governments in steering the economy.
Looking ahead, IT-enabled user journeys  
 efforts are both strategic and impactful. I sincerely thank Reserve Bank of India,
remain a key priority. Through biometric  
  Securtites and Exchange Board of
onboarding, assisted journeys, and Through our six focus areas—Rural 
  India and other regulators who have
ofﬂine-ready apps, we extended access Development, Education, Skilling and 
  consistently guided us.
to more underserved and semi-urban Livelihood, Healthcare, Natural Resource 
markets while reimaging best in class Management, and Financial Literacy and I also thank the senior management of
customer experiences. Generative Inclusion—we have positively impacted the Bank and the Group companies and
AI (GenAI) presents a generational over 10 crore lives. all the employees for their dedication
transformation opportunity and  and sincerity.
 Another milestone for 
responsibility. However, we are ensuring  
  Our customers are our greatest strength.
there is adequate appreciation of risk, the Group 
  I thank them for their continuing support.
reliability and information security  
 I would like to update you on a signiﬁcant 
  We commit ourselves to improving
which is embedded in our approach to  
 development with reference to HDB 
  delivery of service to them continuously.
designing the cutting-edge AI solutions  
 Financial Services Limited, a subsidiary 
in a calibrated fashion.  Our single biggest strength is the resolve
 of the Bank. During the last ﬁnancial year 
  and strength of our colleagues. I thank
 the IPO process was initiated. The IPO 
Going forward, with our pan India  
  our teams across the country for giving
 was successfully concluded in the ﬁrst 
geographical spread and large customer  
  their best and helping the Bank perform
 quarter of the current ﬁnancial year. With 
base, I remain conﬁdent in our ability  
  well in the year.
 this, the group consists of four publicly 
to deliver personalised and secure  
 listed entities, including the Bank. 
banking experiences to individuals and  
enterprises we serve. India’s banking  
 Banking on What’s Next Warm regards,
and ﬁntech landscape has already  
 We live in a world where 
made a strong mark on the global stage  
  Atanu Chakraborty
 interdependence is inescapable and 
– with its scale, innovation and digital  
 uncertainty, unavoidable. As global shifts Part-time Chairman and
adoption setting new benchmarks. This  
 continue to test institutional resilience, Independent Director
momentum is only set to accelerate and  
 your Bank remains anchored in purpose, HDFC Bank Limited
HDFC Bank is committed to playing its  
 core values and discipline. The strength 
part in shaping this future.  
HDFC Bank has 
H
co
ontinued its
continued its
performance and has 
pe
erformance and has
progressed well on 
rogressed well on
m
any dimensions.
many dimensions.
Dear Stakeholders, policy stances, heightened tensions Let me now share a perspective on the
 across various parts of the world and economy and the Bank’s performance.
Warm greetings to all of you.  
 resultant economic uncertainty, the 
  Macroeconomic
Financial Year 2024-25 has been a Indian economy - while not immune to 
year of consolidation and progress for the broader environment - continued Environment
the merged entity with the stage of to be buoyant and resilient. It sustained 
  Over the previous three ﬁscal years,
integration well behind us. its position as the fastest growing 
  the Indian economy has grown at an
 major economy. 
  average of 8.8 per cent driven by a
The ﬁnancial year gone by was marked  
  healthy growth in the services sector,
by global disruption, geopolitical Against this background I am happy to 
  rise in construction and infrastructure
conﬂicts, military actions, and an share that HDFC Bank has continued 
  activity, and an improvement in the
uncertain trade environment that had its performance and has progressed 
  agriculture sector. In addition, consumer
and will have an impact on global supply well on many dimensions that I plan to 
  demand has been supported by greater
chains. With changes in monetary elaborate further. 
  credit penetration and an increase in
leveraged consumption. While private India growth is expected to hold up in 
  Our Performance
investment trends have been uneven, FY26, with the RBI forecasting GDP 
  The results for FY25 represented the
the government has done the heavy growth at 6.5 per cent. 
  ﬁrst full year of operations since the
lifting in increasing capacity expansion  
 However, this outlook is not without merger on July 1, 2023. I am happy
in the infrastructure and renewable  
 risks. On the global front, US tariff to report that in the last ﬁnancial year,
energy sectors. Moreover, structural  
 announcements have increased your Bank reported healthy growth
reforms and policies introduced by  
 uncertainty and raised risks of a growth while maintaining pristine asset quality
the government over the last decade,  
 slowdown which could weigh on India’s which has been its USP across business
like GST are also now beginning to  
 exports of goods and services. As cycles. Net Proﬁt increased by 10.7 per
play out in supporting medium term  
 per the latest IMF estimates, global cent to H67,347.4 crore on March 31,
growth prospects.  
 growth is estimated to slow down to 2025 while Net Interest Income grew by
Last year, while GDP growth moderated 2.8 per cent in 2025 from 3.3 per cent 13.0 per cent to H1,22,670.1 crore. Our
to 6.5 per cent, India continued to be in 2024. On the domestic front, risks to Net Interest Margin (NIM) stood at 3.48
one of the fastest growing economies growth include a slower-than-expected per cent.
in the world despite rising global rebound in consumption demand, 
  Your Bank’s balance sheet rose by over
headwinds. Consumption growth picked weather related disruptions leading to 
  eight per cent to H39,10,199 crore. Gross
up in FY25, driven by a recovery in rural inﬂation spikes and ﬁnancial market 
  NPAs were at 1.33 per cent of Gross
demand. Elevated inﬂation led to some volatility due to global headwinds. The 
  Advances. Advances grew by 5.4 per
moderation in urban consumption. The escalating geopolitical tensions and tariff 
  cent to H26,19,609 crore while Deposits
moderation in GDP growth in FY25 was uncertainties only adds to the complexity 
  grew 14.1 per cent to H27,14,715 crore.
mirrored in the slowed banking system of the overall environment. 
credit growth, to 11.0 per cent from  I had mentioned last year that this is
 Two years ago, I had articulated why 
20.2 per cent.  HDFC Bank 2.0. We have progressed
 I believe that India has a once in a 
  from then to navigating this transition
With inﬂation now beginning to trend lifetime opportunity. That belief is 
  across NIMs, our liability proﬁle and
below 4 per cent we have seen a series further solidiﬁed now in spite of what 
  our strategic direction to pursue
of steps on both, the ﬁscal and monetary is happening around us as our strong 
  proﬁtable growth.
front, to boost demand. Frontloading macro fundamentals, low external 
of 100 bps rate cuts by the RBI, tax vulnerability, and a sound ﬁnancial As is evident, our deposits grew 2.5
cuts introduced by the government system position India favourably times faster than loans. As stated we
this year, and the expectation of a to weather global headwinds. The have taken afﬁrmative steps to bring
normal monsoon, lower interest rates changing global trade landscape also down the credit to deposit ratio and
and sufﬁcient liquidity basis CRR cuts, presents an opportunity for India to reduce the percentage of high cost
all point to a favourable environment become a manufacturing and services borrowings. We consciously calibrated
for demand revival in the current hub for the world. India’s relative our loan growth in FY25 to reposition
ﬁnancial year. growth outperformance compared to the balance sheet. Aided by appropriate
 peers, regulatory reforms, favourable and disciplined pricing and focussed on
In addition, a combination of counter-  
 demographics, supportive monetary and quality growth we were successful in
cyclical monetary and ﬁscal support  
 ﬁscal policy, increasing digitalisation and achieving the same.
is likely to anchor domestic growth in  
 a healthy ﬁnancial system, augur well 
ﬁnancial year 2025-26. The government  You will be happy to know that the
 for attracting foreign investments and 
has budgeted H11 lakh crore in capital  percentage of high cost borrowings has
 propelling medium-term growth outlook 
spending and is focusing towards  come down to 14 per cent at the end
 for the country. 
crowding in private investments. Finally,  of the ﬁscal year 2024-25. The credit
healthy balance sheets of ﬁnancial  deposit ratio has been brought down to
institutions, households and corporates  96 per cent as on March 31, 2025 from a
augur well for growth.  high of about 110 per cent at the time of
  the merger.
Our deposits have grown faster than  the Core’ programme is progressing
the system and what is noteworthy is  well. Our modernised and scaled
  
that, with a market share of ﬁve per cent Our deposits core systems can meet exponential
of branches in the banking system, we  demand—enabling us to serve our
 have grown 
have a market share of 11 per cent of  growing customer base faster and adapt
banking deposits. The Bank garnered faster than the with agility.
an incremental deposit market share of system and what 
  We have fully digitised a majority of
  
approximately 14.6 per cent in the last is noteworthy our retail / MSME product acquisition
ﬁnancial year. Aggression has been in  
 is that, with a journeys and the key service
intent and execution, but not in pricing,  
  
be it for assets or for liabilities. market share of journeys and our focus has now
  moved to improving our real-time
 ﬁve per cent of 
I believe we have successfully navigated  credit decisioning at scale. We are
the merger and the Bank is now branches in the conﬁdent that we will move the needle
positioned for faster growth. The reset in banking system, substantially in this area in the current
loan growth and the consolidation of the  ﬁnancial year and this will enable us
 we have a market 
merger has resulted in a much stronger  to improve our productivity and serve
 share of 11 per cent 
bank, that is now poised to capitalise  our customers far better with these
 of banking deposits. 
further on growth opportunities.  investments. Our ﬂagship platforms like
 The Bank garnered an PayZapp, SmartHub Vyapar, Xpress Car
As stated earlier, we are conﬁdent of  
  Loan, HDFC Bank One and SmartWealth
 incremental deposit 
growing our advances on par with the  
  continued to scale by expanding their
system in FY26 and higher than the market share of 
  reach during the year. Details pertaining
system in FY27.  
 approximately 
  to the performance of each of these
The growth enablers, apart from balance 14.6 per cent in digital offerings of the Bank are shared in
sheet strength, remain technology,  the report.
 the last financial year. 
customer centricity and our people. Let  
  We took the decision to invest in
me now elaborate on these themes.  
  our Enterprise and Digital Factories
  for creating / co-creating our digital
Technology  
  offerings. I am happy to share that we
Building Intelligence, Scale,  
  have launched an early access version
and Trust in the Digital Age  
  of our fully home grown digital interfaces
Technology has been and is a core  
  (across our website, Mobile Banking
differentiator for HDFC Bank—driving  
  and NetBanking) and will soon cover
speed, scale, and simplicity in how we  
  our entire customer base. All the three
serve customers across India.  
  new digital interfaces bring in enhanced
  security, performance and hyper
Over the last four plus years, we have  
  personalisation to the forefront for the
worked tirelessly on scaling, fortifying  
  convenience of our customers.
and modernising our technology  
backbone through enhanced  
  Your Bank has been a leading investor
investments on resources and  
  in Analytics across consumer, credit,
collaboration with our key partners and  
  fraud and risk areas. I had mentioned
the results are now visible.  
  last year that we are evaluating GenAI
  and what it can do for us. I agree and
Our core now seamlessly supports  
  believe strongly when people say that
scalability and resiliency. Reliability  
  GenAI is as big as the Internet or mobile
has been built by design. Our focus to  
  with immense transformative potential,
further modernise through our ‘Hollow  
HDFC Bank Limited
14  
though with sufﬁcient guardrails. I am  
 risk, and compliance. At the same time, the Bank is using multichannel
happy to share we are moving beyond  
 all our lines of defence are working in campaigns to deliver the right education
pilots to a structured, centralised,  
 close coordination to ensure we meet and awareness. The Bank’s 'Vigil
platform-driven model (with strong  
 and exceed regulatory expectations. Aunty' (VA) campaign covers various
safeguards and scalable design) where  
  modus-operandi of fraudsters and is an
 Overall, the Bank's cybersecurity 
GenAI is applied to deﬁned problem  
  example of our commitment towards
 measures are focused on ensuring 
classes – whether it’s speeding up  
  the well-being of our customers. This
 the highest level of protection against 
operations, enhancing staff productivity  
  initiative has been very well received and
 cyber threats, with proactive monitoring 
or improving customer service. We  
  I’m sure has encouraged people across
 and automated incident response 
have identiﬁed more than 15 lighthouse  
  the country to practice safe banking
 capabilities, enhanced network visibility 
programmes that we will implement with  
  habits. Internally, we have scaled up
 and a zero-trust approach to security. 
GenAI and the implementation progress  
  simulation exercises and trainings to
is being tracked with the vigour and  
 The Bank continues to enhance its ensure our people are as well-equipped
rigour that a transformative technology  
 information security posture through as our systems.
like GenAI deserves. As digital adoption  
 a range of strategic and technology- 
  We remain focused on being a cyber
rises, GenAI will play a central role in  
 driven initiatives aimed at strengthening 
  resilient, regulatorily compliant and
how we innovate, stay resilient, and  
 its information security and resilience 
  trusted institution that can adapt and
create value for the future.  
 against evolving cyber threats. 
  succeed in the emerging risk landscape.
 These initiatives align with regulatory 
As someone deeply passionate about  
 expectations and industry best practices 
technology, I truly believe we are  Customer Centricity
 to ensure the conﬁdentiality, integrity, 
entering our most transformative phase  
  One of my key focus areas is to continue
 and availability of the Bank's digital 
yet. The tools are new, but the purpose  
  to reinforce our Service First culture. I
 infrastructure and applications. Key 
remains the same - to empower every  
  have always emphasised that it rests on
 initiatives include the establishment 
customer, partner, and community  
  two pillars - an empathetic organisation
 of a next-generation Cybersecurity 
we serve with world-class customer  
  empowered with tools to service
 Operations Centre (CSOC) augmented 
experience through responsible  
  the customer.
 by AI and ML capabilities, to keep an 
innovation. Digitalisation also helps  
 eye on threats and respond quickly. As we digitalised our journeys and
further ﬁnancial inclusion, bringing  
 We routinely check our systems for employee / consumer adoption
several more people into the digital  
 any weaknesses through our VAPT increased, our First Time Right service
economy for the ﬁrst time and your  
 (Vulnerability Assessment & Penetration has improved resulting in signiﬁcant
Bank is at the forefront of innovation and  
 Testing) programme, monitor all digital reduction in customer complaints
partnerships on this.  
 entry points to manage exposure (Attack pertaining to delay in acquisition
Cyber Security Surface Monitoring), ensure our software and servicing.
 is always up to date (patch management) 
As cyber-attacks grow in complexity  
  We are continuing our ‘Inﬁnite Smiles’
 and strengthen protection against 
and frequency, we continue to invest  
  programme (NPS or Net Promoter
 email-based attacks. The Bank regularly 
in advanced cybersecurity capabilities  
  System) with rigour and vigour to
 runs real-life simulations as cyber 
to stay ahead. In the last ﬁnancial year,  
  proactively listen to our customers
 resilience stress tests for the ability to 
we enhanced our security measures  
  voices and keep improving our
 handle cyberattacks. 
through several targeted controls and  
  products and processes. The NPS
use of AI enabled security measures.  
 Technology being only part of implementation serves as an early
This has helped in continuous validation,  
 the solution, we have also placed warning system for us to identify areas
proactive threat detection, faster  
 appropriate emphasis on empowering of continuous improvement.
response, and improved incident  
 our customers and users through 
  We have increased our emphasis on
resilience. Our cybersecurity practices  
 education, awareness, and support. 
  training and improving our front line
are aligned with leading frameworks and  
 With the rise of phishing, impersonation 
  capabilities. We continuously monitor
global best practices in governance,  
 scams, and deep fake based attacks, 
customer experience delivery and have to 22.6 per cent in FY25 underscores wellbeing, such as Inner Harmony,
increased the weightage of service in the the positive strides we are making in Mindfulness Series, stress management
performance measurement framework fostering an enabling work environment. and conﬁdential counselling services.
across all levels in the organisation. This is reﬂected in the healthy These efforts are designed to help
Our colleagues have enthusiastically engagement scores of employees employees manage both personal and
adopted this. across levels. professional challenges and cultivate a
  balanced work environment.
I am excited by the prospect of what The continued focus on Diversity, 
GenAI can do to improve customer Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) and our While we celebrate these signiﬁcant
service. The Bank is working to ongoing Culture Transformation journey achievements, we stay grounded in the
leverage the positive aspects of Artiﬁcial remain integral to the Bank’s long- understanding that our journey towards
Intelligence (AI) to enable our front line term vision. Our investment in building a truly future-ready organisation, is an
colleagues to have all the latest and culture capability has impacted over ongoing one. We remain committed to
right information available with them to 27,000 managers, equipping them building upon this foundation.
answer and service customer queries. further to lead with empathy, agility, 
  Environmental, Social
This improves our ability to respond to and innovation. 
customers with speed, consistency and  and Governance
 Over the last few years, we have been 
accuracy and most importantly in line  
  I believe that a steadfast commitment to
 actively working towards improving our 
with the extant regulatory guidelines.  
  ESG principles is paramount in driving
 gender ratio, not only because it’s the 
One of the important beneﬁts of the  
  our transformation strategies. Our Bank
 right thing to do but because we believe 
usage of AI would be to arrest similar  
  is dedicated to fostering and advancing
 that it makes us a better organisation. 
types of customer issues in future,  
  growth by integrating sustainable
 We have sustained a gender ratio of 26 
vastly reducing instances of customer  
  practices in our operations, empowering
 per cent through the year, which is a 
dissatisfaction.  
  society through inclusion and upholding
 signiﬁcant improvement from 18.09 per 
  the highest standards of governance.
We continue to invest in our distribution cent in ﬁnancial year 2020-21. 
  ESG is one of the key drivers for
channels. The Bank added over 700  
 Our capability building strategy is clear: 
  creating resilience in the dynamic
branches in the ﬁnancial year 2024-25  
 Build future ready leaders and future- 
  environment and to create long-term
taking the total number of branches  
 proof skills. In FY25, we took signiﬁcant 
  value for our stakeholders, which we are
to 9,455 as of March 31, 2025 and will  
 strides in leadership-development, 
  committed to.
continue adding to these. Branches are  
 achieving a remarkable 500 per cent 
the fulcrum of customer relationships  
  HDFC Bank Parivartan celebrates a
 increase in coverage. 
especially in the semi-urban and rural  
  decade of impactful CSR initiatives,
areas where we have more than half our To keep pace with rapid change, the 
  with HDFC Bank emerging as one of
branches. The new branches are our Bank is concentrating on reskilling and 
  the top spenders in CSR in India. Our
investments for the future enabling us to upskilling through a role-based learning 
  efforts have focused on sustainable and
serve local communities better. architecture. We have also launched 
  inclusive growth, reaching remote and
 a GenAI Academy to accelerate 
  underserved areas across India, thus far
People  
 capability in Generative AI. As GenAI 
  impacting the lives of over 10 crore
Our people continue to be the most becomes central to both current and 
  people across 28 States and
important pillar of the organisation. It future organisational capability, we 
  8 Union Territories.
is gratifying to share some of the key are investing in developing skills in this 
  Through our ﬂagship Holistic Rural
People initiatives we have undertaken space through a structured academy 
  Development Programme (HRDP),
this year. model, offering robust curriculum and 
  we have reached over 6000 villages,
 tiered proﬁciency levels. 
Sustaining our growth while maintaining a  
  including 298 border villages
nearly ﬂat headcount is a testament to the As part of our ongoing commitment 
  providing support across agriculture,
efﬁciency and dedication of our teams. towards fostering a healthy workplace, 
  skill development and livelihood
Furthermore, the signiﬁcant reduction the Bank runs several initiatives on 
  enhancement, healthcare and hygiene,
in attrition from 26.9 per cent in FY24 Employee Wellness focused on holistic 
  education and ﬁnancial literacy.
HDFC Bank Limited
16  
This year, your Bank has introduced  
  HDFC Bank Group
a new focus area - Natural Resource  
  We understand the role the Group
  
Management that focusses efforts The successful plays in the Indian ﬁnancial system
on providing renewable energy  
 playing out of and the need for us to set standards
solutions especially solar, solid waste  
  
management, afforestation as well as the merger in performance and governance as we
  have always done. We stand committed
soil and water conservation. synergies, the 
  to that.
Our work has signiﬁcantly beneﬁtted reduction in the 
  Furthermore, the Bank’s NBFC
various communities, ensuring access to credit deposit 
  subsidiary, HDB Financial Services
  
essential services and opportunities for ratio and the Limited has recently concluded a
growth. This has been made possible by  
 large scale successful IPO. This was done in
the relentless hard work and dedication  
  
of our partners, colleagues, and the mobilisation accordance with regulatory requirements.
communities we serve. of deposits, 
  Conclusion
 all constitute Despite global headwinds there is
The Merger  
 tailwinds for considerable optimism about the
As I mentioned earlier, FY25 was the ﬁrst  
  
full year of the merger, and we have built your Bank. To use Indian economy which is expected to
  continue being the fastest growing large
upon it. As a merged entity, the HDFC a cricketing analogy, 
  economy in the world. The successful
Bank Group has several key subsidiaries  
 we focussed on taking 
  playing out of the merger synergies, the
with businesses in life as well as general  
 singles in the year that reduction in the credit deposit ratio and
insurance, mutual funds and brokerage,  
  the large scale mobilisation of deposits,
 concluded and are now 
positioning it as a strong ﬁnancial  
  all constitute tailwinds for your Bank. To
services conglomerate. positioned to go for the 
  use a cricketing analogy, we focussed
 boundaries. 
The mortgage business which was a key  on taking singles in the year that
component of the merger, has grown  concluded and are now positioned to go
from strength to strength and is now  for the boundaries.
the largest in the country. This portfolio  
  I’m proud of the contribution of our
has also been a catalyst for increased  
  colleagues across the country who
cross sell opportunities within the HDFC  
  have worked with passion to serve our
Bank Group. More than 95 per cent of  
  clients and our communities. My grateful
the incremental home loan customers  
  thanks to them and to our customers
are now opening CASA accounts  
  for their support and continued belief in
with the Bank, with over half of them  
  the brand. I would also like to extend my
opting for additional product offerings.  
  thanks to members of the Bank’s Board,
This enhances customer convenience  
  our regulators and all other stakeholders
while also strengthening the Bank’s  
  for their valuable support.
relationship with customers, helping  
it to become their primary banker. It  We remain committed to delivering
broadens the market opportunities  excellence.
through the multiplicity of products  
available to our customers.  Warm regards,
  Sashidhar Jagdishan
  Managing Director &
  Chief Executive Officer
  HDFC Bank Limited
B OA R D   O F   D I R E C TO R S          
 NRC AC  CSC  CSR  SRC PC RCWDI
1 2  3  4 & ESG 8 9  10
 RPMC NRC  CRNM    ISC SRC RCNCB
      CSC    
 ITSC RPMC  NRC     CSR RPMC
      ITSC   & ESG 
  ITSC  SRC      FMC
      PC   RPMC 
  ISC  RPMC      CSC
         FMC 
  RCWDI  CAC      ITSC
         CAC 
  RCNCB  PC      
    RCWDI      
    RCNCB      
    ISC      
  Independent Director Independent Director    
AC Audit Committee  CSR & ESG
CSR & ESG Committee CSC Customer Service Committee RCWDI Review Committee for Wilful Defaulter’s Identiﬁcation
    PC Premises Committee  
NRC  Nomination and Remuneration Committee CAC
Credit Approval Committee   RCNCB Review Committee for Non-Cooperative Borrowers
SRC Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee  ITSC
IT Strategy Committee ISC Investments Strategy Committee CRNM Committee for Resolution of NCLT Matters
RPMC Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee  FMC
Fraud Monitoring Committee    
    Chairperson Member  
PR O F I L E   O F   B OA R D   O F   D I R E C TO R S  
 funds with multilateral and bilateral State Fertilizers and Chemicals Ltd.
 ﬁnancial institutions and had multiple Mr. Chakraborty had published
1  
 interfaces with them. He also headed articles in reputed journals in the
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty a multi-disciplinary task force that areas of public ﬁnance, risk sharing
DIN: 01469375 produced the National Infrastructure in Infrastructure projects and
Part-Time Chairman and Pipeline (NIP). He has also served as gas infrastructure.
Independent Director Secretary to the Union Government 
  Mr. Chakraborty does not hold any
 for Disinvestment (DIPAM) wherein 
  shares of the Bank as on
 he was responsible for both policy as 
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, aged sixty-ﬁve  
  March 31, 2025.
 well as execution of the process of 
(65) years, served the Government  
 disinvestment of Government of India's Directorships in Other
of India, for a period of thirty-ﬁve  
 stake in state owned enterprises. Listed Companies
(35) years, as a member of Indian  
Administrative Service (IAS) in Gujarat  
 During the period 2002-07, Mr. Chakraborty does not hold
cadre. Mr. Chakraborty graduated as  
 Mr. Chakraborty served as Director directorship in any other listed entity.
a Bachelor in Engineering (Electronics  
 and subsequently as Joint Secretary, 
& Communication) from NIT  
 Ministry of Finance (Department of 
Kurukshetra. He holds a Diploma in  
 Expenditure). During this period, he 
  2
Business Finance (ICFAI, Hyderabad)  
 appraised projects in the Infrastructure 
and a Master's degree in Business  Mr. M. D. Ranganath
 sector as well as looked after 
Administration from the University of  DIN: 07565125
 subsidies of Government of India. He 
Hull, UK.  Independent Director
 had also updated and modernised 
 the Government's Financial & 
He has mainly worked in areas  
 Procurement rules. Mr. Chakraborty 
of Finance & Economic Policy,  
 has also discharged varied roles in the Mr. M. D. Ranganath, aged sixty-
Infrastructure, Petroleum & Natural  
 Gujarat State Government including three (63) years, has over 32 years of
Gas. In the Union Government, he  
 heading the Finance Department experience in the Global IT services
held various posts such as Secretary  
 as its Secretary. He had been and ﬁnancial services industry.
to Government of India in the Ministry  
 responsible for piloting the private Mr. Ranganath is a PGDM from IIM
of Finance (Dept. of Economic Affairs)  
 sector investment legislation in the Ahmedabad. He holds Master’s
during FY 2019-20. As Secretary  
 State. In the State Government, he has degree in Technology from IIT
(DEA), he coordinated economic policy  
 worked on the ground in both public Madras and a Bachelor’s degree
making for all ministries/departments  
 governance and development areas. in Engineering from the University
and managed entire process of  
  of Mysore. He is a member of
formulation of Budget making for  
 Mr. Chakraborty has also served on 
  CPA, Australia.
Union of India, including its passage  
 the Board of World Bank as alternate 
in Parliament. He was responsible  
 Governor as well as on the Central He is currently the Chairman of
for ﬁscal management policies,  
 Board of Directors of the RBI. He Catamaran Ventures LLP. He was
policies for public debt management  
 was also the Chairman of National Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of Infosys
and development & management of  
 Infrastructure Investment Fund (NIIF) Limited, a globally listed corporation,
ﬁnancial markets. Mr. Chakraborty  
 as also on the Board of many listed till November 2018.
also handled ﬁnancial stability and  
 companies. Mr. Chakraborty was 
currency, domestic & foreign related  
 also the CEO/MD of the GSPC group 
issues as well. He managed ﬂow of  
 of companies as well as Gujarat 
  Who Governs Us
During his tenure of 18 years at  Mr. Parekh does not hold any shares
Infosys, he was an integral part of the  of the Bank as on March 31, 2025.
growth and transformation of Infosys 3 M 
  Directorships in Other
 r. Sandeep Parekh 
and effectively played leadership roles  
  Listed Companies
 DIN: 03268043 
in a wide spectrum of areas such as  
 Independent Director 
Strategy, Finance, M&A, Consulting,  Mr. Parekh does not hold directorship
Risk Management and Corporate  in any other listed company.
Planning culminating in the role of  
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and worked  
 Mr. Sandeep Parekh, aged ﬁfty-three 
closely with the Board of Infosys and  
 (53) years, holds an LL.M. (Securities 4
its Committees in formulating and  
 and Financial Regulations) degree 
  Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
executing its strategic priorities. In the  
 from Georgetown University and an 
  DIN: 01641411
years 2017 and 2018, Mr. Ranganath  
 L.L.B. and L.L.M. degrees from Delhi 
  Independent Director
was the recipient of the Best CFO Asia  
 University. He is the managing partner 
award in the technology sector by  
 of Finsec Law Advisors, a ﬁnancial 
Institutional Investor publication based  
 sector law ﬁrm based in Mumbai. 
on a poll of buy side and sell side  Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari, aged
 He was an Executive Director at 
investor community.  ﬁfty-nine (59) years, has over thirty
 the Securities and Exchange Board 
  (30) years of experience and has
Prior to Infosys, he worked at ICICI  
 of India during 2006-08, heading 
  lived and worked in the US and India.
Limited and executed responsibilities  
 the Enforcement and Legal Affairs 
  She is a US Board certiﬁed Pediatric
in corporate credit, treasury,  
 departments. He is a visiting faculty 
  Cardiologist, who completed her
equity portfolio management and  
 at the Indian Institute of Management, 
  MBBS at Osmania Medical College
corporate planning.  
 Ahmedabad. He has worked for 
  followed by post-graduation at AIIMS,
 law ﬁrms in Delhi, Mumbai and 
Mr. Ranganath is on the board of  Delhi and Yale University in the US. In
 Washington, D.C. Mr. Parekh focuses 
Indian Institute of Management,  addition to being a clinician, Dr. (Mrs.)
 on securities regulations, investment 
Bangalore. He is a member of CII  Maheshwari is a medical entrepreneur
 regulations, private equity, corporate 
corporate governance council and  and co-founder at the Telerad Group
 governance and ﬁnancial regulations. 
GIFT city’s advisory committee on  which includes:
funds management.  
 He is admitted to practice law in 
  (a) A-Kal Televerse Private Limited
 New York. He was recognised by the 
Mr. Ranganath does not hold any  (India’s ﬁrst and largest teleradiology
 World Economic Forum as a 'Young 
shares of the Bank as on  company that has provided over 8
 Global Leader' in 2008. He was 
March 31, 2025.  million diagnostic reports to patients
 Chairman and member of various 
  and hospitals globally),
Directorships in Other  
 SEBI and RBI Committees and sub- 
Listed Companies  (b) Telerad Tech Private Limited
 Committees. He sits on the Advisory 
  which builds AI enabled tele health
 Committee of School for Regulatory 
Mr. Ranganath does not  
  software and
 Studies and Supervision (SRSS) 
hold directorship in any other  
 of National Institute of Securities 
listed company.  (c) RXDX Healthcare - a chain of
 Market (NISM). He has published 
  multi-specialty neighbourhood phygital
 op-eds in the Financial Times and the 
  clinics in Bangalore and rural India
 Economic Times. 
PR O F I L E   O F   B OA R D   O F   D I R E C TO R S  
(d) Daignostix Services Private Limited 2009; Yale University- Outstanding Mrs. Lily Vadera does not hold any
(Formely known as Avrio Technologies Fellow Teacher of the Year Award, shares of the Bank as on
Private Limited) 1995, amongst others. March 31, 2025.
Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari has also Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari does not hold Directorships in Other
incubated other start-up companies any shares of the Bank as on Listed Companies
in the telehealth space such as March 31, 2025. 
  Mrs. Lily Vadera does not
Healtheminds - a tele-counselling  
 Directorships in Other hold directorship in any other
platform. She is active in the social  
 Listed Companies listed company.
arena in India where she runs 2  
trust funds. ‘People4people’ has GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals 
put up over 650 playgrounds in Limited- Independent Director 
  6
government schools and Telerad  
Foundation provides teleradiology  
  Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
and telemedicine services to poor  
  DIN: 06417704
areas in Asia that do not have access 5 M 
 rs. Lily Vadera Independent Director
to high quality medical care. Her  
 DIN: 09400410 
other interests include teaching. Dr.  
 Independent Director 
(Mrs.) Maheshwari has been running  
  Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala,
India’s e-teaching programme for  
  aged sixty-three (63) years, has
postgraduates in Pediatric Cardiology  
  a vast experience of more than
for over a decade. She is a mentor in Mrs. Lily Vadera, aged sixty-four 
  38 years in areas such as Board
Residence for the Sustainable Health (64) years, has over 33 years of 
  governance & management, Finance,
Initiative of the Yale Institute for Global experience in Central banking. She 
  Rural development, promoting &
Health where she along with her is a M.A in International Relations. 
  supporting sustainable agriculture,
spouse have instituted the Kalyanpur- She retired as an Executive Director 
  and supervision & development of
Maheshwari Endowment for Global from the RBI in October 2020. As the 
  Rural Cooperative Banks. He earned
Health Innovation. She is currently Executive Director of the RBI, she 
  a B.Sc. in Dairy Technology from
the President of the Pediatric Cardiac was in-charge of the Department of 
  National Dairy Research Institute
Society of India. Regulation (DoR) where she dealt with 
  (NDRI), Karnal.
 the regulatory framework for various 
Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari has over  
 entities in ﬁnancial sector, covering all Dr. (Mr.) Bhanwala is a Postgraduate
200 academic presentations and  
 categories of banks and non-banking in Management from IIM, Ahmedabad
publications to her credit and is an  
 ﬁnance companies. and holds a Ph.D. in Management.
inspirational speaker having given  
  He has been awarded an honorary
over 200 lectures, including several She was instrumental in putting in 
  doctorate in Science by Tamil Nadu
TEDx talks. Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari is place a framework for a regulatory 
  Agricultural University, Coimbatore,
the recipient of several prestigious sandbox to provide an enabling 
  and the Indian Council of Agricultural
awards and honours including: environment for ﬁntech players to 
  Research-Central Institute of Fisheries
Trailblazing Indian Cardiac leader at foster innovation in ﬁnancial services 
  Education, Mumbai.
the ET Indian Cardiac Care Innovation and played a signiﬁcant role in the 
Summit 2024, Business world’s 20 amalgamation of banks in stress. He was the Chairman of the
most inﬂuential women in healthcare She represented RBI and played an National Bank for Agriculture and
2022, WOW (Woman of Worth) 2019 important role as a member of the Rural Development (NABARD), the
award, Amazing Indian award- Times Insolvency Law Committee set up by Apex Development Bank of the
Now 2014; Top 20 women Health care the Ministry of Corporate Country from December 18, 2013,
achievers in India, Modern Medicare Affairs (MCA). 
  Who Governs Us
to May 27, 2020. He has been the  Currently, Mr. Keshavan is the
Executive Director and later Chairman  Executive Vice President and Chief
 7 
cum Managing Director of India  Technology & Operations Ofﬁcer
Infrastructure Finance Company  of Voya Financial Inc (NASDAQ:
 Mr. Santhosh Keshavan 
Ltd. (IIFCL). He has also been the  VOYA) and is a member of the
 DIN: 08466631 
Managing Director of the Delhi State  Voya’s Executive Committee. The
 Independent Director 
Cooperative Bank. Recently, he also  transformation at Voya was focused on
served as the Executive Chairman of  Digital and Data infrastructure creating
a listed NBFC (Capital India Finance  new capabilities for customers,
 Mr. Santhosh Keshavan, aged ﬁfty- 
Limited). He is also a director of  radically enhancing customer
 one (51) years, is a strategic executive 
Microﬁnance Industry Network  experience across all channels and
 with 30 years of global business and 
(Association of NBFC- MFIs).  cost optimisation through ecosystem
 technology experience in ﬁnancial 
  simpliﬁcation, migration to public
 industries. Mr. Keshavan has a BS 
Dr. (Mr.) Bhanwala headed the  
  cloud and elimination of legacy
 degree in Computer Science from 
Technical Group appointed by  
  technology. He was instrumental in
 University of Mysore and Master of 
SEBI on the Social Stock Exchange  
  starting Voya India, currently serving
 Business Administration (MBA) in 
(September 2020). He was a member  
  as Chairperson, which is serving
 Information Systems from University of 
of the Expert Committee on the  
  as a crucial talent base and global
 Alabama, Birmingham (UAB). 
Primary (Urban) Cooperative Banks  
  capabilities canter for Voya.
of the RBI constituted after the  
 His experience includes major 
amendment in the Banking Regulation  Before joining Voya in 2017,
 business transformations, M&A, 
Act, 1949.  Mr. Keshavan served as Chief
 managing product launches, setting 
  Information Ofﬁcer, core banking for
 up global operations and managing 
He has broad experience with  
  Regions Financial Corp (NASDAQ: RF).
 companies through ﬁnancial 
Deposit Insurance & Credit Guarantee  
  He managed the technology teams,
 challenges. A performance driven 
Corporation (DICGC), IRMA (Institute  
  integration of Regions Financial Corp
 executive, he has an entrepreneurial 
of Rural Management Anand), National  
  and AmSouth Bank and was part of
 mindset, accumulated from diverse 
Institute of Bank Management (NIBM),  
  the management team for turning the
 experience spanning startups, 
and as an Independent Director on  
  bank to sustained proﬁtability post
 technology companies to large 
the boards of Bayer Crop Science and  
  2007 ﬁnancial crisis. Mr. Keshavan
 publicly traded banking and ﬁnancial 
Arya Collateral Warehousing Services  
  was previously the Vice President of
 corporations. 
Private Limited. He has served as Vice  
  technology at Fidelity Investments
Chairman of the Asia-Paciﬁc Rural  
 Mr. Keshavan is deeply knowledgeable 
  where he led all aspects of pricing
and Agricultural Credit Association  
 about enterprise technology, cyber 
  and cash management supporting the
(APRACA).  
 security, operations, customer 
  investment management and treasury
 experience, strategic planning, vendor 
Dr. (Mr.) Bhanwala holds 100 equity  functions. Prior to this role, he worked
 management, ﬁnancial analysis, and 
shares of the Bank as on  for SunGard Data Systems (now
 overall risk management. He has 
March 31, 2025.  Fidelity Information Services – FIS) in
 worked across retirement, employee 
  various roles and eventually named
Directorships in Other  
 beneﬁts, asset management, 
  as Managing Director of Retirement
Listed Companies  
 insurance and banking sectors. He 
  Services for International Operations.
 has extensive experience partnering 
Multi-Commodity Exchange of  He managed global teams with P&L
 with technology, audit, HR, and 
India Limited – Non-Executive  responsibility and grew the business
 risk committees. 
(Independent) Chairman  unit setting up green ﬁeld operations
  including Japan, Australia and India.
  Mr. Keshavan started his career as a
  software developer for a start up in
  Bangalore, India.
PR O F I L E   O F   B OA R D   O F   D I R E C TO R S  
Mr. Keshavan currently serves on Exchange Board of India (SEBI). He is 
the board of trustee for New York also the Co-Chair of the B20 [South 
  9
Institute of Technology (since 2021). Africa 2025] Task Force on Integrity 
He also served on the board of & Compliance. 
  Mrs. Renu Karnad
Connecticut Insurance and Financial  
  DIN: 00008064
 Mr. Mistry is currently a member of 
Services, which is part of department  
  Non-Executive
 the Expert Committee constituted 
of economic development (DECD)  
  (Non Independent) Director
 by SEBI for facilitating ease of doing 
for state of CT from April 2018 to  
 business and harmonisation of the 
March 2024.  
 provisions of the SEBI (Issue of 
  Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad, aged 72
Mr. Keshavan does not hold any Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
  years, was the Managing Director
shares of the Bank as on Regulations, 2018 with that of SEBI 
  of Housing Development Finance
March 31, 2025. (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
  Corporation Limited (“HDFC Limited”)
 Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
  prior to its amalgamation with the
Directorships in Other Mr. Mistry chairs the Working Group 
  Bank w.e.f. July 1, 2023.
Listed Companies 1 of the Expert Committee. He is 
 also a Chairman of the Governance She is a post graduate in Economics
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan does  
 Committee of Corporate Debt Market and Law. She is a Parvin Fellow,
not hold directorship in any other  
 Development Fund of SBI Fund Woodrow Wilson School of
listed company.  
 Management Ltd and FICCI’s Capital International Affairs, Princeton
 Markets Committee - specialised sub- University, USA. She brings with
 group on Debt. her rich experience and enormous
  knowledge of the mortgage sector,
8  
Directorships in Other Mr. Mistry is also a member of 
  having been associated with real
Listed Companies Standing Committee on Primary 
  estate & mortgage industry in India for
Mr. Keki Mistry  
 Markets, which has been constituted 
Mr. Keshavan does not hold  over 40 years.
DIN: 00008886  
 by the International Financial Services 
directorship in any other  
Non-Executive  
 Centres Authority [IFSCA]. Mrs. Karnad joined HDFC Limited in
listed company.  
(Non-Independent) Director  
  1978 and was inducted onto its Board
 Mr. Mistry holds 10,98,629 equity 
  in 2000. She has been instrumental in
 shares of the Bank as on 
  building the retail distribution network
Mr. Keki M. Mistry aged seventy March 31, 2025. 
  at HDFC Limited and has played key
(70) years, was the Vice Chairman &  
 Directorships in Other role in introducing several innovative
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Housing  
 Listed Companies & customer friendly products and
Development Finance Corporation  
  services in the mortgage market.
Limited (HDFC Limited) prior to its − HDFC Life Insurance Company 
  Apart from being HDFC Limited’s
amalgamation with the Bank w.e.f. Limited- Non-Executive Chairman 
  brand custodian, Mrs. Karnad was
July 1, 2023.  
 − Tata Consultancy Services Limited- 
  the guiding force behind formulation
 Independent Director 
Mr. Mistry is a qualiﬁed Chartered  of the organisation’s communication
Accountant and a Fellow Member of − The Great Eastern Shipping strategy, digital transformation, and
the Institute of Chartered Accountants Company Limited- public image.
of India. He is a renowned professional Independent Director 
  As a part of the management team,
with over four decades of varied  
 − HDFC ERGO General Insurance 
  Mrs. Karnad has played an important
work experience in banking and  
 Company Limited (Debt Listed)- 
  role in the successful transformation
ﬁnancial services domain. Mr. Mistry  
 Non-Executive Chairman 
  of HDFC Limited into India’s leading
is the Chairman of the Primary  
  Financial Services Conglomerate.
Market Advisory committee (PMAC)  
  Mrs. Karnad has served as the
constituted by the Securities and  
  President of International Union
PR O F I L E   O F   B OA R D   O F   D I R E C TO R S  
Mr. Keshavan currently serves on Exchange Board of India (SEBI). He is 
the board of trustee for New York also the Co-Chair of the B20 [South 
  9
Institute of Technology (since 2021). Africa 2025] Task Force on Integrity 
He also served on the board of & Compliance. 
  Mrs. Renu Karnad
Connecticut Insurance and Financial  
  DIN: 00008064
 Mr. Mistry is currently a member of 
Services, which is part of department  
  Non-Executive
 the Expert Committee constituted 
of economic development (DECD)  
  (Non Independent) Director
 by SEBI for facilitating ease of doing 
for state of CT from April 2018 to  
 business and harmonisation of the 
March 2024.  
 provisions of the SEBI (Issue of 
  Mrs. Renu Sud Karnad, aged 72
Mr. Keshavan does not hold any Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
  years, was the Managing Director
shares of the Bank as on Regulations, 2018 with that of SEBI 
  of Housing Development Finance
March 31, 2025. (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
  Corporation Limited (“HDFC Limited”)
 Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
  prior to its amalgamation with the
Directorships in Other Mr. Mistry chairs the Working Group 
  Bank w.e.f. July 1, 2023.
Listed Companies 1 of the Expert Committee. He is 
 also a Chairman of the Governance She is a post graduate in Economics
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan does  
 Committee of Corporate Debt Market and Law. She is a Parvin Fellow,
not hold directorship in any other  
 Development Fund of SBI Fund Woodrow Wilson School of
listed company.  
 Management Ltd and FICCI’s Capital International Affairs, Princeton
 Markets Committee - specialised sub- University, USA. She brings with
 group on Debt. her rich experience and enormous
  knowledge of the mortgage sector,
8  
Directorships in Other Mr. Mistry is also a member of 
  having been associated with real
Listed Companies Standing Committee on Primary 
  estate & mortgage industry in India for
Mr. Keki Mistry  
 Markets, which has been constituted 
Mr. Keshavan does not hold  over 40 years.
DIN: 00008886  
 by the International Financial Services 
directorship in any other  
Non-Executive  
 Centres Authority [IFSCA]. Mrs. Karnad joined HDFC Limited in
listed company.  
(Non-Independent) Director  
  1978 and was inducted onto its Board
 Mr. Mistry holds 10,98,629 equity 
  in 2000. She has been instrumental in
 shares of the Bank as on 
  building the retail distribution network
Mr. Keki M. Mistry aged seventy March 31, 2025. 
  at HDFC Limited and has played key
(70) years, was the Vice Chairman &  
 Directorships in Other role in introducing several innovative
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Housing  
 Listed Companies & customer friendly products and
Development Finance Corporation  
  services in the mortgage market.
Limited (HDFC Limited) prior to its − HDFC Life Insurance Company 
  Apart from being HDFC Limited’s
amalgamation with the Bank w.e.f. Limited- Non-Executive Chairman 
  brand custodian, Mrs. Karnad was
July 1, 2023.  
 − Tata Consultancy Services Limited- 
  the guiding force behind formulation
 Independent Director 
Mr. Mistry is a qualiﬁed Chartered  of the organisation’s communication
Accountant and a Fellow Member of − The Great Eastern Shipping strategy, digital transformation, and
the Institute of Chartered Accountants Company Limited- public image.
of India. He is a renowned professional Independent Director 
  As a part of the management team,
with over four decades of varied  
 − HDFC ERGO General Insurance 
  Mrs. Karnad has played an important
work experience in banking and  
 Company Limited (Debt Listed)- 
  role in the successful transformation
ﬁnancial services domain. Mr. Mistry  
 Non-Executive Chairman 
  of HDFC Limited into India’s leading
is the Chairman of the Primary  
  Financial Services Conglomerate.
Market Advisory committee (PMAC)  
  Mrs. Karnad has served as the
constituted by the Securities and  
  President of International Union
  Who Governs Us
for Housing Finance (IUHF), an  Mr. Jagdishan holds 17,40,443 equity
association of housing ﬁnance ﬁrms  shares of the Bank as on
 10 
present across the globe till 2024.  March 31, 2025.
She has also served as a Director,  
 Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 
  Directorships in Other
Asian Real Estate Society.  
 DIN: 08614396 
  Listed Companies
 Managing Director and 
Over the years, Ms. Karnad has  
  Mr. Jagdishan does not hold
 Chief Executive Officer 
had to her credit, numerous awards  
  directorship in any other
and accolades. She was awarded  
  listed company.
"Outstanding Woman Business  
 Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, aged sixty 
Leader" at the CNBC-TV18 Indian  
 (60) years, is the Managing Director 
Business Leader Awards (IBLA) 2012,  
 and the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the 11
was part of the 25 Most Inﬂuential  
 Bank. He has an overall experience 
Women Professionals in India – India  
 of thirty-two (32) years. He has Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
Today Magazine’s power list 2011,  
 completed his graduation in Science DIN: 02490648
has featured in the ET – Corporate  
 with specialisation in Physics, is a Deputy Managing Director
Dossier list of India Inc’s ‘Top 15  
 Chartered Accountant by profession 
powerful women CEOs’ in 2010,  
 and holds a Master’s degree in 
Verve, international magazine’s list  
  Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, aged sixty
 Economics of Money, Banking 
of 50 power women in 2010 and in  
  (60) years, is the Deputy Managing
 & Finance from the University of 
Business Today magazine's list of  
  Director (DMD) of the Bank.
 Shefﬁeld, United Kingdom. 
'Most Powerful Women in Indian  
  Mr. Bharucha holds a Bachelor’s
Business' for seven years up to 2012, Mr. Jagdishan joined the Bank in the 
  degree in Commerce (B.Com) from
in year 2013 she was inducted into year 1996 as a Manager in the Finance 
  Sydenham College of Commerce and
Hall of Fame, Fortune India Magazine’s function. He became the Business 
  Economics (University of Mumbai).
most powerful women from 2011 to Head - Finance in 1999 and was 
  A career banker with more than 39
2018, has featured amongst the list appointed as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in 
  years of experience, he has been
of '25 top non-banking women in the year 2008. He played a critical role 
  an integral part of the Bank since its
ﬁnance' by U.S. Banker magazine in in supporting the growth trajectory of 
  inception in 1995. Among his several
2008, In 2006, Wall Street Journal the Bank and led the ﬁnance function 
  contributions in building the Bank,
Asia adjudged her among the 'Top Ten with a pivotal role in aligning the 
  he has played a key role in building
Powerful Women to Watch Out for organisation in achieving the strategic 
  the credit and risk frameworks that
in Asia'. objectives over the years. 
  underpin the Bank’s operations.
Mrs. Karnad, holds 45,97,949 equity In 2019, he was appointed as the 
  These frameworks have supported
shares of the Bank as on “Strategic Change Agent of the Bank”. 
  the Bank’s consistent growth,
March 31, 2025. Prior to his appointment as Managing 
  safeguarding its ability to navigate
 Director and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
Directorships in Other  
  volatile economic conditions
 of the Bank, Mr. Jagdishan was the 
Listed Companies  
  effectively.
 Group Head of the Bank and headed 
− GlaxoSmithKline the Finance, Human Resources, 
  As DMD, he oversees a broad
Pharmaceuticals Limited- Non- Legal & Secretarial, Corporate 
  spectrum of responsibilities within
Executive Chairperson Communications, Infrastructure & 
  the Bank. Mr. Bharucha heads the
 Administration as well as Corporate 
− HDFC Asset Management Company  Wholesale Banking, PSUs, MNC,
 Social Responsibility funtions. 
Limited- Non-Executive Director  Capital & Commodity Markets
  and Realty Business Finance,
− EIH Limited- Independent Director  
  Mr. Bharucha also manages Inclusive
− HDFC ERGO General Insurance  
  Banking Initiative group, Corporate
Company Limited (Debt Listed)  
 Managing Director and 
Over the years, Ms. Karnad has  
  Mr. Jagdishan does not hold
 Chief Executive Officer 
had to her credit, numerous awards  
  directorship in any other
and accolades. She was awarded  
  listed company.
"Outstanding Woman Business  
 Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, aged sixty 
Leader" at the CNBC-TV18 Indian  
 (60) years, is the Managing Director 
Business Leader Awards (IBLA) 2012,  
 and the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the 11
was part of the 25 Most Inﬂuential  
 Bank. He has an overall experience 
Women Professionals in India – India  
 of thirty-two (32) years. He has Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
Today Magazine’s power list 2011,  
 completed his graduation in Science DIN: 02490648
has featured in the ET – Corporate  
 with specialisation in Physics, is a Deputy Managing Director
Dossier list of India Inc’s ‘Top 15  
 Chartered Accountant by profession 
powerful women CEOs’ in 2010,  
 and holds a Master’s degree in 
Verve, international magazine’s list  
  Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, aged sixty
 Economics of Money, Banking 
of 50 power women in 2010 and in  
  (60) years, is the Deputy Managing
 & Finance from the University of 
Business Today magazine's list of  
  Director (DMD) of the Bank.
 Shefﬁeld, United Kingdom. 
'Most Powerful Women in Indian  
  Mr. Bharucha holds a Bachelor’s
Business' for seven years up to 2012, Mr. Jagdishan joined the Bank in the 
  degree in Commerce (B.Com) from
in year 2013 she was inducted into year 1996 as a Manager in the Finance 
  Sydenham College of Commerce and
Hall of Fame, Fortune India Magazine’s function. He became the Business 
  Economics (University of Mumbai).
most powerful women from 2011 to Head - Finance in 1999 and was 
  A career banker with more than 39
2018, has featured amongst the list appointed as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in 
  years of experience, he has been
of '25 top non-banking women in the year 2008. He played a critical role 
  an integral part of the Bank since its
ﬁnance' by U.S. Banker magazine in in supporting the growth trajectory of 
  inception in 1995. Among his several
2008, In 2006, Wall Street Journal the Bank and led the ﬁnance function 
  contributions in building the Bank,
Asia adjudged her among the 'Top Ten with a pivotal role in aligning the 
  he has played a key role in building
Powerful Women to Watch Out for organisation in achieving the strategic 
  the credit and risk frameworks that
in Asia'. objectives over the years. 
  underpin the Bank’s operations.
Mrs. Karnad, holds 45,97,949 equity In 2019, he was appointed as the 
  These frameworks have supported
shares of the Bank as on “Strategic Change Agent of the Bank”. 
  the Bank’s consistent growth,
March 31, 2025. Prior to his appointment as Managing 
  safeguarding its ability to navigate
 Director and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
Directorships in Other  
  volatile economic conditions
 of the Bank, Mr. Jagdishan was the 
Listed Companies  
  effectively.
 Group Head of the Bank and headed 
− GlaxoSmithKline the Finance, Human Resources, 
  As DMD, he oversees a broad
Pharmaceuticals Limited- Non- Legal & Secretarial, Corporate 
  spectrum of responsibilities within
Executive Chairperson Communications, Infrastructure & 
  the Bank. Mr. Bharucha heads the
 Administration as well as Corporate 
− HDFC Asset Management Company  Wholesale Banking, PSUs, MNC,
 Social Responsibility funtions. 
Limited- Non-Executive Director  Capital & Commodity Markets
  and Realty Business Finance,
− EIH Limited- Independent Director  
  Mr. Bharucha also manages Inclusive
− HDFC ERGO General Insurance  
  Banking Initiative group, Corporate
Company Limited (Debt Listed)  
Non-Executive Director  
(Nominee of the Bank)  
PR O F I L E   O F   B OA R D   O F   D I R E C TO R S  
Social Responsibility (CSR) and Directorships in Other Mr. Zaveri joined the Bank in 1998 in
Environmental, Social & Governance Listed Companies the Operations function. He became
(ESG) functions.  Business Head – Wholesale Banking
 − HDFC Life Insurance Company 
  Operations in the year 2000 and
In his current role as DMD, he Limited- Non-Executive Director 
  was appointed as Group Head -
co-chaired and spearheaded the (Nominee of the Bank) 
  Operations in 2009. He assumed
Integration Committee, which was  
  additional responsibilities of the
tasked with the responsibility of  
  Information Technology function in
ensuring complete integration for the  
 12 
  2015. In his previous role as Group
smooth merger of HDFC Ltd. with  
  Head - IT, he has contributed to the
HDFC Bank.  
 Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri 
  Digital transformation of the Bank
 DIN: 01550468 
Mr. Bharucha joined the Board of  by embracing technology to ensure
 Executive Director 
the Bank in 2014 and is its longest  operational efﬁciency resulting in
– serving Executive Board member.  improved customer experience across
During his tenure as the Bank’s  different product offerings of the Bank.
 Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, aged ﬁfty- 
Executive Director, he managed  
 nine (59) years, has over 37 years Mr. Zaveri has also participated in
diverse portfolios including Corporate  
 of experience. He is the Executive RBI’s Internal Payments Council
Banking, Capital & Commodities  
 Director of the Bank and heads the Meet and was part of the Umbrella
Markets, Emerging Corporates,  
 ATM, Operations and Administration Organisation for Payments Committee
Business Banking, Healthcare  
 functions. Mr. Zaveri holds a Master's of 2004 that led to the formation of
Finance, Agri-lending, Tractor  
 Degree in Commerce from Mumbai National Payment Corporation of
Financing, Commercial Vehicle  
 University and is a Certiﬁed Associate India (NPCI). He is the only elected
Finance, Infrastructure Finance and  
 of the Indian Institute of Bankers. Indian from India on the SWIFT Scrl
Inclusive Banking Initiatives.  
  Global Board, Brussels. He has been
 Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri oversees 
Under his leadership, the Bank’s CSR  featured twice in the “Who’s Who in
 Operations, Cash Management, ATM 
Programme, is amongst the top three  Treasury and Cash Management”
 Product & Administration of the Bank. 
in the country. Mr. Bharucha is also  by Global Trade Review. He has also
 In his current role, he is responsible for 
the chief sponsor of Diversity and  been a member of various committees
 Business and Operations across the 
Inclusion initiatives at the Bank.  formed by the RBI and Indian
 country and for creating and delivering 
  Banks’ Association.
Mr. Bharucha also serves as the a ﬂawless operations execution 
Designated Director for the Financial capability across the diversiﬁed Prior to joining the Bank, Mr. Zaveri
Intelligence Unit (FIU) and the Internal product suite of the Bank to the worked for Oman International Bank
Ombudsman Committee. He has Corporate, MSME & Retail verticals and Barclays Bank.
been a part of the Reserve Bank of including for Asset, for Liabilities 
  Mr. Zaveri holds 1,89,154 shares of the
India committees, sub committees and for Transaction Services of 
  Bank as on March 31, 2025.
as well as government appointed Payments & Cash Management, Trade 
inter-ministerial committee. He also Finance & Treasury, ATM Product & Directorships in Other
regularly engages with regulators and Administration. He has headed the Listed Companies
government bodies to provide views critical functions of Operations, Cash 
  Mr. Zaveri does not hold directorship
on policy. Management and Technology at 
  in any other listed company.
 the Bank. 
Mr. Bharucha holds 22,43,241 equity  
shares of the Bank as on  
March 31, 2025.  
 He has been a member of various
 committees related to ﬁnancial
13 
 services such as RBI’s Committee
 on Asset Securitisation and
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan 
 Mortgage Backed Securitisation,
DIN: 00030248 
 Technical Group formed by National
Executive Director 
 Housing Bank (NHB) for setting up
 of a Secondary Mortgage market
 Institution in India, NHB’s Working
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, aged 
 Group on Covered Bonds and
sixty-ﬁve (65) years, is the Executive 
 NHB’s Working Group on Credit
Director of the Bank and heads 
 Enhancement Mechanism.
the Human Resources, Corporate 
Legal, Group Oversight & Secretarial, 
 Mr. Rangan was conferred the "Best
Investment Banking, Information 
 CFO in the Financial Sector for 2010"
Security Group, Ethics Function 
 by ICAI. He was also honoured with
and Fraud & Vigilance functions of 
 “Lifetime Achievement Award” at the
the Bank. 
 sixth edition of Financial Express CFO
 Awards 2023.
He holds a Bachelor’s degree in 
Commerce from University of Delhi 
 Mr. Rangan holds 15,31,698 equity
and is an Associate of the Institute of 
 shares of the Bank as on
Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). 
 March 31, 2025.
Mr. Rangan was an Executive Director 
 Directorship in Other
& Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of HDFC 
 Listed Companies
Limited prior to its amalgamation with 
 − HDFC Asset Management
the Bank w.e.f. July 1, 2023 and is an 
 Company Limited- Non-Executive
expert in ﬁnance, accountancy, audit, 
 Director (Nominee of the Bank)
economics, corporate governance, 
legal & regulatory compliance, risk 
management and strategic thinking. 
He has a vast experience in the 
housing ﬁnance and real estate 
sector. Mr. Rangan has worked on 
international consulting assignments 
in housing ﬁnance in Ghana 
and Maldives. 
    Rakesh Singh Raveesh Kumar Bhatia  
Sashidhar Jagdishan Kaizad Bharucha Bhavesh Zaveri V Srinivasa Rangan   Ravi Santhanam Sampath Sathyamurthy Kumar
    Group Head - Financial Institutions, Group Head - Emerging  
Managing Director and Deputy Managing Director Executive Director Executive Director   Chief Marketing Officer, Head - Group Head - Retail Branch
    International Banking, Corporates Group and Health  
Chief Executive Officer      Direct to Consumer Business Banking II
    Private Banking & BaaS Care Finance  
  Anjani Kumar Rathor Sanjay John D Souza Sanmoy Chakrabarti Smita A Bhagat Srinivasan Vaidyanathan
Abhijit Singh Ajay Agarwal Arup Kumar Rakshit    
  Group Head - Digital & Group Head-Business Group Chief Risk Ofﬁcer Group Head - Retail Branch Chief Financial Officer
Group Head-BaaS,Digital Company Secretary and Group Head - Treasury    
  Customer Experience, Banking, Emerging & Micro  Banking I 
Ecosystem and Group Head-Secretarial &     
  Quality Initiative Group Enterprises Group   
International Banking Group Oversight     
1 3 6
Abhijit Singh Anjani Kumar Rathor Ashima Khanna Bhat
Group Head-BaaS, Digital Ecosystem Group Head - Digital & Customer Group Head - Virtual Channels,
and International Banking Experience, Quality Initiative Group Virtual Care, Business Enhancement
  Unit, Channel Enablement Group
  and Infrastructure
Mr. Abhijit Singh is the Head of  
 Mr. Anjani Rathor is the Head - Digital 
Group Head-BaaS, Digital Ecosystem Group Head - Digital & Customer Group Head - Virtual Channels,
and International Banking Experience, Quality Initiative Group Virtual Care, Business Enhancement
  Unit, Channel Enablement Group
  and Infrastructure
Mr. Abhijit Singh is the Head of  
 Mr. Anjani Rathor is the Head - Digital 
Banking as a service (BaaS), Digital  
 & Customer Experience and Quality 
  Ms. Ashima Bhat is the Head of Virtual
Ecosystem Banking and International  
 Initiative Group. He is responsible 
  Relationship, Virtual Care, Virtual Sales
Banking. He has an MBA in Finance  
 for Digital Experience, Customer 
  Channels, BEU and Infrastructure
from Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of  
 Experience and Data. He holds 
  functions at the Bank. Ms. Ashima
Management Studies, Mumbai  
 a postgraduate diploma from IIM 
  Bhat has been with the Bank since
and holds a bachelor’s degree in  
 Calcutta and a bachelor’s degree in 
  its inception in 1994. In her 30 plus
engineering from the University  
 technology from IIT Kharagpur. He has 
  years journey with the Bank, she has
of Mumbai with over 25 years or  
 over 28 years of experience and joined 
  managed diverse portfolios.
experience. He has done pioneering  
 the Bank in February 2020. 
work in emerging technologies  
8 10 13
Gourab Roy N Srinivasan Prashant Ramesh Mehra
Group Head – Transactional Group Head – Retail Asset Operations Group Head - Collections,
Banking Operations  Credit Intelligence and Control,
  Debt Management
 Mr. N.Srinivasan is Head of retail 
Gourab Roy N Srinivasan Prashant Ramesh Mehra
Group Head – Transactional Group Head – Retail Asset Operations Group Head - Collections,
Banking Operations  Credit Intelligence and Control,
  Debt Management
 Mr. N.Srinivasan is Head of retail 
 Assets Operations at the Bank. He 
Mr. Gourab Roy is the Head of  
 is a Chartered Accountant, Cost 
Transaction Banking Operations at  Mr. Prashant Ramesh Mehra is the
 Accountant and a Company Secretary. 
the Bank. He holds a Master degree  Head – Collections, Credit Intelligence
 He has over 34 years of experience in 
in Commerce. He has over 33  and Control and Debt Management
 ﬁnancial services including 29 years in 
years of experience in the ﬁnancial  at HDFC Bank. In this role, he is
 banking operations. 
services industry.  responsible for ensuring the portfolio
  quality, debt management and NPA
  control for the retail lending product
 11 
  segments of the Bank. Mr. Mehra has
9  
 Nirav Vimal Shah 
  been with the Bank since December
Jimmy M Tata Group Head - Corporate Banking, 
  1998. He holds a bachelor’s degree in
Chief Credit Officer and Group Head - Emerging Corporate Group & 
  production engineering and an MBA
Collections, Debt Management, Credit Healthcare Finance 
  from Mumbai University. He is having
Intelligence & Control, Credit Analytics  
  more than 30 years of experience.
and Innovation, Retail Credit Strategy  
 Mr. Nirav Shah is the Head of 
PR O F I L E   O F   L E A D E R S H I P   T E A M  
from Mumbai University and an MBA the Bank’s products and services 
from the University of Pune. He is an to the mid-market segment and 
  21
industry veteran with over 25 years healthcare segment. Mr. Bhatia joined 
  Sanjay John D Souza
of experience. HDFC Bank in 2009 and has over 
  Group Head – Business Banking Group,
 three decades of work experience. 
  Emerging Enterprises Group & Micro
 Mr. Bhatia holds an MBA from 
  Enterprise Group
 IIM Ahmedabad. 
16  
 three decades of work experience. 
  Emerging Enterprises Group & Micro
 Mr. Bhatia holds an MBA from 
  Enterprise Group
 IIM Ahmedabad. 
16  
Rakesh Kumar Rajput  
  Mr. Sanjay D’Souza is the Head of
Group Chief Compliance Officer-  
  Business Banking Group, Emerging
 19 
(Compliance)  
  and Informal Micro Enterprises Group
 Ravi Santhanam 
  at the Bank. Mr. D’Souza holds a
 Chief Marketing Officer, 
  Master’s degree in Management
Mr. Rakesh Kumar Rajput is the  
 Head - Direct to Consumer Business 
  Studies from the Sydenham Institute
Chief Compliance Ofﬁcer at the  
  of Management Studies, as well as
Bank since October 2023. Mr. Rajput  
  a Bachelor’s degree in Mechanical
holds a Bachelor of Science (Honrs) Mr. Ravi Santhanam is Head and Chief 
  Engineering from The National Institute
and is a Certiﬁed Associate of the Marketing Ofﬁcer and Head – Direct 
  of Technology, Karnataka. He is a
Indian Institute of Bankers He holds to Consumer Business at HDFC Bank. 
  seasoned banking professional with
an advanced Diploma in Business He is responsible for driving the digital 
  33 years of overall experience.
Management. He has 30 years origination and fulﬁllment of all Bank 
of experience. products and all Direct to Consumer 
  Who Governs Us
Rajasthan. She has more than  his leadership and strategic skills at
30 years of experience in banking  the Indian Institute of Management,
 26 
and joined the Bank in 1999.  Lucknow. He is having more than
 Suketu Kapadia 
  30 years of experience.
 Group Head - Internal Audit 
 Suketu Kapadia 
  30 years of experience.
 Group Head - Internal Audit 
24  
  29
 Mr. Suketu Kapadia is the Group Head 
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan  
 of Internal Audit function at the Bank. 
  Vinayak Ravindra Mavinkurve
Chief Financial Officer, (Finance  
 He is a Chartered Accountant and a 
  Group Head – Realty Business Finance
including Business Intelligence Unit,  
 member of The Institute of Chartered 
Corporate Communications)  
 Accountants of India and holds a 
  Mr. Vinayak Mavinkurve is the Head of
 Bachelor’s degree in Commerce 
  Realty Business Finance at the Bank.
Mr. Srinivasan Vaidyanathan is the from Mumbai University. He is also a 
  He holds a B.Tech degree in Electrical
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer at the Bank. Certiﬁed Information Systems Auditor. 
  Engineering from VJTI, Mumbai and an
He is a commerce graduate from Mr. Kapadia is an audit professional 
  MMS degree from NMIMS, Mumbai.
Madras University. He is a Fellow of with more than 29 years of experience 
  He has 31 years of experience.
India Chartered Accountants and in Assurance, Risk Management, 
Cost & Management Accountants, Finance and Consulting. 
Fellow of the UK Association of  
O U R   PR E S E N C E 
Expanding 
Reach, 
Deepening 
Relationships 
 HDFC Bank is focused on expanding its distribution
HDFC Bank’s expanding branch 
 network to ensure sustainable funding for the future
network, backed by digital and tap into new markets. Opening new branches is
 about getting future ready as going by past experience
capabilities, ensures deeper 
 maximum deposit mobilisation takes place from older
customer engagement, drives 
 branches. The Bank’s expanded branch network and
deposit growth, and broadens 
 digital platforms have enabled effective reach across
ﬁnancial access especially in the urban and rural markets Moreover, it believes that
 physical presence will be an integral component in
semi-urban and rural regions. 
 customer engagement. As digitalisation advances, the
 branches are evolving from being mere transaction
 points into customer experience hubs, fostering
 deeper customer relationships and enhancing the
 overall banking experience.
 Our strategically located 9,455 branches (51 per cent
 are in semi-urban and rural areas), help enhance
 customer service and broaden access to previously
 underserved markets. Our overseas branches are
 tailored to meet the speciﬁc needs of Non-Resident
 Indian (NRI) customers.
 HDFC Bank's extensive distribution includes
 branches, Business Correspondents (BCs),
 ATMs, Cash Recycler Machines (CRMs) and
 merchant services—ensuring widespread customer
 accessibility. Further, the merger strengthens our
 geographic coverage by integrating HDFC Limited's
 footprint with the Bank’s pan India network,
 ensuring comprehensive service across the country.
 Complementing this physical presence, our digital
 platforms and innovative products deliver seamless
 banking experiences.
 In line with the Government’s Digital Banking Units
 (DBUs) initiative, the Bank has established nine
 DBUs across Haridwar (Uttarakhand), Chandigarh,
 Faridabad (Haryana), South 24 Parganas (West
 Bengal), Pune (Maharashtra), Thane (Maharashtra),
 Panipat (Haryana), Patna (Bihar), and Salem (Tamil
 Nadu). These DBUs provide efﬁcient, secure and
 paperless banking services.
Metro
Urban Semi Urban
Rural Total ATMs + Cash Recycler
  Machines Network
International Presence equity, mutual funds, treasury and Driving Our CSR
 structured products, sourced through 
  initiatives
The Bank’s global footprint includes  
 our Bahrain Branch from third-party 
ﬁve branches located in Hong Kong,  
  Our extensive national footprint
 providers. Additionally, our suite of 
Bahrain, Dubai International Financial  
  provides us with invaluable insights
 products for corporate clients includes 
Centre (DIFC), Singapore and an IFSC  
  into diverse regions, including semi-
 trade credits, foreign currency term 
Banking Unit in Gujarat International  
  urban and rural areas. We leverage this
 loans, external commercial borrowings 
Finance Tec-City. Additionally, we  
  to drive our sustainable development
 and derivatives for hedging purposes. 
have four representative ofﬁces  
  agenda and empower communities
 As on March 31, 2025, our 
in Kenya, Abu Dhabi, Dubai and  
  across the country.
 international business recorded a 
London respectively, catering to Non-  
 balance sheet size of US $ 10.83 
  As of March 31, 2025 the total lives
Resident Indians (NRIs) and Persons  
 billion, with advances comprising 1.75 
  impacted through our CSR initiatives
of Indian Origin. Our NRI clients are  
 per cent of the bank's total advances. 
  is over 10 crore* (*including both
offered a diverse range of products,  
  immediate and extended beneﬁciaries).
such as offshore deposits, bonds,  
  Introduction to HDFC Bank
O U R   J O U R N E Y  
 2003-04 
  
 •  First bank in India to offer Credit Card in 2006
 100+ cities 
Landmark  Two new cards launched
 •  Touched 10 Lakh users 
  
  exclusively for women on
  International Women’s Day
  
Moments 2001 
  2008
 •   Overseas listing Listed on New York Stock 
  •  Opened first overseas commercial
 Exchange (NYSE) 
  branch in Bahrain
 •  Became the first private bank authorised 
  •  Merger of Centurion Bank of Punjab with
  
1977 to collect Income Tax 
  HDFC Bank – One of the largest mergers in
  •   Overseas listing Listed on New York Stock 
   •  Opened first overseas commercial
  Exchange (NYSE) 
   branch in Bahrain
  •  Became the first private bank authorised 
   
   
1977  to collect Income Tax •  Merger of Centurion Bank of Punjab with
   HDFC Bank – One of the largest mergers in
•  Housing Development Finance   the Indian banking industry
   
Corporation (HDFC) Limited was  2000 
incorporated on October 17.   
   
   
•  HDFC promoted as a 'development  •  A Bank with many ﬁrsts 2010
finance institution' by the Industrial  •  First Bank to launch Mobile Banking in India 
   Launched 40% faster ATMs
Credit and Investment Corporation   
   first of its kind in Asia
   
of India Limited, the International  Launched ﬁrst SMS– 
   
Finance Corporation, Washington  based Mobile Banking 
   
[IFC(W)] and His Royal Highness 
The Aga Khan.   2011
   
•  Mr. H. T. Parekh appointed  1999 Growing market leadership – Expanded
as Chairman.   customer base to become market leaders
   
 1994 •  Launched first international Debit Card in in Auto Loans, Personal Loans, and
  
•  Mr. H. T. Parekh appointed  1999
as Chairman.  
  
 1994 •  Launched first international Debit Card in
  India in association with Visa International
 •  Housing Development Finance Corporation 
  •  Began its digital journey by launching
 (HDFC) Limited received an in-principle 
  online real-time NetBanking
 approval from the RBI to set up a private 
  •  First ever mega merger in Indian banking
 sector bank 
  
1978  industry – Times Bank merged with
 •  Incorporated in August 1994 as HDFC 
  HDFC Bank
•  HDFC Limited's first Public Bank Limited 
Issue of equity shares of  
O U R   J O U R N E Y     
 2018 2019  2023 
     
 Next-gen MobileBanking •  Voted no.1 in India by 2022 •  Launched a revamped 
 App launched customers in Forbes World’s  PayZapp 2.0 payments app 
     
  Best Banks Survey HDFC Bank that provides customers with 
     
 Signed MoU with   a seamless, intuitive user 
  •  BSE inks pact with HDFC and HDFC  
    experience with enhanced 
     
 CSC, Govt of Bank to give a boost to Start-   
   Ltd. announce  
    security features 
  Up platform   
 India to support    
   transformational  
    •  HDFC Bank and HDFC Limited 
  •  1 Million+ units of blood   
 ﬁnancial inclusion    
   merger merged with effect from July 
  collected via HDFC Bank   
 in rural areas   1, 2023, creating one of the 
  Parivartan’s Blood Donation   
    world’s most valued Banks. 
  Drive over a period of 12 years,   
    This strengthened our position 
  primarily from employees   
    as a leading financial services 
  •  Opened 5,000th branch   
     
 2017 •  Marked the start of its 25th year  conglomerate and completes 
    its product suite through the 
     
 Introduced EVA chatbot   addition of home loans. 2025
 - India’s first AI-based    
     Launched PIXEL:
 chatbot to provide  Launched SmartHub Vyapar -  
     
  2020   A new generation of
2014 customer service  A one-stop merchant solution 2024 
     
   App for all banking and business  Digital Credit Cards
  •  Ranked India’s most   
•  Sustainability established as a   solutions •  RBI approved appointment 
  valuable brand (for the   
core value of the Bank    of Mr. Kaizad Bharucha as 
  seventh consecutive year) by   
    Deputy Managing Director 
•  Created a new Guinness World     
  BrandZ Report   
    and Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri as 
Record for organising the largest     
  •  Launch of HDFC Bank   
    Executive Director w.e.f. April 
single-day blood donation drive     
  Millennia range of cards   
    19, 2023 
•  Became market leader in issuing     
    •  Appointed Mr. V Srinivasa 
Credit Cards in 2013-14 with 55     
 - India’s first AI-based   
 chatbot to provide  Launched SmartHub Vyapar - 
    
  2020  
2014 customer service  A one-stop merchant solution 2024
   App for all banking and business 
  •  Ranked India’s most  
•  Sustainability established as a   solutions •  RBI approved appointment
  valuable brand (for the  
core value of the Bank    of Mr. Kaizad Bharucha as
  seventh consecutive year) by  
    Deputy Managing Director
•  Created a new Guinness World    
  BrandZ Report  
    and Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri as
Record for organising the largest    
  •  Launch of HDFC Bank  
    Executive Director w.e.f. April
single-day blood donation drive    
  Millennia range of cards  
    19, 2023
•  Became market leader in issuing    
    •  Appointed Mr. V Srinivasa
Credit Cards in 2013-14 with 55    
    Rangan as Executive Director
Lakh+ Cards    
    w.e.f. November 23, 2023
single-day blood donation drive     
  Millennia range of cards   
    19, 2023 
•  Became market leader in issuing     
    •  Appointed Mr. V Srinivasa 
Credit Cards in 2013-14 with 55     
    Rangan as Executive Director 
Lakh+ Cards     
    w.e.f. November 23, 2023 •  Became only private sector bank to
     have a branch in Lakshadweep
    •  Launched UPI QR code 
 •  Launched SmartUp   interoperable with Central •  Inaugurated its ﬁrst branch
     
2015 Zones for Start-Ups   Bank Digital Currency (CBDC), in Singapore.
    among the first banks in 
 •  Launched EasyEMI on    •  Launched ‘Anmol Salary Account’
•  Launched its sonic branding i.e.     
  •  First ever leadership  the country to complete the 
 Debit Cards    - India’s First Cyber Fraud
Musical Logo (MOGO) to be used     
  change (new MD & CEO,  integration process. 
     Cover Integrated Offering for
across multiple touch points •  Launched an all-in-one    
  Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan   
    •  PayZapp 2.0 reached 75 PSU Employees
 DigiPOS machine    
•  Launched PayZapp, India’s first     
  takes over)   
    lakh registrations 
     •  Launched GIGA - A Complete
1-click mobile-pay solution   Launched 'Vigil Aunty' campaign  
  •  First-of-its-kind product   
    •  Educated over 2 lakh citizens Financial Suite of Products for
   to promote freedom from fraud  
•  Launched 10-second personal     
  launch: KGC-Shaurya card   
    on safe digital banking Gig Workers
loan disbursement in the retail     
 2016 for armed forces   
     
    practices pan India •  Became ﬁrst domestic bank to
lending space     
  •  Launch of contactless,   
     execute a gold forward deal from
 •  ATMs turned to LDMs (Loan    
•  Concurrent QIP issue and     
  consent-based customer   
     GIFT City
 Dispensing Machines)  2021  
     
Follow-on offering: J9,723 crore  on-boarding via video   
     •  Tata Neu HDFC Bank Credit Card
 •  Launched SmartUp    
  KYC facility   
   •  Embarked on 'Project  
     crosses a milestone - issuance of
 programme for Start-Ups    
  •  Deploying mobile ATMs Future Ready'  
     over 2 million cards.
  during the lockdown   
   •  Pledged to become carbon  
   neutral by 2031-32  
F I N A N C I A L   PE R F O R M A N C E   
   
Delivering Balance Sheet Size (I Cr)  
 39,10,199  
Growth with   
 FY25  39,10,199
   
Prudence FY24  36,17,623
 FY23 24,66,081 
In a year in which India continued   
to remain the fastest-growing   
major economy, HDFC Bank   
consolidated its position as the   
 Deposits (I Cr)  
country’s largest private sector   
   
bank by Balance Sheet size while 
maintaining healthy asset quality. 27,14,715  
Profit After Tax (I Cr)  Earnings Per Share (I) 
67,347  88.3 
FY25 67,347 FY25 88.3
FY24 60,812 FY24 85.8
FY23 44,109 FY23 79.3
Rupee Spent FY25 (%)  Rupee Earned FY25 (%) 
6.6  9.2 
3.6  2.5 
4.6  1.4 
8.5 Tax Provisions  Commission, Exchange,
  16.6 
 Provisions  Brokerage
 Dividend  Other Interest Income
 Transfer to Reserve 1.4 FX & Derivative Income
21.2 Operating Expense  Income from Investments
55.5  68.9 
 Interest Expense  Others
   Interest from Advances
 serving the wholesale segment, HDFC
the Bank inherited the realty ﬁnance 
 Bank has built a strong reputation for
business. The bank increased its focus 
 delivering quality and reliable services
to provide construction ﬁnance in 
 to its customers.
HDFC Bank's Retail business a range of loan options for personal
serves a wide and diverse customer and business purposes, Credit
base, including individuals, salaried and Debit cards, Digital wallets,
professionals, and small businesses Insurance and Investment products,
such as Kirana stores, Self Help and Remittance services. From
Groups (SHGs), and Non-Resident affordable housing to home loans for
Indians (NRIs). With a focus on NRIs, the Bank’s extensive product
understanding and meeting the portfolio is supported by advanced
unique needs of these customers, the digital capabilities and deep industry
Bank offers a comprehensive suite of expertise, ensuring a smooth
products and services. This includes and convenient experience for all
Savings and Current accounts, its customers.
  residential, commercial space as well
Wholesale Banking The Wholesale Banking business 
 of HDFC Bank caters to a wide as lease rental discounting to leading
 spectrum of clientele, including Large developers in FY25.
 Corporates, Multinational Corporations, 
  The Bank's goal is to serve as a one-
 Government, Public Sector Enterprises, 
  stop solution for the extensive business
 Emerging Corporates and Business 
  requirements of our customers in
 Banking/SMEs. The Bank extends 
  Wholesale Banking business. It offers
 diverse and comprehensive end to 
  personalised solutions to address
 end ﬁnancial products and services, 
  speciﬁc customer requirements,
 such as loans, deposits, payments, 
  supported by dedicated relationship
 collections, tax solutions, trade ﬁnance, 
  managers who act as the single point
 cash management solutions and 
  of contact for all their banking needs.
 corporate cards. Post the merger 
  Leveraging the extensive experience in
 of HDFC Limited with HDFC Bank, 
  serving the wholesale segment, HDFC
 the Bank inherited the realty ﬁnance 
  Bank has built a strong reputation for
 business. The bank increased its focus 
  delivering quality and reliable services
 to provide construction ﬁnance in 
  to its customers.
  a range of loan options for personal
Retail Banking HDFC Bank's Retail business 
 serves a wide and diverse customer and business purposes, Credit
 base, including individuals, salaried and Debit cards, Digital wallets,
 professionals, and small businesses Insurance and Investment products,
 such as Kirana stores, Self Help and Remittance services. From
 Groups (SHGs), and Non-Resident affordable housing to home loans for
 Indians (NRIs). With a focus on NRIs, the Bank’s extensive product
 understanding and meeting the portfolio is supported by advanced
 unique needs of these customers, the digital capabilities and deep industry
 Bank offers a comprehensive suite of expertise, ensuring a smooth
 products and services. This includes and convenient experience for all
 Savings and Current accounts, its customers.
 The Treasury department oversees 
Treasury  compliance with statutory reserve
 the Bank's cash and liquid assets and requirements. Additionally, the
 manages investments in securities department addresses customers'
 and other market instruments. It is treasury needs, generating fee income
 responsible for maintaining liquidity, from customer transactions and
 monitoring interest rate risks on handling their foreign exchange and
 the balance sheet, and ensuring interest rate risks.
Our Offerings  Our Edge
Loans and Deposits Other Banking Products We are the Preferred Banker
Working Capital Facilities, Term and Services of Choice across segments,
Lending, Project Finance, Realty Forex & Derivatives, and this is enabled by:
Finance Business, Supply Chain Custodial Services, Cash 
  Delivery of best-in-class services
Financing, Export Finance, Trade Management services, Letters 
  through customised solutions,
Credit and Wholesale Deposits. of Credit, Guarantees and 
  products and through optimum use
 Correspondent Banking. 
  of technology
Investment Banking  
Capital Finance through Debt/  − Strong product proposition for
Equity Capital Markets, Mergers  NRIs through branches in India
& Acquisitions, IPOs, Private  and overseas
Equity, Venture Capital Fund  − Our extensive distribution network
Raising, Loan Syndication and  combining both physical and digital
Customised Solutions.  channels to provide a seamless
  customer experience
  − Market leader in several asset
  categories with best-in-class
  portfolio quality
  − Pioneer and strong player in the
Loan Products Other Products and 
  digital loan marketplace
Personal, Auto, Gold, Two-Wheeler, Services 
  − Providing customers with a product
Small Ticket Working Capital, Credit, Debit and Prepaid 
  suite across all asset classes for
Offshore, Agri and Tractor, Healthcare Cards, Digital Wallets, Wealth 
  'optimal asset allocation' depending
Finance, Commercial Vehicle & Management Solutions, Kisan 
  on clients’ risk proﬁles and goals
Equipment Finance, Infrastructure Gold Card. A distributor of Mutual 
  − Strong presence in
Finance, Loan Against Securities and Funds as well as Life, General and 
  Payments Business
Digital Loan against Mutual Funds. Health Insurance. 
  − A leader in Cash Management
  Services, offering effective and
Accounts and Deposits Mortgages 
  tailored solutions.
Savings, Current and Corporate Home Loans: Rural Housing Loans, 
  − Open architecture, best-in-class
Salary Accounts, NRI Deposits, Loan Against Property, Reﬁnance 
  portfolio quality and regular
Fixed and Recurring Deposits. and Home Loans to NRI’s 
  portfolio rebalancing
Services Offered Key Functions Performed − Robust Risk Management practices
to Customers Manages the Asset/Liability of across all businesses and activities
Foreign Exchange and Derivatives’ the Bank, maintains a portfolio of − Providing solutions to meet the
Transactions, Solutions on Hedging Government Securities in line with hedging needs of non-residents in
Strategies, Trade Solutions - Domestic regulatory norms of RBI and others, Indian markets.
and Cross Border, Bullion and Others. manages the liquidity and interest Integrated trade and treasury 
 −
 rate risks on the balance sheet, solution for customers
 and is also responsible for meeting − Primary dealer for
 statutory reserve requirements. Government securities
H O M E   LOA N   A DVA N TAG E 
Enabling 
Homeownership 
with Trust and 
Innovation 
 Key Highlights for the Financial
With over four and a half decades 
 Year 2024-25
of experience in understanding the 
evolving aspirations of homebuyers, − Seamless Access: Home loans are now
 available across a wide network of HDFC
the HDFC Bank Group recognises 
 Bank branches and digital platforms, ensuring
that a home loan is more than a 
 greater accessibility and convenience.
ﬁnancial product, it’s an emotional 
 − Customer-Centric Approach: Tailored
milestone and often the single 
 home loans offering coupled with products
largest investment in a person’s life. like savings accounts, credit cards, CD
 loans, insurance and wealth solutions basis
 customer requirements.
The merger marked a signiﬁcant milestone, integrating 
the legacy of trust in housing ﬁnance with the scale − Cross-Sell Success:
and technology prowess of India’s leading private − Over 95 per cent of new home loan
sector bank. Post-merger, HDFC Bank now has the customers are opening CASA accounts.
country’s largest mortgage portfolio. 
 − Over 50 per cent are opting for additional
the Bank is conﬁdent about the long-term
housing demand in India and is well-positioned
to be the preferred home loan partner.
HDFC Bank remains committed to delivering
best-in-class mortgage solutions with trust and
innovation backed by a deep understanding of its
customers’ needs.
Our Performance 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25 45
COMMERCIAL AND RURAL CLUSTER 
Fuelling Growth 
in Semi-Urban 
and Rural India 
The Commercial and Rural Cluster 
plays an important role in meeting 
Priority Sector Lending (PSL) 
 The multitude of businesses within the Bank’s
requirements as well as advancing 
 Commercial and Rural Cluster are tied together by
the Bank's ﬁnancial inclusion goals. their signiﬁcant presence in Semi Urban and Rural
 (SURU) India. Over half of the Bank’s branches are
As on March 31, 2025, it managed 
 strategically located in SURU regions, ensuring
J9.08 lakh crore portfolio, serving 
 extensive coverage and accessibility to essential
a diverse clientele encompassing 
 ﬁnancial services . Over the past three years, the
Micro, Small and Medium Bank has expanded its reach from 91,000 villages to
 2.35 lakh villages. Further, the SME franchise is now
Enterprises (MSMEs), farmers 
 present in 725 out of 789 districts. This distribution
(including small and marginal), 
 network facilitates easier access to banking
healthcare and equipment ﬁnance 
 facilities, empowering individuals and businesses in
customers, commercial transport underserved geographies.
companies and joint liability and 
 Going forward, the Bank aims to deepen its
self-help groups. engagement in these geographies by offering a
 comprehensive suite of solutions tailored to the
 diverse ﬁnancial needs of its clientele.
 Driven by this expansive physical footprint and deep
 local engagement this vertical recorded a robust 12.8
 per cent year-on-year growth in advances.
 It plays a crucial role in fulﬁlling the Bank’s Priority
 Sector Lending (PSL) requirements, contributing up
 to 65 per cent of the overall PSL portfolio. Recent
 changes in MSME thresholds and home loan eligibility
 under PSL have expanded the customer base driving
 further growth. With a focused district-level strategy,
 the Bank ranks among the top three MSME lenders
 in 21 states including a leadership position in 14. The
 PSL book continues to support the Bank’s ﬁnancial
 inclusion goals while remaining proﬁtable, with a
 strong Return on Assets (ROA), robust asset quality,
 and effective risk management.
  Our Performance
Agriculture ﬁnance remains a key In terms of servicing, a dedicated Complementing its relationship-led
revenue stream with strategic relationship team engages regularly model, the Bank has strengthened
diversiﬁcation into high-yield segments with customers to address their digital interventions to boost efﬁciency
like dairy and horticulture. The banking needs through personalised and service delivery. Customer data
Bank actively supports government support. These interactions also is directly sourced from account
initiatives such as Agriculture enable the Bank to offer suitable aggregators and statements,
Infrastructure Fund (AIF), Farmer cross-sell solutions aligned enabling quicker underwriting and
Producer Organisations (FPOs) and with the customer’s proﬁle and digital summaries. Aadhaar-based
Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of business lifecycle. authentication and veriﬁcation are
Micro Food Processing Enterprises  seamlessly integrated while small-
(PMFME), while extending credit to  ticket loans are sourced entirely
small and marginal farmers to further  through digital channels. An industry-
strengthen rural development and  ﬁrst mobile app powers the pledge
inclusive growth.  process under the Commercial and
  Rural Cluster. Going forward, the Bank
HDFC Bank's strategic focus on  
  will focus on enhancing digital account
expanding into new territories and  
  management, streamlining workﬂows
strengthening the sales force has  
  and reducing administrative effort
enabled it to secure a leading market  
  through technology-driven solutions.
share in the commercial vehicle  
and equipment ﬁnancing sector.  Overall, the segment offers vast
Additionally, it is actively cultivating an  market potential, and the Bank is
ecosystem to enhance its reach within  well-positioned to capitalise the
the Transportation Finance domain  opportunity through its strengths.
supported by strong OEM relationship.  
 Agriculture 
A
i
lt
Agriculture Finance Liabilities
 Finaance
 PRODUCT SUITE 
Working Capital and 
Investment Transportation Trade Finance &
Term Loan Assets
Banking Finance Group FX Advisory
IPOs, Private Equity, 
 −
 − Working − Commercial Vehicle/ − Bank Guarantee/LCs
VC Fund Raise, 
Capital Loans Equipment Finance International Trade
 −
Loan Syndication − Tractor Finance − Trade Flows
− Term Loans  
 Infrastructure 
 − & Derivatives
− Mergers  
− Supply  
 Finance 
& Acquisitions  
Chain Management  
− Project Finance  
− Export Finance  
  Agriculture 
A
i
lt
Sustainable Livelihood Initiative (SHG and JLG) Agriculture Finance Liabilities
  Finaance
− Micro Finance − Crop Loan/ − CASA Accounts
 Farmer Finance − Fixed Deposits
P O W E R   O F   T H E   G R O U P 
Re-Imagining 
Value Creation Serving Your Financial Needs
 We exist to assist Indians make better money choices,
 today and tomorrow
Following the merger, the 
number of HDFC Bank’s 
 HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited
subsidiaries has grown from 
2 to 14 with ﬁve identiﬁed as 
key subsidiaries. This has 
signiﬁcantly enhanced HDFC 
 
Bank Group’s ability to offer 50.3%
comprehensive ﬁnancial 
solutions to deepen and 
 HDB Financial Services Limited
lengthen customer relationships. 
  Our Performance
HDFC Bank has ﬁve key subsidiaries Our collaborative strategy aims to We are committed to fostering
viz., HDFC Life Insurance Company empower our Group in facilitating progress together by harnessing
Limited (HDFC Life), HDB Financial deeper engagements across various our collaborative strengths to drive
Services Limited (HDBFS), HDFC touchpoints, fortifying connections, sustainable growth and proﬁtability.
ERGO General Insurance Company nurturing long-lasting customer HDFC Life and HDFC ERGO prepare
Limited (HDFC ERGO), HDFC Asset relationships and facilitating cross sell. their ﬁnancial results in accordance
Management Company Limited (HDFC This advantage is pivotal in navigating with Indian GAAP and other
AMC) and HDFC Securities Limited the dynamic ﬁnancial services subsidiaries do so in accordance
(HSL). landscape. In our efforts we are with the notiﬁed Indian Accounting
 backed by a consolidated employee Standards ('Ind-AS').
By leveraging synergies across  
 base with diverse skillsets, 
the Group's ecosystem, we aim to  The details of the subsidiaries
 a combined branch network 
deliver innovative ﬁnancial solutions  including ﬁnancial performance (on
 and various other physical/ 
that anticipate and meet the  a standalone basis) and key initiatives
 digital touchpoints. 
evolving needs through the lifecycle.  for the Financial Year 2024-25 are
  given below.
given below.
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited
Established in 2000, HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (‘HDFC Life’ or the
‘Company’), in which the Bank holds a 50.3 per cent stake, is a listed, leading, long-
term life insurance solutions provider in India. It offers a broad range of individual and
group plans across the Protection, Pension, Savings, Investment, Annuity and Health
categories. Its portfolio comprises over 70 products and optional riders which are
designed to meet the diverse needs of its customers.
FY25 Financials  FY25 Key Initiatives  
In FY 2024-25, HDFC Life known 1. Expanding Distribution 3. Technology Transformation:
for its innovative products and  Footprint: Added 200+ branches  Technology initiative 'Project
customer-centric approach has  in the last 24 months, of which 117  INSPIRE' aimed at reimagining
secured about 5 crore lives with  branches were added in FY25. It  systems and processes to be
an overall claim settlement ratio  onboarded ~40 new partners in  scalable and agile is progressing
of 99.8 per cent. It has over  FY2024-25, such as Sundaram  steadily and incremental tech
650 branches across India. For  Finance, Aditya Birla Finance, Mirae  assets are being rolled out
FY25, HDFC Life reported New  Asset, Sharekhan, amongst others.  through the course of the year
Business Margin of 25.6 per    
  2.  Product Innovation: Launched  
cent, Value of New Business    
  industry-ﬁrst product in participating  
of I3,962 crore, an Embedded    
  and pension segment - Click  
Value of I55,423 crore and    
  2 Achieve Par Advantage and  
delivered Proﬁt After Tax of    
  Sanchay Aajeevan Guaranteed  
I1,802 crore. As on March 31    
  Advantage (SAGA)  
2025, HDFC Life had an AUM    
of I3,36,282 crore.    
HDB Financial Services Limited
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFS), in which the Bank holds a 94.3 per cent stake,
is a non-deposit taking NBFC. HDBFS has a comprehensive bouquet of products and
service offerings that are tailor-made to suit its customers’ requirements including ﬁrst-
time borrowers and the underserved segments. It is engaged in the business of lending,
fee-based products and BPO services. The company has a strong network of over
1,771 branches spread across 1,170 cities.
FY25 Financials FY25 Key Initiatives 
The company’s Proﬁt After Tax CRM System NPCI’s e-KYC Setu System
stood at I2,176 crore as on  
 HDB Financial Services implemented HDBFS has integrated NPCI’s
March 31, 2025 compared to  
 an advanced CRM system to e-KYC Setu System streamlining
I2,461 crore as on March 31,  
 transform customer experience and the account opening process.
2024. The Total Loan Book grew  
 improve operational efﬁciency. It Developed through a collaboration
by 18.47 per cent to I1,06,878  
 enhances productivity and delivers between the National Payments
crore on March 31, 2025  
 a seamless customer experience. A Corporation of India (NPCI) and
compared to I90,218 crore on  
 cloud-based infrastructure ensures the Unique Identiﬁcation Authority
March 31, 2024. The Gross Non  
 scalability. The real-time engagement of India (UIDAI), this system has
Performing Asset (GNPA) ratio  
 capabilities of the CRM facilitated enabled customers to open loan
stood at 2.26 per cent and Net  
 instant query resolution, proactive accounts without the need for
Non Performing Asset (NNPA)  
 support and tailored offers using document uploads. The secure
ratio at 0.99 per cent as on  
 predictive analytics. By integrating OTP-based process has ensured
March 31, 2025. GNPA stood  
 multiple touch-points to deliver an quick and hassle-free authentication
at 1.90 per cent and NNPA  
 omnichannel experience, HDBFS is from any location. Additionally, it
at 0.63 per cent for the year  
 poised to leverage this platform to has enhanced ﬁnancial inclusion
ended March 31, 2024. Capital  
 increase its revenue streams. and digitalised loan disbursement
Adequacy Ratio stood at 19.22  
  processes, providing convenience
per cent as on March 31, 2025.  
  and accessibility to customers.
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (HDFC ERGO), in which the Bank
holds a 50.3 per cent stake, offers a comprehensive bouquet of general insurance
products - such as Health, Motor, Travel, Home, Personal Accident and Cyber Insurance
for its retail customers. It also offers products like Property, Engineering, Marine and
Liability Insurance to its SME & corporate customers. Further rural customers can
secure crop and cattle insurance.
FY25 Financials  FY25 Key Initiatives  
HDFC ERGO has demonstrated 1. HDFC ERGO made further 2. HDFC ERGO conducted the
consistent proﬁtable growth,  investments in expanding its  grand ﬁnale of the 1st edition of
achieving a 28 per cent CAGR  claims network. During FY25,  TechPreneur, a future forward
over 17 years, outpacing the  it serviced motor OD claims  start-up challenge to boost
general insurance industry’s 15  across 648 districts. Further,  innovation in insurance,
per cent. Its market share rose  its network of empanelled  where 17 participants were
from 0.8 per cent in FY08 to 5.1  hospitals and diagnostic centres  shortlisted for the ﬁrst round of
per cent in FY25. Proﬁt After Tax  is spread across 610 districts of  pitching from among the initial
grew 14 per cent year-on-year  the country.  competitive pool of over 140
to I500 crore in FY25 from    start-ups.
I438 crore in FY24.    
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (HDFC AMC), investment manager to
HDFC Mutual Fund, is one of India’s largest mutual funds. With a 52.5 per cent stake
held by HDFC Bank, it offers a wide range of savings and investment products to over
1.32 crore investors through 2.33 crore live accounts. Established in 1999, it has a
strong presence across 280 ofﬁces, 95,000+ distribution partners and digital platforms.
HDFC AMC also provides Portfolio Management Services and Alternative Investment
Funds to HNIs, family ofﬁces, corporates, trusts, and institutions, ensuring accessible,
efﬁcient ﬁnancial solutions across diverse customer segments.
FY25 Financials FY25 Key Initiatives  
Total Income for the Financial 1.  
Expanded product suite with 7 5. Forayed into AIFs with the
Year 2024-25 recorded a year- NFOs, taking the total to over 100  successful closure of its ﬁrst
on-year growth of 28 per cent products and I7.5 lakh crore in  Category II AIF Fund of Funds.
to I4,058 crore. Proﬁt After overall AUM.  
  6. Strengthened international
Tax grew by 26 per cent to   
 2. 
Strengthened the passive  presence by launching three
I2,461 crore.   
 portfolio, raising the total to 44  funds through wholly owned
 passive funds across Index and  subsidiary, HDFC AMC
 ETFs, with I574 billion in AUM.  International (IFSC) Limited.
 3. 
Added 26 new ofﬁces, bringing  
 the total count to 280.  
 4. 
Enhanced the digital  
 infrastructure to deliver a  
 fast, secure and user-friendly  
 investment experience with  
 innovations like WhatsApp  
 transactions and integration  
 with Open Network for Digital  
 Commerce (ONDC) platform.  
HDFC Securities Limited
HDFC Securities Limited (HSL), in which the Bank holds a 94.5 per cent stake, is among
the leading broking ﬁrms in India, serving 68 lakh customers with a comprehensive
range of investment and protection products. It leverages real-time, data-driven insights
and research-backed information to empower investors. HSL has 134 branches across
106 cities and towns as on March 31, 2025. Approximately, 96 per cent of its customers
accessed its services digitally. HSL’s ranking in NSE active clients has improved to the
6th position with 15.25 lakh customers from 7th position last year.
FY25 Financials  FY25 Key Initiatives  
In the Financial Year 2024-25, • Empowering Investors: HDFC • To demystify ﬁnancial jargon
HSL's total income grew ~23  Sky, HSL’s ﬂat price broking  and promote literacy in core
per cent to I3,265 crore from  service app, saw remarkable  concepts of investing and
I2,661 crore in the previous  growth in FY25. It facilitates  trading, HDFC Sky unveiled the
year. Net revenue (total income  seamless participation for  Sky Learn initiative, providing
less ﬁnance costs) stood at  investors and traders at all  video-driven content across
I2,479 crore, up 20 per cent  experience levels, offering a  multiple digital channels.
y-o-y. Operating expenses of  wide range of investment and  Embracing the motto ‘Make
I983 crore resulted in a cost-to-  trading options.  Money Matter’, HDFC Sky
revenue ratio of 39.7 per cent.    is committed to fostering a
PAT was I1,125 crore, up 18    digital-ﬁrst, tech-powered
per cent. EPS was I638. The    platform that empowers every
average margin trading funding    Indian citizen to invest wisely
(MTF) portfolio increased    and conﬁdently.
signiﬁcantly by 50 per cent y-o-y    
to I8,343 crore. Equity trade    
volumes grew 24 per cent y-o-y    
to I8 lakh crore.    
     OUR PERFORMANCE ACROSS CAPITALS      
 CORE VALUES          
    Inputs  Outcomes  Risks & SDGs   
 Customer Focus | Operational Excellence | Product Leadership |          
           
    FINANCIAL − Total Net Revenues – H1,68,302.4 crore     
 People | Sustainability     Proﬁt after tax – H67,347.4 crore     
     −  1 2 3 4 5
   − Total Deposits – H27,14,714.9 crore       
     −      
   − Shareholders fund – H5,01,424.6 crore       
     −      
       6 7 8 9 10
   −  − Cost-to-income ratio – 40.5%     
     − Capital Adequacy Ratio – 19.6%     
     − Net NPA – 0.43%     
     − Dividend Per Share – H22.0^     
      ^Proposed     
CEO PRIORITIES  OUR CONTEXT         
 Inﬂuences          
Employee First  1  External Environment  HUMAN       
       4 5   
      − Women in workforce – 26.14%     
   − Employee base – 2,14,521       
     − Total Learning Hours – 1,24,95,372     
Customer First  2  Stakeholder Engagement − Employee expense Staff Cost – H23,900.5 crore       
     − Employee attrition rate - 22.60%     
   − Learning and Development initiatives       
   − Diversity, Equity and Inclusion initiatives       
Technology First  3  Material Topics         
 Shapes our  − Talent Management       
   − Culture Ecosystem - Nurture, Care & Collaborate       
 view of          
Power of the Group  4  Risk Management         
  Click the number beside each element         
 Retail  Wholesale      
  needs of    − MSCI ESG Rating – AA  
     SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP − Leadership category with score of 71 in CRISIL ESG 1 5
  Indians     Ratings for FY 2023-24 disclosures  
     −    
      − S&P Corporate Sustainability Assessment - 85th  Percentile 8 9
     −    
         
OUR PERFORMANCE    OUR STRATEGIC PILLARS No. of CSR implementation partners - 214
 −  (in FY 2024-25)  
      − 10.56 crore lives impacted as on March 31, 2025  
     −    
    − Branch Channel Engagement and     
KEY BUSINESS ACTIVITIES     Partnership with Government
 −  (cumulatively - Including both immediate and extended  
         
  T
reasury  Virtual Relationship Management   beneﬁciaries)  
Lending  |  Branch operations | Underwriting         
    (VRM)     
and risk management | Investment         
    − Government and Institutional  − Energy saved through IoT based BMS implementation:  
         
management | Asset-liability management |    (G&I) Business NATURAL  623.84 MWh 1 5
Time Deposits | Customer services | Current      − Reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emission intensity per HCr  
    − Wealth Management Smart IOT based building management systems 
 −    
and Saving Accounts | Collections |     (BMS) active at about 350 branches  revenue from operations: 45%  
    Technology & Digital
 −     
     All new branches and ofﬁces evaluated for IGBC 
 − − 19 ofﬁce and branch locations received 100% green  
At - Scale Distribution         
  Impacts  − Digital Marketing   power in FY 25  
     certiﬁcation- 2,507 branches and ofﬁces green    
    − Payments Business certiﬁed till date − Sustainable bond proceeds of 150 Million USD allocated  
OUTPUTS       towards green transportation and MSMEs, veriﬁed and  
    − Retail Assets Installation of Active Harmonic Filters: 84 locations
 −    
     Sustainable Finance portfolio contributing to India’s 
 −  certiﬁed by a leading third party auditor  
    − Mortgage Assets     
Total Income 
Total Deposits 
 −
 −     NDCs and global SDGs − Sustainable ﬁnance portfolio of 18.69%  
    − Commercial & Rural Cluster     
H27,14,714.9 crore
H3,46,149.3 crore         
  Derived  − Corporate Cluster     
Total Advances 
 − Share of Digital 
 −         
transactions in 
H26,19,608.6 crore         
Total ﬁnancial 
 − Net Interest Income         
      − Total Banking Outlets – 24,854 (inclusive of 5 overseas  
transactions – 97%
H1,22,670.1 crore     MANUFACTURED  branches) 4 5
− Dividend per share –    Click here for more on our priorities and the New branches opened in FY25 - 719 
 − − Total Branches – 9,455 (Inclusive of Overseas Branches  
H22.0^    Strategic pillars of the bank ATMs, Corporate ofﬁce, digital factories, data 
 −  and DBUs) – of which 51% are SURU branches  
     warehouse and others − Total Fixed Point Business Correspondents – 15,399  
^Proposed         
     Bangalore ‘Netmagic· DC3B’ Certiﬁed green 
 − − ATMs + Cash Recycler Machines – 21,139  
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
 Purpose of Stakeholder Engagement
 
Building Assessing Impact
 We collaborate with stakeholders to evaluate the
 
Value through actual and potential Environmental, Social, and
 Governance (ESG) impact from our activities. This
Collaborations process helps us actively address concerns and
 
 uncover opportunities for positive change.
 Developing Solutions
 Working together with stakeholders is essential for
HDFC Bank is deeply committed 
 identifying and implementing effective strategies to
to forging strong, purpose-driven 
 prevent and reduce potential risks.
partnerships with stakeholders 
 Respecting Stakeholder Rights
through consistent, meaningful 
 We understand that engaging with stakeholders goes
engagements throughout the year. 
 beyond simply meeting our objectives—it’s also about
By listening intently to their priorities respecting their rights. To that end, we are dedicated
 to upholding these rights and promoting an open and
and needs, we identify issues most 
 inclusive dialogue.
critical to driving the Bank’s value 
 To truly amplify the voices of our stakeholders,
creation while crafting innovative, 
 the Bank has taken bold steps by establishing
forward-looking solutions that deliver 
 diverse communication channels and fostering
lasting impact. 
 direct engagement through the departments most
 connected to them. By actively monitoring the issues
 that matter most to stakeholders, their feedback has
Identify become a powerful catalyst for our internal growth
potential topics and transformation.
 Key Concerns Response Channels of Communication
Customers Ease of transacting 
 − − New products − Online and
 across channels enabled by the Bank’s postal communication
 − Customer-centric products digitisation strategy − Customer
 and services − Making personalised satisfaction surveys
 − Digital ﬁnance innovation recommendations through a − Customer feedback
 − Customer data management Virtual Relationship Manager − Regular interaction
 − Consumer rights protection (VRM) with customers
  Information Education 
 − Type
  Communication (IEC) Information, Consultation
  activities on data security 
   Frequency
  and privacy 
   Continuous
 Value Drivers
 − HDFC Bank proudly serves over 9.7 crore customers, empowering them with seamless
 access to world-class ﬁnancial services through an extensive network of more than
 9,455 branches and 21,139 ATMs/CDMs across 4,150 cities and towns as of
 March 31, 2025.
 − We champion accessibility by ensuring our services reach all customers, including those
 
9.7 crore + with disabilities. Every ATM is equipped with voice-guided systems and Braille keypads 
to empower the visually impaired, while over 2,044 locations feature ramps to support
 
Customer Base wheelchair users.
S TA K E H O L D E R   E N G AG E M E N T   
 Key Concerns Response Channels of Communication
Vendors − Governance and Ensure timely payment 
 − − Regular meetings
 ethical practices for services − Phone calls and surveys
 Transparency in 
 − − Whistle Blower Policy to 
   Type
 sourcing processes ensure good practices 
   Information, Consultation
 − Support for MSMEs and − Preparation for BRSR Core 
 local vendors value chain reporting 
   Frequency
  − Direct sourcing of input 
   Continuous Annual
  material from MSMEs/ 
   performance review
  small producers 
Vendors Value Drivers
 
comply with all − We work closely with our vendors to promote the integration of environmental and social
 concerns, emphasising the importance of adding value beyond economic gains. Our
applicable laws ESG policy framework ensures that vendors and suppliers comply with labour laws and
 human rights. We are strengthening our internal systems to enhance our engagement
including labour 
 with the suppliers for reporting on BRSR Core KPIs and BRSR value chain reporting.
laws and human 
 Key Concerns  Channels of Communication Type
Investors and − Compliance  − Quarterly ﬁnancial reports, Information, Participation
 − Governance and  Press releases, Results 
    
Shareholders ethical practices  conference call and Frequency
    Continuous/Quarterly/
 Economic performance
 −  Investor presentations 
    Annual
 Financial Inclusion
 −   
  − Investor conferences, 
 Response  Analyst day, Investor 
 − Policies and demonstration  days, Interactions 
 of responsible  with shareholders and 
 business conduct  Annual /Extra- Ordinary 
   General Meetings 
 Value Drivers
 − Our Board-approved ESGRM framework, overseen by the CSR & ESG Committee of
 the Board and executed through collaborative management committees and cross-
 functional working groups, drives our commitment to responsible banking.
 − We ensure transparency of disclosures by disclosing our ESG performance in the
 Integrated Annual Report.
 
39 lakh+ − We also partner with borrowers to promote sustainable practices, encouraging them 
to measure and disclose ESG factors, driving informed decisions and a positive
 
shareholders environmental impact.
M AT E R I A L I T Y 
 
Measuring Materiality Assessment Process
 
Meaningful Identiﬁcation of Material Topics
 We reviewed the 16 sustainability topics, identiﬁed through
 
Impacts stakeholder inputs, data analysis and benchmarking. External
 experts helped reﬁne impact deﬁnitions, ensuring relevance to
 regulatory, industry and internal priorities.
HDFC Bank conducts 
 Weighted Prioritisation
materiality assessments 
 We prioritised these topics by consolidating stakeholder survey
to identify and prioritise 
 responses, assigning weights to each stakeholder group based
sustainability issues that 
 on their relevance. Scores were calculated considering the reach,
are critical to our business 
 magnitude, and likelihood of impacts across our value chain,
and stakeholders. In FY categorising topics as 'Most Important,' 'Important,' or 'Less
 Important.'
2023-24, we updated our 
process in line with the 
GRI Universal Standards 
 Evaluation of potential positive and negative impacts
2021, adopting a double 
 and reprioritisation of results
materiality approach to 
 We analysed the economic, environmental, and social impacts of
evaluate both ﬁnancial 
 each topic, using stakeholder inputs. Applying a double materiality
relevance and broader lens, we reﬁned and merged overlaps, narrowing 16 material topics
 to 14, ensuring they reﬂect both HDFC Bank’s ﬁnancial priorities
environmental, social, and 
 and broader societal impact.
economic impacts. Building 
on the 16 topics identiﬁed 
in FY 2022-23 through 
 Integration into Risk Management Framework
stakeholder engagement 
 These 14 topics were mapped against our risk management
and benchmarking, we 
 framework, identifying 9 as opportunities and 5 as potential risks,
reassessed each for impact informed by annual due diligence on impact trends and stakeholder
 feedback, including investor ESG priorities.
signiﬁcance, likelihood, 
and strategic relevance. 
This led to a reﬁned set of 
14 topics—9 with positive 
and 5 with negative Materiality Matrix Sign off
impacts. The evaluation 
 The ﬁnal materiality matrix, calibrated with stakeholder
was further informed by opinions and performance indicators, led to the ﬁnal ranking
 of the 14 sustainability issues into a materiality matrix.
annual performance trends 
and key impact indicators, The ﬁnal analysis was presented to the Board of Directors.
ensuring alignment with 
stakeholder expectations 
and our sustainability goals. 
HDFC Bank Limited
60 
     How We Create Value 
    Materiality Matrix  
    Climate Change  
    Sustainable &  
    Responsible financing  
     Economic Performance 
     Compliance 
  Sustainable    
  Procurement    
IMPACT MATERIALITY HDFC Bank's impact on the planet and society    Corporate Governance and Ethics
Systemic Risk 
     Management 
     Customer Privacy 
    Financial Inclusion  
     and Data Security 
   Community-wellbeing  Digital Leadership 
     Asset Quality 
     Customer Satisfaction 
     Employee Practices 
    FINANCIAL MATERIALITY  
   The planet and society's impact on HDFC Bank's financial performance   
     Integrated Annual Report 2024-25 61
M AT E R I A L I T Y 
Management of Material Topic 
Economic Performance Compliance
GRI topics: 201 GRI topics: 2-27
SR
F
I
M
H
Capitals Impacted: F
H
N
Capitals Impacted:
Relevant Stakeholders: Relevant Stakeholders:
Economic performance is critical to maintain stability We operate in a highly regulated industry where
and positive momentum. We strive to always provide compliance is non-negotiable. As applicable, all our
our stakeholders with increased long-term value. operations comply with legal, environmental, and
Even in difﬁcult economic times, we have performed social requirements imposed by regulatory bodies.
admirably because of careful management and capital 
allocation strategies. Description of Impact
 (Compliance Risk, Potential Negative Impact)
Description of Impact 
 Non-compliance with regulations can result in
(Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact) 
 regulatory ﬁnes, legal actions, and reputational
During periods of economic upturns, we experience damage, as well as impact the Bank's ability to
increased opportunities for growth and proﬁtability. operate within legal boundaries. We maintain a strong
These favourable economic conditions create a foundation for regulatory compliance through periodic
conducive environment for strategic investments and employee trainings, code of conduct, implementation
business expansion initiatives. As we align our growth of statutory laws, policies such as those on anti-
with that of the economy, we plan to capitalise on corruption, anti- bribery, POSH, regular internal audits
the increased demand for ﬁnancial services, expand and robust incident response planning.
our customer base, and explore new avenues for 
revenue generation. 
FY25 Performance FY25 Performance
J3,46,149.3 crore Zero
Total Income Environmental
 Non-Compliance Reported
J67,347.4 crore 
Profit after tax Zero
 Social Non-Compliance Reported
Customers
Employees
Vendors Government and Regulatory Bodies
Investors & Shareholders
Community
F
I
H
Financial   
Intellectual    M
Manufactured    
Human     SR N
Social and Relationship   
Natural
HDFC Bank Limited
62 
Relevant Stakeholders: 
At HDFC Bank, we recognise the signiﬁcant inﬂuence mitigate climate change. To reduce our carbon footprint,
we have through our lending and ﬁnancing activities. we continue to invest in renewable energy and energy
Engaging in sustainable and responsible ﬁnancing efﬁciency projects and encourage our customers to
practices allows us to invest in projects and industries make "green banking" decisions.
that have positive environmental and social impacts. 
This not only aligns our values with the growing Description of Impact
demand for ethical and sustainable investments but 
 (Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
also enhances the Bank's reputation as a socially 
responsible institution. Furthermore, sustainable At HDFC Bank, we have adopted an enhanced
ﬁnancing helps us improve our risk management and more comprehensive “ESG & Climate Change
practices by reducing exposure to environmentally Assessment” framework, as part of our overall credit
and socially risky assets as well as foster long-term assessment for wholesale corporate borrowers. Further,
relationships with clients who prioritise sustainability. the Bank has in place a “Sustainable Financing Criteria”
 Framework (“the Framework”) to enhance our portfolio
We believe in Responsible Financing and, as a rule, 
 from a climate and ESG perspective.
do not fund projects that are part of our Prohibition 
At HDFC Bank, we believe strong corporate 
 Description of Impact
governance is fundamental to our long-term success. 
We achieve this through a multi-pronged approach, (Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
prioritising transparency in disclosures and continuous 
 Our Corporate Governance philosophy is articulated
improvement in our governance structure. We 
 in our ESG framework, providing direction around the
maintain open communication channels for clear 
 cardinal principles of independence, accountability,
and consistent information disclosure, fostering trust 
 transparency, fair disclosures, responsibility and
amongst our stakeholders. Our commitment extends 
 credibility in the way we conduct our operations. We
beyond regulations, integrating ethical considerations 
 adhere to all relevant regulations, including the Indian
into daily operations. We have a fair and independent 
 Companies Act, Banking Regulation Act, and directives
Board that promotes responsible business practices 
 from RBI and SEBI. Our commitment extends beyond
taking into account, the economic, social, and 
 compliance, as evidenced by our policies and guidelines.
environmental aspects of our business. 
 We have policies on Antibribery and Anti-Corruption
 and Code of Conduct that ensure ethical operations.
 The Bank is committed to conducting its business in
 a transparent and ethical manner in accordance with
 the highest legal standards. We have a zero-tolerance
 approach to bribery and corruption in all its forms. In
 FY 25, there were 20 incidents of corruption, wherein
 employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption.
 The Bank implements multiple measures to detect and
 prevent bribery and corruption in its operations. In FY 25,
 97% of our total employees have undergone integrity
 based training programmes.
Effective risk management safeguards our ﬁnancial 
 Description of Impact
health by identifying, assessing, and mitigating 
potential losses from credit defaults, market (Reputational Risk, Potential Negative Impact)
ﬂuctuations, liquidity issues, interest rate changes, 
 Effective risk management is crucial to safeguard our
and operational failures. Through the effective use 
 ﬁnancial health and prevent systemic instability. As
of processes, information, and technology, we have 
 a result, our multi-layered risk management strategy
developed a multi-layered risk management strategy 
 actively identiﬁes, assesses, and reports the risks
that identiﬁes, assesses, monitors, and manages risks 
 inherent to our business operations to the appropriate
(credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, 
 levels of management so that risk mitigation actions can
and operational risk). Our framework incorporates 
 be implemented.
a Board-approved Stress Testing Policy & System, 
a vital component of our Internal Capital Adequacy Furthermore, we recognise the growing importance of
Assessment Process (ICAAP). Stress testing plays environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors.
a vital role in this assessment by simulating a variety Our ESG & Climate Change Assessment framework
of stressful, yet realistic scenarios to assess our helps us identify and mitigate potential ESG risks, and
vulnerability to extreme conditions. climate change threats associated with our borrowers
 and their business operations.
 Our independent risk management function ensures
 objectivity and oversight. A robust risk assessment helps
 us evaluate the likelihood and potential impact of each
 risk. We then implement a combination of mitigation
 techniques, such as setting credit limits, diversifying
 loan portfolios, managing interest rate exposure and
 implementing robust internal controls, to proactively
 manage these risks.
M AT E R I A L I T Y 
Management of Material Topic 
Financial Inclusion Digital Leadership
GRI topics: 203 GRI topics: 418
SR
F
H
Capitals Impacted: SR
Capitals Impacted:
Relevant Stakeholders: Relevant Stakeholders:
Financial inclusion is a pressing issue, and the Digital leadership allows us to innovate, improve
banking sector bears the responsibility of serving the efﬁciency, and enhance customer experience, offering
underbanked people in rural, semi-urban, urban and opportunities for growth and competitive advantage in
metropolitan India. We see this as an opportunity the digital era. We believe in our ability to consolidate
to broaden our reach and make our services more the market leadership in digital banking and
accessible to the poorest people across the country. ensuring the Bank is future-ready through continued
 investments in technology and talent.
Description of Impact 
 Description of Impact
(Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact) 
 (Opportunity, Potential Positive Impact)
Financial inclusion at HDFC Bank goes beyond 
traditional market expansion to offer opportunities By developing mobile banking applications and net
to tap into untapped markets. This fosters ﬁnancial banking solutions, we have solidiﬁed our competitive
stability and economic participation at the individual edge and contributed to the transformation towards
and community level. While we continue to focus on a digital and connected economy. Our user-friendly
the Corporate Cluster and Government Business mobile apps and net banking interfaces not only
to increase penetration, our business segment of empower customers with 24/7 access but also
Commercial (MSME) and Rural Banking is well- facilitate accessibility, simplicity, and agility apart
positioned to capture the next wave of growth. from fostering ﬁnancial inclusion and economic
These initiatives will focus on extending outreach growth for geographically isolated populations and
to unbanked segments, equipping them with the small businesses. Additionally, we are continuously
necessary tools for effective ﬁnancial management developing newer innovative and digital ﬁnancial
and increased economic engagement. products and services to further solidify our position as
 a leader in the digital banking landscape.
FY25 Performance 
 FY25 Performance
2.35 lakh 
Villages served in Semi Urban and 97%
Rural India Of our financial transactions are digital
51% 86%
Branches opened in Semi urban Of our acquisitions are digital
and Rural Areas 
Customers
Employees
Vendors Government and Regulatory Bodies
Investors & Shareholders
Community
F
I
H
Financial   
Intellectual    M
Manufactured    
Human     SR N
Social and Relationship   
Natural
HDFC Bank Limited
66 
  How We Create Value 
 Asset Quality Sustainable Procurement 
 GRI topics: 418 GRI topics: 204, 308, 414 
 F
M
SR
N
Capitals Impacted: F
M
SR
N
Capitals Impacted: 
 Relevant Stakeholders: Relevant Stakeholders: 
 HDFC Bank prioritises responsible asset management HDFC Bank implements a strategic approach to 
 practices throughout the loan lifecycle, contributing to procurement, integrating environmentally and socially 
 a sustainable ﬁnancial system. Regularly monitoring responsible considerations into our procurement 
 and managing asset quality are essential for practices. This approach yields operational efﬁciency, 
 maintaining the Bank's ﬁnancial stability and ensuring minimises waste generation, and reduces long-term 
 that we meet the obligations to depositors and operational expenditures for us. 
 other stakeholders.  
  Description of Impact 
 Description of Impact  
  (Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact) 
 (Reputational Risk, Potential Negative Impact)  
  As part of our ESG Policy Framework, we recognise 
 Asset quality is a fundamental risk for banks, directly the need to work closely with our suppliers to 
 impacting our ﬁnancial stability. Our assets are reduce waste, improve efﬁciency, reduce carbon 
 essentially promises of future repayment. Weak footprint, and engage with them to understand 
 asset quality can lead to ﬁnancial losses and trigger their commitment towards human rights and 
 a domino effect. This in turn can limit our ability to labour practices. 
 lend. In severe cases, very poor asset quality can  
  We will thus continue to work towards greater 
 even lead to disrupting the ﬁnancial system and  
  integration of environmental & social considerations in 
 impacting depositors and the broader economy.  
  our procurement practices. The Bank will make efforts 
 Therefore, maintaining a high standard of asset  
  to procure products which are recycled, environment 
 quality is critical for us to ensure our own ﬁnancial  
  friendly, energy-efﬁcient, and locally sourced. 
 well-being and contribute to a healthy ﬁnancial  
 system. As part of our Environmental, Social, and  
 Governance (ESG) Risk Management Framework,  
 we evaluate the environmental and social risks and  
 opportunities associated with our lending activities.  
 This analysis guides our lending decisions and  
 fosters client relationships that promote sustainable  
 business practices.  
  FY25 Performance 
 FY25 Performance  
  24% 
 1.33% Recycled paper of total stationery 
 Gross NPA ratio paper procured 
 Customers
Employees
Vendors Government and Regulatory Bodies
Investors & Shareholders Community
F I
H
Financial   
Intellectual    M
Manufactured    
Human     SR N
Social and Relationship   
Natural 
  Integrated Annual Report 2024-25 67
Being in the service sector, Information Security and 
 Description of Impact
Data Protection are of utmost importance to us. We 
have implemented robust Information Security and (Cyber and Data Risk, Potential Negative Impact)
Data Protection measures to ensure that our data 
 We work in a highly automated environment and
protection practices strictly adhere to the Banking 
 use cutting-edge technology to support a variety of
Codes and Standards Board of India’s (BCSBI) ‘Code 
 operations with excessive dependence on service
of Bank’s Commitment to Customers’ and Employee 
 providers for cybersecurity. To avoid potential risks
and Customer Awareness Procedures. A Board-level 
 associated with system failures, cyberattacks, and
IT Strategy Committee, chaired by an IT Director, 
 information leaks, we have implemented dedicated
oversees these critical functions. 
 Information Security and Cyber Security Policies.
 Furthermore, an independent assurance team within the
 Internal Audit function of the Bank continually assesses
 the effectiveness of our IT risk management strategies to
 ensure business continuity.
At HDFC Bank, customer satisfaction is paramount. 
 Description of Impact
We achieve this through a customer-centric approach, 
prioritising excellent service, personalised experiences (Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
and efﬁcient solutions. Our customer-centric approach 
 We actively gather customer feedback through regular
caters to the ﬁnancial goals of our customers while 
 satisfaction surveys, allowing us to use their valuable
providing them with insightful, relevant, contextualised, 
 input to continuously improve our products and services.
and hyper-personalised experiences, highlighting the 
 We adhere to RBI’s Customer Rights, Grievances
value we place on exceeding customer expectations, 
 Redressal, and Compensation Policy, ensuring fair
 treatment for our customers. Moreover, we have multiple
 convenient channels, including 24/7 telephone support,
 intelligent customer service options, and visitor message
 boards for customers to connect directly with the Bank.
We believe our people are the cornerstone of our 
 Description of Impact
success. We strive to establish a positive working 
atmosphere that encourages our employees' (Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
active development and engagement. We engage 
 Our dedication to strong Employee Practices creates a
employees through a variety of activities. Over the 
 ripple effect of positive and tangible beneﬁts. We conduct
years, our seminars and contests have attracted 
 an annual employee survey to identify improvement
many participants. 
 areas, leading to initiatives that reduce stress, enhance
 purpose, and contribute to a positive work environment.
We have several codes and policies in place that 
apply to all our employees. The Bank also offers a 
 The Bank is an equal opportunity employer, fostering
variety of beneﬁts to its employees. Human capital 
 diversity and inclusion, and offering comprehensive
enhancement requirements are proactively assessed 
 beneﬁts including parental leave, medical care, post
and implemented. 
 retirement support to all our employees. We offer
 best-in-class employee training & development –
 including through the MPower platform which enables
 dissemination of proprietary content on diverse topics.
Building stronger communities is a core value at our 
 Description of Impact
Bank. We actively partner with local communities 
to understand and address their needs. This (Opportunity, Actual Positive Impact)
engagement not only strengthens our relationships 
 We have identiﬁed the most disadvantaged sections of
with the community but also helps us identify potential 
 society around our areas of operation and are working to
initiatives. Our dedicated Board-level CSR & ESG 
 empower them to be self-reliant through our CSR brand
Committee oversees these initiatives, ensuring they 
 'Parivartan'.
make a measurable impact. Additionally, we believe 
Relevant Stakeholders: 
HDFC Bank recognises the materiality of climate To communicate climate-related risks and opportunities,
change and its far-reaching impact on our we are implementing the Task Force on Climate-related
business. We are committed to developing and Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. We are
implementing proactive mitigation and adaptation assessing our resilience to physical and transition risks,
strategies including conducting comprehensive strengthening data collection on climate-related factors,
climate risk assessments to identify and manage and developing methodologies for risk assessment and
potential physical and transition risks impacting our scenario analysis. These efforts ensure we navigate the
business. By integrating sustainability criteria into our evolving low-carbon economy while mitigating our own
operations and credit analysis, we aim to contribute environmental impact.
to a low-carbon future while ensuring long-term 
ﬁnancial stability. 
 Target
Description of Impact To become carbon neutral in our own
 operations by FY32
(Climate Risk, Potential Negative Impact) 
 Performance against the goal is elaborated in the
We have been tracking our carbon footprint since 
 ‘Environment’ chapter of the IAR.
2010 and are committed to becoming carbon neutral 
FY25 Performance 
0.59 million tCO2e 5.96 GJ/ K crore
GHG Emissions (Scope 1, 2 & 3) Revenue from operations Energy intensity
1.05 (tCO2e/ K Cr Revenue from Operations 3.22%
GHG Emissions intensity (Scope 1 + 2) Renewable Energy Consumed
Materiality Metrics for External Stakeholders 
Impact Valuation 
Financial Inclusion Customer Privacy and Data Security
Access to product/service with Quantiﬁed quality of
positive impact provided life impacted
HDFC Bank assesses how banking The Bank evaluates data breaches
access in 2.35 lakh villages enhances to protect customers from ﬁnancial
economic participation and stability for losses and privacy violations,
rural communities, enabling ﬁnancial preserving their trust and quality of life
management and reducing inequality. by avoiding economic harm.
Post the merger of HDFC Limited with anchored in delivering consistent, risk- on enhancing value through four
and into HDFC Bank effective adjusted proﬁtable growth. Execution strategic levers: people, customers,
July 1, 2023 the Financial Year remains a key strength— enabling technology and the power of our
2024–25 marked the ﬁrst full year of deeper customer engagement, group. Robust governance and risk
operations as a merged institution, technology-led efﬁciency gains, management practices continue to be
and we are seeing synergies take a synergy realisation and stable the cornerstone of this journey.
visible form. Our strategy remains asset quality. We remain focused 
India’s economy remained resilient through a year of global volatility, supported
by stable fundamentals, a strong regulatory framework and improving inﬂation
dynamics. Growth of 6.5 per cent was aided by domestic demand, infrastructure
build-out and rural momentum. The demand for trusted ﬁnancial intermediation
continues to evolve and HDFC Bank remains well-placed to meet this need
through its distribution. The Bank is well positioned to cater to demand across
the GDP spectrum backed by its strong brand franchise.
Our employees are central to our As digital adoption accelerates, relationships. By leveraging digital
execution strength. The Bank technology remains integral to our tools and collaboration, we aim to
continues to embed its managerial strategy. We continue to invest in enrich our customer proposition—
behaviour architecture—Nurture, secure, scalable enterprise platforms harnessing the power of the group.
Care and Collaborate—to strengthen that strengthen our Core. The These priorities underpin our ten-pillar
on-ground experience of culture. merger has signiﬁcantly enhanced strategy and position us for consistent,
We remain committed to customer HDFC Bank Group’s ability to offer stable and sustainable growth
centricity with sharper focus on comprehensive ﬁnancial solutions 
service quality, speed and trust. to deepen and lengthen customer 
Branch Channel with customers and capture their
 feedback to serve them better. We
Engagement & Virtual 
 aim to provide holistic and need-
Relationship Management 
 based ﬁnancial solutions by leveraging
(VRM) 
 our diverse range of products and
Branch Channel Engagement services. Our strategic imperatives
Leveraging technology, our branches enabling re-imagining the role and
are transitioning into engagement architecture of Retail Branch Banking
centres for meaningful conversations are explained below:
 Strategic 
  Al Analytics
 Imperatives 
Digital  driven customer
Transformation  conversations (Next
  Best Action)
our presence in identiﬁed locations  a bouquet of customer-centric digital
 nurturing and implementation of 
through multiple formats.  journeys that make banking simple.
 next best actions aimed at fulﬁlling 
 customer needs. With a 'service ﬁrst 
 culture', we leverage robust analytics 
  Launched in FY25
Bank’s Distribution Network  
 and AI to suggest personalised 
(As on March 31, 2025)  
  − Phased roll out of new Net
 recommendations based on customer 
  and MobileBanking
− Branches: 9,455 (Including transactions and digital behaviour 
international branches and for services and products. This 
DBUs) also allows for validation from the 
  Rural Business Growth Levers
 Relationship Manager which then 
− ATMs / CRMs: 21,139  
 results in recommendations for the We develop curated propositions to
− Cities / Towns: 4,150  
 next best action for each customer. address the speciﬁc needs of Semi-
− 51 per cent of our branches are  
 Relationship Managers are also Urban and Rural (SURU) markets.
in Semi-Urban and Rural areas  
 equipped with real-time data for In FY24, we introduced 'Vishesh
Micro-market Focused Multi  Digital-led Service First
Format Distribution  Organisation
We are transforming branch banking  We focus on voice of customer-
into a multi-format model based on a  led process improvements and
granular micro market approach. This  digitalisation. Some of the key
involves using a multi-variate model  improvements include differentiated
to identify high potential markets,  and priority servicing for senior
considering factors such as population  citizens and High Net Worth (HNW)
demographics, deposits and  customers, real-time deliverable
advances data, delinquency insights,  tracking and regular alerts to
climate risk assessments and future  customers on processing milestones.
trends. Branch formats may vary  We continue to embed and enhance
from full service physical branches  customer digital journeys including
 Customer Lifecycle 
to Smart Banking Lobbies or Digital  Insta Service Journeys, in sales,
 Engagement and AI driven 
Banking Units (DBUs) with self-service  service and operations. Mobile-
 Customer Conversations 
kiosks as well as through Business  ﬁrst approach leveraging Aadhaar
 We leverage our extensive branch 
Correspondents (BCs). We closely  and ‘Walk Out Working’ (WOW)
 network as engagement centres to 
track proﬁtability and break-even  straight through journeys are some
 have high impact conversations with 
for each format to ensure targeted  of the initiatives that are helping us
 customers to partner with them over 
investments and cost-effectiveness.  achieve signiﬁcant beneﬁts in terms
 the long term. We source the right 
By expanding our presence in  of improved customer experience.
 customers through a differentiated 
identiﬁed locations through multiple  With a digital-ﬁrst mission, we are
 go-to-market approach and engage 
formats, we not only increase our  unlocking operational efﬁciencies and
 in need-based conversations offering 
catchment area but also beneﬁt  cost savings while delivering customer
 tailored product propositions. 
from the network effects. Therefore,  delight. Going forward, we aim to build
 Our relationship management 
we continue to invest in expanding  a paperless retail experience through
 architecture ensures continuous 
our presence in identiﬁed locations  a bouquet of customer-centric digital
 nurturing and implementation of 
through multiple formats.  journeys that make banking simple.
 next best actions aimed at fulﬁlling 
 customer needs. With a 'service ﬁrst 
 culture', we leverage robust analytics 
  Launched in FY25
Bank’s Distribution Network  
 and AI to suggest personalised 
(As on March 31, 2025)  
  − Phased roll out of new Net
 recommendations based on customer 
  and MobileBanking
− Branches: 9,455 (Including transactions and digital behaviour 
international branches and for services and products. This 
DBUs) also allows for validation from the 
  Rural Business Growth Levers
 Relationship Manager which then 
− ATMs / CRMs: 21,139  
 results in recommendations for the We develop curated propositions to
− Cities / Towns: 4,150  
 next best action for each customer. address the speciﬁc needs of Semi-
− 51 per cent of our branches are  
 Relationship Managers are also Urban and Rural (SURU) markets.
in Semi-Urban and Rural areas  
 equipped with real-time data for In FY24, we introduced 'Vishesh
 immediate next best actions based Banking Programme,' an industry-ﬁrst
 on customer interactions. We are now rural-focused customer managed
 looking to enter the next leg of this programme. It provides customised
 journey by leveraging the account beneﬁts like complimentary health
 aggregator model and Generative AI check-up facility, tele consultation with
 capabilities to ensure that we have the doctor, free gold valuation, discounted
 right proposition for the right customer pricing on loan processing fees
 at the right time. and free subscription to Agri-Tech
  Virtual Care ensures seamless,
  round-the-clock support for major
  retail banking products, delivered
  through voice- and text-based
  channels for service continuity
  and convenience.
  Our Virtual Relationship Managers
  engage with customers across the
  entire lifecycle—spanning savings,
  investments, borrowing and
  transactions—through an integrated,
  digital-ﬁrst model. This framework
app with discounted products and across segments and is steadily 
  combines relationship expertise with
services. To expand our rural reach, emerging as a preferred channel for 
  a suite of digital tools including Video
we utilise business correspondents millions of retail banking customers. 
  KYC, web chat, EVA (the Bank’s
and innovative models like the Bank  
 Our Virtual Relationship Management AI-enabled chatbot) and service
on Wheels. Additionally, we engage  
 (VRM) strategy is anchored in digital interfaces on platforms such as
customers through ﬁnancial literacy  
 convenience and personalised, need- Facebook Messenger.
programmes and opinion leader  
 based engagement. It is built on three 
engagements to foster deeper  We continue to enhance customer-
 pillars—Virtual Relationship, Virtual 
relationships and recognise their  facing capabilities through upgraded
 Sales and Virtual Care—each 
contribution to society through an  Interactive Voice Response (IVR)
 tailored to serve distinct customer 
acknowledgement initiative known as  systems and multilingual Voice BOT
 segments through targeted digital 
'Samman Samaroh'. Collaborating  solutions, ensuring seamless access
 interventions. Virtual Relationship 
with partners such as Farmer  to key banking services round the
 serves our managed customer base 
Producer Organisations (FPOs) and  clock. These tools are designed to
 through proactive, personalised 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises  support consistent and personalised
 engagement. It includes our Video 
(MSMEs) enables active engagement  engagement at scale.
 KYC team, which facilitates secure 
with the entire ecosystem in a  
 digital onboarding and veriﬁcation. Our VRM strategy is powered by
comprehensive manner.  
  a highly trained talent pool. Virtual
 Virtual Sales focuses on the broader 
People Capability Building  Relationship Managers undergo
 retail base, offering relevant products 
  structured programmes covering
All the aforesaid initiatives  
 and services digitally—enhancing 
  product knowledge, sales techniques,
and reimagined approach are  
 engagement and driving relationship 
  customer communication, compliance
complemented by a strong focus on  
 value across segments. 
  and regulatory frameworks. These
our people capability building using  
  efforts are backed by secure,
the Nurture, Care and Collaborate  
 IVR Offered in automated systems designed to
approach. We are investing in  
  
innovative ways of learning and 12 languages uphold customer data privacy and
  operational integrity.
capability development using internal  
and external partners and technology-  
 Video KYC offered in The channel is further strengthened
enabled platforms.  
  
 6 languages through analytics-led product
  distribution and digitally enabled
Virtual Relationship  
  service journeys. This ensures timely,
Management  
  relevant engagement and supports
Our VRM model integrates advanced  
  the Bank’s positioning as a full-service
technology with human expertise  
  ﬁnancial partner to its retail customers.
to deliver consistent, secure and  
  entire lifecycle—spanning savings,
  investments, borrowing and
  transactions—through an integrated,
  digital-ﬁrst model. This framework
app with discounted products and across segments and is steadily 
  combines relationship expertise with
services. To expand our rural reach, emerging as a preferred channel for 
  a suite of digital tools including Video
we utilise business correspondents millions of retail banking customers. 
  KYC, web chat, EVA (the Bank’s
and innovative models like the Bank  
 Our Virtual Relationship Management AI-enabled chatbot) and service
on Wheels. Additionally, we engage  
 (VRM) strategy is anchored in digital interfaces on platforms such as
customers through ﬁnancial literacy  
 convenience and personalised, need- Facebook Messenger.
programmes and opinion leader  
 based engagement. It is built on three 
engagements to foster deeper  We continue to enhance customer-
 pillars—Virtual Relationship, Virtual 
relationships and recognise their  facing capabilities through upgraded
 Sales and Virtual Care—each 
contribution to society through an  Interactive Voice Response (IVR)
 tailored to serve distinct customer 
acknowledgement initiative known as  systems and multilingual Voice BOT
 segments through targeted digital 
'Samman Samaroh'. Collaborating  solutions, ensuring seamless access
 interventions. Virtual Relationship 
with partners such as Farmer  to key banking services round the
 serves our managed customer base 
Producer Organisations (FPOs) and  clock. These tools are designed to
 through proactive, personalised 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises  support consistent and personalised
 engagement. It includes our Video 
(MSMEs) enables active engagement  engagement at scale.
 KYC team, which facilitates secure 
with the entire ecosystem in a  
 digital onboarding and veriﬁcation. Our VRM strategy is powered by
comprehensive manner.  
  a highly trained talent pool. Virtual
 Virtual Sales focuses on the broader 
People Capability Building  Relationship Managers undergo
 retail base, offering relevant products 
  structured programmes covering
All the aforesaid initiatives  
 and services digitally—enhancing 
  product knowledge, sales techniques,
and reimagined approach are  
 engagement and driving relationship 
  customer communication, compliance
complemented by a strong focus on  
 value across segments. 
  and regulatory frameworks. These
our people capability building using  
  efforts are backed by secure,
the Nurture, Care and Collaborate  
 IVR Offered in automated systems designed to
approach. We are investing in  
  
innovative ways of learning and 12 languages uphold customer data privacy and
  operational integrity.
capability development using internal  
and external partners and technology-  
 Video KYC offered in The channel is further strengthened
enabled platforms.  
  
 6 languages through analytics-led product
  distribution and digitally enabled
Virtual Relationship  
  service journeys. This ensures timely,
Management  
  relevant engagement and supports
Our VRM model integrates advanced  
  the Bank’s positioning as a full-service
technology with human expertise  
  ﬁnancial partner to its retail customers.
to deliver consistent, secure and  
personalised banking at scale. It  
enables deeper customer engagement  
HDFC Bank Limited
78  
Government and it works with various bodies to HDFC Bank’s efforts were recognised
 support development of new areas by the Department of Pension &
Institutional (G&I) Business  
 by aiding land monetisation. The Pensioners' Welfare (DoPPW) under
Our efforts to grow the Government,  
 Bank has facilitated digitalisation of the Digital Life Certiﬁcate Campaigns
Institutional & Start–Up businesses  
 payments associated with the land 2.0 and 3.0 for achieving a 99 per cent
gathered further momentum in the  
 acquisition process by aiding district update rate for eligible life certiﬁcates
Financial Year 2024–25. The key pillars  
 level government authorities to in FY 2024–25.
of growth for the business are:  
 expedite beneﬁciary identiﬁcation and 
  Building new economy
Market Leadership in Agency related disbursements. 
  businesses – Investing for the
Business  
 At the state level, the Bank partners future
The Bank continues to be a leader  
 with parastatals to improve revenue 
  The Bank remains committed to
in the agency business, ranking  
 generation by facilitating online 
  supporting the Startup ecosystem
among the top three Agency Banks  
 tenders, auctions and collections. It 
  and recognises its role in shaping
for direct and indirect tax collections.  
 works with over ten state governments 
  the nation’s economic growth. In
Additionally, it has begun sourcing  
 to enable efﬁcient revenue collection 
  FY 2024–25, several new initiatives
accounts under the Senior Citizens  
 and provides workﬂow-based 
  were launched in collaboration
Savings Scheme, a part of the  
 solutions to streamline collections and 
  with both public and private sector
National Small Savings Schemes  
 disbursements for these entities. 
  partners to fuel this ecosystem. The
initiative by the Ministry of Finance,  
  Bank revamped its overall products
 Disbursing funds to the 
Government of India.  
  to be not just best-in-class but also
 last mile 
HDFC Bank market share in  future-ready, addressing the evolving
 With a 12 per cent year-on-year 
FY 2024-25  needs of new economy businesses. It
 growth in total ﬂows processed, the 
  also entered the payments aggregator
Goods & Service Bank enabled the transfer of over 36 
~17%  cross-border business, onboarding
Tax Collections  
 per cent of the total funds disbursed 
  its ﬁrst client in this space as an AD-1
Custom & Excise  
 by the Central Government to 
~18%  
Duty Collections  Bank. Further, the Bank introduced
 beneﬁciaries under various Centrally 
Direct Tax  GIGA—a specially designed
~25% Sponsored Schemes, Central Sector 
Collections  
  programme for the fast-growing
 Schemes and the 15th Finance 
  gig economy, covering the entire
 Commission. In total, the Bank 
Leveraging Our Distribution  
  spectrum from blue-collar to white-
 disbursed more than H90,000 crore 
Network to Deepen Reach  
  collar work—at the Global Fintech
 across these schemes. 
Given its large distribution franchise  Festival in August 2024.
and its coverage in semi–urban and Enhanced focus on serving 
  Looking ahead, the Bank aims to
rural areas, HDFC Bank has emerged those who have served the 
  further deepen its engagement across
as a trusted partner to district and nation. 
  the Government and Institutional
local level administrations in addition  
 The Bank revamped its product 
  ecosystem by expanding its digital
to the central and state governments.  
 offerings and overall engagement 
  footprint, co-creating customised
 strategy to provide customer delight 
Leveraging technology to offer right ﬁt  solutions with government bodies and
 to pensioners through 5,000 branches 
solutions, it has helped digitalisation of  enhancing last-mile service delivery
 which are enabled to offer SPARSH 
many Gram Panchayats by enabling  through its robust distribution network
 services to defence pensioners. In 
collection of local taxes through QR.  
 addition, the Bank provides Form 16 
Likewise, in urban areas the Bank  
 to pensioners basis its automated 
has collaborated with all tiers of  
 workﬂows and has facilitated the 
municipal bodies from corporations,  
 submission of Life certiﬁcates digitally 
councils to nagar panchayats to  
 to Government of India’s Jeevan 
aid digital collection and enhance  
 Praman Portal. 
customer convenience. In addition,  
 Client engagement, portfolio servicing HDFC Bank’s wide range of
Wealth Management  
 and Net Promoter Score are key investment offerings successfully
In the Financial Year 2024-25, the  
 business performance assessment adapt to the changing economic
team of over 1,000 Sales and Service  
 measures. The Bank’s Service First landscape to manage and create
experts has focused on extending  
 Culture has led to an NPS score of 87 wealth for clients, with ‘Protect.
wealth services to clients ranging  
 in 2024-25 which is one of the highest Manage. Grow.’ being an essential
from Ultra-HNW to Mass Afﬂuent  
 in the industry. cornerstone of the brand identity.
client segments.  
 With this segment speciﬁc focus, the 
HDFC Bank was adjudged as ‘India's  
 Bank has been consistent in growing 
Best for HNW’ in the Euromoney  
 market share and emerging as one 
Private Banking Awards 2025. In the  
 of the largest Wealth Managers in the 
Global Private Banking Awards 2024  
 country. With the help of over 100 
organised by Professional Wealth  
 Investor Education Initiatives including 
Management (PWM)- a Financial  
 having fund managers as expert guest 
Times publication - HDFC Bank was  
 speakers, the Bank has been able to 
adjudged the Best Private Bank  
 signiﬁcantly expand its presence in 
in India.  
 the country, covering tier II & III cities 
The Bank has made continuous and as well. 
incremental efforts to generate as well  
 HDFC Bank has endeavoured to 
as quantify the alpha delivered in each  
 become the market leader across all 
client’s portfolio. In 2025, 87 per cent  
 investor segments through curated 
of the Bank’s clients had generated a  
 offering in each segment. 
positive alpha with the median client  
  Technology & Digital
alpha at 2.6 per cent. The aim is to − For Ultra-HNW clients, it has 
  Shift Right, Build Forward:
incorporate alpha in all client reports more than doubled the number 
  Architecting the Intelligent Core
and portfolio reviews. of products referred on the 
 Bank’s platform The Financial Year 2024-25 was
With a sales force of over 850  
  a signiﬁcant year in HDFC Bank’s
 − Keeping Super-Afﬂuent clients in 
supported by over 150 service staff  
  technology evolution – one where
 mind, it has introduced State-of- 
and over 100 Investment Analysts,  
  foundational decisions around
 the-art Wealthfy reports that provide 
HDFC Bank has the largest number of  
  architecture, intelligence and resilience
 detailed portfolio diagnostics 
Wealth bankers in the country. With an  
  began converging into a long-term
 and analysis. 
increase in manpower, the Bank has  
  operating model. The Bank moved
made consistent efforts to provide the It has developed an advanced 
 − 
  beyond the product upgrade thought
best education and training to private unassisted digital investment 
  process to deﬁne a platform-led, data
bankers. By conducting intensive platform - SmartWealth that enables 
  powered, secure digital core – capable
training sessions in collaboration with clients to track their portfolios 
  of scaling experiences, insights and
top-ranked business schools such and make investments through 
  systems cohesively.
as Indian Institute of Management at access to goal-based investment 
Ahmedabad and Bangalore, the Bank recommendations. With highly The 'Shift Right’ strategy, now deeply
has groomed our in-house talent. intuitive client experience and institutionalised, has helped reframe
 gamiﬁcation of client journeys, this how HDFC Bank builds. It has steered
Service First culture is the central pillar  
 mobile ﬁrst platform aims to provide the Bank towards a customer-
for business as HDFC Bank focuses  
 access to the Bank’s research aligned modular and API-ﬁrst digital
on service led sales by prioritising  
 to all Mass afﬂuent clients. It has foundation. This shift is not cosmetic—
client delight and relationship banking.  
 more than six lakh downloads and it is structural, inﬂuencing every layer
Service Quality is an essential part of  
 nearly four lakh clients onboarded of the Bank’s technology stack.
RM scorecards and Supervisor KPIs.  
 on SmartWealth. 
HDFC Bank Limited
80  
Financial Year 2024-25 saw several  
milestones. The migration of its  
Core Banking System to a next  
gen engineered platform delivered  
enhanced performance, agility and  
scalability. IMPS Inwards, the ﬁrst  
deployment under the ‘Lighten the  
Core’ strategy, marked the beginning  
of transition away from monolithic  
systems to microservices-led,  
cloud-adaptive modules. These  
investments will shape the scale and  
responsiveness of future banking.  
Our new Net and MobileBanking  
platforms have been engineered for  
 attack surface monitoring and to inﬂuence, educate, transact, and
high performance, intuitive navigation  
 infrastructure hardening continue to retain. Across every touchpoint—from
and advanced security to deliver a  
 ensure that our expansion is grounded social stories to service journeys—our
smarter, more seamless experience  
 in resilience and trust. goal is singular: to create meaningful,
across digital fulﬁlment and customer  
  data-led and delightful experiences for
engagements. The platforms are being Looking Ahead 
  every customer, every day.
rolled to our customers in phases  
 A key evolution in the Bank’s 
and have received an encouraging  1. Social: From Content to
 technology roadmap is the structured 
response across the spectrum.  Conversation
 adoption of Generative AI. 
  Social media isn’t just where our
HDFC Bank advanced its Enterprise  
 We see GenAI as an accelerator— 
  customers are—it’s where our brand
Data Lake initiative to centralise data  
 not in isolation, but as a layer 
  comes alive and earns love. With over
across critical systems, enabling  
 that catalyses our transformation 
  21 lakh followers across platforms
scalable analytics, improved data  
 strategy. Our approach focuses on 
  and a standout IP like Vigil Aunty,
quality and streamlined governance  
 solving enterprise-wide challenges 
  HDFC Bank has become one of the
aligned with regulatory standards. The  
 through a 'Class of Problems' 
  few ﬁnancial institutions to own a
Bank’s API orchestration framework  
 methodology—identifying repeatable 
  cultural voice. Vigil Aunty, our social
matured signiﬁcantly, enabling  
 use cases where GenAI can improve 
  media inﬂuencer who educates
scalable and secure integration  
 documentation, servicing, decision 
  customers about digital frauds, is
across channels and partners.  
 support, and knowledge workﬂows. 
  more than a campaign—she’s a
The groundwork has been laid for  
  consumer advocate, a trust-builder
Banking-as-a-Service (BaaS) where Digital Marketing 
  and a household name with 8 lakh
banking capabilities are delivered as  
 In today’s connected India, where 
  followers on WhatsApp. Beyond her,
composite service and stitched into  
 every swipe and scroll signals 
  we consistently activate moment
digital ecosystems in real time.  
 opportunity, HDFC Bank’s digital 
  marketing— rooting our stories in
 strategy is not just a marketing lever— 
At the same time, cybersecurity  
  Indian culture, current events and
 it is a transformation engine. Over 
and governance architectures were  
  customer-centric themes to drive
 the past few years, the Bank has 
strengthened through Zero Trust  
  brand relevance in real-time.
 silently and systematically rewritten 
controls, advanced monitoring  
 the rules of engagement, building a 
systems and cloud-native security  
 digital marketing ecosystem designed 
tooling. Investments in secure access,  
This approach has translated into Across journeys, we integrate Whether it’s performance marketing
tangible impact, with brand love on interactive explainer videos, on Google and Meta or full-funnel
social media, growing by 56 per cent personalised nudges and live support campaigns across email, social,
in the past year. fallback to ensure every visitor, and in-app journeys, our approach
 assisted or unassisted gets the to paid marketing is grounded in
We’ve also started using reels and  
 help they need. solving real problems for real people.
video-ﬁrst formats to simplify complex  
  Powered by AI/ML and customer
banking actions—like setting up 3. Analytics: The Brain Behind 
  intelligence we optimise for high-
auto-debit, checking loan eligibility or the Experience 
  intent, high-ROI growth across the full
upgrading account features—serving  
 What sets our digital ecosystem apart 
  customer lifecycle.
self-learners and assisted users alike.  
 is how deeply it is intertwined with 
This is where visual service design  Our digital strategy is incomplete
 analytics. Using cloud-based AI/ML 
meets content.  without advocacy. Whether it's
 tools, we decode customer behaviour, 
  resolving queries swiftly on social
 preferences and needs. These insights 
2. Website: The New Branch  
  media, sharing user testimonials,
 help us curate hyper-personalised 
Front Door  
  or activating online reputation
 content, sharpen campaign precision 
The Bank’s website is not just a static  
  management, our aim is to create
 and even shape product interventions. 
information board—it is an intelligent,  
  vocal champions. And all this sits
 From hypothesis testing to funnel 
high-conversion, customer-ﬁrst engine.  
  atop a rock-solid foundation of
 drop-off ﬁxes, our analytics muscle 
With 146 crore visits in FY 2024-25,  
  IT governance and data security
 helps us move from guesswork to 
our website has become the primary  
  ensuring that trust is not compromised
 growth. And most critically, it allows 
entry point for lakhs of product  
  in the pursuit of scale.
 us to deliver the right message, at the 
journeys. With intuitive navigation,  
 right time, through the right channel. 
  Every lever—social, site, media,
optimised user ﬂows, and mobile-  
  analytics, content, and service—is
ﬁrst design, it seamlessly transforms The objective is that it helps 
  being orchestrated to serve the
curiosity into action. Further, over customers feel heard before they 
  customer ﬁrst. And as we scale, we’re
19 crore visits were recorded for our speak and this helps us to make 
  doubling down on videos, voice,
Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) service intelligent, not reactive. 
  vernacular and virtual handholding to
forms. These demonstrate how  
 4. Digital Sales: Orchestrated, 
  give customers a better experience.
customers are increasingly completing  
 Omni-Channel, Outcome- 
full purchase journeys digitally without  
  Our digital marketing ambition is bold
 Focused 
stepping into a branch.  
  yet simple: To be India’s most loved,
 Our cross functional PODs don’t 
  trusted and digital-ﬁrst Bank.
 just build campaigns—they build 
 outcomes across every customer 
 segment. We’ve achieved a key 
 milestone with unassisted digital 
 channels now contributing 20 per 
 cent to 45 per cent of overall business 
 across core products like credit cards, 
 personal loans, savings accounts and 
 lending journeys. 
 Our payment products play a is on delivering solutions that
Payments Business  
 central role in deepening customer enhance everyday convenience and
HDFC Bank’s strategy revolves  
 relationships and strengthening the contribute to customers’ long-term
around the opportunities in the  
 Bank’s position across both asset growth journeys.
payment’s ecosystem and the vibrant  
 and liability products. The endeavour 
Indian economy.  Our Credit card business continues
  to be a leader on many fronts.
Equipped with a comprehensive  
  Having built best in class products
bouquet of products and services,  
  and platforms over the last two
our payments business offers end-  
  decades we continue to maintain
to-end solutions designed to cater to  
  our leadership position with more
a wide range of customer segments  
  than two crore customers. A wide
across multiple geographies within  
  range of proprietary and co-branded
and outside India. Our capabilities  
  card products ( including UPI
are built to serve customers on both  
  based) backed by strong customer
the issuing and acceptance sides.  
  service across the physical and
The products are designed to cater  
  digital mediums, has ensured that
to the unique payment requirements  
  we continue to build momentum by
of several customer segments and  
  issuing more than ﬁve lakh cards every
industries, at scale.  
  month on average.
Commercial cards which are used ensuring that we onboard small, The Bank’s MyCards platform which
by various business entities to medium and large businesses to is a one stop platform to manage
cater to multiple expenses around accept multiple payment form factors HDFC Bank Credit & Debit Cards,
travel, entertainment, procurement which include Cards, UPI, Central FASTag and Consumer Durable
and statutory payments has also Bank Digital Currency and Wallets. loans continued to grow at a rapid
been a key area of focus for the  pace. More than 3.5 crore customers
 Equipped with ‘Vyapar’, our Digital 
Bank’s payments business. With an  (growth of 63 per cent) were added
 Acceptance App Platform, we 
experience of more than two decades  in FY25. The platform continues to
 continue to maintain our leadership 
of catering to SMEs and large  be enriched through addition of new
 position in the acceptance 
corporates, our payments business  features at regular intervals.
 business serving more than 30 lakh 
offers unique payment solutions  
 merchant establishments. SmartHub ‘Vyapar’ is a merchant app
to various industries like aviation,  
  platform that provides retail merchants
travel and insurance. By leveraging Our wide array of products gives 
  with payment conﬁrmation alerts, daily
advanced data analytics, we identify us the ability to serve our merchant 
  settlement reports, service support,
traditional payment ﬂows and migrate partners to collect timely payments 
  access to loans, insurance and
them to a convenient as well as through the ofﬂine as well as the online 
  business growth features through third
seamless digital payment ﬂow thereby medium. Our product suite which 
  party service providers. HDFC Bank
helping customers manage their includes Online Payment Gateways 
  continued to witness widespread
payments in a more efﬁcient manner. for collecting payments via Cards, 
  adoption with more than 19 lakh
 Net-Banking and UPI is well designed. 
Our commercial payment solutions  merchants on Vyapar as on March
 It is not only designed to meet the 
have found wide acceptance across  2025 with over 23 crore transactions
 needs of start-ups as well as large 
the industry ensuring that we are the  per month.
 businesses but also to cater to the 
market leaders not only on an overall  
 growing requirements of various Further, the Bank launched PayZapp
basis but also on an individual basis  
 associations, trusts, religious and 2.0 a comprehensive mobile payment
across multiple segments.  
 government institutions. commerce app in March 2023.
The Bank is a leading issuer of Debit  PayZapp supports a complete range
 We also have the full array of products 
Cards with more than ﬁve crore debit  of payments from Credit Cards, Debit
 catering to our merchant partners 
cards in force. The spend per card  Cards, Wallet and UPI with customers
 enabling them to seamlessly collect 
is 3x of the industry average, thereby  getting the choice of form factor to
 payments in the ofﬂine world. We 
reﬂecting the superior proﬁle of the  make payments at merchant stores
 support collection of payments 
Bank’s customers.  using Scan, Tap or at Swipe. The
 with both Cards and UPI through 
  app has reached the milestone of 1.6
In addition to Credit and Debit Cards, the ubiquitous POS terminals 
  crore registrations in FY25 and over 50
the bank also offers a wide range of and also are a leading player in 
  lakh active users per month. PayZapp
Prepaid Cards for use by individuals the UPI dominated QR payment 
  is currently among the top-rated
and corporates. These cards can acceptance. Our product range is 
  payments applications in the country.
be used across multiple merchant ﬂexible and complemented with the 
categories in India as well as overseas. latest technology to accommodate ‘SmartGateway’, a uniﬁed payment
 customisation requirements. platform for online merchants was
Our Acceptance Business which is  
  launched in February 2024 with the
spread across the length and breadth Innovation has been a constant theme 
  objective of fortifying Bank's market
of the country has been a signiﬁcant across the payments business. The 
  share in the merchant acquiring
contributor to the digital payment’s Financial Year 2024-25 saw HDFC 
  business. SmartGateway enables our
growth in the country. Over the last Bank making signiﬁcant progress in its 
  merchants to collect payments with
few decades we have continued to recent initiatives. 
  over 150 methods and assists them in
invest and grow this business by  
  maximising their sales with a best-
in-class success rate. The platform By offering a comprehensive, secure of products for both personal and
provides an insightful dashboard and convenient digital experience, business needs.
powered by smart analytics and will the Bank has positioned itself as the 
  The Bank’s strategy is to continually
empower our merchants to provide a go-to ﬁnancial partner. This will drive 
  enhance digital offerings across all
frictionless check out experience to higher digital adoption and long-term 
  retail assets. This is done in line with
their customers. customer loyalty. 
  its risk appetite and the objective
Given the Bank’s strong franchise Furthermore, customer experience of maintaining consistently strong
on the issuance as well as the is being transformed through portfolio quality. The focus on digital
acceptance side, it also leverages advanced conversational AI, intelligent distribution and increasing the
its network of consumers and automation and seamless service unassisted sourcing through Xpress
merchants to enable affordable and sales journeys via ChatBanking Personal Loan, Xpress Business
solutions. The Bank has a very strong on WhatsApp. Caller experience Loan, Xpress Auto Loan, Loan Against
consumer ﬁnance programme helping at PhoneBanking continues to Shares / Mutual Funds and Gold Loan
consumers to purchase goods and get enhanced via optimised menu will continue.
services complementing their lifestyle. options for IVR and Voice Bot 
  Introduction of new workﬂow system
 based transactions. 
The Bank continues to focus on  for Gold Loan, will bring in enhanced
sustainable growth strategies,  customer experience. HDFC Bank
 Retail Assets 
emphasising on resilience and holistic  continuously strives to acquire new
 The Bank has been among the 
impacts. Its digital strategy is aligned  customers with best-in-class asset
 top two market players across all 
to enhance customer engagement  offerings. The indigenous digital
 the asset categories relating to 
across all touchpoints of the Bank.  journey not only enables existing
 personal ﬁnance and continues to 
  customers but also seamlessly
As an extension of our digital strategy, maintain its lead position through a 
  propels business from new customers.
there has been a phased roll out combination of both secured and 
of a completely new and refreshed unsecured lending business. Its The Bank is advancing towards the
MobileBanking and NetBanking strategy entails a comprehensive development of a centralised GenAI
platform which will be extended approach to ensure sustainable platform to ensure consistency,
further. The existing platforms cater growth and maintain impeccable quality, security, compliance,
to more than three crore customers asset quality. HDFC Bank's strength scalability and innovation. A uniﬁed
and the new platforms are designed has been to continuously look for new platform offers signiﬁcant advantages,
with a user-friendly interface and opportunities and build up business primarily in establishing and enforcing
best-in-class security, for seamless propositions to cater to every segment security and compliance guardrails
and secure customer experiences. of the industry. There is an array with auditability and observability.
These platforms will serve as the  
  The large, existing customer base
primary digital touchpoint, deepening  
  provides a fertile ground for future
customer engagement across all  
  growth. The Bank would continue to
banking and ﬁnancial services.  
  provide products and offer solutions
With intuitive navigation and robust  
  for customers’ needs based on its
functionality, they aim to become  
  rich understanding of their proﬁle. This
the preferred platforms for everyday  
  would bring in higher engagement
ﬁnancial transactions. Customers  
  through the internal channels viz.,
will have a uniﬁed platform for UPI  
  branch network and virtual team.
payment, bill payments, investments,  
loans, cards and more, further  
simplifying their ﬁnancial lives.  
Both the channels put together would The Bank has expanded its branch HDFC Bank’s delinquency levels have
reduce the overall cost of sourcing network and would capitalise on the been one of the lowest, with a large
and improve the Cost to Income Ratio. same by increasing offerings and portion of the customers having better
 deepening presence in emerging credit scores. Its robust processes
While HDFC bank continues to  
 geographies. By leveraging and controls have managed the risk
innovate and enhance digital offerings,  
 partnerships with Business associated with varied asset lending.
it has also ensured robust analytics  
 Correspondents and Business The way forward is to continue to offer
and risk management capabilities  
 Facilitators, the credit offtake shall loans seamlessly across geographies,
to back these offerings. Risk  
 witness a further lift especially expanding reach in Semi-Urban and
Management is at the core of the  
 in the deeper and under-served Rural markets for deeper penetration
Bank’s product offerings with robust  
 geographies. This will further the and maintaining the leadership in
underwriting mechanisms in place.  
 cause of ﬁnancial inclusion. urban areas.
It ensures prudent pricing across all  
products factoring in the risk.  
  Savings Accounts for incremental
  home loan customers has moved to
  over 95 per cent from pre-merger
  levels of 35 per cent. This sets the
Mortgage Assets HDFC Bank’s network of 
  foundation for a stronger connect with
 branches across the country, 
The merger of HDFC Limited with  incremental customers and the Bank
 digital touchpoints, complete 
and into HDFC Bank has been  continues to focus on establishing
 product range and superior 
transformational for the Bank. It has  deeper banking relationships
 technology. This synergy 
now emerged as a Bank with one of  with them.
 has positioned the Bank to 
the largest home loan portfolios in  
  In addition to this, HDFC Bank’s
 offer best-in-class home loan 
the country.  
  strategy is to improve the focus on
 offerings to existing and new 
It is offering home loans to customers  the self-employed category which will
 customers. A wholesome 
as a complete package riding on  further increase opportunity in this
 product offering combined 
segment. Post-merger, the Bank has  generator for it in the future. HDFC
launched and expanded its product  Bank sees this potential, as trends
basket through banking surrogate  shift from pre-crop working capital
programmes as well as leveraging its  ﬁnancing to agri infrastructure
knowledge for better assessment of  ﬁnancing. Further as envisioned,
such proﬁles for home loans.  it has built a strong portfolio of
  diverse offerings across high income
The gross retail mortgages stood at  
  agri products such as dairy and
H8,35,656.46 crore as compared to  
  horticulture. Under agriculture ﬁnance,
H7,74,406.33 crore in the previous year.  
  HDFC Bank currently has a presence
The Bank believes that due to  in 2.35 lakh villages and aims to
government focus and a favourable  penetrate more in these villages to
institutional framework and  further build the portfolio. It currently
ecosystem, the fundamental demand  holds the number one position in the
for housing loans will continue to be  transportation ﬁnance business. While
 transport and healthcare businesses. 
strong in the long run in India. As  it continues to innovate and enhance
 The Bank is committed to resolving 
the nation's growth story unfolds,  digital offerings, the Bank has ensured
 challenges such as limited credit 
HDFC Bank is fully geared to meet  robust analytics and risk management
 access, high borrowing costs and 
home loan demand and continue to  capabilities to back these offerings.
 collateral constraints that are faced 
be a preferred home loan provider  Risk Management is at the core of
 by this sector. HDFC Bank’s lending 
in the country with the best-in-class  product offerings. Further there will be
 activities under this segment play a 
product solutions and world class  offerings in new and under-penetrated
 signiﬁcant role in meeting the Priority 
customer service.  equipment category as well as
 Sector Lending (PSL) obligations. 
  non-equipment ﬁnancing. HDFC
Commercial and  
  Bank will leverage its strong OEM
 The goals of the commercial and rural 
Rural Cluster  relationships, common distribution
 cluster are three-fold: 
  channels, geographies and customer
The Commercial and Rural Cluster  
 (1) 
To increase PSL lending 
  base across the existing portfolio and
caters to a diverse range of entities  
  presence. As the Bank continues to
including Micro, Small and Medium (2) 
To grow the book 
  digitalise a major part of this cluster,
Enterprises (MSMEs), Joint Liability  
 (3) 
To generate income while 
  digitalisation and digital journeys will
and Self-Help Groups in the  
 maintaining portfolio quality 
  emerge as key growth enablers.
microﬁnance segment. It further  
serves the needs of small and The Bank’s PSL lending comprises 
  HDFC Bank is digitalising customer
marginal farmers, healthcare ﬁnance, 40.4 per cent of our total book net 
  touchpoints, document collection
equipment ﬁnance and commercial of PSLC and organic book is 41.7 
  processes, sales service and others.
transport companies. Under this per cent. 
  It has enabled self-service digital
cluster, the Bank’s aim is to support  
  capabilities across all the branches.
 It has in place a robust growth 
the growth and success of MSMEs  
  The Bank has connected to direct
 strategy for all major offerings. In 
by providing access to credit and  
  data source including government
 MSME segment, the Bank already has 
other ﬁnancial solutions and services.  
  sites to get the information in a
 a strong presence across all states, 
HDFC Bank caters to MSMEs in  
  digital way. Going forward, the Bank
 with a leading market share in 14 of 
manufacturing, exports, retail and  
  further aims to build capabilities
 them and securing a position among 
wholesale trade, supply chain network  
  for digital underwriting through
 top 3 in 21 states. HDFC Bank is now 
and infrastructure companies.  
  data management and APIﬁcation.
 building in granularity by targeting 
It also meets the needs of farmer  
  The cluster is in a good position
 district-level leadership. 
ﬁnance, commercial agriculture, joint  
  to capitalise on the immense
liability and self-help groups under The Bank continues to pursue 
  market potential.
microﬁnance. Further it serves the agricultural ﬁnancing and considers 
needs of commercial equipment and the portfolio an important wallet 
Corporate Cluster  
 Shareholders 
Corporate Cluster is one of the key  
 Dividend Distribution 
pillars for the Bank. The customer  
base spans prominent and large  
 Government Channel
business houses, Multi-National  
 Statutory Payments Supply Chain Finance
Corporations (MNCs), manufacturing  
and service sector companies, public  
sector enterprises and ﬁnancial  Cross Border
 Employees 
  
institutions, amongst others. The Corporate Vendors
 Salary 
Bank’s focus is on holistic corporate  • Trade
 Ecosystem 
 Empanelment 
engagement and caters to them by  •  Cross Border
extending credit as well as other  Transactions
banking products and solutions that  
 Balance Sheet 
assist corporations in managing their  
 Support 
entire ﬁnancial business cycle. The  Customers
 Working Capital & 
corporate touchpoints encompass the  •  Digital
 Term Lending 
gamut of the banking needs including  Integrations
 Suppliers/Dealers 
working capital and term loans at the  •  API Integrations
 Cash Management 
inception of a project, operational  • H2H
solutions such as cash management,  
supply-chain integration, international  
 HDFC Bank endeavours to leverage banking, viz, cash management,
trade ﬁnancing and payment solutions  
 its strong relationships with existing payments and trade solutions.
such as tax management and  
 customers to increase wallet share. Supply chain ﬁnancing is also a key
payroll management.  
 This entails deepening share within growth driver for the Bank. This is
HDFC Bank’s comprehensive range  
 existing products as well as designing being bolstered through the use of
of products and services along with  
 effective solutions across their needs technology such as a supply chain
its relationship-based approach  
 to increase their product holding. In platform that acts as a one-stop shop
provides a competitive advantage.  
 addition, the Bank is also focusing for transaction needs, as well as the
While the focus is on growth, the  
 on new to bank acquisitions through development of need-based offerings.
Bank ensures pricing discipline and is  
 engagement with large corporates, The Bank has identiﬁed Trade as an
selective while taking exposures. It has  
 targeting government undertakings initiative to capture incremental market
a well-diversiﬁed book spread across  
 and MNCs to expand reach. It has put share. Additionally, it is also attempting
multiple industries. The average rating  
 in place a liability strategy to improve to tap opportunities in investment
of the book is between AA to AA+.  
 wallet share through transaction banking space to drive growth in
  fee income.
 Key Growth Drivers 
Client-ﬁrst Liability Fee Improvement
− Deepening engagement with − Revisit Corporate groups − Exploring Investment
clients using digital channels  Banking opportunities
 − Group level marketing 
− NTB initiative and contribution  − Growth in trade
 − Building on existing 
of NTBs  
 relationship for increase − Targeting avenues for foreign
− Focus clients initiative in business exchange income
− Digital banking solutions − Reciprocity from large vendors 
The Bank is continuing on a path Supply Chain Finance (SCF) The Bank offers funding for ready
of strategic digital transformation  / under construction residential /
 As part of the digital transformation 
to further widen and deepen wallet  commercial properties, hotels, clubs,
 strategy, the Bank has the SCF 
share from corporates by enhancing  schools, hospitals, warehouses
 Underwriting and Onboarding 
employee experience, customer  among others. Lease Rental
 platform to ease the Anchor client’s 
engagement and creating an  Discounting (LRD) is another key
 counterparty onboarding process 
ecosystem for seamless banking.  product offered by Realty Business
 and provide instantaneous credit 
It is enhancing employee experience  Finance. The Construction ﬁnance
 decisioning in less than 30 minutes of 
through the launch of platforms  business provides synergy for home
 application submission. In addition to 
enabling an end-to-end journey for  loan sales and also for LRD projects.
 the enhanced customer experience, 
the relationship managers, actionable  These lower risks and provide long
 the platform also enhances the 
analytics, pricing intelligence and  tenure asset.
 productivity of the Bank’s internal 
dashboard automation. On the  
 stakeholders. It enables the build of 
  HDFC Bank is the largest player in
customer front, it is progressing on  
 a granular SCF book and given the 
  Real Estate ﬁnance with market share
the path of shifting from a product  
 automation of the origination and 
  of close to 20 per cent. The team
focus to an ecosystem approach and  
 underwriting legs, the platform is also 
  consists of experts across various
investing in enabling ERP integration  
 expected to give an impetus to higher 
  aspects of Real Estate and related
across functions.  
 deal velocity on the existing SCF 
  products. The Bank is geographically
 Transaction Platform. 
In addition to pure construction  spread across 11 cities in India with
ﬁnance facility, HDFC Bank is  a presence in both Tier I and II cities.
 Realty Finance Business 
also ﬁnancing Greenﬁeld under-  The target is to expand to another
 Post-merger, the Bank inherited 
construction commercial ofﬁce space  eight cities in the current ﬁnancial year.
 the realty ﬁnance business. It has 
with developers having a proven track  
 commenced offering Construction There is immense scope for
record. The construction ﬁnance  
 Finance facilities to borrowers having providing other banking services to
facilities will get converted into low-  
 a strong track record and a well- customers. HDFC Bank aims to be a
risk Lease Rental Discounting (LRD)  
 established presence. This business one stop shop for these customers
facilities resulting in healthy pipeline of  
 largely covers the construction and provide them with services like
LRD book for the Bank.  
 ﬁnance for both residential and CMS, liability products like Term
Through these initiatives, the Bank is commercial properties as well as Deposits and others. Through this
re-imagining the corporate cluster to rental discounting business. There the plan is to deepen wallet share
function as a digital corporate bank. was a signiﬁcant shift in regulation across customers.
The runway is long and the objective and processes and the Bank has 
  Technological advancements and
is to serve corporates with the entire successfully managed to ensure 
  seamless end to end customer
gamut of products and services and that the transition was smooth and 
  journeys are the key focus. Realty
capitalise on the beneﬁt of synergies seamless. There is a continuous 
  Business Finance strives hard to
across the bank. endeavour to make borrower’s journey 
  achieve this objective and play a
 from application to disbursement 
HDFC Bank offers comprehensive  pivotal role in Bank’s growth story by
 smooth and fast. With continuous 
structured off-balance sheet solutions  adhering to the mantra of
 automation and digitalisation of 
to help corporates make their  ‘Customer First’.
 various processes, HDFC Bank has 
supply chain more robust. These  
 been successful in reducing overall 
programmes cater to the working  
 TAT resulting in customer satisfaction 
capital requirements by easing liquidity  
 and better service. 
and removing the underlying trade risk  
of the transaction.  
E X T E R N A L   E N V I R O N M E N T
Favourable
Growth
Landscape
India’s stable political
environment and supportive
government policies created
favourable conditions for the
banking sector’s growth in
FY2024–25. The strengthening
of banks’ balance sheets
over the past few years
has enhanced their lending
capacity, although deposit
mobilisation remained a
challenge during the year.
The global economic outlook is India is poised to maintain its
marred by the lingering uncertainty position as one of the fastest-
from US tariffs, geopolitical growing economies globally in
tensions, ﬁnancial market volatility FY 2025-26. The Reserve Bank
and inﬂationary risks. The of India (RBI) anticipates GDP to
International Monetary Fund has grow by 6.5 per cent in FY 2025-
revised down its global growth 26, similar to FY 2024-25 GDP
forecast for 2025 by 50 basis points growth. Amidst global headwinds,
to 2.8 per cent, and by 30 basis India’s GDP growth is likely to be
points in 2026. Growth in the US is supported by domestic factors in
expected to slow down to 1.8 per FY 2025-26. Rural consumption
cent in 2025 from 2.8 per cent in demand is expected to improve
2024, while China is expected to on the back of healthy agricultural
grow at 4 per cent compared to production. Moderation in inﬂation,
5 per cent in 2024. tax cuts and interest rate cuts by
 the RBI are expected to support
Geopolitical frictions, in the Middle 
 urban consumption. Government’s
East and Russia-Ukraine, raise the 
 capital expenditure continues
risk of supply chain disruptions 
 to support investments, while
and volatility in commodity prices. 
 an expected improvement in
At the same time, divergent and 
 consumption demand could also
changing trade policies could 
 crowd-in private investments.
increase ﬁnancial market volatility. 
 Domestic inﬂation is projected to
Furthermore, the slower pace 
 average 3.7 per cent in FY2025-
of disinﬂation and concerns 
 26, assuming a normal monsoon,
around elevated public debt 
 compared to 4.6 per cent in
levels in key advanced economies 
 FY 2024-25.
pose headwinds to the global 
growth outlook. 
Our Response 
The Bank maintains a disciplined adjustments to strategy and
approach to governance and execution, strengthening the Bank’s
risk management which includes preparedness and resilience.
stress testing across geopolitical, HDFC Bank continues to invest
macroeconomic, and sector- in talent, governance and future-
speciﬁc scenarios to evaluate ready technologies to strengthen
potential vulnerabilities. Insights operational integrity and long-term
from these assessments act as value creation.
inputs for making appropriate 
In recent years, the banking Moreover, these incidents often
sector has undergone a profound result in attrition and signiﬁcant
transformation with the extensive ﬁnancial losses. As the banking
integration of digitalisation and sector increasingly adopts cloud-
cutting-edge technologies. This enabled services as part of IT
transformation has brought forth modernisation initiatives and
not only numerous opportunities digital-ﬁrst business strategies,
but also formidable challenges concerns regarding related threats
particularly in the realms of have intensiﬁed.
cybersecurity and data privacy. 
 Recognising securing the cloud
The landscape of cyber threats entails a shared responsibility,
has undergone rapid and complex organisations are actively
changes fuelled by targeted attacks, implementing robust measures to
the proliferation of Ransomware- safeguard their cloud infrastructure.
as-a-Service (RaaS) incidents, the 
 Regulators in India are also actively
utilisation of AI/ML to orchestrate 
 taking measures to ensure data
sophisticated attacks as well as the 
 privacy. This is evident through the
prevalence of DDoS attacks and 
 Digital Personal Data Protection
coordinated group cyber assaults. 
 Act 2023, emphasising the nation's
The repercussions of cyberattacks 
 commitment to safeguarding data
are profound, impacting not only 
 privacy rights.
ﬁnancial institutions' bottom lines 
but also their brand reputation and 
customer trust. 
Our Response  
At HDFC Bank, we are committed applications. Key initiatives include the Overall, the bank's cybersecurity
to robust cyber security and establishment of a Next-generation measures are focused on ensuring
data privacy as part of our Cybersecurity Operations Center the highest level of protection
technology transformation (CSOC), Advanced Security Incident against cyber threats, with proactive
journey. The Bank continues to and Event Management solutions monitoring and automated incident
enhance its information security augmented by AI and ML capabilities, response capabilities, enhanced
posture through a range of 24/7 defacement monitoring, Cyber network visibility and a zero-trust
strategic and technology-driven Resiliency, creating Identity Fabric, approach to security.
initiatives aimed at strengthening Attack Surface Management (ASM), 
  In addition, we also have a data
its information security and Vulnerability and Penetration testing 
  privacy program which is led by the
resilience against evolving cyber program, robust patch management 
  Data Privacy Ofﬁcer and overseen
threats. These initiatives align and email security measures, Red 
  by the Board and Chief Data Ofﬁcer
with regulatory expectations teaming activities, API Security using 
  ensuring stringent compliance with
and industry best practices AIML, Cloud Posture and Access 
  relevant regulations.
to ensure the conﬁdentiality, Security Tools (CSPM & CASB) for 
integrity and availability of the reducing cloud related risks, and a 
Bank's digital infrastructure and zero-trust architecture approach. 
Growing Emphasis on Sustainable Financing and Climate Risk Management 
The escalating impact of climate- companies as the world transitions
related events has prompted a to a low-carbon economy. At
heightened emphasis on resilience COP29, India reiterated the
across sectors with the ﬁnancial importance of prioritising climate
sector playing a pivotal role in ﬁnance, signalling a shift towards
mobilising resources for green more comprehensive approaches to
activities. Climate change and managing climate-related ﬁnancial
transition ﬁnance have become risks. Effective risk management is
central to global discourse. essential to manage and mitigate
 these impacts.
In addition, integrating climate and 
ESG related risks in underwriting Moreover, inadequate information
policies and risk management about climate-related ﬁnancial risks
framework is becoming increasingly can lead to mispricing of assets and
important for ﬁnancial services misallocation of capital emphasising
companies. The increasing threat the need for better, more consistent
of climate change and consequent and comparable disclosures.
physical damage are signiﬁcant 
 Regulators in India, along
concerns that may impact portfolio 
 with counterparts globally,
performance. Shifting market 
 are mandating compliance
perceptions and increasing demand 
 with sustainability disclosure
for environmentally friendly products 
 frameworks, with climate-related
and services also have an impact 
 risks and opportunities emerging
on the cashﬂows of portfolio 
 as a central focus
Our Response 
In line with its sustainability-focused Additionally, we actively monitor
vision and commitments, the and externally verify the carbon
Bank continues to develop several emissions resulting from the Bank’s
initiatives to manage climate-related operations to manage and reduce our
risks at the project, portfolio, and environmental impact. We also comply
organational levels. Further details with all relevant regulations including
on these initiatives can be found those related to the BRSR, mandated
in the 'climate related disclosures' by SEBI.
section of the report. 
The Government of India has H6.78 lakh crore were executed
taken signiﬁcant steps and made through DBT. Additionally, there
considerable progress in promoting is continued focus on affordable
ﬁnancial inclusion. A key initiative in housing with the extension of the
this regard has been the Pradhan Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban
Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) 2.0). This Interest Subsidy Scheme
which envisages comprehensive (ISS) is a ﬂagship scheme under
ﬁnancial inclusion across PMAY 2.0.
the country. 
 Simultaneously, the Reserve Bank
Leveraging the PMJDY accounts, of India (RBI) has pursued its
the Government has effectively commitment to promote ﬁnancial
facilitated Direct Beneﬁt Transfers inclusion through the expansion of
(DBTs), streamlining the distribution digital payment infrastructure as
of subsidies and welfare beneﬁts. well as the introduction of innovative
In FY 2024-25 transactions totalling banking services.
Our Response  
HDFC Bank is committed to ﬂagship initiative, Pradhan Mantri Jan- ﬁnancially excluded individuals and
take banking solutions to the Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), Pradhan Mantri those at the bottom of the pyramid.
remote areas of the country and Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), 
  We conduct ﬁnancial literacy
enabling underbanked sections of Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana 
  camps through rural branches and
the population to access formal (PMSBY), Atal Pension Yojana (APY), 
  designated Financial Literacy Centres.
ﬁnancial channels. PM SVANidhi, PM Vishwakarma 
  Additionally, we actively participate
 and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana 
With over 50 per cent of our  in the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana
 (PMMY). 
branches located in semi-urban  (Urban 2.0). We provide last-mile
and rural areas, we ensure banking One of the Bank's CSR pillars - access through mobile applications
solutions reach the remote areas Skill Development and Livelihood such as UPI, Aadhaar and RuPay-
of the country and provide formal Enhancement Initiative aligns with the enabled Micro-ATMs.
banking channels to the under- RBI’s National Strategy for Financial 
banked population. We are Inclusion (NSFI). Through our Financial 
committed to the Government’s Literacy Programme, we focus on 
Our Strategy 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25 95
R I S K   M A N AG E M E N T    
  HDFC Bank's Risk Management Framework  
Strengthening    
Resilience   Governance 
   Board of Directors 
   Board Committees 
   Management Committees 
HDFC Bank’s risk management    
framework is ﬁrmly embedded    
   Frameworks 
across all its operations    
   Risk Appetite, Risk Policies, Procedures and Systems 
and continues to evolve in    
response to a dynamic external    
   Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process 
environment supported by strong Compliance  and Stress Testing 
technology and governance.    
It has enabled us to navigate    
  Assessment Control Reporting
uncertain times while ensuring  Risk Identiﬁcation, Risk Limits, Risk MIS &
  Measurement, Monitoring, Actions
growth. The framework provides    
  Approval as Mitigation 
    
comprehensive coverage,  applicable  
including a well-deﬁned risk    
appetite, wherever applicable,    
to support prudent risk    
management.    
  Risk Governance  
Our organisation adopts the Three Lines of Defence model to uphold sound governance, effective risk management, and a 
resilient internal control environment across all operations. 
 Business and operational units torm the ﬁrst line, directly managing risks within their
1st activities. They are responsible for identifying, assessing, mitigating, and monitoring risks,
Line of while embedding internal controls into day-to-day operations and decision-making to
Defence ensure alignment with organisational goals and regulatory standards.
 The second line of defence comprises the Independent Risk Management Group and
 Compliance function, which develop policies and frameworks while overseeing and
 guiding the ﬁrst line in identifying and managing risks. They play a critical role in promoting
2nd 
 a consistent and transparent risk environment, facilitating early risk identiﬁcation, and
Line of 
 ensuring timely escalation and resolution of issues. Compliance is responsible for monitoring
Defence 
 compliance with all applicable statutes, governance rules, regulations, codes, and
 policies. The Risk Management Group and Compliance have sufﬁcient authority, stature,
 independence, resources, and access to the Board.
 The third line of defence comprises the Internal Audit function, which operates independently
 of management to deliver objective assurance over the effectiveness of governance, risk
3rd management, and internal control processes. Audit is responsible and accountable for
Line of providing independent review together with objective assurance on effectiveness of the bank's
Defence ﬁrst and second lines of defence. Through its audit activities and recommendations, Internal
 Audit supports the continuous enhancement of risk management practices and strengthens
 organisational resilience.
organisational resilience.  
Risk Frameworks and their our framework to accurately assess The Internal Audit Department
 and manage the inherent risks. Our operates independently to assess
Implementation  
 structured management framework, the adequacy and effectiveness
Effective risk management is  
 the Internal Capital Adequacy of internal controls, risk practices,
foundational to the Bank’s strategic  
 Assessment Process (ICAAP), is governance frameworks, and
resilience and long-term performance.  
 designed to identify, assess, and processes. We are intensifying our
Given the nature of our business and  
 manage all risks that could signiﬁcantly attention on non-ﬁnancial risks by
the regulatory landscape, we are  
 affect our business, ﬁnancial position, amplifying discussions within our Risk
exposed to a spectrum of risks—  
 or capital adequacy. It helps us Management and Board committees.
including credit, market, liquidity,  
 systematically analyse and address These discussions encompass
operational, model, cybersecurity,  
 these risks to ensure the stability operational, outsourcing, compliance,
and technology risks as well as  
 and soundness of our operations, personnel, technology, reputation risks
compliance and reputational risks.  
 protecting our business and capital and others. This involves enhancing
To manage these, we've instituted an  
 adequacy from potential threats. our policies, procedures, and risk
overarching risk appetite framework.  
  assessment frameworks to effectively
We have implemented speciﬁc To ensure informed decision-making, 
  manage these risks with an ongoing
policies, limits, and triggers tailored to we regularly capture and report risk 
  commitment to improvement.
each risk category to operationalise related MIS, initiating appropriate 
our risk appetite for individual mitigation measures. Our risk Technology continues to play a
risk types. Furthermore, we have models are continuously reﬁned critical role in enhancing our risk
established strong governance within to adapt to changing conditions. management capabilities.
R I S K   M A N AG E M E N T  
We are leveraging technology to The Bank follows the Board approved inputs provided by respective units.
automate our risk management Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) At an enterprise-wide level, the Bank
processes, aiming to bring policy which serves as an overarching conducts stress testing and ongoing
efﬁciencies, improving accuracy, framework for the Risk Management scenario assessments, with a focus on
enhancing user control and ensuring Group across all risk areas managing emerging risks driven by geopolitical,
robust audit trails. These technological various risks faced by the Bank in an macroeconomic, and sectoral trends,
tools help strengthen our ability to integrated manner. ERM framework recognising the dynamic nature of
monitor, assess, and respond to a drives the formulation of the risk these challenges to proactively identify
wide range of risks in a timely and appetite, stress testing approaches, vulnerable areas in the portfolio and
effective manner. At the same time, we capital adequacy assessment, initiate necessary actions.
remain acutely aware of the inherent and capital planning. The Internal 
risks posed by technology itself. Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Additionally, the Risk Management Process (ICAAP), integral to the ERM 
Group independently validates model framework, acts as a risk management 
fairness for relevant models across the tool that enables periodic review 
Bank to ensure transparency, integrity, and challenge of risk assessment 
and compliance.  
Managing Key Risks  
Managing Key Risks 
Credit Risk Compliance Risk
The risk which arises from default by borrowers on The risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, as a result
their contractual obligations with the Bank -especially of failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations
failure to make payments or repayments. and standards.
Mitigation Mitigation
The Credit Risk Management formulates policies and A Robust board-approved compliance policy in place
procedures to handle credit risk and maintain portfolio which is reviewed annually. The Compliance function
quality. It sets risk limits and reviews portfolios actively tracks and reviews adherence to regulatory
regularly. It also maintains an oversight on certain guidelines in close coordination with business,
aspects of credit strategy and underwriting functions support and operations teams. The focus is on
of the Credit group, led by the Chief Credit Ofﬁcer. identifying and mitigating Regulatory risk through well-
 deﬁned internal control framework. This framework
Strategies includes regular feedback from product, business
 and operation teams via self-certiﬁcations and on-
Maintaining healthy asset quality with optimal risk- 
 going monitoring. In addition, compliance testing of
reward considerations. 
 products / policies from Regulatory perspective is
 also undertaken to further strengthen the compliance
 culture within the organisation.
 Strategies
 Ensuring businesses work strictly within the contours
 of regulation
Market Risk Operational Risk
The risk of potential loss on account of adverse Operational risk arises from inadequate or failed
changes in market variables which affect the value of internal processes, people, and systems or
ﬁnancial instruments that the Bank holds as part of from external events. It includes the risk of loss
its statutory reserves or trading/investment activity, resulting from legal risk but excludes strategic and
such as, money market instruments, debt securities, reputational risks.
equities, foreign exchange and derivative instruments. 
 Mitigation
Mitigation 
 The Bank follows a Board-approved Operational Risk
Detailed Board-approved policies related to Management Policy that outlines the governance and
investment, foreign exchange, derivatives etc. management of operational risks. It adopts a three-line
combined with strong controls, minimise risks across defence system: the business line (including support
trading desks and securities. These policies along with and operations) constitute the ﬁrst line of defence;
Board approved limits package, set market risk limits the Operational Risk Management Department
in line with the Bank's risk tolerance. Also, portfolio- (ORMD) serves as the second line, and the Internal
level assessments and risk reduction measures are Audit acts as the third line. These teams work in
carried out. tandem to effectively manage, monitor, and reduce
 operational risks.
Structured products and exotics are transacted with 
counterparties possessing adequate risk management 
 Strategies
capabilities and systems to manage such products. 
Counterparty exposures are regularly monitored, and 
 Minimising operational losses through risk mitigation.
a margining framework is established in agreement 
with counterparts. 
Strategies 
Optimising proﬁtability of marked-to-market products 
within the constraints of liquidity and market risk 
appetite of the Bank. 
We actively support the ﬁnancing and investment Strategies
in environmentally friendly technologies and low- 
 − To maintain healthy liquidity buffer as evidenced
carbon infrastructure projects. We leverage our 
 in Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) / Net Stability
product offerings and ﬁnancial expertise to assist 
 Funding Ratio (NSFR) in line with our Balance sheet
our customers and clients in transitioning to a 
 size to tide over any unforeseen stress scenarios.
sustainable and a low-carbon economy. We are 
pursuing this through three thematic areas including − Maintaining competitive cost of funds.
ESG integration in products, sustainable ﬁnance and 
 − Transact in derivatives, if required, to maintain the
portfolio emissions. These aspects are discussed in 
 interest rate proﬁle.
detail in the chapter on the ESG strategy. 
R I S K   M A N AG E M E N T 
Climate Risk Liquidity Risk
At a broader level, risks from climate change are Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank may not be able
typically divided into: to meet its ﬁnancial obligations as they fall due without
 incurring unacceptable losses.
Physical risks - Economic losses (physical damage 
to property and assets) from acute impacts on account 
 Mitigation
of extreme weather events (ﬂoods, cyclones, droughts, 
landslides, etc) attributed to climate change, or long- 
 The Asset Liability Management policy of the
term chronic impacts on environment such as rise in 
 bank details how liquidity and interest rate risks
sea levels, increased global temperature or irreversible 
 are managed. We've set up a strong system to
precipitation changes. 
 watch cash ﬂow mismatches, in both normal and
 stressed situations, and key ratios, like Basel III
Transition risks - The possible process of adjustment 
 ratios. Additionally, we have an extensive intraday
to a low carbon economy and its possible effects on 
 liquidity risk management framework to track intraday
the value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities including the 
 positions throughout the day. Interest rate risk in
likelihood of formation of stranded assets. 
 the banking book is assessed at deﬁned intervals to
 ensure it remains within our acceptable limits.
Mitigation 
We actively support the ﬁnancing and investment Strategies
in environmentally friendly technologies and low- 
 − To maintain healthy liquidity buffer as evidenced
carbon infrastructure projects. We leverage our 
 in Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) / Net Stability
product offerings and ﬁnancial expertise to assist 
 Funding Ratio (NSFR) in line with our Balance sheet
our customers and clients in transitioning to a 
 size to tide over any unforeseen stress scenarios.
sustainable and a low-carbon economy. We are 
pursuing this through three thematic areas including − Maintaining competitive cost of funds.
ESG integration in products, sustainable ﬁnance and 
 − Transact in derivatives, if required, to maintain the
portfolio emissions. These aspects are discussed in 
 interest rate proﬁle.
detail in the chapter on the ESG strategy. 
Strategies 
The Bank is in the process of augmenting existing 
methodologies and frameworks to assess climate 
transition risk for the wholesale borrowers, in response 
to an ever changing and evolving risk environment. 
For retail portfolio, the Bank is exploring framework 
to assess potential portfolio-at-risk by mapping the 
location of exposures against Natural Catastrophic 
(NATCAT) scores with varying degree of severity. 
Additionally, the Bank conducts capacity-building 
programs to familiarise the Board and staff members 
with key developments in climate risk assessment as 
guided by regulatory landscape. Furthermore, the Bank 
continues to disclose ﬁnanced emissions for selected 
segments of its lending portfolio. 
Reputation Risk Technology Risk
Any adverse stakeholder and public perception about Risks associated with the use, ownership, operation,
our Bank may negatively impact our ability to attract involvement, inﬂuence, vendor related and adoption of
and retain customers and may expose us to litigation IT systems within an enterprise, Business Continuity
and regulatory actions. management and Third-party Risk management.
Mitigation Mitigation
We keep in regular contact with our stakeholders Our Information Technology Risk framework, along
using suitable engagement methods to meet their with the policies, procedures, templates, and
expectations and handle any concerns they raise. assessment methods manage technology risk, vendor
The Bank recognises reputation risk as signiﬁcant in risk and business continuity. The framework covers
its ICAAP Policy, and we've set up an assessment the evaluation of new IT solutions, third-party vendors,
framework to monitor it. outsourced IT, related services (Third Party Risk).
 Additionally, we've created a Business Continuity
Strategies Management framework and rolled out the Business
 Continuity Programme across the Enterprise.
− Delivering superior customer experience. 
− Proactive risk assessment and monitoring Strategies
− Continue to foster a culture of Ethics 
 − Ensure alignment of Business and IT Strategies
and Compliance 
 to provide services availability and superior
− Strengthening grievance handling mechanism 
 customer experience.
 − Making extensive progress on some of the
 key initiatives that are part of our technology
 transformation agenda.
R I S K   M A N AG E M E N T 
Cyber and Data Risk* 
Cyber Risk solution, featuring machine learning, UEBA, and
 threat modelling for early detection and mitigation.
Risk of cyber-attacks on our Bank’s systems through 
 These are complemented by Security Orchestration,
hacking, phishing, ransomware, and other means, 
 Automation and Response (SOAR) tools that enable
resulting in disruption of our services or theft or leak of 
 faster, automated triaging of incidents. The Security
sensitive internal data 
 Operations Centre (SOC) is continuously updated
Data Privacy Risk 
 with threat intelligence from government sources,
Risk of breach of customer or employee data service providers, and dark web monitoring. To
privacy due to inadequate controls, regulatory non- strengthen cyber resilience, the Bank runs a dedicated
compliance, or failure in embedding privacy principles Attack Surface Management (ASM) program with
across processes and technologies — potentially continuous scanning, patch management, penetration
resulting in ﬁnancial penalties, operational disruptions, testing, and red team exercises. Identity and Access
reputational damage, or loss of stakeholder trust. Management (IAM) protocols, zero-trust architecture
Risks arising from the adoption of new-age solutions approach and least-privilege principles, along with
are comprehensively assessed through the lenses of privileged access controls, safeguard critical systems
data privacy and data security. from unauthorised access.
 The Bank also complies with ISO 27001:2022,
Mitigation ISO 22301:2019 and PCI DSS standards,
 demonstrating our commitment to information security
We assess each cyber threat, including data privacy and safeguarding customer data.
concerns, based on the framework of Identify, Prevent 
 The bank’s Data Privacy program is a highly regulated
/ Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover. 
 initiative managed by the Data Privacy Ofﬁcer (DPO)
To mitigate these risks, we have implemented various under the direct supervision of the Board and the
controls such as ﬁrewalls, anti-malware, data loss Chief Data Ofﬁcer. Privacy by design approach
prevention (DLP) measures, Domain-based Message is central to our data privacy program to address
Authentication, Reporting and Conformance (DMARC) privacy related risk. Our privacy program embeds ten
solution, intrusion prevention / detection systems, (10) privacy principles in the varied processes and
digital rights management, zero-trust architecture technologies across bank’s products and services
approach, Extended Detection and Response (XDR), to protect this organisation from ﬁnancial, regulatory,
File Integrity Monitoring (FIM), Data Activity Monitoring operational, and brand damage.
(DAM), central Patch Management, Email Security 
Measures, Cloud Posture and Access Security Tools Strategies
(CSPM & CASB), Web Application Firewall (WAF), 24/7 
 − Robust governance over information and cyber
security operation center (SOC) etc. 
 security framework through various committees
(DAM), central Patch Management, Email Security 
Measures, Cloud Posture and Access Security Tools Strategies
(CSPM & CASB), Web Application Firewall (WAF), 24/7 
 − Robust governance over information and cyber
security operation center (SOC) etc. 
 security framework through various committees
The Bank has established a robust cyber security 
 viz. IT Strategy Committee, Information Security
governance framework comprising an Incident 
 Committee (ISC), Internal Capital Adequacy
Management Procedure, Cyber Security Policy, 
 Assessment Process (ICAAP), Risk Policy and
and Cyber Crisis Management Plan, supported by 
 Monitoring Committee (RPMC) etc.
regular tabletop exercises to ensure stakeholder 
 − Various mitigation measures including antivirus
preparedness. Advanced monitoring capabilities 
 programme, network security management,
have been deployed through an AI-powered 
 vulnerability management, cyber security and data
Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) 
 privacy measures
 − Continuous information security awareness for
F
I
Capitals Impacted: 
 employees and customers
Risk of spill-over from Subsidiaries Model Risk
Risk arising from subsidiaries refers to potential Risk arising from the use of models, which is the
uncertainties or adverse events that can impact potential for adverse consequences from decisions
the operations, ﬁnancial stability, reputation, or based on incorrect or misused model outputs
strategic objectives of holding company due to and reports.
subsidiary operations. 
 Mitigation
Mitigation 
 A well-deﬁned, Board approved Model Risk
The Board / Risk Management committees of each Management Policy, along with a robust framework
subsidiary is responsible for managing their respective including pre-deployment validation, and periodic
risks. The Group Risk Management Committee monitoring, to capture, manage, and mitigate
(GRMC) and Group Risk Council (GRC) has been model risk.
instituted in our Bank to periodically review the 
nature / quantum of material risks of the subsidiaries Strategies
and provide guidance, as deemed ﬁt, on the risk 
 − Bank has established an independent Model Risk
management practices. Stress testing for the group 
 Management Team within the Risk Management
is carried out by integrating the stress tests of the 
 Group to manage Model Risk across the Bank.
subsidiaries. Similarly, capital adequacy projections 
are formulated for the group after incorporating the 
business / capital plans of the subsidiaries. 
Strategies 
− Establishing group level oversight to review key risks 
across subsidiaries. 
 Strategies
− Establishing group level oversight to review key risks 
 across subsidiaries.
− Including stress test output of subsidiaries to
 conduct group level stress testing.
− Including subsidiary business plans/capital
 projections in capital adequacy projections for
 the Group.
Managing Emerging Risks
Acknowledging the signiﬁcance of stress testing in risk management, the Bank conducts stress tests beyond standard
scenarios. We focus on topical themes inﬂuenced by geopolitical, macroeconomic, and sectoral trends to pinpoint speciﬁc
areas of our portfolio. This approach serves as an early warning system, prompting potential actions. Various stress tests
have been conducted to evaluate their impact on our portfolio and identity affected borrowers. Furthermore, we implement
various measures to mitigate global risks, as detailed below.
Growing Geo-Political Trade Realignment Volatility in Key Macro
Tensions  Economic Indicators
 As part of our risk management 
The geo-political backdrop strategy, we've broadly Monitoring volatility in macro
continues to remain uncertain assessed the impact of economic indicators like inﬂation,
with shocks such as the recent developments of the interest rate trajectories, global
Russia-Ukraine conﬂict have imposition of reciprocal tariff currency ﬂuctuations, GDP
persisted and the Israel-Hamas measures by US administration growth projections etc. remains
war continues to fuel regional and subsequent impact a key area of focus for the
instability. Coupled with that, the on the various sectors and risk management group. We
recent tariff related measures industries. The Bank is closely actively track any signiﬁcant
have exacerbated uncertainties monitoring the ongoing shift in developments in these indicators
clouding the economic global trade patterns to take to assess potential implications
outlook across regions, posing necessary actions. on the Bank's portfolio. While no
headwinds for global growth  signiﬁcant direct impact on the
and inﬂation. Tensions in  portfolio is currently assessed
the Middle East have further  due to these movements, we are
intensiﬁed following the Israel-  closely monitoring the situations
Iran conﬂict, adding to volatility  leading to such ﬂuctuations to
in global energy markets and  ensure preparedness.
geopolitical risk perceptions.  
While we do not foresee  
a signiﬁcant direct impact  
on the Bank at present, we  
remain vigilant and are actively  
monitoring developments  
to respond swiftly to any  
emerging risks.  
Emerging Risk - Geopolitical & Macroeconomic Risks 
Risks arising from geopolitical and macroeconomic Strategies
factors include the following: 
 − Conduct stress testing with focus on topical
− Global Instability and Trade Disruptions 
 themes inﬂuenced by geopolitical, macroeconomic,
− Rising Protectionism and Economic Headwinds and sectoral trends to pinpoint speciﬁc areas of
 our portfolio
− Uncertain Policy Environment 
 − Closely monitor the evolving risk landscape and
Mitigation ensure regular updates to the Board and senior
 management on any emerging threats. Where
At an enterprise-wide level, recognising the dynamic 
 warranted, proactive portfolio resizing / limit
nature of these challenges, we remain committed to 
 adjustments are undertaken to mitigate potential
proactive risk identiﬁcation and continuous scenario 
 headwinds and preserve portfolio resilience.
assessment. We have been keeping a close watch 
on these macroeconomic developments to take 
necessary action as and when required. 
In an era marked by Our Business Continuity Management It focuses on strategic decision
 (BCM) Programme is ISO 22301:2019 making and internal/external
a rapidly evolving  
 certiﬁed and is designed to reliably stakeholder (including RBI, customers,
technological landscape  
 sustain critical services and operations media) communication for managing
and emerging  
 in the face of any unforeseen catastrophic events e.g. natural
threats, HDFC Bank circumstances. It also adheres to disasters, geo-political conﬂicts, cyber
 applicable regulatory frameworks attacks, etc. to protect our Bank's
maintains a risk-averse  
 (RBI, SEBI, NCIIPC, CERT-In, etc.) and reputation and manage impact.
approach, proactively  
 undergoes rigorous reviews and audits 
safeguarding operations  Business Continuity
 to ensure its effectiveness. 
to ensure seamless and  At HDFC Bank, Business Continuity
 The programme is overseen by 
  Planning focuses on managing
uninterrupted delivery of  
 the Business Continuity Steering 
  continuity of critical business
services. Committee, chaired by the Group 
  operations and accelerated recovery
 Chief Risk Ofﬁcer. Our central 
  of services after a disaster.
 Business Continuity Ofﬁce constantly 
 enhances the Bank’s continuity It primarily focuses on continuity
 capabilities through periodic testing, planning for disruptive scenarios with
 review and continual improvement. regard to absence of critical staff,
  premises, technology and vendors.
 The comprehensive framework 
 governing our BCM programme Our BCPs are periodically tested
 enables us to pre-empt, prepare for, at all levels through a well-deﬁned
 respond to and systematically recover testing programme.
 from disruptions ensuring operational 
  Disaster Recovery
 resilience and maintaining the trust of 
 our customers and stakeholders. Our Disaster Recovery Plan and
 It focuses on: Procedure focuses on recovery of
  essential IT services and data.
 Crisis Management 
  DR Planning involves identiﬁcation
 Our Crisis Management Plan is to 
  of critical systems, establishing and
 address the strategic issues of a crisis 
  maintaining DR sites (alternate data
 impacting the Bank and to direct and 
  centers) for these critical systems and
 communicate the corporate response 
  periodically testing this setup.
 to the crisis. 
DR practice also includes robust data In essence, our BCM framework Governance Over Data
backup, replication and restoration and programme revolves around the 
  At HDFC Bank, Cyber Security
procedures to meet RPOs and RTOs concept of being prepared (BC, DR), 
  and Data Privacy are of paramount
crucial for digital banking services. responding effectively to immediate 
  importance to us. To manage risks
 threats (Emergency Response), 
  associated with these areas we have
Emergency Response  
 managing the broader impact and 
  constituted specialised committees
Our Emergency Response Plan deals communication (Crisis Management) 
  – IT Strategy Committee, Information
with site-level emergencies (at an and having speciﬁc plans for 
  Security Committee – each with
ofﬁce or a branch) involving life and unique, widespread events like 
  speciﬁc roles and responsibilities. We
asset safety issues in the event of pandemics – all while meeting Indian 
  also have in place a Cyber Security
natural & man-made disasters such as regulatory expectations. 
  Framework and an Information
ﬁre, bomb threats, earthquake, ﬂoods,  
  Security Programme to oversee these
 Safeguarding our 
amongst others.  
  risks and mitigate them adequately
 Customers' Digital Journey 
  to protect customer information.
It includes procedures for evacuation,  
 At HDFC Bank ensuring Information Our Information Security and Cyber
medical aid and security.  
 and Cyber Security is a priority for us. Security policies lay down the
Staff training and awareness including  
 We are committed to safeguarding guidelines for implementation of the
evacuation drills are part of Emergency  
 customer information and have security measures within the Bank.
Response preparedness.  
 implemented robust security controls The Bank continues to enhance
 and practices to strengthen data its information security posture
Pandemic Response  
 security. We continue to strengthen through a range of strategic and
This is a speciﬁc type of crisis  
 our systems and processes to protect technology-driven initiatives aimed at
management and business continuity  
 sensitive customer information strengthening its information security
plan addressing widespread health  
 from unauthorised access. We and resilience against evolving
emergencies e.g. COVID-19.  
 maintain a strong security posture cyber threats.
 through measures such as Antivirus 
It focuses on employee safety (e.g.,  
  Our Next-generation Cybersecurity
 / Anti-Malware Solution, Data Loss 
remote work, health protocols),  
  Operations Center (CSOC) has
 Prevention (DLP) Solution, Advanced 
maintaining essential services with  
  brought in signiﬁcant advancements to
 Threat Prevention, Web Application 
potentially reduced staff managing  
  improve overall cyber security posture
 Firewalls, DDoS Protection, IDS / IPS 
customer interactions safely and  
  of the Bank by deploying a predictive /
 Technologies as well as Vulnerability 
adapting to prolonged disruption  
  proactive security monitoring of Bank
 Management and Penetration Testing. 
as per health advisories and  
  IT Infrastructure and Applications.
 Oversight at the highest level ensures 
regulatory directives.  
  We have developed the Incident
 governance of our Information 
  Management Procedure (IM) and
 Security Practices. 
  Cyber Crisis Management Plan
  (CCMP) to elaborate on types of cyber
S E C U R I T Y   PR AC T I C E S   A N D   DATA   PR I VACY   M E A S U R E S  
security related incidents and cyber are reinforced by various stringent The Red Team of the Bank proactively
resiliency framework which works measures such as a dedicated assesses our cyber assets for
on the prevent, detect and response Attack Surface Management (ASM) vulnerabilities through various
mechanism to manage cyber security Program. The programme is aimed periodic tests which also include
incidents. The Bank also conducts at continuously identifying and red team assessments. Any issues
‘table-top exercises’ to assess addressing vulnerabilities across identiﬁed during the assessments
the incident response readiness. assets thereby ensuring a secure are remediated in a timely manner
Key initiatives covered by the Next environment for the Bank and its to ensure that the banking services
Generation CSOC include: customers. Additionally, vulnerability remain resilient and stay protected
 management of the Bank’s internet against the evolving threats. These
a.  AI Powered Security  
 properties, antivirus / anti-malware dedicated efforts underscore
Monitoring: Deployment of next  
 program, patch management, our commitment to customer
generation security incident event  
 penetration testing, etc. minimise the information security and a secure
management (SIEM) solution  
 surface area for cyber security banking environment.
augmented by Artiﬁcial Intelligence  
 attacks and assist in fortifying 
(AI) and Machine Learning (ML)  We strictly adhere to regulatory
 the Bank's assets (infrastructure, 
capabilities along with strong User  standards like the ‘Code of Bank’s
 applications, etc.). 
Entity Behavioral Analysis (UEBA)  Commitment to Customers’. Notably,
functionalities and built-in threat We have implemented a FY2024-25 saw no data breaches,
modelling. This helps in proactively centralised patch management a testament to our vigilance.
identifying and addressing tool that automates the discovery, 
  Key measures undertaken
several potential threats before management and remediation of 
they proliferate. endpoints and servers across various by the Bank to mitigate
 operating systems and environments 
  information security related
b.  Security Orchestration,  
 for the available patches. It facilitates 
Automation & Response  risks:
 patching, software deployment and 
(SOAR) to reduce incident  
  Logging and Monitoring
 compliance with security standards 
response times by enabling  
 thus reducing the risk of the The logging and monitoring
automated triaging for better  
 introduction of vulnerability due to lack procedures at the Bank entail logging
control, visibility and preparedness  
 of timely patching. user actions, system activity and
against sophisticated attacks  
  infrastructure changes and ensuring
like ransomware. With the growing use of cloud 
  the logs are securely stored and
 infrastructure, tools such as Cloud 
Threat intelligence feeds and  protected against unauthorised
 Posture and Access Security Tools 
indicators of compromise received  access. Alerts are generated for audit
 (CSPM & CASB) are used to detect 
from government agencies, service  log failures based on asset risk levels.
 misconﬁgurations, enforce compliance 
providers and dark web monitoring  Monitoring tools aggregate log ﬁles,
 requirements and proactively reduce 
vendors are logged in the security  automatically reporting suspicious
 cloud-related risks. Overall, the Bank's 
technologies deployed in our Security  activity to the Cyber Security
 cybersecurity measures are focused 
Operations Centre (SOC) which  Operations Centre (CSOC) team.
 on ensuring the highest level of 
provides real-time information about  
S E C U R I T Y   PR AC T I C E S   A N D   DATA   PR I VACY   M E A S U R E S  
security related incidents and cyber are reinforced by various stringent The Red Team of the Bank proactively
resiliency framework which works measures such as a dedicated assesses our cyber assets for
on the prevent, detect and response Attack Surface Management (ASM) vulnerabilities through various
mechanism to manage cyber security Program. The programme is aimed periodic tests which also include
incidents. The Bank also conducts at continuously identifying and red team assessments. Any issues
‘table-top exercises’ to assess addressing vulnerabilities across identiﬁed during the assessments
the incident response readiness. assets thereby ensuring a secure are remediated in a timely manner
Key initiatives covered by the Next environment for the Bank and its to ensure that the banking services
Generation CSOC include: customers. Additionally, vulnerability remain resilient and stay protected
 management of the Bank’s internet against the evolving threats. These
a.  AI Powered Security  
 properties, antivirus / anti-malware dedicated efforts underscore
Monitoring: Deployment of next  
 program, patch management, our commitment to customer
generation security incident event  
 penetration testing, etc. minimise the information security and a secure
management (SIEM) solution  
 surface area for cyber security banking environment.
augmented by Artiﬁcial Intelligence  
 attacks and assist in fortifying 
(AI) and Machine Learning (ML)  We strictly adhere to regulatory
 the Bank's assets (infrastructure, 
capabilities along with strong User  standards like the ‘Code of Bank’s
 applications, etc.). 
Entity Behavioral Analysis (UEBA)  Commitment to Customers’. Notably,
functionalities and built-in threat We have implemented a FY2024-25 saw no data breaches,
modelling. This helps in proactively centralised patch management a testament to our vigilance.
identifying and addressing tool that automates the discovery, 
  Key measures undertaken
several potential threats before management and remediation of 
they proliferate. endpoints and servers across various by the Bank to mitigate
 operating systems and environments 
  information security related
b.  Security Orchestration,  
 for the available patches. It facilitates 
Automation & Response  risks:
 patching, software deployment and 
(SOAR) to reduce incident  
  Logging and Monitoring
 compliance with security standards 
response times by enabling  
 thus reducing the risk of the The logging and monitoring
automated triaging for better  
 introduction of vulnerability due to lack procedures at the Bank entail logging
control, visibility and preparedness  
 of timely patching. user actions, system activity and
against sophisticated attacks  
  infrastructure changes and ensuring
like ransomware. With the growing use of cloud 
  the logs are securely stored and
 infrastructure, tools such as Cloud 
Threat intelligence feeds and  protected against unauthorised
 Posture and Access Security Tools 
indicators of compromise received  access. Alerts are generated for audit
 (CSPM & CASB) are used to detect 
from government agencies, service  log failures based on asset risk levels.
 misconﬁgurations, enforce compliance 
providers and dark web monitoring  Monitoring tools aggregate log ﬁles,
 requirements and proactively reduce 
vendors are logged in the security  automatically reporting suspicious
 cloud-related risks. Overall, the Bank's 
technologies deployed in our Security  activity to the Cyber Security
 cybersecurity measures are focused 
Operations Centre (SOC) which  Operations Centre (CSOC) team.
 on ensuring the highest level of 
provides real-time information about  
 protection against cyber threats with 
emerging threats, helps in identifying  
 proactive monitoring and automated 
potential breaches and proactively  
 incident response capabilities, 
defends systems and data. Our  
 enhanced network visibility and 
robust Cyber Security Framework  
 a zero-trust approach to security. 
and Information Security Program  
The CSOC team performs the and addresses vulnerabilities, logging Minimised Surface Area for
following steps: and prioritising them based on severity Cyberattacks
 and assigning ownership. They 
  The Bank has implemented a
1.   Analysis and Incident  
 diligently follow up until resolution, 
  comprehensive approach to
Detection:  
 ensuring thorough remediation of 
  cybersecurity featuring a dedicated
The CSOC team conducts analysis  
 identiﬁed issues. 
  Attack Surface Management
and incident detection by gathering  
  programme (ASM) aimed at
 Patch Management 
information from system-generated  
  continuously identifying and
events and other sources to The Bank implements patch 
  addressing vulnerabilities across its
identify potential incidents. management procedures and tools 
  assets. Signiﬁcant strides include the
 to evaluate and deploy operating 
2.   Event Tracking and Escalation  institutionalisation of a cyber threat
 system, network and application- 
  exposure management solution and
Events are evaluated according  
 speciﬁc patches and updates. This 
  establishment of a next-generation
to their risk level and escalated  
 includes assessing vendor-supplied 
  Cyber Security Operations Center
as per the guidance provided  
 patches, documenting procedures 
  (CSOC) to predict and manage
in the Bank’s Incident  
 and ensuring timely deployment to 
  incidents proactively. Introduction of
Management policy. This may  
 safeguard the Bank's infrastructure. 
  Security Orchestration, Automation
involve referring incidents to the  
 Penetration Testing & Response (SOAR) has notably
Cyber Incident Response Team  
  reduced incident response times
(CIRT) for detailed analysis, To assess potentially exploitable 
  while network micro-segmentation
forensics and management for vulnerabilities, the Bank conducts 
  enhances control and visibility
situation awareness. routine and ad hoc penetration tests 
  particularly against ransomware
 on all critical networks and systems, 
3. 
 Reporting:  
  threats. Notably, the Bank has
 both internally and externally. These 
The CSOC team periodically  upgraded its monitoring and detection
 tests are initiated by various events 
reports the events and incidents  systems, leveraging advanced Artiﬁcial
 such as new releases or updates. 
to the senior management.  Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning
 They encompass Network/Host 
  (ML) capabilities alongside robust
 Penetration Testing and Application 
Endpoint Detection and  
  User Entity Behavioral Analysis (UEBA)
 Penetration Testing. 
Response (EDR) /Malware  
  functionalities and threat modeling.
Programme  
 Network Security 
  This holistic strategy represents
The programme is designed to  
 The Bank employs ﬁrewalls and proxy a pioneering industry approach,
prevent, detect and respond to  
 servers to manage and segregate emphasising proactive threat detection
malicious code threats including  
 network trafﬁc based on varying and response.
viruses, worms and trojans by utilising  
 security needs and trust levels. 
a blend of proprietary tools and  
 Additionally, our intrusion detection/ 
monitoring systems for mitigating  
 prevention capabilities (IDS/IPS) 
these risks effectively. To ensure up-  
 swiftly identify and respond to known 
to-date protection, antivirus signatures  
 attacks in real-time. Regular updates 
are updated multiple times daily  
 to IDS/IPS signatures enhance 
covering workstations, servers, email  
 detection accuracy for speciﬁc threats, 
gateways and web gateways.  
 intruder proﬁles and attack patterns. 
 Conﬁgured to trigger alerts upon 
Vulnerability Management  
 surpassing predeﬁned thresholds, 
The Bank oversees a proactive  
 these tools ensure proactive 
vulnerability management process  
 monitoring and rapid response to 
continuously scanning for security  
 potential security breaches. 
threats. The dedicated team tracks  
Governance Over Data 
IT Strategy Committee Information Security Programme
This committee oversees various technology- The Information Security Programme aligns with
related matters. Its functions include formulating regulatory requirements outlined by RBI as well as
IT strategy and related policies, ensuring industry standards such as ISO 27001:2022 and
alignment with the business strategy. Comprising the NIST framework. The Bank has established
mainly of Independent Directors, the committee the Information Security and Cyber Security policy
also includes an external IT expert. which guides the execution of stringent processes
 and measures the implementation of relevant
 security standards to ensure data security and
 protect sensitive business information and data
 assets from unauthorised access.
Security Policy dispensations, taking strategic Respond and Recover. The primary objectives of
and ﬁnancial decisions on Information Security our information security programme include:
plans, reviewing performance and monitoring the 
 − Documenting, disseminating, operating
progress of the Information Security Program. It 
 and reviewing information security policies
also discusses any signiﬁcant Information Security 
 and procedures.
risks, determining actions for risk remediation 
 − Monitoring cybersecurity threats and
and approves changes to the constitution and 
 assessing the risk proﬁle across critical assets,
functioning of the Information Security Committee 
 infrastructure components and business units/
(ISC). The committee serves as a platform for 
 departments.
discussing information security risks and oversees 
the enterprise security program. It convenes at least − Providing transparency into the information
once every two months with representatives from security programme and associated controls to
Audit, Information Technology, Information Security senior management including the Board
Group, other enabling functions and relevant 
 − Promptly responding to information security
business units. 
 incidents and policy violations/exceptions in
 alignment with organisational policy.
 − Evaluating the effectiveness of actions taken to
 resolve incidents and documenting the learnings
 to improve process efﬁciency.
  Our Strategy
Ensuring Data Privacy regulations. By maintaining these (DPO) under the direct supervision of
 standards, we cultivate and preserve the Board and the Chief Data Ofﬁcer is
At HDFC Bank, we are committed  
 the trust and conﬁdence of our valued highly regulated. We adopt a privacy-
to maintaining data privacy. We  
 customers, partners and stakeholders. by-design approach, embedding
ensure stringent privacy governance,  
  10 privacy principles into various
implement robust data protection  
 The bank is certiﬁed under ISO 
  processes and technologies across
measures and uphold transparency.  
 27001:2022 and complies with all the 
  the bank's products and services to
Our approach is rooted in  
 requirements mentioned in the ISO 
  protect against ﬁnancial, regulatory,
safeguarding personal information,  
 to maintain the highest level of data 
  operational, and brand damage.
respecting individual privacy rights  
 privacy. Our data privacy program 
and adhering to privacy laws and  
 headed by a Data Privacy Ofﬁcer 
Our Approach to Ensuring Data Privacy
Privacy Governance
At HDFC Bank, customer privacy is a priority. Our robust governance framework includes a designated
privacy ofﬁcer, cross-functional privacy teams and clear responsibility chains for privacy matters.
Through proactive measures, we protect personal information, cultivate privacy awareness and promptly
address any privacy concerns or inquiries that may arise.
Data Collection and Use
Transparency is fundamental to our privacy commitment at HDFC Bank. We prioritise open
communication and responsible handling of personal information. Our data collection is purposeful,
gathering only what's necessary for our services with clear explanations provided. Individuals receive
straightforward privacy notices and have the opportunity to provide informed consent for data
processing activities.
Security and Data Protection
Safeguarding personal information against unauthorised access, disclosure or misuse is a primary
concern for us. We implement a comprehensive multi-layered security strategy to achieve this goal.
Our approach includes robust encryption protocols, strict access controls, reliable ﬁrewalls and regular
security assessments. We are focused to remaining ahead of evolving threats by investing in state-of-
the-art technologies and adopting industry-leading best practices.
Privacy Education and Awareness
At HDFC Bank, nurturing a culture that values privacy is a key commitment. We focus on educating
and raising awareness among our employees through extensive privacy training programmes. These
efforts highlight the signiﬁcance of their roles in protecting personal information. We keep our team well-
informed about privacy matters, emerging risks and best practices through regular updates and open
communication channels.
Privacy by Design
We make privacy a top consideration in crafting our products, services and systems. We completely
embrace the principles of Privacy by Design, ensuring that privacy protections are woven into our
processes right from the start. Our teams undergo privacy training to foster a culture that respects
privacy and we conduct privacy impact assessments to detect and address any potential risks to
individuals' privacy.
ESG STRATEGY ENCOMPASSING 
SUSTAINABLE FINANCE 
 
Regulations to India’s ESG Reform
India’s ESG landscape is undergoing a signiﬁcant
 transformation, driven by a conﬂuence of domestic
 
Strategy priorities and global shifts. As the country positions
 itself as a key player in sustainable development,
 regulatory and policy institutions have taken decisive
 steps to mainstream ESG principles across capital
The global regulatory landscape for 
 markets and the broader ﬁnancial ecosystem.
Environment, Social, and Governance 
 At the forefront of these reforms is the Securities and
(ESG) is evolving rapidly, inﬂuencing 
 Exchange Board of India (SEBI), which has steadily
how banks assess risk, allocate 
 evolved its ESG disclosure - Business Responsibility
capital, and deﬁne long-term value. 
 and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR). The latest
As stakeholder expectations grow, enhancements to the BRSR requirements mark
 a strategic shift toward greater accountability and
regulatory momentum across globe 
 value chain transparency. By redeﬁning ‘value chain
is shifting from voluntary reporting 
 partners’ to include upstream and downstream
towards mandatory frameworks, 
 entities accounting for 2% or more of a listed
with increasing alignment to company’s purchases or sales, SEBI is deepening the
 scope of ESG disclosures. Additionally, recognising
international standards such as IFRS 
 the generation or procurement of green credits as a
Sustainability Disclosure Standards. 
 leadership indicator under Principle 6 of BRSR signals
The regulatory maturity and political 
 a stronger push toward environmental performance,
orientation vary across jurisdictions, effective from FY 2024-25.
wherein some regimes are actively 
 In parallel, SEBI is streamlining the ESG rating
embedding ESG principles into ecosystem to reﬂect the growing demand for credible
 and comparable sustainability assessments. Through
ﬁnancial market development and 
 its July 2024 circular, SEBI has enabled its registered
risk oversight, while others are 
 ESG Rating Providers (ERPs) to operate within the
adopting a more cautious approach, 
 International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) under
highlighting the urgent need for the regulatory framework laid out by the International
 Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA). This
harmonised ESG frameworks and 
 move coincides with SEBI’s broader sustainable
strategy. 
 ﬁnance strategy, which includes the introduction of
 new ﬁnancial instruments such as Social Bonds,
 Sustainable Bonds, and Sustainability-linked
 Bonds, building upon the foundation laid by green
 debt securities.
 Complementing these market-level measures, the
 Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has also bolstered its
 commitment to green ﬁnance. Key steps include
 raising Priority Sector Lending (PSL) limits for
 renewable energy to H35 crore and launching a
 dedicated ‘On Tap’ cohort focused on climate risk
 and sustainable ﬁnance innovation. These policy
 levers are intended to channel greater credit ﬂow
 toward green sectors and encourage ﬁnancial
 institutions to integrate climate considerations into
 their core operations.
HDFC Bank Limited
HDFC Bank Limited
112112 
However, India’s ESG journey Together, these developments positively impacting the environment,
is unfolding amidst growing represent maturing of India’s ESG our customers, employees, and the
geopolitical volatility. The global ecosystem. From regulatory clarity wider community through responsible
landscape of trade disruptions, and market infrastructure to risk and inclusive growth. Guided by
supply chain realignments, and resilience and ﬁnancial innovation, the our core values, our ESG practices
currency ﬂuctuations is reshaping risk country is laying the groundwork for a seek to drive growth and empower
dynamics for investors and ﬁnancial more robust and integrated approach communities through our corporate
institutions. The RBI’s 2024 bulletin, to sustainable ﬁnance. decision-making processes. In
“Geopolitical Risk and Trade and  FY 2014-15, sustainability was
 HDFC Bank’s Operating 
Capital Flows to India,” underscores  ofﬁcially included as our ﬁfth value,
how these tensions can disrupt trade, Philosophy alongside customer focus, operational
deter capital ﬂows, and undermine  excellence, product leadership,
 At HDFC Bank, we recognise the 
macroeconomic stability. For the  and people. To operationalise this
 interconnected nature of geopolitical 
banking sector, geopolitical shocks  vision, The Bank has adopted a
 dynamics, sustainability goals, and 
now intersect directly with ESG  comprehensive ESG framework. This
 ﬁnancial stability. We are actively 
outcomes, inﬂuencing everything  framework serves as a fundamental
 aligning with the national ESG agenda 
from clean energy ﬁnancing timelines  for all ESG-related initiatives across
 while also strengthening our internal 
to labour market resilience and  domestic operations and is either
 resilience to evolving externalities. 
regulatory governance.  aligned or locally adopted by our
 As India’s largest private sector bank, 
  overseas ofﬁces as per extant
 we remain deeply committed to 
  regulations as applicable.
 roadmap, monitoring progress against functional coordination and alignment
Driving ESG through  
 targets, and ensuring alignment and reports periodically to the CSR
Structured Governance  
 with stakeholder expectations and & ESG Committee of the Board. To
HDFC Bank has instituted a robust,  
 approving key disclosures in alignment enable focused execution of ESG
multi-tiered ESG governance  
 with applicable regulatory and priorities, the Bank has constituted
structure to ensure that sustainability  
 voluntary reporting standards. The dedicated ESG Working Groups.
considerations are systematically  
 Deputy Managing Director, leads the These groups are aligned with
embedded across the Bank’s  
 execution of ESG priorities across the key pillars of the Bank’s ESG
operations, lending practices, risk  
 the Bank. agenda and are tasked with driving
frameworks, product development  
  implementation, monitoring progress,
 At the executive level, ESG 
and reporting mechanisms. The  
  and facilitating internal capacity-
 implementation is driven by the ESG 
Corporate Social Responsibility  
  building across departments.
 Apex Council, comprising senior 
and ESG (CSR & ESG) Committee  
 leadership from across critical 
of the Board, inter alia, provides  
 business and enabling functions. 
strategic oversight to the Bank’s ESG  
 The Council is responsible for cross- 
agenda—reviewing our sustainability  
 business and enabling functions. 
strategic oversight to the Bank’s ESG  
 The Council is responsible for cross- 
agenda—reviewing our sustainability  
Environment Social & Governance Product Responsibility
Working Group Working Group Working Group
Sets targets and identiﬁes Focuses on workplace policies Integrates assessing Environmental
opportunities for improvement in including Code of Conduct, human & Social (E&S) risks, including climate
areas of emissions, energy, water rights, diversity, safety, stakeholder risks in our existing portfolio and
and waste. engagement and corporate identify new business opportunities
 governance policies. in the E&S space.
ESG Focus Areas & Guiding Approach 
Focus Area Our Approach
 We are committed to achieving carbon neutrality by FY 2031-32 and reducing
Climate Change Strategy 
 our energy footprint through renewable energy adoption, energy-efﬁcient
 infrastructure, and automated energy management.
 Energy, Emissions, and Operations: We externally verify and disclose GHG
 emissions annually and continuously improve resource efﬁciency across our
 operations and data centers.
 Waste and Water Conservation: We adopt responsible waste disposal, minimise
 paper and plastic use and implement water-saving technologies across premises.
 The Bank has a board approved Environmental, Social Governance Risk
Environmental & Social 
 Management (ESGRM) Framework to strengthen the integration of ESG & climate
Risk in Lending 
 change risk assessment into the credit appraisal process, with thresholds guiding
 due diligence and third-party assessments.
 Our Sustainable Finance Framework provides guidance to the Bank for issuances
Sustainable Finance 
 of green, social, sustainable and sustainability linked ﬁnancing and elucidates the
 use, management, monitoring and reporting of such proceeds.
 We engage upstream and downstream partners on ESG disclosures, to
Value Chain and Procurement 
 ensure that our value chain partners meet sustainable disclosure standards
 in line with benchmark ESG practices of the Bank and in accordance with
 existing regulations.
 Financed Emissions: We are expanding the scope of measurement of ﬁnanced
 emissions and engaging borrowers to support decarbonisation pathways.
 We uphold non-discrimination, employee well-being, gender diversity and
Workforce Practices 
 structured ESG learning and development.
 We deliver responsible banking experiences through secure, customer-centric
Customer Engagement 
 digital platforms and continuous feedback loops.
 Guided by our board governed Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy,
Community & Society 
 our umbrella of social initiatives ‘Parivartan’ drives impact in 6 distinct areas
 of intervention namely: Rural Development, Promotion of Education, Skill
 Development & Livelihood Enhancement, Healthcare & Hygiene, Financial
 Literacy & Inclusion, and Natural Resource Management.
 Our Sustainable Livelihood Initiative (SLI) has been a key driver in pushing for
 ﬁnancial inclusion among families, especially women, in un-banked and under-
 banked areas.
 We uphold transparency through the whistleblower mechanism and proactive
Transparency & Accountability 
 stakeholder engagement. Over the years, the Bank has aligned its management
to Stakeholders 
 approach with best practices and as guided by ESG reporting frameworks and
 guidelines of ESG rating agencies.
 Our governance model ensures regulatory compliance, ethics, cybersecurity
Governance and Compliance 
 and ESG-aligned board oversight. The Bank’s corporate governance framework
 complies with The Companies Act, the regulations and guidelines of the SEBI
 and the requirements of the listing agreements entered into with the Indian
 stock exchanges.
 HDFC Bank achieved a leadership score of 71 in 
 the CRISIL ESG Ratings Leadership Category for 
 FY 2023-24 disclosures. 
We endeavor to align our climate risk We have been We comply and report in
related disclosures with the Task Force reporting on ESG line with the SEBI-mandated
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures KPIs in alignment with BRSR Framework in our
(TCFD) recommendations. the Global Reporting annual disclosures.
 Initiative (GRI) since 
Commitment to Sustainability-related Disclosures  
The Bank is dedicated to maintaining transparency and accountability in its sustainability-related disclosures. Our approach  
to reporting adopts global frameworks in alignment with nationally available guidance and frameworks.  
Assessment The Bank actively reports to the Carbon The Bank has been participating in S&P Corporate
framework Disclosure Project (CDP), on its strategy Sustainability Assessment since FY 2018-19.
 that integrates both the potential risks and 
  In FY 2024-25, the Bank was ranked in the
 opportunities presented by climate change. 
  85th percentile.
  HDFC Bank achieved a leadership score of 71 in
  the CRISIL ESG Ratings Leadership Category for
  FY 2023-24 disclosures.
Reporting We endeavor to align our climate risk We comply and report in 
We have been
frameworks related disclosures with the Task Force line with the SEBI-mandated 
reporting on ESG
 on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures BRSR Framework in our 
KPIs in alignment with
 (TCFD) recommendations. annual disclosures.
the Global Reporting
  Initiative (GRI) since
 FY 2024-25 is the ﬁfth year of HDFC Bank’s 
  FY 2013-14.
 reporting in line with TCFD framework. 
  FY 2024-25 is the
  twelfth year of HDFC
  Bank’s reporting in
  alignment with the GRI.
 The Bank has obtained Reasonable Assurance on BRSR Core Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and 
Assurance  
 Limited Assurance on select non-core BRSR/GRI-aligned KPIs. 
Embedding ESG in Credit ESG risk and policies. This robust Mobilising Capital Responsibly
 ESGRM Framework enables us to 
Risk and Due Diligence  Sustainable ﬁnance is a natural
 evaluate ESG risks systematically 
  extension of our ESG strategy, aligning
At HDFC Bank, integrating ESG  
 across our lending portfolio. 
  business value with environmental
factors into our credit appraisal and  
  and societal progress. Guided by our
due diligence processes is a strategic For exposures to borrowers beyond 
  ESG Risk Management Framework
priority, given their growing inﬂuence the pre-decided thresholds, the ESG 
  and global sustainability principles,
on borrower performance and portfolio RM framework mandates ESG due 
  it supports India’s low-carbon and
risk. In FY 2023–24, we developed diligence that includes assessment 
  inclusive growth agenda.
an ESG Risk Management (ESGRM) of environmental impacts, labor and 
Framework for as a part of the overall human rights practices, corporate 
  The Finance Ministry’s draft Climate
credit policy of the Bank to embed governance, and climate risk exposure. 
  Finance Taxonomy is a landmark
ESG and climate risk evaluation For specialised or long-tenure project 
  step toward directing green capital
into our credit appraisal process for ﬁnance, a Lenders’ Independent 
  to help achieve India’s NDCs. With
wholesale lending, with exposure- Engineer (LIE) is appointed. In addition 
  eight guiding principles, the taxonomy
based thresholds and industry risk to a techno-commercial assessment 
  prioritises sectors like energy, mobility,
categorisations. The assessment of the project, one of the items of the 
  buildings, agriculture, and hard-to-
of ESG Risk in Credit Appraisals s scope of work of the LIE is to assess 
  abate industries including steel and
covers borrower-level risks, statutory availability / requirement of environment 
  cement. Anticipating this shift, we
compliance and sectoral sensitivities. clearances, pollution clearances, R & R 
  have already made early investments
The ESG assessments are embedded requirements and such other aspects 
  in sustainable technologies and low-
into Credit Appetite Memorandums. In of the project. Suitable mitigants 
  carbon infrastructure. Our evolving
addition, loan documentation includes are built to address the risks around 
  approach integrates ﬁnancial expertise
reps and warranties with regards to these aspects. 
S U S TA I N A B L E   F I N A N C E  
and product innovation to support Association’s Green and Social Loan allocated and managed. We are
India’s climate goals. Principles, the Framework enables committed to reporting on allocation
 us to: and impact of the use of proceeds
Our Sustainable Finance  
 Identify and classify eligible green 
 − including those contributing to the
Framework  
 and social projects advancement of the UN SDGs 2, 3 ,4,
Our Board-approved Sustainable  
  6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13.
 Issue green, social, and 
 − 
Finance Framework (“the Framework”)  
 sustainability bonds 
  Aligned with the Framework, we
serves to catalyse our sustainable  
 − Track and manage the allocation issued USD 300 million in sustainable
ﬁnancing efforts. Developed in  
 of proceeds bonds in February 2024, advancing
accordance with global standards  
  our green ﬁnance agenda and
including the International Capital − Report transparently on the impact 
  supporting impactful environmental
Market Association (ICMA)- of ﬁnanced projects 
  and social initiatives.
Sustainability Bond Guidelines (2021),  
 The Framework outlines a process 
Green Bond Principles, Social Bond  
 by which proceeds will be tracked, 
Principles, and the Loan Market  
 Social Category- MSME ﬁnancing period, while the remainder supports
Sustainable Bond Issuance  
  upcoming initiatives aligned with
 A larger portion of the proceeds, USD 
The total proceeds raised through the  
  our green and social criteria. Each
 90 million (H747.11 crore), or 30% of the 
issuance of USD 300 million  
  project is assessed against clear
 total issuance, has been dedicated to 
(H2,490.36 crore), were distributed  
  sustainability thresholds, with
 lending to MSMEs. 
across two key categories:  
  exclusions based on global norms,
 Use of Proceeds and Allocation 
Green Category- Clean  including the International Finance
 Approach 
transportation (Electric Vehicles)  Corporation (IFC) Exclusion List. To
 Proceeds from our sustainable bond ensure integrity and market alignment,
A total of USD 60 million (H498.07  
 issuance are allocated in line with project selection and fund allocation
crore), representing 20% of the total  
 the Sustainable Finance Framework, are independently veriﬁed and certiﬁed
issuance, has been allocated to clean  
 which allows for both retrospective by a reputed third-party auditor.
transportation, speciﬁcally to support  
 and forward-looking investments. This rigorous approach reinforces
electric vehicles (EVs).  
 A portion of the proceeds may be our commitment to transparency,
We continue to steer investments across a diverse portfolio of green and social sectors, contributing meaningfully to India’s    
Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and broader Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).    
 Total Outstanding Total No of Transactions % of total % of total
Type of Finance    
 (H crore)! (Nos.) Sustainable Finance Finance
Green* 67,111 1,53,851 13.58 2.54
Social# 4,27,029 5,40,371 86.42 16.15
Total Portfolio 4,94,140 6,94,222 100 18.69
Catalysing ESG Maturity Industry engagement/ Client Engagement: As a trusted
 Government/Public Policy ﬁnancial institution, we engage with
Across Our Portfolio  
 Engagement large corporate clients to assess
We see our borrowers as partners in  
  climate-related risks and opportunities.
 We believe that industry collaboration 
India’s ESG transition. As India moves  
  We encourage improved climate
 is key to advancing ESG outcomes. 
toward a net-zero future, banks must  
  disclosures and aim to understand
 By working with peers, experts, and 
play a catalytic role in enabling ESG-  
  ESG priorities, identify industry best
 academic institutions, we stay aligned 
aligned business practices not just  
  practices, and track initiatives from
 with evolving expectations and help 
through ﬁnancing, but also through  
  near-term emission targets to net-zero
 shape the transition to a low-carbon 
proactive engagement and capacity  
  commitments, ESG reporting, and
 economy. As active members of 
building. Our client engagement model  
  supply chain decarbonisation efforts.
 industry bodies and trade associations 
is anchored in continuous dialogue.  
 (refer BRSR FY 2024-25 Principle 
The Bank endeavours to actively  Core Focus Areas in ESG
 7, E1), we contribute to developing 
engage with clients, particularly those  Client Engagements:
 sectoral standards and emerging 
in carbon-intensive sectors such as oil  
  − Emissions disclosures and net-
 taxonomies. Our engagement ensures 
and gas, power, cement, and steel, to  
  zero targets
 alignment between internal ESG 
assess ESG maturity and encourage  
 ambitions and external policies. To − Waste management and
transition planning.  
 maximise impact, we collaborate with pollution control
Strategic Collaborations for  
 solution providers, civil society, and 
  − ESG-linked governance policies and
Scalable Impact  
 government agencies—combining 
  board diversity
 strengths to drive innovation and scale 
We’re strengthening ecosystem  
  − Supply chain sustainability and
 ESG initiatives effectively. 
partnerships to address complex  
  decarbonisation efforts
ESG challenges by pooling expertise,  
 Engagement Across the 
  − Human rights, labor, and gender
technology, and capital for greater  
 Value Chain 
  inclusivity practices
collective impact. Our focus is on  
 We recognise that our environmental 
working with:  Our efforts are aligned towards
 and social impact spans our entire 
  integrating emerging regulatory
− Solution providers for emissions value chain. In line with SEBI’s BRSR 
  mandates across the value chain
tracking and climate risk modeling Core mandate, we actively engage 
  as a strategic lever for sustainability
 value chain partners to drive shared 
− Academic institutions and think  
  leadership. This integration enables us
 sustainability outcomes, strengthen 
tanks to guide ESG analytics and  
  to strengthen risk management and
 risk resilience, and create long-term 
scenario planning  
  build resilience across our operational
 value. Our engagement strategy 
− Civil society organisations  ecosystem. It also positions us to
 focuses on collaboration, capacity 
to co-create inclusive  engage with, inﬂuence and support
 building, and measurable progress. 
community interventions  the broader market transition towards
 Supplier Engagement: Beyond more accountable, inclusive, and
Industry coalitions and 
 −  
 aspects of labour law compliance and climate-conscious business. In
government agencies to  
 adherence to statutory requirements, doing so, we aim to embed stronger
shape policy and improve  
 We aim to embed ESG performance governance practices for responsible
sectoral alignment  
 criterion—covering emissions intensity, growth and long-term value creation in
These collaborations enhance our  
 and safety standards, into supplier the banking sector.
ability to identify emerging ESG  
 assessments. Additionally, we aim 
trends, close capacity gaps, and  
 to support MSME suppliers through 
drive transformative outcomes  
 targeted training to strengthen their 
across sectors.  
 understanding of ESG principles and 
 BRSR Core requirements, fostering 
 a more responsible and resilient 
 value chain. 
E N V I R O N M E N T 
 To improve the completeness of our environmental
 
Committing to data, we have broadened our reporting boundaries.
 This includes the expansion of our Scope 3 emissions
 inventory through the integration of new sources, such
 
Environmental as the environmental impact of employee commute
 captured through a detailed commute survey. Building
 
Sustainability on the pilot study conducted in FY 2023-24, we
 continue to report on ﬁnanced emissions from a
 select segment of our portfolio, with plans to enhance
 the coverage and accuracy of ﬁnanced emissions
 reporting in future reporting cycles.
We believe that integrating 
environmental responsibility into We remain ﬁrmly committed to minimising our
 environmental footprint across our entire value chain,
our core business practices is key 
 not only through improvements in our operations but
to creating long-term value. Guided 
 also by embracing responsible ﬁnancing practices
by this belief, we continue to 
 and supply chain engagement. Our efforts are
evolve our approach to managing guided by a strategic combination of time-bound,
 progressive, and measurable initiatives that drive
and disclosing our environmental 
 meaningful reductions in our most signiﬁcant
impacts. This year, we have further 
 environmental impacts.
expanded and strengthened our 
 Governance
environmental data and reporting 
 Strong governance forms the foundation of
systems as we introduce a 
 our approach to managing environmental risks
broader set of environmental 
 and driving sustainable outcomes. The Bank’s
KPIs in our disclosures, aligning 
 environmental agenda is overseen at the highest
with evolving standards including levels to ensure accountability, strategic alignment,
 and continuous improvement.
BRSR Core and global climate- 
related reporting frameworks. The CSR & ESG Committee of the Board
 provides strategic oversight on environmental
Our enhanced approach reﬂects a 
 matters, including climate-related risks, emissions
deeper, more holistic assessment 
 management, and resource efﬁciency. The
of our environmental footprint 
 environmental initiatives are executed under the
across both our own operational leadership of the Deputy Managing Director, who
 oversees the Bank’s ESG function.
and value chain boundaries. 
 Our environmental efforts are guided by the
 Bank’s ESG Risk Management Framework, which
 is periodically reviewed and updated to ensure it
 remains aligned with regulatory expectations and
 best practices. This framework applies across our
 domestic operations, with overseas ofﬁces aligning
 as per local regulatory requirements.
are leveraged for decision-making,   
 enhancement led to a more accurate  
performance evaluation, and target-   3.22%
   
setting. As we continue expanding and signiﬁcantly lower estimate of  
 electrical energy consumption.  
   in FY25.
our footprint particularly through the   
opening of branches in unbanked Energy Consumption GJ 
semi-urban and rural areas, we are Diesel: DG Set 224,058.91 
   Buildings Management and
investing in infrastructure, personnel, Diesel: Company Cars 74,709.37 
   Green Building Initiatives
and technology to strengthen the Petrol: Company Cars 286,947.80 
   To support our carbon reduction
accuracy and completeness of Grid Electricity (no 1,410,725.08 
 renewable attributes  goals, we have implemented a
environmental data collection across   
 established)  comprehensive infrastructure
all locations.   
 Renewable Electricity (Solar 66,436.61 efﬁciency program across our
Following the successful merger Rooftop & Green Power)  
   operations. Key initiatives in
of HDFC Bank and HDFC Ltd. in Total 2,062,877.76 
   FY 2024-25 include:
FY 2023-24, the Bank undertook   
Following the successful merger Rooftop & Green Power)  
   operations. Key initiatives in
of HDFC Bank and HDFC Ltd. in Total 2,062,877.76 
   FY 2024-25 include:
FY 2023-24, the Bank undertook   
 Total Energy Consumed  − Savings of about 623.84 MWh
signiﬁcant systems transformation to   
 (million GJ)  
   resulting from smart IOT systems
integrate and streamline its expanded   
   installed at about 350 branches.
operations. Back in FY 2020-21, the FY25
1.48
0.58  
Bank had committed to achieving FY24
2.54 0.50 Installation of Active Harmonic 
 −
carbon neutrality for Scope 1 and FY23
0.41
1.56  Filters for achieving unity power
Scope 2 emissions from its own   factor (UPF) at 84 locations that
 FY22
0.29
1.31  
operations by FY 2031-32 with   resulted in savings of 84.32 MWh.
 Energy Consumed from purchased electricity  
FY 2020-21 as the baseline year   
   − Deployment of technologies such as
 Energy Consumed from usage of fossil fuels  
for tracking year on year progress   
   elevator and equipment scheduling,
against the said target. In light of the   
   occupancy sensors and capacitor
merger and the resulting increase in Energy Intensity  
   banks to optimise energy use.
 (GJ/H Cr Revenue from Operations)  
operational scale, the Bank initiated a   
   − Standardisation of air conditioning
post-merger re-baselining of its GHG FY25
5.96  
   systems in new premises to
emissions. Accordingly, FY 2023-24 FY24 9.87 
   meet the latest Bureau of Energy
was established as the new baseline   
 FY23 10.24 
   Efﬁciency (BEE) standards.
year for monitoring progress towards   
 FY22 10.15 
Metrics and Targets Our Energy Performance Electricity accounts for the majority
  (68.39%) of our total energy
In alignment with regulatory As a service-based organisation, 
  consumption, amounting to 1.48
developments and evolving energy consumption is a key aspect of 
  million GJ. At present, most of this
stakeholder expectations, we our operational footprint. In FY 2024- 
  electricity i.e. 1.41 million GJ is
continuously reﬁne our approach to 25, our total energy consumption 
  sourced from the conventional grid
identifying and reporting material key was 2.06 million GJ, reﬂecting a 
  and the remaining 0.07 million GJ is
performance indicators (KPIs) related decrease of 0.97 million GJ compared 
  procured from renewable sources.
to our environmental performance. to FY 2023-24. This reduction is 
Our KPIs cover key impact areas, primarily attributed to a shift in our 
including energy consumption, energy accounting methodology Through our continued efforts
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, between FY 2023-24 and FY 2024- to transition towards cleaner
water usage, and waste management. 25. We transitioned from a purely energy, we have increased the
 spend-based estimation approach share of renewable energy in our
We maintain a robust system for  
 to a more reﬁned system that electricity mix from 0.39%
monitoring these indicators across our  
 integrates improved activity data with in FY24 to
operations and the insights generated  
 ﬁnancial data. This methodological 
are leveraged for decision-making,  
 enhancement led to a more accurate 
  
  
performance evaluation, and target-
setting. As we continue expanding and signiﬁcantly lower estimate of 3.22%
 electrical energy consumption. 
  in FY25.
our footprint particularly through the  
opening of branches in unbanked Energy Consumption
GJ 
semi-urban and rural areas, we are Diesel: DG Set
224,058.91 
  Buildings Management and
investing in infrastructure, personnel, Diesel: Company Cars
74,709.37 
  Green Building Initiatives
and technology to strengthen the Petrol: Company Cars
286,947.80 
  To support our carbon reduction
accuracy and completeness of Grid Electricity (no 
1,410,725.08 
 renewable attributes goals, we have implemented a
environmental data collection across  
 established) comprehensive infrastructure
all locations.  
 Renewable Electricity (Solar 
66,436.61 efﬁciency program across our
Following the successful merger Rooftop & Green Power) 
  operations. Key initiatives in
of HDFC Bank and HDFC Ltd. in Total
2,062,877.76 
  FY 2024-25 include:
FY 2023-24, the Bank undertook  
 Total Energy Consumed − Savings of about 623.84 MWh
signiﬁcant systems transformation to  
 (million GJ) 
  resulting from smart IOT systems
integrate and streamline its expanded  
  installed at about 350 branches.
operations. Back in FY 2020-21, the FY25
1.48
0.58 
Bank had committed to achieving FY24
0.50
2.54 Installation of Active Harmonic 
 −
carbon neutrality for Scope 1 and FY23
0.41
1.56 Filters for achieving unity power
Scope 2 emissions from its own  factor (UPF) at 84 locations that
 FY22
0.29
1.31 
operations by FY 2031-32 with  resulted in savings of 84.32 MWh.
 Energy Consumed from purchased electricity 
FY 2020-21 as the baseline year  
  − Deployment of technologies such as
 Energy Consumed from usage of fossil fuels 
for tracking year on year progress  
  elevator and equipment scheduling,
against the said target. In light of the  
  occupancy sensors and capacitor
merger and the resulting increase in Energy Intensity 
  banks to optimise energy use.
 (GJ/H Cr Revenue from Operations) 
operational scale, the Bank initiated a  
  − Standardisation of air conditioning
post-merger re-baselining of its GHG FY25
5.96 
  systems in new premises to
emissions. Accordingly, FY 2023-24 FY24
9.87 
  meet the latest Bureau of Energy
was established as the new baseline  
 FY23
10.24 
  Efﬁciency (BEE) standards.
year for monitoring progress towards  
 FY22
10.15 
both interim targets and long-term  
 In FY 2024-25, our energy intensity stood at 
emissions reduction goals.  
 5.96 GJ/INR crore of Revenue from Operations, 
 reﬂecting a signiﬁcant decrease compared to 
In FY 2024-25 as well, the Bank   
continued to enhance the energy   
  Our Data Centre Emission 
efﬁciency of its co-located data   
  Reduction Initiatives 
centers, accounting for a signiﬁcant   
portion of electricity consumption. We   
are implementing multiple initiatives   
aimed at improving cooling efﬁciency   
and reducing overall energy usage at   
these critical facilities.   
Recognising the importance of   
 Our Data centers All our data centers Our Bangalore Data
environmental stewardship beyond   
 use Hyper are TIA-942 center ‘Net magic·
energy management, we are adopting   
 Convergence IT Rated-3 Certiﬁed DC3B’ is certiﬁed
a holistic approach towards reducing   
 Technology for IT  green data center
our environmental footprint across   
 asset consolidation  under the IGBC
all operating locations. As of March   
 and virtualisation  Green Data Center
31, 2025:   
   Rating System
− 2,507 branches and ofﬁces have   
been certiﬁed under the Indian   
our environmental footprint across
all operating locations. As of March
31, 2025:
− 2,507 branches and ofﬁces have
been certiﬁed under the Indian
Green Building Council (IGBC)
Green Interiors Rating System,
including 4 Platinum, 2,391 Gold,
and 112 Silver certiﬁed locations.
− All new branches and ofﬁces
are evaluated for green building
certiﬁcation at the design stage.
procurement practices, using Green  
Pro-certiﬁed materials such as  
plywood, laminates, ﬂooring tiles,  
ceiling tiles, paints, adhesives, and  
ﬁnishes at our select premises.  
 GHG Emissions our GHG inventory therefore remains
Furthermore, we prioritise the  
  a strategic priority action area for the
 We remain ﬁrmly committed to 
use of low-VOC (Volatile Organic  
  Bank. We are continuously enhancing
 addressing climate change and 
Compounds) ﬁnishes, which are  
  our data collection processes
 promoting sustainable practices 
incorporated into our Bills of Quantity  
  and exploring technological and
 across our operations and value chain. 
and tendering processes for new  
  automation-driven solutions to further
 Recognising the scale and diversity 
infrastructure development.  
  improve data accuracy and build
 of our operations spread across tens 
  stakeholder conﬁdence.
 of thousands of locations of varying 
 size and nature, we acknowledge 
  In FY 2024-25, our total Scope and
 that collecting complete and accurate 
  2  footprint stood at 0.36 million
 activity data presents a signiﬁcant 
  tCO2e, while Scope 3 emissions from
 challenge. Strengthening data quality 
  ﬁve2  reported categories aggregated
 and enhancing the completeness of 
  to 0.23 million tCO2e.
Total GHG Emissions     Scope 1: Direct Emissions Potential (GWP) values sourced from
(million tCO2e)      the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report
     Scope 1 emissions refer to direct 
      (AR6).
FY25 0.08 0.28 0.23  GHG emissions from sources owned 
FY24 0.09 0.50  0.06 or controlled by the Bank, including 
      For ACs, emissions are estimated
  0.05   emissions from fuel consumption in 
FY23 0.03 0.31    using India's refrigerant usage trends,
     company-owned vehicles (petrol, 
FY22 0.02 0.04
0.29    vendor-provided average refrigerant
     diesel) and company-owned diesel 
      capacities, leakage assumptions from
 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3   
     generator (DG) sets as well as fugitive 
      Council on Energy, Environment and
     emissions from leakage of refrigerants 
      Water (CEEW), and GWP values from
     used in air conditioners and from 
      the IPCC AR6.
Total Emissions      
     GHG-based ﬁre suppressants used in 
(0.59 million tCO2e)      
     ﬁre extinguishers. 
  13.15%    
     Scope 1 emissions have been 
 38.83%     Scope 1 Emissions
     calculated using a combination 
      (tCO2e)
     of the Bank’s operational data 
     and internationally recognised 
      2.51%
     methodologies. Emissions from 
     company-owned vehicles and DG 
      21.36%
   48.02%   
     sets have been estimated by applying 
     emission factors from the IPCC 2006 
      42.81%
     Guidelines to fuel consumption data 
 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3   
     sourced from the Bank’s ﬁnancial 
     management system. 
      33.32%
     Fugitive emissions from ﬁre 
     extinguishers are calculated using 
      Diesel consumption in DG sets
     operational assets data and public 
      Company owned vehicles
     factors on leakage from USEPA 
      HVAC
     guidance and Global Warming Fire Extinguisher
Our Scope 1 emissions reduced Scope 1 Emissions   
 (million tCO2e)   
from 0.084 million tCO2e in    
FY 2023-24 to 0.078 million tCO2e FY25
0.026 0.017
1.48 0.23 0.033 0.002
in FY 2024-25. This decline is    
 FY24
0.020 0.016
0.06 0.045 0.003
primarily due to two key measures:    
 FY23
0.017
0.013   
the gradual transition from high-GHG    
 FY22
0.012
0.02
0.009   
hydroﬂuorocarbon ﬁre extinguishers    
to low-GHG ﬂuoroketone variants, Company-owned Vehicles Gensets HVAC    
  Fire Extinguishers 
and routine upgradation to energy    
efﬁcient equipment.    
E N V I R O N M E N T  
Scope 2 (Indirect GHG data- compared to spend based vehicles, as well as diesel used in
Emissions from Purchased computation in FY 2023-24. This shift DG generators, were considered.
Electricity) in methodology, driven by improved Emission factors were sourced from
 data accuracy, led to reduction in the latest DEFRA 2024 database to
Our Scope 2 emissions account  
 electricity consumption. account for upstream emissions from
for indirect GHG emissions from  
  extraction, reﬁning, and transportation.
consumption of electricity purchased  
 We are continuously strengthening our 
  For electricity transmission and
from the grid across all ofﬁces under  
 data collection systems, processes, 
  distribution (T&D) losses, consumption
the Bank’s operational control and  
 and governance mechanisms 
  data for non-renewable electricity
co-located data centers. In FY 2024-  
 to enhance the accuracy and 
  was obtained from internal electricity
25, we enhanced our Scope 2 data  
 completeness of our GHG accounting 
  sheets. These losses were estimated
management by expanding the  
 process. Given that Scope 2 emissions 
  using data from the Central Electricity
use of actual monitored electricity  
 constitute the primary source of our 
  Authority (CEA) Executive Summary
consumption (kWh) data and  
 operational GHG emissions, we have 
  on Power Sector 2025, which
adopted a spend-based estimation  
 prioritised the improvement of 
  provides the average national T&D
methodology wherever direct data  
 electricity consumption data 
  loss percentage. The emission factor
was not available.  
 collection across our operating 
  applied to this lost electricity was
 locations. As part of a phased 
In line with the GHG Protocol, we  
  taken from version 20 of the Central
 approach, we are initially focusing 
report Scope 2 emissions using  
  Electricity Authority’s (CEA) CO2
 on high-consumption locations, 
both the location-based and market-  
  database 2024.
 with a progressive rollout planned for 
based approaches.  
 other categories of locations thereafter. Category 5: Waste generated in
Under the location-based approach,  
  operations- Emissions for e-waste,
emissions are calculated using Scope 2 Emissions 
  battery waste, and paper are
actual activity data on electricity (million tCO2e) 
  estimated using emission factors from
consumption, supplemented by  
 FY25
0.28 the USEPA’s WARM Version 16.
estimates derived from electricity  
 FY24
0.50 
  Category 6: Business Travel-
procurement costs and applicable  
 FY23
0.31 
  Emissions from cab hire are estimated
state-level tariffs.  
 FY22
0.29 
  based on distance travelled, derived
For the market-based approach, we  
  from expense records, and applying
 Note: In FY 2023-24, our scope 2 emissions 
apply the grid emission factor from  
 increased signiﬁcantly due to an increase in emission factors from the India
Version 20 of the Central Electricity the number of locations under our operational 
  GHG Programme. Air and rail travel
 control on account of merger with eHDFC 
Authority’s (CEA) CO2 database to  distances are derived from trip
 Limited 
calculate emissions.  
  records in the ﬁnancial system and
  supplemented with public distance
We continue to implement measures Scope 3 (Other Indirect 
  sources, with emissions calculated as
to reduce our Scope 2 emissions Emissions) 
  per India GHG Programme standards.
through targeted interventions at our  
 Scope 3 emissions represent 
own facilities and by working closely  
 indirect GHG emissions that occur Category 7: Employee Commute-
with our data center service providers.  
 in the Bank’s value chain but are A commute survey was conducted in
 not included in our Scope 1 or the bank to collect commute data of
In FY 2024-25, our Scope 2 emissions  
 Scope 2. For FY 2024-25, Scope the bank employees. Annual commute
decreased by 0.22 million tCO2e  
 3 emissions reporting covers the distances per employee were
compared to FY 2023-24. The  
 following categories: calculated based on the survey and
reduction is primarily attributed to  
  mode-speciﬁc emission factors from
the deployment of 66,436.61 GJ  
 Category 3: Fuel- and energy- 
  the India GHG Programme were used
of renewable electricity, sourced  
 related activities- Emissions were 
  to calculate emissions. Emissions
through rooftop solar installations and  
 estimated using activity data and 
  were averaged by RBI classiﬁcation
green power purchases. In addition,  
 corresponding emission factors. 
  and scaled-up to reﬂect the total
enhancements in the data collection  
 For fuel-related emissions (Well-to- 
  commute emissions of the entire bank.
system in FY 2024-25 allowed for  
 Tank), the quantities of diesel and 
us to shift to a mixed approach-  
 petrol consumed in company-owned 
consumption and spend based  
HDFC Bank Limited
122  
    Responsible Business 
Category 8: Upstream Leased Scope 3 Emissions    
Assets (Electricity at Offsite (million tCO2e)    
ATMs) – Purchased electricity at     
offsite ATMs was calculated using a     
similar methodology as Scope 2 but    0.12 
for locations outside the operational 0.067    
control boundary of the Bank.     0.044
As part of our commitment to     0.033
0.032
capturing value chain impacts, we     0.024
are progressively strengthening the   0.016
0.014
0.013  
breadth and accuracy of Scope 0.004
0.004 0.004
0.003 0.007  
3 emissions reporting through     
standardised methodologies and     
 Category 3: Category 5: Category 6: Category 7: Category 8:
expanded category coverage.     
 Fuel and Energy Waste generated Business travel Employee Upstream leased
 related activities in operations  Commute assets
For ﬁnanced emissions estimation     
 not in Scope 1    
methodology, please refer or Scope 2    
to the section titled Climate- FY25 FY24 FY23     
  FY22  
related Disclosures.     
In FY 2024-25, our Scope 3 emissions increased signiﬁcantly compared to FY 2023-24 owing to accounting of additional     
Category 3 (Fuel and Energy related activities) and Category 7 (Employee Commute) emissions. Employee commute emerged     
the largest contributor to reported Scope 3 emissions. However, emissions from purchased electricity in other facilities     
marked substantial decline over FY 2023-24, reﬂecting ongoing energy efﬁciency improvements and optimisation efforts.     
 Fire Extinguisher 1,958.42
Total Scope 1 Emissions  77,999.50
Total Scope 2 Emissions  
 Purchased Electricity 284,877.91
(market-based)  
 Diesel Car 1,290.85
Category 3: Fuel and Energy relate activities (not in Diesel DG 3,871.34
Scope 1 or 2) Petrol Car 5,256.77
 Non-Renewable Electricity (T&D Losses) 57,029.17
 E-Waste 0.70
Category 5: Waste generated in operations  
 Paper Waste 3,998.04
 Cab hire 8,771.94
Category 6: Business Travel Air travel 6,930.94
 Rail travel 6.00
Category 3 (Fuel and Energy related activities) and Category 7 (Employee Commute) emissions. Employee commute emerged  
the largest contributor to reported Scope 3 emissions. However, emissions from purchased electricity in other facilities  
marked substantial decline over FY 2023-24, reﬂecting ongoing energy efﬁciency improvements and optimisation efforts.  
Emission Scope Emission Source Emissions (tCO2e)
 Diesel consumption in DG sets 16,659.50
 Company owned vehicles 25,988.69
 HVAC 33,392.89
 Fire Extinguisher 1,958.42
Total Scope 1 Emissions  77,999.50
Total Scope 2 Emissions  
 Purchased Electricity 284,877.91
(market-based)  
 Diesel Car 1,290.85
Category 3: Fuel and Energy relate activities (not in Diesel DG 3,871.34
Scope 1 or 2) Petrol Car 5,256.77
 Non-Renewable Electricity (T&D Losses) 57,029.17
 E-Waste 0.70
Category 5: Waste generated in operations  
 Paper Waste 3,998.04
 Cab hire 8,771.94
Category 6: Business Travel Air travel 6,930.94
 Rail travel 6.00
Category 7: Employee Commute Travel by different modes of transportation 119,512.77
Category 8: Upstream leased assets Purchased electricity in other facilities 23,641.52
Total Scope 3 Emissions  230,310.04
Measures to reduce GHG emissions
We are focused on driving system-level changes within the organisation to reduce the GHG intensity of our operations.
In FY 2020-21, we set an ambitious goal of achieving carbon neutrality for our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by
FY 2031-32. To advance towards this goal, we have established ﬁrm-level guidelines for operational and procurement
practices, incorporating both supply-side and demand-side interventions within a structured carbon neutrality pathway.
In FY 2020-21, we set an ambitious goal of achieving carbon neutrality for our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by  
FY 2031-32. To advance towards this goal, we have established ﬁrm-level guidelines for operational and procurement  
practices, incorporating both supply-side and demand-side interventions within a structured carbon neutrality pathway.  
Our Carbon Neutrality Pathway  
We have set an ambitious goal of FY 2023-24 as the new baseline and strengthened environmental
achieving carbon neutrality for our year in accordance with the governance across all levels of
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by WRI GHG Protocol’s base year the Bank.
FY 2031-32. recalculation guidance. 
  Despite an expanded operational
As our operational footprint While our overall target to scope, we achieved a notable
continues to expand, we recognise achieve operational carbon reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG
the evolving challenges associated neutrality by FY 2031-32 remains emissions in FY 2024–25 compared
with achieving our carbon neutrality unchanged, the recalibration has to the baseline. This was driven
objective. The merger with prompted a strategic review of by climate-conscious initiatives,
erstwhile HDFC Limited resulted our interim milestones, emission increased use of renewable
in a signiﬁcant expansion of our reduction levers, and operational electricity through rooftop solar
organisational and operational interventions. We are adopting a and green power procurement,
boundaries. In response, we more holistic approach to emissions and improved accuracy and
undertook a comprehensive management, ensuring that our completeness of our data
baseline recalibration exercise growing footprint is matched by collection systems.
in FY 2023-24, establishing enhanced decarbonisation efforts 
Actions taken in FY 2024-25   
Demand Side  Supply Side 
Active Automated Energy Installed solar panels in Transition of select
Harmonic Filter Management our ofﬁce building ofﬁces and branches
 System  to 100% Green Power
84  743 kWp 
   
Locations 350 Cumulative solar power 19
 Branches generation capacity Premises covered
   
84.32 MWh  commissioned* 
   
Locations 623.84 MWh (*as of March 31, 2025) 17,616.90 MWh
 Units Saved  Units Saved
61.30 tCO2e  25 
   
Emissions avoided 453.53 tCO2e Ofﬁces with rooftop solar 12,807.48 tCO2e
 Emissions avoided plants installed Emissions avoided
  609.02 tCO2e 
  Emissions avoided 
Increasing renewable power Expand the installation of Auto Control and Monitoring
as a cleaner energy source for Active Harmonic Filters System across select branches
selected ofﬁce premises. across branches to achieve nationwide to automate energy
 unity power factor (UPF) and management and optimise
 improve electrical efﬁciency. electricity usage across
  critical assets.
As a responsible institution, we recognise that our environmental impact extends beyond our direct operations. While
we continue to focus on reducing emissions within our operational boundary, we also acknowledge the need to address
emissions across our broader value chain. In this context, we have prioritised following key initiatives with direct relevance to
value chain GHG emissions reduction:
GHG emission reduction initiatives across value chain
GHG emission reduction initiatives across value chain   
Paper Waste Tree Plantation Procurement Resource
Reduction Program of Recycled Efﬁciency
through  Paper in Initiatives
 − The Bank has  
Digitalisation an extensive Stationary 
   − During FY 2024–25,
 tree plantation  
   the Bank allocated
− Expansion of digital  In FY 2024-25, the 
 programme as part  
   a total of 0.51% of
products, services,  Bank procured a total 
 of Parivartan.  
   the Bank’s overall
and automation  of 537 metric tonnes 
 − Over 80 Lakh trees  capital expenditure
of internal and  of recycled stationery 
 have been planted  to promote
customer-facing  paper, replacing the 
 till date, contributing  resource efﬁciency.
processes to reduce  use of virgin paper. 
 to GHG emissions  
paper consumption.  The recycled paper − The spend was
 reduction and  
  constituted 24% directed towards
In FY 25, 86% 
 −   
 enhancing social and  
  of our total paper initiatives like the
of our customer   
 relationship capital.  
  procurement. installation of
acquisitions   
   resource efﬁciency
were digital.   
   equipment such as
   BEE 5-star rated air
   conditioners, and
   CPCB IV compliant
   diesel generator sets;
   implementation of
   renewable energy
   solutions like
   solar panels and
   installation of sewage
   treatment plants
   (STPs).
Waste Management  
Responsible waste management advancing towards the sustainable clearly deﬁned roles and responsibilities
forms a critical pillar of our broader management of waste generated from across relevant functional departments
environmental stewardship efforts. Our our operations. As part of this effort, to strengthen data governance,
approach focuses on minimising waste we have formalised internal Standard enhance accountability and drive
generation, promoting responsible Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the minimisation of waste generation
disposal practices, and ensuring proper systematic monitoring, reporting, and alongside improvements in
segregation, handling and recycling of management of both waste generated recycling rates.
waste streams. We are progressively and waste avoided. These SOPs have 
waste streams. We are progressively  and waste avoided. These SOPs have  
   Total Waste recovered 
   through recycling, re- Total Waste Diverted to
  Total Collected  
S.No Category of Waste  using or other recovery Disposal
  Quantity (tonnes)  
   operations (tonnes)
   (tonnes) 
1 Plastic waste 105.91 11.77 94.14
2 E-waste 165.39 133.77 31.62
3 Battery waste 34.13 34.13 0.00
4 Other Hazardous waste (DG Oil) 69.06 1.90 67.16
5 Other Non-hazardous waste generated 297.02 48.36 248.66
6 Paper waste (Other Non-hazardous waste) 3,401.59 191.89 3,209.70
 Total 4,073.11 421.82 3,651. 29
 Total 4,073.11 421.82 3,651. 29
Note:    
•  Waste quantities mentioned here include waste generated in our owned facilities where waste segregation and recycling have been implemented,    
 except for e-waste which includes IT e-waste and paper from other locations as well. The waste generated is estimated by collecting data from   
 select locations which is then extrapolated using employee count as the operational proxy.   
 •  E-Waste generated, recycled and disposed, includes IT related e-waste and datacenter e-waste which is centrally managed and recycled through   
authorised vendors.    
 •  Paper waste majorly constitutes paper procured for the Bank’s own use and is shown as sector-speciﬁc paper waste. The quantity of waste   
 generated is assumed to be disposed through other disposal operations.   
•  Paper waste majorly constitutes paper procured for the Bank’s own use and is shown as sector-speciﬁc paper waste. The quantity of waste  
generated is assumed to be disposed through other disposal operations.  
We manage six categories of non- initiatives. Total waste intensity for and compliant processing of waste.
hazardous waste generated from our the reporting year stood at 0.012 Looking ahead, we are actively
operations: e-waste, battery waste, tonnes per INR crore of revenue from expanding our internal waste tracking
paper waste, food waste, plastic operations. E-waste and battery waste program. Through structured
waste, and other non-hazardous management remained key focus consultations and collaboration with
waste. Recognising our responsibility areas during the year. We achieved vendors, we plan to progressively
to minimise environmental impact, signiﬁcant progress in responsible extend waste monitoring — including
we ensure that all dry waste from e-waste recovery, recycling e-waste — across a larger number
our ofﬁces is collected and disposed approximately 133.77 tonnes of of facilities over the coming years.
through authorised vendors, with a e-waste and 34.13 tonnes of batteries Additionally, at certain locations,
strong emphasis on recycling and from our IT assets, all handled waste materials — including those
responsible disposal. exclusively by authorised recyclers. classiﬁed as hazardous are collected
  and disposed of through approved,
In FY 2024-25, we diverted We have established partnerships 
  authorised vendors in accordance with
approximately 421.82 tonnes of waste with authorised recycling vendors 
  applicable environmental regulations.
from disposal through recycling across categories to ensure safe 
 estimated water savings of 27–30%
Water Management 
 compared to industry baselines at
Reﬂecting the nature of our business, 
 our green-certiﬁed locations. Our
water consumption across our 
 total estimated water consumption for
operations is primarily for domestic 
 FY 2024-25 stands at approximately
and drinking purposes. We source 
 520,540.73 kilolitres.
water from municipal supplies or 
third-party vendors at most of our Wastewater generated at our
facilities. Recognising that effective facilities is primarily domestic in
water management requires a robust nature, originating from restrooms
understanding of usage patterns, and kitchens. To ensure responsible
we prioritise the measurement and management of this discharge,
monitoring of water consumption wastewater is discharged directly
across all locations. To strengthen into municipal collection networks
this capability, we have installed or facility-owner treatment systems,
water meters at select larger facilities where it is treated in accordance with
as part of a phased rollout. This applicable local standards.
approach enables us to gather more 
 Beyond our operational boundaries,
accurate consumption data, reﬁne 
 we are also contributing to water
our water management strategy, and 
 conservation and water body
progressively expand monitoring 
 rejuvenation efforts through
coverage across additional sites in 
 community engagement programs.
the coming years. 
 Further details of these initiatives are
Alongside improved measurement provided in the Social - Communities
systems, we are implementing section of this Report.
water-saving technologies and 
 Water Intensity
practices aimed at reducing overall 
 (kl/H Cr Revenue from Operations)
water consumption. All our IGBC 
 FY25
1.50
certiﬁed branches and ofﬁces are 
 FY24
1.57
equipped with sensors and low ﬂow 
ﬁxtures to control water usage. These FY23
2.07
interventions have contributed to 
 FY25     
  FY24     
  FY23
  warming present substantial risks
Climate Risk Transparency  
  to economies, businesses, and
and Reporting  
  communities worldwide.
HDFC Bank acknowledges the  
  In FY 2024–25, HDFC Bank
escalating risks posed by climate  
  proactively aligned its climate-related
change, particularly in a climate-  
  disclosures with evolving ESG
 vulnerable country like India. The Bank 
  regulatory landscape and global
 has been undertaking signiﬁcant steps 
  standards. The Bank reports in
 to integrate climate considerations 
  accordance with the Task Force on
 into its governance, risk management, 
  Climate-related Financial Disclosures
 and strategic operations. Increasing 
  (TCFD) recommendations, to
frequency of extreme weather  
  provide comprehensive insights
events and socio-economic  
  into governance, strategy, risk
 consequences of unmitigated global 
128 HDFC Bank Limited 
  Responsible Business
management, and metrics related internal and external stakeholders, and systems to identify, measure,
to climate risks and opportunities. to drive the ESG agenda including monitor, assess, and manage risks
Recognising the growing concerns managing, mitigating and reporting including climate risks effectively.
of regulators, investors, and clients on climate metrics. The Deputy The Bank has made an effort to
regarding climate risks, particularly Managing Director of the Bank has operationalise climate risk evaluation
for banks and ﬁnancial institutions, direct oversight on the ESG function within its credit assessment process
the Bank has continued to advance and reports to the Board on such through the Board-approved
its approach to identifying, managing, matters. The CSR & ESG Committee Environmental, Social and Governance
and disclosing climate-related risks of the Board reviews the Bank’s (ESG) Risk Management Framework.
and opportunities over the past ﬁve ESG roadmap, climate targets The Bank has adopted this
years. and disclosures. framework with the aim of integrating
  assessment of environmental, social
Governance The Risk Policy and Monitoring 
  and governance risks associated
 Committee (RPMC)—another Board- 
Oversight on climate related matters  
  with borrowers into its internal credit
 level committee formed as per the 
resides with the CSR & ESG  
  risk assessment and management
 guidelines of Reserve Bank of India 
Committee of the Board, which, inter  
  framework.
 on Asset Liability Management/Risk 
alia, is responsible for monitoring  
 Management Systems—oversees the The framework has helped the Bank
of the Bank’s ESG strategy and  
 Bank’s enterprise-wide risk strategy. adopt global ESG / Climate change
associated climate initiatives. The  
 As part of its mandate, it reviews assessment standards / practices for
Committee oversees and monitors the  
 the enterprise-wide risk frameworks its portfolio. As part of the framework,
ESG Policy Framework, Environmental  
 viz. Risk Appetite framework (RAF), ESG and Climate Change Assessment
policy, actionables and initiatives  
 Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment is mandatory in all Credit Appetite
strategised and executed basis  
 Process (ICAAP), and the stress Memorandums (CAMs) where
updates from the management level  
 testing framework for the Bank’s aggregate credit appetite is above a
ESG Apex Council, which coordinates  
 borrowers. The independent Risk certain threshold.  The objective of
actions across the ESG Working  
 Management Group (RMG), headed the framework is to assess corporate
Groups. The CSR & ESG Committee  
 by the Chief Risk Ofﬁcer maintains borrowers in terms of their current
also oversees and monitors the  
 regular communication with RPMC position with regard to ESG & Climate
Bank’s ESG disclosures, highlighting  
 members and is primarily responsible change, their transition plans and their
the Bank’s ESG performance and  
 for executing the risk strategy initiatives on mitigation of risks related
prioritisation of material topics. The  
 approved by the Board. This entails to ESG and Climate change.
Bank has a dedicated ESG Function  
 developing policies, procedures, 
that works in conjunction with several  
 developing policies, procedures, 
that works in conjunction with several  
Framework Purpose in Climate Risk Responsible Committees /
 Governance Bodies
ESG Policy Framework Guides all ESG and climate initiatives CSR & ESG Committee, ESG
 across operations, procurement, Apex Council
 workforce, and governance. 
Environmental, Social & Embeds ESG and climate change Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee,
Governance Risk Management assessment in loans above a ESG Apex Council
(ESGRM) Framework deﬁned threshold. 
Sustainable Financing Enables green/social/sustainability CSR & ESG Committee, ESG
Framework bond issuances; aligned with ICMA Apex Council
 principles; SPO obtained. 
Training and Capacity Building on ESG and Climate Risk  
We are committed to fostering a efforts, a dedicated session was greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions,
comprehensive understanding of held to provide the Board with an instilling a shared understanding
climate change throughout our overview of climate risks, aligned with of climate-related risks and
organisation, ensuring that every the evolving regulatory landscape. opportunities across all levels of
function and employee is equipped This session aimed to enhance the our organisation. Through these
with functional and role-appropriate Board’s understanding of climate- comprehensive training and capacity-
knowledge and skills to address related challenges and opportunities, building efforts, we empower
its challenges. enabling effective oversight of climate our employees to become active
 risk integration into business strategy contributors to our sustainability goals
During the year, the Bank conducted  
 and decision-making. and resilient to the challenges posed
Board Familiarisation Programmes,  
  by climate change.
including presentations and deep- Additionally, as part of our internal 
dive sessions covering key strategic training agenda, we have e-learning 
and risk areas. As part of these modules on climate change and 
 We classify climate-related Natural Catastrophic (NATCAT)
Strategy  
 risks into: scores with varying degree
At HDFC Bank, we are committed  
  of severity.
to proactively managing risks and − Physical Risks: acute risks (e.g., 
  − Transition Risks: Including
leveraging opportunities arising cyclones, ﬂoods) that may cause 
  regulatory changes, shifts in
from the transition to a low-carbon asset damage, interrupt operations, 
  market demand, legal compliance
economy. We endeavor to build our and impair collateral, and chronic 
  failures, technological disruptions,
capability to manage risk from climate risks (e.g., rising sea levels, long- 
  and reputational impacts as
change and deliver our regulatory term temperature shifts) that may 
  the economy moves toward
commitments, thereby demonstrating affect asset life, credit exposure, 
  decarbonisation. The Bank is in the
to our investors that the Bank is and economic stability. For retail 
  process of evaluating appropriate
effectively managing climate-related portfolio, the Bank is exploring 
  methodology and frameworks to
risks and opportunities. framework to assess potential 
  assess climate transition risk for the
 portfolio-at-risk by mapping the 
  wholesale borrowers.
 location of exposures against 
Additionally, we have also identiﬁed some climate-related risks and opportunities that the banking sector may face over the  
short, medium, and long term, as well as their corresponding impacts including:  
Risk Type of risk Description
Current Transition risk Banks are highly regulated in the country and mandates as part of current regulations
regulation  are always integrated into the overall risk planning and assessment process. Current
  regulations are also factored in the credit assessment process, especially through the
  comprehensive ESG and Climate Change assessment framework, under the auspices
  of the ESG-Risk Management Framework, for its wholesale corporate borrowers.
Risk Type of risk Description
Emerging Transition risk Transition risk can impact the Bank's credit portfolio resulting from changes in the
regulation  climate policy, technology, consumer and market sentiment during the transition to a
  low-carbon economy. This is particularly relevant for policy changes that can result in
  loan defaults from certain sectors like coal, thermal and certain infrastructure sectors.
  The Bank’s ESGRM framework addresses climate transition and mitigation plan and
  includes a prohibition list criterion along with ‘Category-A’ tagging of climate risk
  vulnerable sectors namely, thermal & nuclear power generation; crude oil extraction
  & production; mining of ores, fossil fuels; manufacturing of metals, cement, fertilers,
  chemicals, pesticides; and tanneries.
Technology Transition risk While our digital environment and information security standards are the foundation of
  our business today, as ﬁnancial services professionals, we do not anticipate technology
  to have a signiﬁcant impact on climate risk. Our low-carbon digital banking products use
  technology to enable business.
Legal Transition risk For large loans, we verify whether the project complies with all applicable environmental
  rules, and failing to do so could result in the loan becoming a non-performing asset, if the
  project goes into litigation. This, however, is not a claim against the Bank. There are no
  other circumstances in which the Bank can be held liable for a climate-related lawsuit.
Market Transition risk In the context of climate change, markets could play a key role in market repricing or
  shifting the demand and supply for certain products like green loans or bonds, or in
  low-carbon digital products. However, the Bank recognises the relevance of change in
  consumer preferences, and hence, the need to evaluate this risk.
Reputation Transition risk Reputation risk from community/customer perception is a primary risk to our business.
  We thus invest in community and customer involvement through surveys and structured
  engagements to educate and enlighten them on climate risks and mitigation. Further,
  ESG performance measures are increasingly being used by the global investor
  community, especially sovereign wealth funds and pension funds, to assess long-term
  proﬁtable growth. We strive to implement environment-friendly measures throughout our
  operations. We further show our commitment to ESG, particularly climate change, by
  including ESG elements in regulatory reporting such as the annual report. In addition, in
  our annual integrated report, we publish details on our carbon emissions and footprint
  (third-party assured).
Acute Physical risk Acute physical hazards such as cyclones, ﬂoods, and water stress can have a negative
physical  inﬂuence on the credit portfolio by causing bad debts, impairing assets or collaterals due
  to damage to property, infrastructure, and land, and interrupting operations. This is also
  relevant for climate disasters destroying assets (that serve as collaterals). The Bank’s
  Disaster Response and Business Continuity teams conduct business impact analyses
  and have rapid response procedures in place in the event of natural disasters such
  as ﬂoods.
Chronic Physical risk Rise in global temperature more than 1.5 degree Celsius may cause changes in climate
physical  patterns and sea level, impacting the economy and operations of the Bank, thus
  impairing assets or causing early replacement of assets. Given that climate risk is an
  emerging and long-term risk for the Bank, a suitable methodology/pathway, guided by
  regulatory landscape, shall be considered for adoption, to analyse the Bank’s exposures
  under different climate scenarios.
The Bank has also envisaged climate-related opportunities over the short, medium, and long term:  
Opportunity Description Timeframe
Green services Expansion in demand for lower-emissions goods and services is expected Medium
 to continue to scale in the medium to longer term. Notably, the Bank has 
 implemented use of recycled paper for stationery and increased adoption 
 of renewable energy sources such as rooftop solar at 25 locations and 
 green power at 19 locations to meet operational electricity needs. 
Lowering carbon Resource and energy efﬁciency in own business operations that help Short
emissions lower carbon emissions while also potentially strengthening operational 
 efﬁciency is expected to scale up. Several green initiatives have been 
 introduced by the Bank to improve energy efﬁciency of operations. Active 
 Harmonic Filters were installed at 84 locations, saving approximately 
 84.32 MWh of electricity and avoiding 61.30 tCO2e emissions. 
Greening of The diversiﬁcation of the Bank’s ﬁnancial portfolio and growth of green Medium
portfolio portfolio is expected to scale up. In FY 2024-25, the Bank disbursed 
 green and social loans totaling H4,94,140 crore, representing 18.69% of its 
 total ﬁnancing as sustainable ﬁnance. 
 green and social loans totaling H4,94,140 crore, representing 18.69% of its 
 total ﬁnancing as sustainable ﬁnance. 
Building a Climate-Resilient managing climate risk and ﬁnanced industries, with no speciﬁc industry/
Strategy emissions, and ﬁnancing the transition. sector having a high concentration.
By integrating climate risk  − We assess climate risks as part
 Decarbonising Our Operations 
considerations into ﬁnancial planning  of credit diligence, particularly in
 − Minimising our operational carbon 
processes, the Bank is building a  project ﬁnancing above a certain
 footprint is a key focus area for the 
more resilient strategy. This includes  threshold under the aegis of our
 Bank's Climate Change Strategy. 
evaluating the potential impact of  ESG Risk Management Framework.
 − Our comprehensive 'Scope 
climate change on the Bank’s lending  
  − We endeavour to develop more
 1+2' cabon neutrality strategy 
practices, customer base, and  
  robust frameworks to measure
 encompasses various initiatives, 
operational costs. The Bank believes  
  and assess material climate risks
 reﬂecting our commitment to 
that this proactive approach will help  
  related to our lending operations, as
 becoming climate resilient. 
navigate the evolving landscape  
  guided by regulatory landscape and
of climate change while seizing  
 Managing Climate Risks and our apply a climate lens to more of our
opportunities for sustainable growth.  
 Financed Emissions business decisions. Furthermore,
  we are ﬁrming up an internal
We understand that climate change − The Bank's credit exposure is 
  strategy on conducting climate
provides both risks and potential well diversiﬁed across numerous 
opportunities for our business.  
From the perspective of climate risk  
assessment, we plan on assessing the  
impact of physical and transition risks  
as guided by regulatory landscape in  
the near to medium term.  
We have a three-pronged strategy  
to adapt to climate change:  
decarbonising our operations,  
risk assessments and tracking our Sustainable Finance Our approach to Climate
ﬁnanced emissions. The Bank shall  Resilience
 − HDFC Bank's Sustainable Financing 
continue to expand the scope of  
 Framework aligned to International In addition to our three-pronged
overall climate risk assessment,  
 Capital Market Association (ICMA) strategy, we actively engage with
and reﬁne the methodologies basis  
 Green Bond Principles 2021, larger corporate clients, industry
the ﬁnalisation of the disclosure  
 Social Bond Principles 2023, and associations and regulators to
frameworks in India, including the  
 Sustainability Bond Guidelines deepen our understanding of climate-
guidelines and timelines put forth by  
 2021], serves as a basis for HDFC related risks, opportunities and
the RBI.  
 Bank’s future Sustainable Financing policy developments. This enables
− We have a Business Continuity Plan Transactions (SFTs), including green, us to strengthen our strategy while
to address and manage continuity social and sustainability bonds & ensuring a well-rounded approach
of critical business operations originate loans. The Framework to implementation of our climate
ensuring accelerated resumption of deﬁnes the eligibility criteria in ten change strategy.
services after a disaster. distinct ‘green’ categories. The policy 
 is available on the Bank's website. 
Type of risks and impact captured through stress testing and scenario analysis  
At the Bank, stress testing involves the − decarbonise our operations and adaptation by ﬁnancing solutions
use of various techniques to assess − expand our green and sustainable across sectors such as clean energy
the potential vulnerability to extreme banking products transition, renewables, energy
but plausible stressed business − enhance the scope and accuracy efﬁciency, sustainable transportation,
conditions. The changes in the levels of our climate scenario analysis and green buildings, among others.
of Pillar I risks and select Pillar II risks, stress testing, applicable for the 
  We have commenced an assessment
along with the changes in the on and bank’s lending portfolio. 
  of our ﬁnanced emissions and
off-Balance Sheet positions of the − monitor and estimate portfolio 
  carbon-related exposures, with
Bank are assessed under assumed related ﬁnanced emissions. 
  the objective of developing key
‘stress’ scenarios and sensitivity  
 As disclosure requirements and 
  performance indicators (KPIs) and
factors. The suite of stress scenarios  
 regulations continue to evolve, we 
  tracking progress in supporting our
includes topical themes as well as  
 expect to take these into consideration 
  clients’ transition to a low-carbon,
historically observed geopolitical/  
 as we develop our ﬁnancial strategy. 
  climate-resilient economy.
macroeconomic/sectoral and  
other trends. Metrics and targets Measurement of Financed
  Emissions
 We have set an ambitious target 
We intend to integrate our climate  
 to achieve carbon neutrality for Financed emissions refer to the
strategy and the impact of climate-  
 our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
related issues into our ﬁnancial  
 FY 2031-32 and are aligning our associated with the lending and
planning processes, and to that  
 operations to progressive internal investment activities of ﬁnancial
effect, are developing processes and  
 performance benchmarks focused institutions. As per the Greenhouse
tools that will inﬂuence our business  
 on energy efﬁciency and integration Gas (GHG) Protocol, these emissions
activities. We aim to:  
 of renewable energy. In parallel, we fall under Scope 3 (Category 15)
 are strengthening our commitment and represent indirect, downstream
 to enable climate change mitigation emissions that are crucial for
understanding the ﬁnancial sector’s climate considerations into capital footprint and increasing availability
contribution to climate change. allocation decisions. of entity-level GHG data. The Bank’s
The accurate assessment of these  ﬁnanced emissions assessment
 Approach to Calculation 
emissions is essential for integrating  evaluated 170 listed entities across
 As a responsible ﬁnancial institution, 
  34 sectors. This includes hard-to-
 the Bank acknowledges its role in the 
  abate sectors, as deﬁned by the
 environmental impacts associated 
  Reserve Bank of India, such as Metals
 with its lending activities. In line with 
  and Mining, Minerals, Petroleum,
The Bank has adopted the  
 emerging global best practices, 
  Automotive, and Electricity, Gas, and
Partnership for Carbon Accounting  
 we have voluntarily initiated the 
  Steam Supply.
Financials (PCAF) Standard—a  
 measurement of ﬁnanced emissions 
globally recognised methodology  The exposure of such entities to
 across our lending portfolio. Building 
that facilitates consistent and  the tune of INR 1.90 lakh crore was
 on the pilot study conducted in 
transparent disclosure of  assessed, marking an increase of 25
 FY 2023–24, the Bank continues to 
ﬁnanced emissions across  % over the previous year. This portfolio
 reﬁne its methodology for estimating 
various asset classes. PCAF  is linked to an estimated 23.8 million
 ﬁnanced emissions, with a focus on 
  
offers a structured framework enhancing data quality and coverage. tonnes of CO2e emissions.
to assist ﬁnancial institutions in  
 Our approach aligns with the PCAF’s 
  The entities assessed represent a
quantifying and reporting the  
 guidance for business loans, which 
  meaningful share of the portfolio,
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  
 attributes borrower-level Scope 1 and 
  with the majority of the emissions
associated with their lending and  
 2 GHG emissions to the Bank based 
  data sourced from publicly disclosed,
investment portfolios.  
 on its share of ﬁnancial exposure. 
  independently veriﬁed reports,
 Financed emissions from loans and 
While PCAF’s guidance is tailored  enhancing the reliability of the
 credit facilities extended to corporate 
for different asset classes, the  estimates. The resulting average data
 clients are calculated using an 
core approach for corporate loans  quality score of 1.03 underscores the
 attribution factor, which reﬂects the 
involves calculating ﬁnanced  credibility and robustness of the data
 Bank's ﬁnancial stake in a company: 
emissions using an ‘attribution  set used.
factor’. This factor represents  
  The analysis offered critical insights
 Financed Emissions= 
the proportion of a company’s  
  into the variation between actual
  
emissions attributable to the ∑c(Attribution Factor) X 
  reported emissions versus modeled
ﬁnancial institution’s exposure  
 (Borrower’s Emissions) 
  sectoral averages, allowing for a
and is applied to the estimated  
  more reﬁned baseline to support
emissions of the underlying  
 The attribution factor is calculated by future target-setting. While this study
company or sector.  
 dividing the Bank’s total outstanding marks a signiﬁcant step forward,
To ensure transparency and loan amount by the borrower’s the Bank acknowledges certain
reliability, the PCAF methodology Enterprise Value Including Cash limitations, including constrained
assigns data quality scores  PCAF guidance across select asset
 (EVIC)3 
ranging from Score 1 to Score 5.  classes and the limited availability of
 3EVIC = Market Capitalisation + 
Score 1 data is where emission  India-speciﬁc emission coefﬁcients.
 Total Debt 
factors of the underlying entity has  Nonetheless, we remain committed to
been veriﬁed by an independent Study Scope and Key Insights continuously reﬁning our methodology,
third party. Score 2 data entails  broadening the scope of assessment,
 In FY 2024-25, the Bank has 
emissions that are reported by  and strengthening the integration of
 undertaken a comprehensive 
companies but have not been  emissions data into lending decisions
 assessment of ﬁnanced emissions 
externally veriﬁed. Score 3 to  and ESG risk evaluation. Through this
 for its business loan portfolio. The 
5 data is where emissions are  evolving approach, the Bank seeks to
 exercise evaluated a signiﬁcantly 
calculated based on production  enable transition ﬁnance, and support
 expanded set of exposures, reﬂecting 
level activity or sectoral /proxy data.  sectoral decarbonisation.
 the growth in the Bank’s lending 
C U S TO M E R   C E N T R I C I T Y 
 
Customers at Service Quality Initiatives and
 Grievance Redressal
 
the Heart of Customer Focus is one of the ﬁve core values of
 the Bank. Given a highly competitive business
 environment, especially with diverse lines of
 
Everything businesses, we continuously strive to enhance
 customer experience. Delivering exceptional product
 quality and customer service is a prerequisite for
 sustained growth. The Bank strives to achieve this by
 seeking customer feedback, benchmarking with best-
 in-class business entities and implementing customer-
 centric improvements. We have adopted a well-
 deﬁned three-step strategy towards Customer Service
Customer centricity lies at the - Deﬁne, Measure and Improve. Towards improving
 customer experience, the Bank has adopted industry
heart of HDFC Bank’s philosophy. 
 best practices and continuously acts on customer
It drives the Bank to anticipate 
 feedback secured across multiple channels
needs and deliver innovative, 
 HDFC Bank has adopted a multi-pronged approach
personalised ﬁnancial solutions 
 to provide an omnichannel experience to its
that foster trust, enhance 
 customers. On the one hand, it has traditional
satisfaction, and build lasting touchpoints like branches, email care and
 PhoneBanking. On the other hand, it has state-of-
relationships with customers. 
 the-art platforms like NetBanking, MobileBanking,
 WhatsApp Banking, the chatbot Eva and the
 Bank’s exclusive social care handles. The Bank
 also has a Virtual Relationship Management (VRM)
 programme to cater to various ﬁnancial needs in a
 personalised manner.
 One of the key strategies adopted by your Bank is to
 leverage the beneﬁts of Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) and
 Automation in providing better customer service –
 which entails (a) Speed of response (b) Accuracy of
 response (c) Response being In line with regulatory
 prescriptions and (d) In-depth root cause analysis to
 reduce/eliminate recurrence of customer grievances.
 Customer service performance and grievance
 redressal are regularly assessed at various
 levels, including Branch Level Customer Service
 Committees, Virtual Level Customer Service
 Committees, Standing Committee on Customer
 Service and Customer Service Committee of
 the Board. HDFC Bank has implemented robust
 processes to monitor and measure service quality
 levels across touchpoints, including at product
 and process level through the efforts of the Quality
 Initiatives Group.
 The service quality team conducts regular reviews
 across various products, processes and channels,
focusing on improving the customer the Bank before the ﬁnal decision is The primary aim of the Inﬁnite Smiles
experience. A unique Service Quality communicated to the customer. programme is to establish employee
Index (SQI) has been developed  behaviour and practices which lead
 HDFC Bank is on a journey to 
to measure the performance of  to customer- centric actions and
 measure customer loyalty through a 
key customer facing channels  continuous improvements.
 high velocity, closed loop customer 
based on critical customer service  
 feedback system. This customer In March 2020, through our
parameters. This SQI enables  
 experience transformation programme 'Inﬁnite Smiles’ programme we
customer facing channels to identify  
 helps employees to empathise initiated measurement on key
improvement areas, thereby raising  
 better with customers and improve journeys, identiﬁed action areas to
service standards.  
 turnaround times. Branded as improve customer experience and
One of the basic building blocks ‘Inﬁnite Smiles’, the programme helps implemented several key initiatives.
of providing acceptable level of establish behaviours and practices This has led to a steady improvement
customer service is to have an that result in customer-centric actions of our NPS over the years. In FY25, we
effective Internal Grievance Redressal through continuous improvement continued to build on our commitment
Mechanism / Framework. HDFC Bank in products, services, processes to our customers by scaling the
has developed a comprehensive and policies. coverage of the Inﬁnite Smiles
Grievance Redressal Policy, Customer  programme – we introduced ﬁve new
 The Bank remains committed to 
Rights Policy, Customer Protection  channels / digital platforms / products
 placing the customer at the centre 
Policy and a Customer Compensation  ensuring a much wider coverage.
 of its operations. By consistently 
Policy duly approved by the Board  Over 150 actions were identiﬁed and
 improving customer experience, 
which outline a framework for  tracked through regular cadence with
 adopting an omnichannel approach 
resolving customer grievances in an  key stakeholders and rigorous follow-
 and implementing robust service 
effective manner. These policies are  ups. This has been the cornerstone of
 quality and grievance redressal 
accessible to customers through the  Inﬁnite Smiles.
 mechanisms, it aims to build and 
Bank’s website and branch network.  
 nurture lasting relationships. The programme now encompasses
HDFC Bank has created multiple  over 140 episodes. Around 10 crore
channels for customers to provide  customers have been contacted
feedback and register grievances  in Financial Year 2024-25 securing
facilitating a transparent and  around 28 lakh feedback.
accessible system. As a pioneer in  
  Our ‘Inﬁnite Smiles’ program rests on
innovative ﬁnancial solutions and  
  three meticulously designed pillars
digital platforms, the Bank has  
  – ‘Listen’, ‘Learn’ and ‘Act’ which
witnessed an increased utilisation  
  enables us to embed customer-
of its digital channels. Keeping  
  feedback led transformation as a
customer interest in focus, the  
  discipline into our systems, challenge
Bank has formulated a Board  
  what is considered as the standard
approved Protection Policy which  
  and offer a customer experience
limits the liability of customers in  
  that places us amongst the best
case of unauthorised electronic  
  service brands.
banking transactions.  
 Building a Customer - 
  This well-deﬁned system builds on
This Bank is compliant with the RBI  
 Centric Culture using Net 
  the score and requires every level of
Internal Ombudsman Scheme of  
 Promoter System (NPS) - the organisation to be consistently
RBI. At the apex level, as a part of  
  focused on the quality of customer
 ‘Inﬁnite Smiles’ 
the Internal Grievance Redressal  
  and employee relationships.
mechanism, the Bank has appointed We, at the Bank, believe that 
seasoned-retired bankers as Internal delivering an outstanding customer 
Ombudsmen to independently experience is a strong differentiator 
review any customer grievance for a great product and is key to a 
which is partly/wholly rejected by sustained competitive advantage. 
C U S TO M E R   C E N T R I C I T Y  
In order to foster individual learning bringing voice of the customer into Rule: Treat others as you would
and inspire front-line employees to do decision making. want to be treated.
right by customers, we have created  
 4.  Reliable and Trusted Metric Guided by our aspiration to move
an advocacy organisation that ensures  
  from score to systems, we have
 We use Net Promoter Score 
the following:  
  been working to institutionalise the
 (NPS) branded as Smile Score - a 
1. 
Sustained Leadership  process for addressing customer
 simple and easy to understand 
Commitment  issues that transcend beyond
 metric which is reliable and valued. 
  measurement and create a culture
Embraced the goal of creating We have now embedded the 
  of customer-centricity and agility.
more promoters and fewer score and customer feedback 
detractors as a mission to building as an outside-in perspective for 
  We would not only like to
Service First culture. measuring process efﬁciency. 
  anticipate and react to changing
  customer expectations but also
2.  Building Greater Focus on Inﬁnite Smiles programme is 
  like to provide a proposition
Understanding Customer a practical framework to grow 
  to our customers that makes
Needs by enriching the lives of our 
  us more attractive than
 customers and employees. It is the 
Operationalising customer  
  competitive alternatives.
 business equivalent of the Golden 
empathy through detractor  
engagement; front-line employees  
hear positive and constructive  
feedback directly from customers  
enabling them to support actions  
that improve customer experience.  
3. Robust Operational and  
Analytical Infrastructure  
Customer Experience  
Transformation team leads the  
effort and is responsible for  
maintaining rigour. It rallies across  
departments to drive the mission  
of serving the customer and  
Listen Learn Act
Feedback of customers Review and follow up Resolve the issue in the
 to better understand near and long term
28 lakh 70 1.6 lakh+
feedback captured BU NPS Score* huddles conducted;
across key channels,  150+ actions identified
critical episodes and  
Responsible Business
Driving Customer-Centric Initiatives Through Innovation
HDFC Bank’s foundation is built on three pillars: technology, innovation and providing excellent customer experience.
This philosophy has guided the Bank’s marketing journey over nearly three decades in driving key campaigns that
focus on consumer awareness and education offering innovative and tech ﬁrst products and continually enhancing
customer experience.
This philosophy has guided the Bank’s marketing journey over nearly three decades in driving key campaigns that 
focus on consumer awareness and education offering innovative and tech ﬁrst products and continually enhancing 
customer experience. 
Key Highlights For the Financial Year 2024-25 
 platforms such as Zomato, Myntra,
HDFC Bank introduces 
 BookMyShow, MakeMyTrip, Amazon
PIXEL: A new generation of 
 and Flipkart among others. By doing
Digital Credit Cards 
 so, customers can earn attractive
Pixel is the Bank's ﬁrst 
 accelerated cashbacks on their
comprehensive digital credit card 
 spends from these merchants/
range with customisable and fully 
 platforms. Both current and new
app-based offering, built on a start- 
 customers can apply for PIXEL credit
to-ﬁnish DIY platform. It is tailored 
 cards through the PayZapp mobile
for a generation characterised by 
 application of the Bank.
digital ﬂuency, unique preferences 
and distinct ﬁnancial behaviours. The digital nature of the card allows
 the customer to customise various
Furthermore, through PIXEL 
 beneﬁts on the card – colour of the
the Bank gives the power of 
 card, billing date and also the type of
customisation and choice to 
 products / merchants on which they
customers, by enabling them to 
 wish to avail of the special cashback
select their preferred categories 
 offer thus making it a truly digital
and favourite merchants/ 
 card made for the digital natives and
 customisable to their needs.
 customisable to their needs. 
HDFC BANK Xpressway –  access to the Bank’s top mobile
Encouraging employees and  apps, encouraging customers to
customers to go digital even  explore services digitally. In FY2024-
at our physical outlets  25, the platform played a key role in
  driving digital adoption at branches
The Bank launched HDFC  
  through the rollout of Xpressway
Bank Xpressway, a platform  
  with personalised QR codes for
that encompasses all its digital  
  each employee. This enabled
journeys in one place. It aims to  
  staff to offer customers seamless
simplify customer experience while  
  access to their personalised offers
buying new products, onboarding,  
  and simpliﬁed digital journeys for
accessing offers or availing the  
  product onboarding. The initiative
Bank's services digitally.  
  saw strong engagement, with over
The platform delivers a  
  60,000 monthly active employees
personalised experience by tailoring  
  and more than 4 lakh customer
offers and imagery for each  
  logins—resulting in enhanced digital
customer based on pre-approved  
  experience for customers and
eligibility and analytical insights.  
  improved productivity across the
It also prioritises recommended  
  Bank’s frontline teams.
service options and now includes  
C U S TO M E R   C E N T R I C I T Y  
Leveraging Social Media to (IPs) like Behind the Role, Clash maintained an average ﬁrst
create positive sentiment of Cubicles, culture-ﬁrst reels response time of 16 mins (best
 and ampliﬁcation of employee in the banking space) with
1.  Employee Advocacy:  
 connect events like Hunar and positive sentiment 2x higher
The Bank introduced Employer  
 Josh. This has resulted in growth than competition banks. We
Advocacy initiatives under  
 of positive Share Of Voice (SOV) have gained additional 3.45
HDFC Bank #WowPlaceToWork  
 by 20 per cent and engagement lakh engagement via proactive
in social media. The aim is to  
 doubling organically. responses through contextual
drive positive sentiment for  
  engagement with various
the brand through employee 2.  Online Reputation 
  brands and trendspotting
engagement and ampliﬁcation Management (ORM) & 
  moments .
of Employee Connect initiatives Creative Engagement: 
on Social media. Starting  
 With over 12 lakh conversations 
June 2024, the Bank launched  
 handled on ﬁve social media 
various Intellectual Properties  
 platforms, the Bank has 
various Intellectual Properties  
 platforms, the Bank has 
Vigil Aunty – Taking the On WhatsApp she provides real-time modus operandi, with a primary
lead in increasing customer updates on ﬁnancial frauds and has focus on safeguarding the Bank's
awareness on frauds built a community on the platform customers. Utilising robust tools,
 known as the Vigil Army, where the we have swiftly identiﬁed and
Nearly three years after the launch  
 latest fraud awareness updates are removed fake customer care
of the Vigil Aunty campaign, her  
 provided to about 10 lakh people. numbers, social media proﬁles,
inﬂuence within the Indian social  
 This active community not only stays Twitter handles and career pages
media landscape remains strong  
 informed but also participates in falsely associated with HDFC Bank.
with a considerable presence  
 spreading the message and amplifying Impressively, our response time
on platforms like Facebook and  
 the reach of our campaign. for taking down these fraudulent
Instagram. Her fan base has grown  
  accounts and handles has been
signiﬁcantly, reaching 23 lakh  
 Our efforts extend beyond mere 
  between 24-48 hours.
citizens in India.  
 awareness creation. We actively 
 monitor and track online frauds and In the Financial Year 2024-25, Vigil
  Aunty's overall reach has been
  about 23 lakh followers and over
  50 crore views. The stellar work
  by Vigil Aunty was also recognised
  at the global level in the form of
  an award – A Cannes Silver Lion
  for a pathbreaking campaign
  idea in the CSR space. In the
  coming year, Vigil Aunty is all set
  to further strengthen her position
  as a trusted, iconic digital guardian
  delivering culturally rooted,
  multilingual messaging on fraud
  awareness across 33 cities in 10
  regional languages.
PayZapp – Providing PayZapp is a comprehensive payment PayZapp also partnered with
customers with a safe, app that gives customers the "Choice Royal Challengers Bengaluru as
trusted payments partner to Pay" how they want. With the app, their ofﬁcial payment partner to
giving them the choice of users can send money, make bill drive engagement and create
payments payments, recharge, shop, book travel visibility. The brand's success has
 and do much more. They can pay been remarkable, with PayZapp
PayZapp by HDFC Bank is the  
 with PayZapp for in-store or online registrations soaring to over 1.6
Bank's ﬁrst direct-to-customer  
 purchases using Scan QR, Tap to crore. Since its launch, PayZapp's
(D2C) offering, launched through  
 Pay or Swipe to Pay feature or send ranking has improved signiﬁcantly,
a high impact brand campaign  
 money to any app. moving from 42nd to 14th position in
featuring celebrities like Tiger  
  the UPI category. As a testament
Shroff, Prabhu Deva and  
 To strengthen PayZapp's 'Choice of 
  to customer trust and conﬁdence,
Kapil Sharma.  
 Payments' brand positioning and build 
  PayZapp is also amongst the top-
 a higher recall, PayZapp participated 
  rated app, rated 4.8 on the App
 in the IPL 2024 with a high-decibel 
  Store and 4.6 on PlayStore.
 brand campaign on Start Sports and 
 Jio Cinema. 
F U T U R E   R E A DY   D I G I TA L   B A N K
Beyond
Digital:
Towards an
AI-Ready
Future
Technology and Digital –
An Integrated Shift
The Financial Year 2024-25 marked a deﬁning
phase in HDFC Bank’s technology and digital
evolution. As India continues to lead global
conversations on digital ﬁnancial inclusion, the
Bank remains focused on delivering future-
ready, secure and inclusive banking powered by
technology. At the core of this transformation lies a
clear vision: to build digital journeys that are simple,
intuitive and powered by modern platforms—
bringing together customer expectations,
regulatory alignment and enterprise resilience.
This year’s progress reﬂects the successful
execution of the Bank’s ‘Shift Right’ strategy—a
multi-pillar transformation roadmap that places
customer journeys, scalable platforms, intelligent
data usage and embedded security at the heart
of banking. By shifting the centre of gravity from
backend systems to user-centric experience
design, the Bank has moved decisively towards
a platform-led, customer-ﬁrst approach.
HDFC Bank has evolved from using technology
as an enabler to positioning it as a core strategic
driver. It powers every digital interaction, enabling
seamless integration and shaping customer
experiences across channels – be it on mobile
apps, through business correspondents,
via embedded APIs or at the branch. From
modernising lending platforms to scaling merchant
ecosystems and from deploying AI-led customer
support to digitising internal workﬂows, the Bank’s
investments have converged around a single goal:
to deliver banking experiences that are contextual,
convenient and consistent at scale.
Responsible Business
The Shift Right Framework: A Pillar-Based Approach to Transformation
Launched in the Financial Year 2024, the Shift Right framework was conceptualised to reimagine the
Bank’s operating model—by anchoring transformation on five strategic pillars: Journeys, Channels,
Core, Data and Security.
  
P
roduct Centric  
  Customer Centric
In FY 2025, this framework matured  The Bank digitalised both Virtual
from blueprint to execution engine.  Relationship Manager (VRM)-assisted
Each pillar translated into platform-  and unassisted savings account
level changes and customer-facing  journeys, introduced eKYC-based FD
outcomes. Importantly, the Bank  onboarding and launched journeys
focused not just on launching  for minor-to-major transitions, salary
new journeys but also on unifying  family account conversions and
disconnected experiences, improving  standalone card and asset servicing.
time-to-market and enabling  These journeys contributed to 89 per
 The Bank continued to scale its 
embedded ﬁnance models. Shift Right  cent of all new account acquisitions
 Xpress Car Loan (XCL) platform, 
is now ﬁrmly embedded in the Bank’s  being completed digitally, up from 82
 now the largest fully digital car loan 
execution across business lines and  per cent in FY 2024.
 journey in the country. The platform 
product teams.  
 processed over 1.3 lakh car loans 
  Customers were offered Group
 digitally in FY 2025, disbursing nearly 
Reimagining Journeys:  Health and Group Term insurance
 H13,110 crore. This represents 36 per 
Seamless, Digital and Scalable  through digital channels. This reﬂects
 cent by volume and 27 per cent by 
  the Bank’s growing focus on wealth
The Journeys pillar remains the most  
 value of car loan origination. This has 
  protection journeys being integrated
visible part of the Bank’s technology  
 been enabled through a zero-paper, 
  into savings and lending ﬂows.
transformation. The focus in FY 2025  
 zero-touch model, even for new-to- 
was to design journeys that are not  
  In FY 2025, the Bank increased its
 bank customers. 
just digital-ﬁrst but also outcome-  
  digital service journey coverage to
ﬁrst—built around customer needs Digital journeys were also 
  89 per cent of all servicing needs, up
rather than system ﬂows. Across retail, expanded for gold loans, personal 
  from 73 per cent in FY 2024. Some of
SME, rural and corporate segments, loans, consumer durables and 
  the journeys launched include:
several enhanced digital journeys were business loans with features such 
  − Address update (for cards and
delivered - many with STP (Straight as automated underwriting, bank 
  assets)
Through Processing), assisted statement analytics and biometric 
onboarding or embedded servicing. Know Your Customer (KYC). 
− Digital Re-KYC (for standalone asset objective has been to deliver a The Bank’s conversational AI
customers) consistent, secure and simpliﬁed platform, HDFC Bank One
 experience regardless of where or (Customer Experience Hub),
− FD with external funding  
 how customers choose to engage. continued to see strong adoption.
− Service ticket generation through  
  Supporting IVR, WhatsApp, SMS
SmartHub and WhatsApp A major milestone this year was 
  and live agent transitions the platform
 the phased rollout of HDFC Bank’s 
Each journey was designed to support  handled over 3.7 crore customer
 new Net and MobileBanking 
both self-service and assisted modes  engagements monthly.
 platforms designed with a modern 
with real-time updates, automated  
 tech architecture, intuitive UX and The platform achieved a 65 per cent
validation and fallback to alternate  
 enhanced security protocols. year-on-year growth in WhatsApp
channels in edge cases.  
 These platforms aim to improve Banking interactions indicating
The Bank digitalised Working performance, accessibility and that chat banking is an increasingly
Capital loan journeys for Business customer engagement by offering: preferred engagement channel
Banking Group (BBG), Emerging  for customers. Additionally, the
 − Personalised dashboards and 
Enterprises Group (EEG) and Small  introduction of intelligent nudges and
 dynamic menus 
and Agri Business (SAB) segments—  transaction veriﬁcation for cards and
 − Uniﬁed views across deposits, 
introducing features such as:  payments signiﬁcantly enhanced
 loans, cards and investments 
  the user experience. The Bank
− Digital KYC Veriﬁcation  
 − Real-time alerts, contextual nudges also succeeded in reducing email
− Automated Statement Analysis  
 and smart navigation resolution time by 50 per cent.
− Bureau Score Integration  
 The phased deployment approach The platform has become the ﬁrst
This allowed in-principle approvals ensures minimal disruption while line of support for a growing share of
within 30 minutes and fully digital enabling feedback loops from early the Bank’s customer base—providing
onboarding for New-to-Bank entities. users for continuous reﬁnements. proactive, personalised service with
  human fallback only when needed.
As part of its customer service  
redesign, the Bank strengthened  In March 2023, the Bank relaunched
its self-service journeys across  PayZapp 2.0, its new-age mobile
Interactive Voice Response (IVR),  payments and commerce app.
Chat Banking and NetBanking. More  Multiple new features such as Swipe
than 55 per cent of support requests  to Pay were launched. By March 2025,
were resolved digitally with over 30  the platform:
per cent of these journeys being  
  − Reached over 1.6 crore registrations
straight-through resulting in reduced  
 The Bank’s Pixel Credit Card, a 
  − Became ﬁrst app enabled with
turnaround times, lower call volumes  
 digitally native offering built on a 
  RuPay credit cards for UPI
and improved customer satisfaction.  
 microservices architecture, gained 
  payments at Online merchants
Expanding Reach through strong traction during the year. With 
  − Secured 4.5+/5 average app
Digitally Empowered Channels features like customisable rewards, in- 
  store rating
 app controls and contextual nudges, 
The Financial Year 2024-25 saw  
 Pixel was positioned as a next- The Bank’s merchant-facing app,
signiﬁcant progress in the Bank’s  
 generation credit card experience. Its SmartHub Vyapar, continued its
omni-channel strategy, with  
 digital onboarding journey contributed strong growth trajectory. By March
enhancements across NetBanking,  
 to a sharp increase in activation 2025, it had:
MobileBanking, conversational  
 rates supported by focused brand 
interfaces, merchant platforms and  − Onboarded 19.3 lakh merchants
 campaigns across social, app and 
embedded journeys. The overarching  
 ecosystem partners. 
 − Better failure isolation and − Backend upgrades for major
 business continuity platforms including Payments Hub,
  Credit Engine, Pricing Engine and
 The Financial Year 2024-25 saw a 
  Home Loan Origination
 key deployment of this framework 
 in the IMPS Inward module of the Leveraging Data for Smarter
 Payments Hub allowing more efﬁcient Decisioning
 processing and real-time settlement 
  HDFC Bank is developing a
 with minimal latency. This milestone 
  centralised Data Lake House
 sets the foundation for broader 
  platform to manage structured
 modularisation across key banking 
− Disbursed over H850 crore in loans  and unstructured data across the
 systems in the coming phases, viz., 
(on an average monthly basis)  enterprise. This platform will serve as
 a centralised Customer Information 
through embedded journeys  a uniﬁed source of truth, reduce data
 (eCIF)Ecosystem, a digital-ﬁrst 
  duplication, and improve accessibility
To serve digital-ﬁrst merchants, HDFC  
 module for customer onboarding 
  for analytics and decision-making.
Bank also launched the SmartHub  
 (e-Origination) among others. The 
  Built with modern, hybrid architecture,
Payment Gateway—an online  
 Payments Hub module is also being 
  it supports regulatory alignment with
collection platform integrated with over  
 extended to IMPS Outward, NEFT and 
  BCBS 239 and DPDPA, while enabling
150 payment instruments.  
 RTGS transactions. 
  better governance, lineage, and
Modernising the Core for Scale  reference data management. Initial
 As part of its infrastructure 
and Resilience  system onboarding has begun in a
 transformation, the Bank undertook 
  phased manner, laying the foundation
As digital adoption accelerates and a signiﬁcant system upgrade by 
  for scalable, secure, and insight-led
customer interactions increase across migrating its Core Banking System 
  growth across the Bank.
channels, HDFC Bank continued its (CBS) to a next generation engineered 
strategic investment in strengthening platform, aimed at enhancing 
  Digitalised Corporate and
its core technology backbone. The performance, reliability and scalability. 
  Wholesale Banking
aim has not just been to perform at This migration was designed to 
  In FY 2025, the Bank continued to
unparalleled scale but also to build support the Bank’s rapidly growing 
  advance its digital transformation
systems that are robust, adaptive and customer base of about 9.7 crore. 
  agenda within Corporate and
cloud-native—capable of powering  
 With this initiative, HDFC Bank Wholesale Banking by streamlining
real-time and secure transactions.  
 became one of the largest banks trade, payments and treasury
Lighten the Core: Modularising in the country to host its CBS on a operations through modern platforms
Legacy Systems modern, high-performance platform and seamless integrations.
 – positioning itself to meet future 
The Bank’s Lighten the Core initiative  
 growth demands while delivering an 
is a multi-year programme designed  
 enhanced customer experience. 
to gradually decouple complex  
legacy core systems and move  
 Several critical backend systems were 
towards a microservices-led, event-  
 modernised or re-engineered during 
driven architecture.  
 FY 2025: 
This approach enables:  
 − Rollout of Active-Active 
 conﬁgurations across key data 
− Scalability through  
 centres, ensuring continuous 
containerised deployment  
 availability with near-zero recovery 
− Faster change cycles and  
 time objective (RTO) 
development agility  
TradeFlow, is our cloud-native trade This has positioned the Bank Complementing retail inclusions, the
ﬁnance platform designed to centralise as a digitally agile partner to Bank also strengthened its support
processing, improve visibility and India’s enterprises. for SMEs and business customers
enable automation across import  through digitised onboarding and
 Extending Financial Access 
and export services. TradeFlow is  credit journeys.
 Through Digital Inclusion 
integrated with multiple banking  
  Empowering Enterprises and
 HDFC Bank continued to strengthen 
systems and external networks  
  Small Businesses Digitally
 its reach in the semi-urban and 
and supports:  
 rural markets through assisted Digitalisation of enterprise and SME
− Real-time dashboards and MIS  
 digital journeys and decentralised workﬂows remained a strategic
− API-based transaction processing platforms. Business correspondents, priority. In the Financial Year 2024-25,
 local partners and ﬁeld teams were the Bank enabled fully digital sourcing
− STP journeys for outward  
 equipped with simpliﬁed, mobile-ﬁrst journeys for business banking
remittances and import payments  
 tools to serve customers with limited segments across working capital, term
Multiple APIs were deployed between  
 formal documentation and limited loans and trade services.
TradeFlow and the Bank’s core  
 digital literacy. 
  Customers could complete
system, enabling straight-through  
 New onboarding journeys made onboarding with digital KYC,
processing for key trade ﬁnance  
 possible: Biometric Authentication, automated bank statement validation
products and signiﬁcantly reducing  
 Aadhaar Seeding and Assisted and real-time eligibility checks. A
end-to-end turnaround times.  
 Savings Account Opening in remote rules-based decisioning engine
On the Payments side, corporate  
 areas. The use of geotagging, eKYC enabled in-principle approval within 30
platforms were enhanced with  
 and ofﬂine-ready applications enabled minutes supported by a streamlined
improved UI/UX, contextual help  
 ﬁnancial access in regions with documentation process.
dashboards, ERP integrations via  
 limited connectivity. 
  Merchant ecosystems also beneﬁtted
APIs and Host-to-Host modes and  
 Several rural-facing journeys were from platform enhancements including
ﬂexible authorisation workﬂows. The  
 enhanced with real-time decisioning, embedded payment acceptance,
consolidated Corporate Banking  
 biometric veriﬁcation and pre-qualiﬁed marketing tools and integrated service
eXchange (CBX) portal processed  
 offers—helping customers to secure request modules. A gateway platform
over 2.75 crore transactions monthly  
 small-ticket credit without going to launched during the year supported
(on an average basis), with over  
 a branch. These journeys covered multi-instrument online payments
15 per cent of volumes routed via  
 needs across sustainable livelihood, giving businesses a uniﬁed dashboard
APIs, reﬂecting increased adoption  
 agriculture, dairy ﬁnance and small for sales and reconciliation insights.
of self-service digital channels by  
 enterprise working capital. 
enterprise clients.  
  This digital enablement not only
 Lead management tools and reduced onboarding friction but also
These initiatives collectively enabled:  
 performance dashboards were allowed businesses to access capital
(1) 
Improved transaction efﬁciency  
 also deployed across ﬁeld teams, and banking services in a seamless,
 improving visibility, efﬁciency and self-service manner—regardless of
(2)  Reduced manual interventions  
 turnaround times. Over the year, these location or scale.
(3)  Deeper integration into  
 digitally assisted journeys contributed 
client ecosystems  
 to a more balanced customer footprint 
 and reinforced the Bank’s mission to 
 drive inclusive growth. 
Banking as Infrastructure:  
Embedded and API-Driven  
Delivery  
With digital ecosystems maturing and  
customer expectations moving toward  
seamless, contextual experiences,  
HDFC Bank expanded its Banking-  
as-a-Service (BaaS) strategy  
through embedded ﬁnance and  
API integrations.  
Partnerships with leading consumer  
platforms such as PhonePe, Swiggy,  
Tata Neu and others enabled users  
to access savings accounts, loans  
and credit cards directly through their  
preferred apps. These journeys were  
digitally powered by 100 per cent  
straight-through processing and real-  
 Underpinning these journeys is a 24x7x365 Cybersecurity Operations
time onboarding offering frictionless  
 robust orchestration framework Centre (CSOC) evolved with AI-
access to banking services eliminating  
 and a growing library of secure, enabled threat detection, enhanced
the need to visit a branch.  
 reusable APIs. These enable real-time Security Information and Event
 decisioning, partner onboarding and Management (SIEM), User and Entity
In parallel, the Bank continued to  
 seamless integration across front- Behaviour Analytics (UEBA) and
scale its co-branded credit card  
 end systems. Security Orchestration, Automation
portfolio offering curated product  
  and Response (SOAR) tools that
features, rewards and partner-speciﬁc  
 This approach marks a clear evolution 
  enable swift triage and containment.
beneﬁts through integrated programs  
 towards accelerating the BaaS 
with platforms like IRCTC, Swiggy  
 offerings on scale. Through this the The Bank further strengthened its
and Tata Neu. These partnerships  
 Bank’s capabilities are embedded at Zero Trust Architecture, enforcing
strengthened customer experience  
 the point of need enabling it to reach identity-aware access policies across
and expanded access to digitally  
 new customer segments and tap systems, endpoints and APIs—shifting
native users.  
 digital-natives . from perimeter-based defences to a
  posture of continuous validation.
Last mile remittance ﬂows accounted  
 Security and Digital Risk: A 
for over 20 per cent of India’s inbound  
 Balanced Approach To protect customer data and ensure
remittances through over 115 global  
  secure system access, it implemented
 HDFC Bank recognises that trust is 
arrangements. Strategic tie-ups with  
  a range of targeted security tools and
 the foundation of all digital progress. In 
partners such as Lulu Exchange,  
  controls, including:
 FY 2025, investments in security and 
Flywire and PayMyTuition have  
 risk infrastructure focused on control, 
  − PRISMA Cloud Infrastructure
enabled secure, efﬁcient cross-border  
 observability and compliance ensuring 
  Entitlement Management (CIEM)
transfers-especially for purposes such  
 that digital expansion is backed by 
  to enforce least-privilege access in
as education, family support and  
 robust security. 
  cloud environments and manage
medical needs. These have enhanced  
  entitlements effectively
the reach and convenience.  
− Accops secure gateway to  − Data assessment and migration − Data Activity Monitoring (DAM):
enable Multi-Factor Authentication  from HDFC Limited, aligned with Tracks real-time database activity to
(MFA)-based secure access to  the Bank’s information security and ensure sensitive data is accessed
critical internet-facing applications  data protection standards. and used appropriately
− Zscaler Private Access (ZPA) to − Integration of identity and access − Application Control and Patch
support zero-trust based, secure  governance including User Access Management: Ensures endpoints
remote connectivity for employees  Management (UAM), privileged run only trusted applications
and partners  access controls and secure and stay updated against
  VDI rollout known vulnerabilities
− Cloud Web Application Firewall   
(WAF) for enhanced real-time   − Email Security Measures:
  Other key initiatives included: 
threat mitigation across digital   Domain-based authentication
  − Extended Detection and 
banking interfaces   (DMARC) systems help guard
  Response (XDR): Deployed on 
   against spooﬁng and unauthorised
− Cloud Security Posture   
  servers to detect and mitigate 
   communication attempts.
Management (CSPM) and   
  zero-day malware threats in real 
Cloud Workload Protection   − Microsegmentation: Granular
  time. On endpoints, detection is 
Platform (CWPP) for continuous   segmentation limits access across
  active, and prevention features are 
cloud conﬁguration monitoring,   internal systems, minimising
  being implemented. 
workload scanning and   lateral movement in case of
  − File Integrity Monitoring 
automated remediation   breach attempts
  (FIM): Continuously checks for 
− Cloud Access Security Broker   − Web Application Firewall (WAF):
  unauthorised ﬁle or conﬁguration 
(CASB) and DNS security controls   Protects banking applications from
  changes across core systems 
to secure SaaS usage and detect   online threats while maintaining
anomalies in trafﬁc patterns   consistent performance
   and availability
− CI/CD automation with browser   
isolation for secure application   
development and deployment   
− Attack Surface Monitoring   
(ASM) to discover and secure   
externally exposed digital assets in   
real-time   
Together, these initiatives reinforce This structure also facilitated deeper HDFC Bank is evaluating the
HDFC Bank’s commitment to collaboration between product, transformative potential of Generative
preserving customer data integrity technology and business teams, AI (GenAI) to enhance efﬁciencies and
ensuring secure access and helping reduce time-to-market and customer experiences. It is assessing
maintaining robust operational bring a consistent experience layer GenAI capabilities across key
continuity—even as digital complexity across channels. processes while ensuring responsible
continues to evolve.  and secure implementation through
 With the delivery engine in place, 
  a platform-driven approach. While
 HDFC Bank is now poised to tap into 
Building at Scale: Factory-  
  still in the exploratory phase, GenAI
 the potential emerging technologies 
Led Delivery and Execution  is expected to play a meaningful
 that can shape the future of banking. 
  role in shaping future-ready
The digital transformation across all  
  banking experiences.
fronts is being driven by the agile Looking Ahead: The Next 
delivery construct known as the  
 Chapter of AI-Readiness 
Factory Model. Each factory is a  
 As industries globally embrace the 
dedicated capability unit focused on a  
 possibilities of Generative AI, the 
speciﬁc technology layer or customer  
 Bank is preparing for a calibrated and 
segment. These include areas  
 structured adoption. 
such as experience design, mobile  
engineering, cloud, core banking  
transformation, APIs, data engineering  
and cybersecurity.  
Throughout FY 2025, this construct  
enabled parallel development of a  
multitude of high-impact initiatives  
while maintaining architectural  
consistency and alignment with  
business priorities. The Bank’s digital  
delivery model increasingly reﬂects the  
principles of continuous integration,  
scalability and reusable engineering.  
Dedicated teams in Bengaluru,  
Mumbai and Gurugram worked  
across use cases such as the new  
MobileBanking / NetBanking, uniﬁed  
credit platforms, cloud orchestration  
and data lake integration. The model  
has matured to include specialised  
units for next-gen capabilities including  
Generative AI and secure-by-design  
engineering laying the foundation for  
future-facing innovation.  
S O C I A L   -   PE O PL E
S O C I A L   -   PE O PL E 
 Key Highlights for the
 
Growing Financial Year 2024-25
 − Recognising the pivotal role of leadership
Together with in driving organisational transformation,
 
 we signiﬁcantly expanded our leadership
 development initiatives in the Financial Year
 
our People 2024-25 achieving exponential increase in
 coverage year on year, enabling a cultural
 shift towards agility, customer-centric
In today’s dynamic ﬁnancial 
 innovation and people-centric leadership.
landscape, our competitive 
 − There has also been a sustained investment
advantage lies in Strategy, People in building culture capability in over 27,000
 managers across all levels, equipping
and Technology. As we look ahead, 
 them to lead with an inner compass and
strengthening leadership, enabling 
 leadership impact.
continuous capability development 
 − Recognising the transformative opportunities
and fostering a culture of trust and 
 presented by GenAI, we established a
resilience are central to how we comprehensive GenAI Academy featuring
 role-relevant curricula across differentiated
grow. 
 proﬁciency levels.
Our people strategy is anchored in cultivating strong − Our wide range of functional capability
leadership by equipping our workforce with future enhancement initiatives clocked over 70 lakh
ready skills and fostering a culture of care. These learning hours this year.
initiatives are geared towards building a sustainable 
 − We also made strategic investments in
and high-performing institution of the future. 
 physical and digital learning infrastructure to
 elevate learner experience and impact.
The Financial Year 2024-25 marked a pivotal year 
for organisational learning as we accelerated our 
 Our Learning and Development initiatives are
Capability Building efforts. We stepped up strategic 
 aligned with our Talent Management strategy. An
investments in expanding leadership development, 
 institutionalised approach towards talent management
functional expertise and digital learning initiatives. 
 enables the identiﬁcation of high potential employees,
The outcomes reﬂect the effectiveness and alignment 
 establishing a match between individual career
of our talent strategy. 
 aspirations and organisational needs. This robust
 learning and talent framework ensures availability
 of capable talent across all levels in the Bank. We
 maintain a healthy mix of internal and external talent.
 Role elevation opportunities are ﬁrst made available
 to existing talent and employees are encouraged to
 explore the same.
 Learning and Development
 Through Learning and Development (L&D) initiatives,
 we strive to create a robust learning ecosystem
 tailored to individual roles and aligned with
 organisational goals. This encompasses customised
 onboarding, functional capability building, compliance
 and regulatory training, leadership development and
 digital learning. Emphasising the vital connection
 between ongoing learning and sustained success,
 L&D aims to foster a proactive, adaptive learning
  Responsible Business
culture empowering employees  ability to scale operations despite
to excel in their current roles while  increasingly complex market dynamics.
contributing effectively to the Bank’s  We recorded a signiﬁcant increase in
strategic objectives.  participation year on year with total
  learning hours exceeding 1.25 crore,
Building a World-Class and  
  marking an 88 per cent growth over
Scalable Learning Ecosystem  
  the last year.
We continue to invest in creating a  
  Leadership and Professional
world-class and scalable learning  
  Development (LPD)
ecosystem. Our digital learning  
platform ‘MPower’ consisting of a  Our Leadership and Professional
Learning Management System (LMS)  Development (LPD) framework
and AI-driven Learner Experience  nurtures internal talent and builds
Platform (LXP) complements the  leadership capacity to drive
physical infrastructure. Our physical  performance and transformation.
infrastructure was expanded  Programmes are carefully designed to
this year with the addition of two  address role-speciﬁc needs, enhance
 Anantham Residential Training Centre 
residential facilities: Aranyam (Palava,  leadership capabilities and support
Maharashtra) and Anantham (Kolkata)  career growth within the Bank.
 podcasts, simulations, e-books and 
taking the total to 22 training centres.  
 self-paced modules. This multi-modal Notable Initiatives in Financial
This learning ecosystem is vital to our approach ensures learning remains Year 2024-25:
geographically dispersed workforce relevant, accessible and impactful 
  The Alchemist: A new offering for
with diverse learning styles and offers a by providing rich, contextual and 
  senior leaders focusing on leadership
wide array of content formats—videos, personalised learning. 
  excellence, executive presence
  and cross-functional collaboration-
 Capability-Building for Growth 
  promising substantial personal and
 Our enterprise-wide learning initiatives 
  professional growth.
 are closely aligned with business 
  Executive Edge: A curated
 needs, enabling employees to adapt 
  Leadership Resource Pack with
 to a rapidly evolving environment. 
  thought leadership articles, interviews
 With a focus on technical, functional 
  and insights from global experts
 and behavioural upskilling, these 
  anchored around themes relevant to
Aranyam Residential Training Centre programmes have strengthened our 
  the Bank.
S O C I A L   -   PE O PL E
Executive Gravitas for
Women Leaders
In line with our strong Diversity, Equity
and Inclusion (DE&I) agenda and in
addition to the well-established Career
Accelerator Programme (CAP) for mid
level women leaders, we launched
a new leadership programme –
‘Executive Gravitas’ for women
leaders at senior levels to help them
navigate their leadership journey.
Gen AI Academy  
GenAI being the key focus area for into this. The proﬁciency levels are needed ﬂexibility to learn at their own
today and tomorrow, our strategy divided into Beginner, Intermediate pace. The GenAI academy enables
has been to build GenAI skills and Advanced with an aim to equip the employees to be future-ready,
through an academy structure with everyone with essential GenAI skills. agile and empowered to sustain our
a comprehensive curriculum and The curriculum consists of content from organisation’s growth and success.
differentiated proﬁciency levels. experts, certiﬁcations and, practice 
The entire organisation can tap with AI Coach providing the much- 
   Responsible Business
Measuring the Learning Impact  A few examples of ROI evaluations are: − 46 per cent of over 3,000 Sales
   Resources showed improvement
While providing these diverse learning   
 − Improvement in customer 
   in productivity post a structured
and development offerings for building   
  experience ratings of 67 per 
   learning intervention called ‘Score to
our human capital, we regularly   
  cent learners through multiple 
   Soar’, between September 2024 to
assess the impact of these efforts.   
  focused assessments and learning 
   January 2025. The content of these
This is done through a range of ROI   
  interventions conducted for over 
   sessions focused on tracking and
indicators such as improvement in   
  8,800 Relationship Managers 
   enhancing productivity using various
productivity, operational efﬁciency and   
  between September 2024 to 
   tools and methodologies
customer experience amongst others.   
  February 2025 
These help us consistently ensure   
relevance and effectiveness.   
HDFC Bank Care Initiatives   
HDFC Bank’s Care Initiatives   
demonstrate our commitment to   
building a compassionate organisation   
and reaching out to the families of our   
employees. This entails continuing   
the support to retiring employees and   
their families, engaging with children   
through age-appropriate interventions   
and skill development programmes   
to empower the next of kin of the   
deceased employees.   
Average Hours of Training by Category and Gender**   
 Men Women Total
Senior Management 24.93 29.86 25.43
Middle Management 41.88 45.53 42.36
Junior Management 53.23 54.42 53.42
Non-Supervisory Staff 54.60 73.69 60.11
Total 53.67 71.18 58.25
** In the Financial Year 2024-25, 1.25 crore learning hours were clocked, registering an increase of over 88 per cent in per employee hours over the   
Sustaining Growth with a Stable Workforce      
  2024-25   2023-24 
Categorisation      
 Men Women Total Men Women Total
Permanent Employees  Headcount   Headcount 
Employees By Category      
Senior Management 222 25 247 178 21 199
Middle Management 7,959 1,200 9,159 6,940 1,053 7,993
Junior Management 28,666 5,499 34,165 25,902 4,813 30,715
Non Supervisory Staff 1,21,602 49,348 1,70,950 1,24,897 49,723 1,74,620
Total 1,58,449 56,072 2,14,521 1,57,917 55,610 2,13,527
Categorisation      
Permanent 1,58,449 56,072 2,14,521 1,57,917 55,610 2,13,527
Contract 24 7 31 31 7 38
Total 1,58,473 56,079 2,14,552 1,57,948 55,617 2,13,565
By Region      
Abroad 178 90 268 154 83 237
East 18,808 5,004 23,812 17,899 4,823 22,722
West 59,121 20,800 79,921 59,036 20,721 79,757
South 35,956 16,025 51,981 36,617 16,097 52,714
North 44,386 14,153 58,539 44,211 13,886 58,097
Total 1,58,449 56,072 2,14,521 1,57,917 55,610 2,13,527
By Age      
<30 51,950 30,176 82,126 57,462 32,598 90,060
30-50 1,03,042 25,327 1,28,369 97,850 22,557 1,20,407
>50 3,457 569 4,026 2,605 455 3,060
Total 1,58,449 56,072 2,14,521 1,57,917 55,610 2,13,527
By Employee Category      
Senior Management 7 - 7 3.2% - 2.8%
Middle Management 212 39 251 2.7% 3.3% 2.7%
Junior Management 3,126 658 3,784 10.9% 12.0% 11.1%
Non Supervisory Staff 32,588 13,083 45,671 26.8% 26.5% 26.7%
By Region      
Abroad 19 8 27 10.7% 8.9% 10.1%
East 4,423 1,232 5,655 23.5% 24.6% 23.7%
West 12,652 4,690 17,342 21.4% 22.5% 21.7%
South 8,749 4,376 13,125 24.3% 27.3% 25.2%
North 10,090 3,474 13,564 22.7% 24.5% 23.2%
By Age      
<30 20,084 9,874 29,958 38.7% 32.7% 36.5%
30-50 15,792 3,896 19,688 15.3% 15.4% 15.3%
>50 57 10 67 1.6% 1.8% 1.7%
  Responsible Business
Talent Acquisition outreach with colleges in deep the program apart is its emphasis
 geographies, ensuring a more on practical banking knowledge, job
Financial Year 2024-25 was the year  
 inclusive and representative talent readiness and an industry-relevant
of consolidation for Talent Acquisition  
 pipeline. As a result, we sustained learning journey.
(TA) as the Bank accelerated its efforts  
 a gender hiring ratio of 27.7 per 
on building a scalable, inclusive and  
  Prime Minister’s Internship
 cent in the Financial Year 2024-25, 
future-ready hiring engine. Our focus  
  Scheme (PMIS) - An initiative
 demonstrating consistent progress on 
was on optimising TA efﬁciency and  
  launched by Ministry of Corporate
 our diversity commitments. 
cost, embedding intelligent selection  
  Affairs (MCA), Government of
methods through AI and most  
 The Future Banker 2.0 – A curated India aimed at providing internship
importantly investing in a sustainable  
 diploma programme for entry level opportunities to youth. HDFC Bank
talent pipeline. A key strategic priority  
 revenue roles in Branch Banking has been actively partnering with the
was the expansion of job-ready  
 continued its upward trajectory Government on this initiative.
models, designed to align fresh talent  
 witnessing a substantial increase 
  These collective efforts underscore
with business requirements from  
 in participation and conversion 
  our strategic intent to build a resilient,
day one.  
 compared to the previous year. 
  inclusive and future-ready workforce
Our commitment to gender diversity  
 Ace Banker Program - Our ﬂagship which is powered by innovation,
remains deeply embedded in our TA  
 initiative was successfully launched partnerships and a strong foundation
strategy. We ran focused diversity  
 this year and has quickly emerged in capability development.
initiatives including dedicated women  
 as a critical lever for fulﬁlling entry 
hiring drives aimed at strengthening  
 level role requirements. What sets 
New Hires in FY 2024-25  
 2024-25 New Hire Rate 2024-25
Categorisation  
 Men
Women
Total Men
Women
Total
By Employee Category  
Senior Management 7
-
7 3.2%
- 
2.8%
Middle Management 212
39
251 2.7%
3.3%
2.7%
Junior Management 3,126
658
3,784 10.9%
12.0%
11.1%
Non Supervisory Staff 32,588
13,083
45,671 26.8%
26.5%
26.7%
By Region  
Abroad 19
8
27 10.7%
8.9%
10.1%
East 4,423
1,232
5,655 23.5%
24.6%
23.7%
West 12,652
4,690
17,342 21.4%
22.5%
21.7%
South 8,749
4,376
13,125 24.3%
27.3%
25.2%
North 10,090
3,474
13,564 22.7%
24.5%
23.2%
By Age  
<30 20,084
9,874
29,958 38.7%
32.7%
36.5%
30-50 15,792
3,896
19,688 15.3%
15.4%
15.3%
>50 57
10
67 1.6%
1.8%
1.7%
Total 35,933
13,780
49,713 22.7%
24.6%
23.2%
Talent Retention especially among new joiners and the leaders and is being shared with
 women employees. As a result, overall supervisors across levels. Various
Attrition across the BFSI Sector in  
 attrition and that of new joiners and initiatives arising out of the insights
the Financial Year 2024-25 has seen  
 women employees has been lower in drawn from our listening instruments-
a decline and getting back to the  
 the year under review. Culture Pulse (Organisation Sentiment
pre-pandemic levels. Over the last 24  
  Survey) and Vibes (Team Sentiment
months, the Bank has been sharply  
 Attrition is also getting measured as 
  Survey) has also helped address areas
focusing on attrition across all levels  
 part of the performance scorecard of 
  that needed attention.
Attrition in FY 2024-25      
  2024-25   Attrition Rate 2024-25 
Categorisation      
 Men Women Total Men Women Total
By Employee Category      
Senior Management 20 5 25 10.0% 21.7% 11.2%
Middle Management 380 74 454 5.1% 6.6% 5.3%
Junior Management 2,664 582 3,246 9.8% 11.3% 10.0%
Non Supervisory Staff 32,060 12,575 44,635 26.0% 25.4% 25.8%
Total 35,124 13,236 48,360 22.2% 23.7% 22.6%
By Region      
Abroad 7 8 15 4.2% 9.2% 5.9%
East 3,563 1,011 4,574 19.4% 20.6% 19.7%
West 12,406 4,556 16,962 21.0% 21.9% 21.2%
South 9,331 4,453 13,784 25.7% 27.7% 26.3%
North 9,817 3,208 13,025 22.2% 22.9% 22.3%
Total 35,124 13,236 48,360 22.2% 23.7% 22.6%
By Age      
<30 16,353 8,740 25,093 30.4% 28.0% 29.53%
30-50 18,580 4,457 23,037 18.3% 18.4% 18.30%
>50 191 39 230 7.1% 8.4% 7.33%
Total 35,124 13,236 48,360 22.2% 23.7% 22.6%
22.6    1.40 
FY25 22.6   FY25 1.40
FY24  26.9  FY24 1.38
FY23   34.2 FY23 1.30
FY22  25.5  FY22 
− To deepen employee engagement standards of leadership behaviours 
we have sustained the momentum
and feedback, we adopted and curating everyday employee 
of our culture transformation by
an AI powered Listening experiences to reinforce the Culture 
consistently integrating elements of
Platform, enabling us to capture Framework - HDFC Bank Way.
culture in our people practices, setting
employee sentiment and derive 
actionable insights across the 
 The HDFC Bank Way comprises six defined Culture pillars
employee lifecycle. This system 
empowers leadership with data- 
driven decisions to improve 
employee experience, culture and 
organisational performance. 
 Execution
Innovation
Integrity
− We enhanced the learning 
experience for our employees 
through the AI-powered learning 
platform MPower enabling hyper- 
 Collaboration
Inclusion
Humility
personalised learning journeys. 
Collective Bargaining  
  for over 27,000 people managers
Agreements Key Culture Interventions: across India. The second edition
  was built on the success of phase
The Bank has an employee − Evolve 2.0 – A reﬂective 
  one with a sharper focus on bridging
association. As on March 31, 2025, leadership development journey 
  generational gaps, use of Appreciative
0.10 per cent of our permanent for high-potential leaders to 
  Inquiry, Performance Coaching and
employees are members of this explore their inner compass and 
  Collaboration. By fostering self-
association. These employees are leadership impact. 
  awareness and a people-ﬁrst mindset,
covered under the Bipartite Settlement  
 − Project Elevate – A structured 
  Project Evolve equips leaders to
Provisions. The Bank typically  
 initiative aimed at empowering 
  navigate complexity, inspire teams and
implements operational changes in  
 people managers to drive 
  drive sustainable impact. The initiative
accordance with internal or Bipartite  
 performance, engagement and 
  reﬂects our commitment to cultivating
Settlement agreements which do not  
 cultural alignment. 
  leadership that not only achieves
require notice under the Industrial  
 − Sustained Communication 
  results but also nurtures a thriving and
Disputes (ID) Act. However, if the  
 on Nurture-Care Collaborate 
  inclusive workplace culture.
Bank makes any operational changes  
 (NCC) Framework - A 
outside of these settlements, a 21-day  
  Project Elevate: This is a strategic
 storytelling- led movement to 
notice is required under Section 9A of  
  leadership initiative aimed at
 bring our core cultural ethos 
the ID Act.  
  strengthening the capabilities of
 to life through real experiences 
  people managers by anchoring
 and everyday actions. 
Rooted in Culture, Rising  
  leadership in empathy, resilience
Sustaining the Momentum: reinforcing the behaviours, mindsets By spotlighting cultural role models,
Embedding Culture Through and values that shape our organisational encouraging candid dialogue and
Intentional Reinforcement identity. Recognising that culture must aligning actions with aspirations
 be continuously nurtured we have we are not only preserving our
As we progress on our NCC journey to  
 embedded the NCC principles into core but also preparing our people
becoming a future-ready organisation,  
 everyday practices—through leadership to lead with agility, empathy and
we understand that a strong, adaptive  
 alignment, purposeful communication accountability in an ever-evolving
culture is our greatest enabler. In the  
 and integrating it into key people environment. This deliberate cultural
Financial Year 2024-25, we focused on  
 processes such as onboarding, reinforcement is foundational to our
sustaining momentum by intentionally  
 performance reviews and recognition. ability to navigate change and thrive
9 NCC Practices  in the future.
 Performance Create Positive Development and
 Coaching Environment Growth Conversation
Nurture   
 − Plan for Performance − Celebrate individuals/teams/ − Know & Respect
 − Coach/Guide as small wins personal contexts
 you Review − Easy Space for Comfort and − Career focus from
 − Step into the trenches easy fun & humour job focus
  − Safe Space for honest & − Contribute to persoral
  free expression growth & aspirations
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion backgrounds and experiences not By creating a workplace where
(DE&I) only strengthens our decision making every individual is valued, respected
 and fosters innovation but also builds and empowered to contribute, we
An inclusive organisation is a stronger  
 a more resilient and responsive continue to drive sustainable growth
organisation. At HDFC Bank, we  
 organisation. Over the last few years, while upholding the responsibility
remain deeply committed to fostering a  
 the Bank has formalised its DE&I to reﬂect and serve the diverse
culture of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion  
 philosophy and we have been making communities we operate in.
(DE&I) across all levels. We believe  
 conscious efforts in this direction. 
that embracing diverse perspectives,  
The Three Tenets of The Diversity-Equity-Inclusion Charter  
"Build an Inclusive work environment where every individual is Respected and Differences are Valued"  
Merit Character Inclusion
Competence demonstrated, Alignment to the HDFC BANK WAY We will strive to be an equal
performance outcome and capability and adherence to the ethos of the opportunity organisation
will always be the threshold Bank will be the selection criteria for where everyone can excel
requirement for all Talent decisions Career advancement at the Bank and thrive, irrespective of our
  inherent differences
requirement for all Talent decisions Career advancement at the Bank and thrive, irrespective of our
  inherent differences
In the Financial Year 2024-25, the programmes and AI-powered fair Over the last 3 years, about 290
Bank continued to make strong hiring practices contributed to building high-potential women participated
strides in advancing gender diversity a more inclusive talent pipeline. in the ﬂagship Career Accelerator
achieving 26.1 per cent women  Programme, reinforcing the Bank’s
 The Bank has been able to 
representation across the workforce  commitment to nurturing future
 institutionalise the DE&I Framework in 
and improving the women supervisor  women leaders.
 all major people practices including 
ratio from 1:10 to 1:7—demonstrating  
 Talent Acquisition, Talent Management 
focused effort in this space. Purpose-  
 and growth. 
led hiring initiatives, returnship  
S O C I A L   -   PE O PL E    
Diversity Breakdown    
Representation of    Representation
women in junior    of women in top
 16.1%  10.1% 
management positions,    management positions,
i.e. ﬁrst level of    i.e. maximum two levels
management (as % of    away from the CEO or
total junior management    comparable positions
  Female  
positions)    (as % of total top
  representation  
    management positions)
  in Employee  
  Headcount, Junior  
Representation    
    Representation of
  Management, Top  
of women in all    
 15.4%  14.0% women in management
  Management,  
management positions,    
    positions in revenue-
  Revenue generating  
including junior, middle    
  roles and  generating functions
and top management    
  STEM-related  (e.g. sales) as % of all
(as % of total    
  positions  such managers (i.e.
management positions)    
    excluding support
    functions such as HR, IT,
    Legal, etc.)
Representation    
of women in total    
 26.1%  26.0% Representation of
workforce (as % of total    
    women in STEM-related
workforce)    
    positions (as % of total
    STEM positions)
Inclusion Month  
 was “Allyship: Better Together”. Over This ﬂame travelled to 13 major
Each year, June is celebrated as 58,000 employees participated locations across the country
Inclusion Month by the Bank. The through various events across the symbolising our collective
objective is to take stock of the country. The highlight of the event commitment to building an
progress we are making in our DE&I was the Flame of Equity being ﬂagged inclusive organisation.
journey and to recommit ourselves off by our Deputy Managing Director- 
to this cause. The theme for 2024 Mr. Kaizad Bharucha in Mumbai. 
Leadership Conclave and  
Paying It Forward  
The inaugural Leadership Conclave,  
themed “Rooted & Rising – Deep  
connections, limitless growth,” brought  
together senior women leaders  
to reﬂect on their journeys, share  
insights and chart the path forward  
for the Bank. The conclave fostered  
meaningful dialogue around self-  
agency, global and local DE&I trends  
and the importance of community and  
mentorship—laying the groundwork  
for an ecosystem where leaders are  
encouraged to pay it forward.  
Employee Wellness- Building a Resilient and Healthy Workforce  
In our pursuit of creating a workplace that truly values all our employees, the Bank places a profound emphasis on holistic  
well-being by focusing on four interconnected pillars - Physical, Emotional, Social and Financial Wellness.  
Physical Well-being Emotional Well-being − Supportive Work Culture:
  Encouraging collaboration, open
HDFC Bank is committed to HDFC Bank is dedicated to fostering 
  communication, and inclusivity.
promoting employee's physical health a supportive and emotionally healthy 
through structured wellness programs work environment. To help employees Inclusive Work Culture: Encourage 
 −
and initiatives. manage stress and enhance their inclusion, respect and diversity in
 emotional well-being the workplace.
− Health Programs: Regular medical  
  − Peer Support Networks:
check- ups, health screening, and − Employee Assistance Program 
  Networks that provide guidance
preventive care services. (EAP): Conﬁdential counselling and 
  and encouragement.
 support services for personal and 
− Fitness Initiatives: A few on-site  
 work-related challenges. − Community Involvement:
or partnered gym facilities, ﬁtness  
  Volunteering opportunities and
challenges and wellness activities. − Stress Management Programmes: 
  CSR initiatives
 Programs and sessions on 
− Nutrition and Healthy Living:  
 mindfulness, resilience and − Recognition and Appreciation:
Awareness programs on healthy  
 coping strategies. Programs that celebrate employee
eating and lifestyle habits. Access  
 − Work-Life balance Initiatives: Flexible contributions and achievements.
to dietary guidance and healthy  
 work arrangements. 
eating plans.  
  Financial Well-being
− Workplace Ergonomics: Safe and Social Well-being 
  HDFC Bank offers programs that
comfortable workspaces to prevent  
 HDFC Bank promotes a positive and promote ﬁnancial literacy.
physical strain.  
 inclusive workplace by fostering strong 
  − Financial Education Programmes:
− Preventive Health Measures: social connections among employees. 
  Financial sessions on budgeting,
First aid support and access to The Bank supports social well- 
  saving and ﬁnancial planning.
healthcare resources. being through 
− Discouraging Unhealthy Habits:  
 − Employee Engagement Activities: 
Through ongoing communication,  
 Team building events, gatherings, 
we actively discourage unhealthy  
 sports and recreational activities. 
habits like tobacco use and promote  
a culture of well-being.  
Support for Deceased Employees' Families
The Bank extends support to the kin of deceased employees by proactively reaching out and offering wellness resources and
assistance to help them navigate through difﬁcult times. HDFC Bank helps families avail beneﬁts, assist with documentation
and extend support as required. By addressing both emotional and practical needs, we strive to ease the burden on the
families of our departed colleagues while reinforcing our commitment to employee well-being.
Speciﬁc Wellness Programs and Initiatives in the Financial Year 2024-25
Awards and Recognition Healthy Workplace Award 2024
 (Gold Level)
As a testament to our efforts in 
driving impactful and innovative Healthy Workplace Award 2024 (Gold Level) by
learning and development Arogya World India Trust in partnership with the
practices, the Bank has won the Public Health Foundation of India.
prestigious Golden Peacock 
 Responsible Business 
GRACE Campaign ET Award 
HDFC Bank's HR team's GRACE campaign, HDFC Bank recognised as one of the 
has been honoured at the Digies Awards 2025 Best Organisation to Work 2025 
in the Best Internal Communications Campaign  
category. We have secured the Silver Awards.  
The Bank Won Allyship Award as part of the 1000 Women Leaders Program by Jombay  
 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25 163
Employee Connect popular especially among the younger Josh Unlimited
 workforce. Over the last few years, 
Initiatives  The Bank’s multi-sports and multi-
 we have been inviting family members 
  discipline event was conducted in
Employee Connect, our dedicated  
 also emphasising the importance of 
  several cities across India sparking
platform for employee engagement  
 inclusive engagement. 
  excitement and a high level of
and well-being, organises a diverse  
  engagement from our employees.
range of initiatives throughout the year Over one lakh employees 
  Family carnivals were also arranged
offering employees opportunities to actively participated in over 20 
  with various fun-ﬁlled activities.
connect beyond work. These initiatives different initiatives conducted 
span across areas such as sports, throughout the year indicating the 
arts, music, wellness and interests like widespread enthusiasm for these 
photography, cooking, story writing engagement activities. 
amongst others. These are quite  
HUNAR 
The Bank’s talent hunt initiative 
provides a platform for employees 
and their families to showcase 
their talent in various performing 
art forms. Employees across 
India enthusiastically participate in 
this activity. 
Both the above events, Josh and 
Hunar are conducted across the 
country with the participations of 
various regional teams. The above 
events concluded with a Grand Finale 
at Mumbai. 
Funtakshari Corporate Photography Contest
An activity centred around popular Bank employees participated in an annual inter-corporate photography contest
Bollywood songs was a huge success conducted by Sony India. The best photographs were featured on the Channel’s
with employees and their families online platforms. The Bank secured 1st place for the ‘Highest Upload Award’
enjoying the fun competition through 
audio-visual quiz rounds. The initiative 
garnered widespread popularity 
and appreciation. 
Digital Voice Hunt 
The annual singing competition was 
organised for the children, spouses 
and parents of the employees. This 
received positive feedback. 
Syahi 
The Bank’s annual online story and 
poem writing contest for employees 
to showcase their creativity through 
captivating ﬁctional and non-ﬁctional 
content. Winning stories and poems 
are published in an e-book format on 
the Bank’s internal platform. 
Summer Camp 
The annual summer camp for children 
of the Bank’s employees featuring 
activities like science experiments, 
ﬁre-free cooking, talent showcase 
and behavioural learning received 
positive feedback from participants 
and parents. 
AnalytIQ Xpressions
AnalytIQ is an online annual Xpressions is the Banks annual
brainteaser contest. Employees art contest. This included canvas
were invited to play Chess, Sudoku painting and sketching competition for
and Scrabble following a round- employees, spouses and children. The
robin format with multiple levels of event witnessed a display of creative
shortlisting. This competitive event artwork by our employees and their
evoked excitement among employees talented family members. These were
leading to a high level of engagement showcased as wallpapers on the
and participation. Bank's laptops and desktops leading
 to Bank wide visibility and recognition.
Take-a-Break Wanderers
This weekly initiative encourages This is an outdoor event providing
short fun breaks for employees at the employees with a chance to
workplace. It included brainteasers participate in a one-day monsoon trek,
on general knowledge, famous adventure sports like river rafting and
personalities, logical reasoning, visual an invigorating breakfast cycle ride.
puzzles amongst other. The initiative The participants explored enchanting
garnered signiﬁcant interest and nature trails and rediscovered the joy
participation from employees offering of the outdoors.
a refreshing stress buster. 
Festival Celebrations
Various festival celebrations across
the country were organised along
with engagement activities such as
captivating magic shows, unique DIY
art and craft sessions amongst others.
The activities witnessed enthusiastic
participation from various ofﬁces
nationwide giving employees and
their families an opportunity to come
together and celebrate.
At HDFC Bank, we believe 10 years of Parivartan Key Milestones
resilient and inclusive Our CSR programme, Parivartan, 
 embodies this commitment by 2013
economies are built  
 advancing sustainable, community- − HDFC Bank set a Guinness World
on the foundation of  
 led development. Through focused Record for the largest single-day
thriving communities.  
 interventions, Parivartan enables blood donation drive, collecting over
Our Corporate Social underserved communities to 61,000 units across 709 locations
 overcome systemic barriers in India.
Responsibility (CSR)  
 and participate actively in the 
efforts reﬂect this belief  
  
 nation’s progress. By addressing 2014
through diverse initiatives  
 the root causes of poverty and − HDFC Bank introduced ‘Parivartan’
aimed at creating marginalisation, we aim to build as its umbrella CSR brand, focusing
 self-reliant, resilient communities and on rural development, education,
measurable impact. By  
 foster long-term social and economic healthcare, ﬁnancial literacy, and
empowering individuals,  
 transformation. This commitment environmental sustainability.
strengthening institutions,  
 extends to reaching disadvantaged 
  − The bank published its inaugural
and promoting equitable areas including border villages, 
  Sustainability Report, outlining
 remote tribal belts, and geographies 
development, we strive to  its commitment to responsible
 with limited access and shaping 
  banking practices.
drive meaningful change  
 interventions that are aligned with 
across geographies.  
  
 the distinct socio-economic realities 2015
 of each region, thereby deepening 
  − H
 − HDFC Bank incorporated
 impact where it is needed most. 
  ‘S
‘Sustainability’ as its ﬁfth core
  va
value, alongside Customer Focus,
  Operational Excellence, Product 
O L
  Leadership, and People.
  − H
 − HDFC Bank’s scholarship
  programme to support students 
p f
  from economically weaker sections,
  ensuring continuity in education was 
r e b
  brought under the CSR umbrella.
  − T
 − The bank contributed to the Swachh
  Bharat Abhiyan by constructing 
B s
  a
sanitation facilities in schools
  a
and communities.
HDFC Bank Limited
HDFC Bank Limited
HDDFFC BC BC BC BC BC 
HDHDHDHDF
ananankkkk LLiLiLiLiLiiL mmitmitmitmitiiitttmmitmmittmmitmitmititmmitm tm tmittmmmmmm teeeddedddddddedededdddddeeeeededddddddeeddeeddddeedeedddeeeeedddddee
ank
ank
a
ank
2016 2018 2023 
− Launched the ‘Dhanchayat’ initiative, − Honored by the Ministry of  
   − Launched the Small Grants Program
a ﬁnancial literacy program on Corporate Affairs at the ﬁrst National  
   to support grassroots NGOs.
wheels, educating rural communities CSR Awards for contributions  
  − Introduced the Parivartan
about banking and ﬁnancial to National Priority schemes in  
   Excellence Awards to recognise
services through mobile vans and Agriculture and Rural Development.  
   outstanding contributions by its
interactive sessions.   
   partners and stakeholders in
Initiated the Zero Investment 
 − 2020  
   CSR initiatives.
 − On its 25th anniversary, HDFC Bank  
Innovations for Education Initiatives   
   − CSR Team transitioned from a
 set a goal to establish 2500 SMART  
(ZIIEI) program to encourage   
   centralised to a regional structure,
 classrooms across India and plant  
grassroots-level innovations   
   empowering state-level teams
 25 million trees.  
by teachers in government   
   to plan and implement context-
schools, aiming to improve the − Forayed into public health by  
   speciﬁc CSR strategies for better
quality of education without supporting communities during  
   grassroot impact.
additional investments. the COVID-19 pandemic, providing  
 healthcare facilities, promoting  
   
− Started providing grants to  2024 
 hygiene practices and established  
incubators and accelerators   
  − Introduced a new pillar focusing
 around 20 oxygen plants.  
to support social impact start-   
   on natural resource management,
ups, fostering innovation and   
   emphasising sustainable practices
entrepreneurship through Parivartan 2022  
   in water conservation, afforestation,
 − Launched a national awareness  
Start-up Grants Program.   
   and biodiversity.
 campaign for cyber fraud to  
   
2017 promote safe digital banking  
 practices among the public titled  
− Launched the ﬁrst Holistic Rural   
 Vigil Aunty.  
Development Programme (HRDP)   
project in Meghalaya, focusing   
on integrated rural development   
through infrastructure, livelihood,   
and community development.   
Under Parivartan, we have the − Skill Development &
following focus areas under which Livelihood Enhancement
we carry out diverse interventions: 
 − Education
− Rural Development − Financial Literacy & Inclusion
− Healthcare & Hygiene 
− Natural Resource Management 
Aligned with our identiﬁed focus areas, initiative, detailed proposals are These assessments were based
we have established seven goals and prepared, outlining implementation on the Organisation for Economic
thirteen sub-goals to be achieved modalities, monitoring frameworks, Co-operation and Development's
by FY 2025-26 with the intention of and budget requirements. Projects Development Assistance Committee's
directing our community development are executed directly by the Bank or criteria, which evaluate relevance,
activities. The Bank conducts CSR through empanelled implementation coherence, effectiveness, efﬁciency,
activities across India through partners, following a rigorous due impact, and sustainability—widely
various initiatives. diligence process to evaluate their recognised as a gold standard for
 technical capabilities and the feasibility programme evaluation. Frameworks
Every initiative is shaped through  
 of proposed interventions. such as the Standard Outcome
a participatory and consultative  
  Impact Framework were also used to
approach, ensuring relevance to Partner proposals include information 
  trace changes since project inception
local contexts. We collaborate with on objectives, target communities, 
  and attribute causality.
experienced implementation partners monitoring plans, impact indicators, 
and involve our employees to uplift and budgets. These are evaluated for In FY25, 78 projects underwent
lives meaningfully. alignment with community needs, the impact assessment. Based on the
 Bank’s CSR vision, and their potential ﬁndings, recommendations were
Our Board-level CSR & ESG  
 for impact, sustainability, scalability, made to enhance their effectiveness,
Committee formulates and  
 and resource efﬁciency. accessibility, and capacity to scale
recommends the annual action plan in  
  and sustain long-term outcomes.
line with the Bank’s CSR Policy. This Project progress is tracked through 
policy serves as a guiding document, regular site visits, stakeholder In the following sections, we have
outlining the approach and direction engagement, interactions with showcased the results from select
set by the Board, based on the government ofﬁcials, review of evaluations of our projects under each
Committee’s recommendations. progress and ﬁnancial reports, and the of the focus areas. A comprehensive
It deﬁnes the principles for selecting, use of digital platforms for real-time repository of the impact assessments
implementing, and monitoring CSR monitoring. Internal evaluations are conducted during FY 2025 can be
activities, and for preparing the annual carried out across all projects, while found here.
action plan. select large-scale initiatives undergo https://v.hdfcbank.com/csr/our-
 independent external assessments commitment.html
A dedicated CSR department is  
 in accordance with applicable 
responsible for administering and  
 CSR Rules. 
executing the policy. Both the CSR  
Committee and the department Our CSR programme is also subject 
  
function under the Board’s oversight to annual internal audits to assess J1,068.03 Crore
to ensure alignment with the policy the adequacy of internal controls and 
  Total CSR Spend in
and applicable regulations. The Board ensure compliance with regulatory 
  FY 2024-25
monitors the effective implementation requirements. A robust reporting 
of CSR initiatives, while the CSR framework supports transparency and 
Committee ensures a transparent accountability through disclosures in 
monitoring mechanism and provides the Annual CSR Report, the Directors’ 
regular updates to the Board, Report within the Integrated Annual 
including impact assessment reports. Report, and mandatory ﬁlings on the 
  
Our CSR strategy provides a Ministry of Corporate Affairs website— 10.56 Crore
 all in accordance with the format 
comprehensive framework for  
  Lives Impacted as
 prescribed under CSR Rules. 
planning, executing, and evaluating  
  of March 2025
community development efforts. The This year, we conducted impact 
CSR & ESG Committee approves assessments for projects with 
programmes and focus areas aligned budgets of H1 crore or more. 
to this strategy. For each approved  
HDFC Bank Limited
170  
Parivartan supports Parivartan reduces rural Parivartan promotes Health camps, medical
ecosystems through poverty by improving food security by training equipment, and
reforestation and livelihoods through farmers in sustainable infrastructure support
sustainable land use. enhanced agricultural practices and improving disease prevention in
It plays a key role by productivity, market irrigation infrastructure. vulnerable areas. HDFC
conserving biodiversity access, and community Initiatives like seed banks, Bank also holds the
 enterprises. Financial  
and maintaining  kitchen gardens, and fair Guinness World Record for
 literacy programs help  
ecological balance.  value chains help small the largest blood donation
 underserved communities  
Trees Planted: ~ 80 lakh  producers increase yields drive. Blood donated: 27
 access services, save, and  
  and income. Kitchen lakh + units of blood
 invest in income-generating  
  Gardens Developed: 
 activities. Villages  
  65,119+ 
 covered under Holistic  
 Rural Development  
 Program: 6,000+  
   Created: 2,185
Parivartan promotes skill Parivartan supports Water structures like tanks, Parivartan empowers
development and technical installation of solar lights, wells, and hand pumps women through support
education, especially for biomass stoves, and biogas improve hygiene and reduce for women-led businesses,
women and youth. Support plants to bring clean, child mortality. Sanitation access to credit, and
for small enterprises like reliable energy to remote units across India have revival of Self-Help
dairy and poultry farming communities, supporting helped eliminate open Groups, enabling better
drives inclusive regional schools, healthcare, and defecation and ensure livelihood opportunities
growth. Youth Trained: businesses. Solar Lights dignity, especially for and promoting equality.
1,05,458 Installed: 61,000+ women. Household Toilets Women Enterprises
  Constructed: 24,390+ Promoted: 10,725
growth. Youth Trained: 
businesses. Solar Lights dignity, especially for 
and promoting equality.
1,05,458
Installed: 61,000+ Women Enterprises 
women. Household Toilets
 Constructed: 24,390+
Promoted: 10,725
Parivartan, through its six strategic pillars, With programs across 28 States and 8 Union
contributes to 10 of the 17 UN Sustainable Territories, Parivartan drives scalable impact
Development Goals by addressing poverty, while aligning with India’s 2030 agenda
inequality, education, healthcare, and through integrated social, economic, and
environmental sustainability. environmental initiatives.
S O C I A L   –   C O M M U N I T Y
Employee Engagement FY 2024-25
Under the ongoing Parivartan initiative, the Bank continued to foster a culture of employee engagement and community
involvement throughout FY25. New activities included online sessions on ﬁnancial literacy, corporate culture, and
management & sustainable living sessions to promote education and sustainability. In-ofﬁce events like mock interview
sessions for marginal youth, sale exhibitions for SHG products, International Day on Persons with Disability were organised in
collaboration with existing NGO Partners.
collaboration with existing NGO Partners. 
Engaging Our Impact Makers Parivartan Volunteering Month
At HDFC Bank, we believe progress is reﬂected Now in its second year, Parivartan Volunteering
not just in ﬁnancial results, but in the communities Month continued to drive inclusive community
we uplift. In FY 2025, employee volunteering engagement. Employees across India participated in
strengthened our culture of empathy and structured initiatives, including educational sessions,
responsibility. Employees contributed time and effort digital literacy, ﬁnancial awareness camps, donation
to initiatives promoting inclusion, well-being, and drives and clean-up activities.
community development. 
12,000+ 1,843+ Hours
Participation in volunteering activities Contributed towards volunteering efforts
5,000+ 2,144+ Employees
Volunteer hours Engaged in meaningful
 community service
Other Volunteering Initiatives:  
600+ employees participated 20+ employees participated, 300+ employees donated
in various awareness sessions volunteering 80+ hours in gifts and placed them under
related to environment, climate supporting an annual sports Christmas Trees installed in
change and waste management. event for hearing and speech corporate ofﬁces under the "Joy of
 impaired students. Giving" programme.
3000+ employees engaged  
during Diwali Exhibitions across 25+ employees participated, of 160+ employees attended the
multiple ofﬁce locations. which 5 senior employees as jury online session on “Hour for Earth”
 panels evaluated 13 young aspiring creating awareness on climate
300 seed balls including  
 entrepreneurs who presented their change and took pledge on
neem and chikoo were planted  
 pitches under enterprise support. conserving energy.
by employees.  
 40+ employees contributed Over 50 Senior Executives
22+ employees along with  
 in imparting Financial Literacy volunteered to evaluate startups
100+ students from govt  
 to 1300+ community members supported under the Parivartan
schools participated in Science  
 through 8 Camps in 5 states. Startup Grants.
Day celebration with a visit to  
Spacelabs in Himachal Pradesh. J10+ lakhs were raised in 
They were given hands on the SHGs /NGO product sale 
experience towards space exhibition, supporting various 
mission, ISRO advancement causes on Women’s Day. Total 
& demonstration of robots, 9,100+ employees engaged 
rockets and observed sunspots across Pan India locations. 
with telescope.  
  Development Programme. They
  established 11 High Raised Platforms
  (HRPs) and six animal rescue shelters
  in Telahi, elevated to seven feet to
  withstand ﬂoodwaters.
  The HRPs are equipped with gender-
  separate toilets and plantations to
  prevent soil erosion. Each village
  formed a Village Development
  Committee (VDC), and a trained
  taskforce equipped with microphones
  for early warnings, ensuring
  residents have time to evacuate and
  seek shelter.
  Beyond their role during ﬂoods,
  HRPs function as ofﬁces for the
  VDCs and as Farmers’ Resource
  Centres, providing valuable support
  and resources to the local agricultural
  community. This dual functionality
 Flood Resilience in Assam ensures that the HRPs remain a vital
Rural Development  
  part of the community infrastructure,
 Every year, Assam faces severe 
HDFC Parivartan’s Holistic Rural  
  even outside of the ﬂood season.
 ﬂash ﬂoods, particularly affecting 
Development Programme (HRDP)  
 communities near the Subansiri, 
addresses rural challenges through  
 Ranganadi, and Hingora rivers. In 
an integrated approach spanning rural  
 response, HDFC Bank Parivartan, 1,200
development, education, healthcare  
 in collaboration with the Indo Global 
& hygiene, skill development,  Families impacted,
 Social Service Society, launched 
ﬁnancial inclusion, and environmental  
  providing safe shelters
 an initiative under the Holistic Rural 
sustainability. Implemented over  
  and essential resources
36–48 months in clusters of 15–20  
villages, HRDP fosters systemic  
change by tackling interlinked  
issues simultaneously.  
Rather than isolated efforts, this  
comprehensive model builds resilient  
rural ecosystems where progress in  
one area reinforces gains in others—  
boosting productivity, enhancing  
livelihoods, and promoting sustainable  
resource use. Collaboration with local  
communities, NGOs, and government  
bodies ensures long-term impact and  
ownership at the grassroots level.  
Promoting Rural Tourism in the Northeast  
Assam  
HDFC Bank Parivartan, in system encourages responsible 
  
collaboration with FXB India tourism practices. By blending 200
Suraksha, is driving a transformative sustainable infrastructure with active 
  Families benefited
initiative in the districts of Udalguri, community engagement, the initiative 
  from new employment
Darrang, and Kamrup in Assam to fosters local resilience and long-term 
promote sustainable tourism and environmental stewardship. opportunities
climate action. By integrating eco-  
 To further enhance tourist experience, 
tourism, clean energy, and local  
 investments have been made 
craftsmanship, the project aims to  
 towards infrastructure development 8 eco-homestays
rejuvenate rural economies while  
  
preserving the region’s natural and at Bhairabkunda Eco-tourism Picnic developed
 Spot, including: 
cultural heritage.  And projected to
 − Public Toilets 
  generate H4,00,000
At the heart of this initiative are  
 − A Waste-to-Wonder Learning Center 
eco-friendly homestays constructed  annually with ~H2,68,000
 & Theme Park 
using bamboo and recycled  
  profit each
materials, offering sustainable − A Cultural Heritage Center 
lodging options for visitors.  
 − A Rural Huts Market: Supporting 
Clean energy technologies—  
 the local economy and engaging 
  
such as solar power systems women entrepreneurs 60 Solar-powered
and rainwater harvesting—help  
  streetlights
reduce the environmental footprint  
 Additional facilities like trekking 
  Installed, improving
of participating communities. A  
 trails, camping sites, and cycling 
cycling centre with bike rental  public safety
 centers further promote eco-friendly 
services promotes low-carbon  
 tourism while creating new economic 
travel, while a waste segregation  
 opportunities for the region. 
Meghalaya  
In Umsaiprah village, located near − Riverside resort By December 2024, FXBIS
the Umiam River in Ri-Bhoi district,  handed over all facilities to the
 − Playgrounds and camping areas 
subsistence agriculture and traditional  local community for management
 − Kitchens, toilets, and 
practices face market and climate  and ownership. Umsaiprah is
 visitor infrastructure 
challenges that threaten their  now a model of eco-tourism-
economic stability. This initiative thus These upgrades attract hundreds driven sustainable development,
integrates rural tourism with ongoing of tourists monthly, boosting local balancing economic growth
development efforts for sustainability income and employment. Further with environmental and
and local empowerment. developments include: cultural preservation.
Under the HRDP Meghalaya − Waste-to-Wonder Park 
project, FXBIS and HDFC Parivartan  
 − Tourist cottages and dormitories 
introduced eco-tourism in 2023.  
Promoting Rural Tourism in the Northeast  
Assam  
HDFC Bank Parivartan, in system encourages responsible 
  
collaboration with FXB India tourism practices. By blending 200
Suraksha, is driving a transformative sustainable infrastructure with active 
  Families benefited
initiative in the districts of Udalguri, community engagement, the initiative 
  from new employment
Darrang, and Kamrup in Assam to fosters local resilience and long-term 
promote sustainable tourism and environmental stewardship. opportunities
climate action. By integrating eco-  
 To further enhance tourist experience, 
tourism, clean energy, and local  
 investments have been made 
craftsmanship, the project aims to  
 towards infrastructure development 8 eco-homestays
rejuvenate rural economies while  
  
preserving the region’s natural and at Bhairabkunda Eco-tourism Picnic developed
 Spot, including: 
cultural heritage.  And projected to
 − Public Toilets 
  generate H4,00,000
At the heart of this initiative are  
 − A Waste-to-Wonder Learning Center 
eco-friendly homestays constructed  annually with ~H2,68,000
 & Theme Park 
using bamboo and recycled  
  profit each
materials, offering sustainable − A Cultural Heritage Center 
lodging options for visitors.  
 − A Rural Huts Market: Supporting 
Clean energy technologies—  
 the local economy and engaging 
  
such as solar power systems women entrepreneurs 60 Solar-powered
and rainwater harvesting—help  
  streetlights
reduce the environmental footprint  
 Additional facilities like trekking 
  Installed, improving
of participating communities. A  
 trails, camping sites, and cycling 
cycling centre with bike rental  public safety
 centers further promote eco-friendly 
services promotes low-carbon  
 tourism while creating new economic 
travel, while a waste segregation  
 opportunities for the region. 
Meghalaya  
In Umsaiprah village, located near − Riverside resort By December 2024, FXBIS
the Umiam River in Ri-Bhoi district,  handed over all facilities to the
 − Playgrounds and camping areas 
subsistence agriculture and traditional  local community for management
 − Kitchens, toilets, and 
practices face market and climate  and ownership. Umsaiprah is
 visitor infrastructure 
challenges that threaten their  now a model of eco-tourism-
economic stability. This initiative thus These upgrades attract hundreds driven sustainable development,
integrates rural tourism with ongoing of tourists monthly, boosting local balancing economic growth
development efforts for sustainability income and employment. Further with environmental and
and local empowerment. developments include: cultural preservation.
Under the HRDP Meghalaya − Waste-to-Wonder Park 
project, FXBIS and HDFC Parivartan  
 − Tourist cottages and dormitories 
introduced eco-tourism in 2023.  
The Umsaiprah Eco-Tourism  
Committee developed:  
Promoting Multi-Tier Cropping at Madhya Pradesh  
HDFC Bank Parivartan, in  
 Jeevan Singh Dhurve from Mrs. Henkunwar Bai
partnership with Arpan Seva  
 Ameerganj village shared, from Manpura village
Sansthan, is transforming agriculture  
 "With the support of HDFC stated, "I shifted from
in 20 villages of Sehore, Madhya  
 Bank CSR, in collaboration traditional farming to
Pradesh, through vertical farming—  
 with Arpan Seva Sansthan, Multi-Tier Cropping with
an innovative approach that  
 I adopted multi-tier cropping support from HDFC Bank
maximises crop yield on small land  
 on one acre of land. This Parivartan and Arpan Seva
parcels and enables sustainable,  
 innovative approach allowed Sansthan. I planted 100
year-round income for farmers.  
 me to harvest multiple crops Taiwan Pink Guava trees
The initiative provided farmers with  
 and earn K2,51,150 in a and various vegetables on
training in integrated and organic  
 single season. This initiative one acre. In three years,
farming, crop rotation, soil health  
 has not only improved I earned K1,05,600 from
management, and market-oriented  
 my income but also guavas and K8,11,290
practices. A diverse range of fruit  
 strengthened my conﬁdence from vegetables, making
trees and vegetables—such as  
 in sustainable farming a net proﬁt of K9,16,890.
Taiwan Pink Guava, Drumstick,  
 practices." Seeing this success, 54
Papaya, Lemon, Mango, Apple,  
  more farmers adopted the
Malabar Neem, and various gourds  
  technique, transforming
 The initiative has had a signiﬁcant 
and tubers—were selected based  
  our community’s farming
 impact on farmer incomes, livelihood 
on climate suitability, market  
  practices."
 stability, and local employment, 
potential, and nutritional value.  
 though it faced challenges such as 
Organic fertilisers and natural pest  
 initial hesitation, climate variability, 
control methods were promoted to  
 market ﬂuctuations, and limited 
enhance sustainability.  
  
 credit access. Adoption of Taiwan 65,400 plant
Taiwan Pink Guava emerged as  
 Pink Guava and the multi-tier 
  saplings
the most successful crop due to  
 cropping system has enhanced land 
its high yield and market demand.  Facilitated by 436
 productivity and resilience. Looking 
Farmers were linked to the Budhni  
 ahead, efforts will focus on expanding Multi-tier Cropping
Guava Processing Plant and local  
 guava orchards, forming farmer 
  Systems
markets, enabling direct sales, value  
 cooperatives, and strengthening post- 
addition, and better price realisation.  
 harvest infrastructure furthering HDFC 
The establishment of processing  
 Bank Parivartan’s mission to reshape 
units and storage facilities helped  
 rural farming and uplift agricultural 
reduce post-harvest losses and  
 communities across India. 
increase proﬁtability, while improved  
Promoting Multi-Tier Cropping at Madhya Pradesh  
HDFC Bank Parivartan, in  
 Jeevan Singh Dhurve from Mrs. Henkunwar Bai
partnership with Arpan Seva  
 Ameerganj village shared, from Manpura village
Sansthan, is transforming agriculture  
 "With the support of HDFC stated, "I shifted from
in 20 villages of Sehore, Madhya  
 Bank CSR, in collaboration traditional farming to
Pradesh, through vertical farming—  
 with Arpan Seva Sansthan, Multi-Tier Cropping with
an innovative approach that  
 I adopted multi-tier cropping support from HDFC Bank
maximises crop yield on small land  
 on one acre of land. This Parivartan and Arpan Seva
parcels and enables sustainable,  
 innovative approach allowed Sansthan. I planted 100
year-round income for farmers.  
 me to harvest multiple crops Taiwan Pink Guava trees
The initiative provided farmers with  
 and earn K2,51,150 in a and various vegetables on
training in integrated and organic  
 single season. This initiative one acre. In three years,
farming, crop rotation, soil health  
 has not only improved I earned K1,05,600 from
management, and market-oriented  
 my income but also guavas and K8,11,290
practices. A diverse range of fruit  
 strengthened my conﬁdence from vegetables, making
trees and vegetables—such as  
 in sustainable farming a net proﬁt of K9,16,890.
Taiwan Pink Guava, Drumstick,  
 practices." Seeing this success, 54
Papaya, Lemon, Mango, Apple,  
  more farmers adopted the
Malabar Neem, and various gourds  
  technique, transforming
 The initiative has had a signiﬁcant 
and tubers—were selected based  
  our community’s farming
 impact on farmer incomes, livelihood 
on climate suitability, market  
  practices."
 stability, and local employment, 
potential, and nutritional value.  
 though it faced challenges such as 
Organic fertilisers and natural pest  
 initial hesitation, climate variability, 
control methods were promoted to  
 market ﬂuctuations, and limited 
enhance sustainability.  
  
 credit access. Adoption of Taiwan 65,400 plant
Taiwan Pink Guava emerged as  
 Pink Guava and the multi-tier 
  saplings
the most successful crop due to  
 cropping system has enhanced land 
its high yield and market demand.  Facilitated by 436
 productivity and resilience. Looking 
Farmers were linked to the Budhni  
 ahead, efforts will focus on expanding Multi-tier Cropping
Guava Processing Plant and local  
 guava orchards, forming farmer 
  Systems
markets, enabling direct sales, value  
 cooperatives, and strengthening post- 
addition, and better price realisation.  
 harvest infrastructure furthering HDFC 
The establishment of processing  
 Bank Parivartan’s mission to reshape 
units and storage facilities helped  
 rural farming and uplift agricultural 
reduce post-harvest losses and  
 communities across India. 
increase proﬁtability, while improved  
dietary diversity from fresh produce  
reduced dependency on market-  
purchased food and boosted  
health outcomes.  
Case  
Study  
Empowering Single and In Kondagaon and Raigarh districts challenges, including gender
 of Chhattisgarh, women—especially inequities and low agricultural
Differently Abled Women  
 those who are single, differently productivity. To address these, the
in Kondagaon and  
 abled, widowed, or divorced—face Bank partnered with PRADAN on
Raigarh  
 deep-rooted socio-economic a project to double the income of
  15,000 rural women by improving
  farming methods and promoting
  sustainable practices, especially
  supporting vulnerable groups.
  Through improved farming
  techniques, resource management,
  and infrastructure support, the
  project signiﬁcantly increased
  crop yields and livelihood security.
  Women leaders played a key
  role in driving water conservation
  and promoting equitable usage.
  Participatory community planning
  further empowered women by
  enhancing their role in local
  decision-making.
Key Interventions Raigarh: 7,500 women beneﬁted from treatment, and improved
by Region: interventions such as vegetable shed agricultural techniques.
 net installation, pump sets with ﬂexible 
Kondagaon: 4,000 women  
  This inclusive and community-
 pipes, NADEP composting units, 
participated. Activities included  
  driven model has not only
 trellises, tool banks, backyard poultry 
farm pond construction, pump  
  improved incomes and food
 sheds, drip and sprinkler irrigation 
set installation, trellis setup, tool  
  security but also demonstrated
 systems, land levelling, and modern 
bank creation, drip and sprinkler  
  the potential for replication in other
 farming methods. 
irrigation systems, land levelling,  
  regions. By placing women at the
and adoption of improved  
 Lailunga: 3,500 women participated center of agricultural development,
agricultural practices.  
 in initiatives like sprinkler systems, the project advances both
 pump sets, farm pond construction, gender equity and sustainable
 land levelling, drainage line rural transformation.
Case  
Study  
Harvest of Hope: Lal (HRDP) introduced sustainable farming pursuing vocational training and
 methods, trellis farming, and modern nursing studies.
Bahadur’s New Future  
 equipment to his village. 
Lal Bahadur, a 60-year-old farmer  For Bahadur, the change is not
 "My income tripled, and yields 
from Jamapur (Uttar Pradesh),  just ﬁnancial—it’s emotional. "I no
 doubled," says Bahadur. 
struggled with poor yields and  longer work all day; I earn a good
low income for years. "Farming The formation of a Kisan Club helped income, and my family is happy."
was difﬁcult with deteriorating soil farmers pool resources, access low- 
  This initiative has treated over 3,800
condition," he says. interest loans, and share knowledge. 
  acres and helped 750 villages,
 Thanks to HRDP, Bahadur married 
In 2022, HDFC Bank’s Holistic  empowering farmers, improving
 off his sons, and his daughter is now 
Rural Development Programme  yields, and promoting sustainability.
Our Goals Our Targets
Waste Implement solid waste management systems
Management in 1000 villages and establish material recovery
 facilities in 15 Urban Local Bodies
 Provide clean drinking water access to
Access to clean 
 1000 villages
drinking water 
  Provide clean drinking water access to 
 Access to clean  
  1000 villages 
 drinking water  
  Our projects under Healthcare and Hygiene 
Health & Hygiene   
HDFC Bank is committed to improving   
health and hygiene through a multi-   
faceted approach. We support   
health camps, mobile medical units,   
and critical health infrastructure,   
promoting health-seeking behaviour   
in communities. We facilitate access   
to healthcare services and assistive   
devices for persons with disabilities,   
promoting their dignity, inclusion and   
well-being.   
 Parivartan on Wheels –  Bengaluru, and Wayanad. Each unit
Our interventions include improving Medical Care Units  conducts 528 annual health camps,
sanitation, advancing waste   offering free primary care, diagnostics,
 HDFC Bank CSR, in partnership  
management systems, and driving   and essential medicines, supported by
 with Ramky Foundation, launched  
behaviour change around waste   a medical team. Quarterly specialist
 Parivartan on Wheels—a mobile  
disposal, with a focus on plastic waste   camps address local health issues,
 healthcare initiative serving  
management through collection,   while the program also promotes
 underserved communities in Tamil  
recycling, and awareness initiatives.   preventive care, maternal and child
 Nadu, Karnataka, and Kerala. Over  
Additionally, we ensure access to   health, and connects beneﬁciaries
 three years, it will reach 1.2 lakh  
safe drinking water by installing water   to government schemes like
 individuals through fully equipped  
puriﬁcation units and community   Ayushman Bharat.
 Medical Care Units deployed in  
water systems.   
 20 locations each in Chennai,  
HDFC Bank Limited
178   
 Case 
Jaipur Foot  
 Study 
HDFC Bank Parivartan, in  
collaboration with Shree Bhagwan Sh. Sachin Gupta’s Now, he earns H15,000–20,000 per
Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata  month and works conﬁdently in his
 Journey: From Struggle 
Samiti, is enhancing mobility for  tent house business. “I am deeply
 to Strength 
marginalised individuals and Persons  thankful to BMVSS and HDFC
 Sh. Sachin Gupta, 41, from Jaipur, 
with Disabilities (PwD) by providing  Parivartan for restoring my dignity,”
 was a businessman running a tent 
essential mobility aids.  he says. “With this artiﬁcial limb, I
 house before a road accident in 
  can support my family again and live
The initiative includes the distribution  
 2006 left him amputated below 
  with purpose.”
of 18,180 artiﬁcial limbs and callipers,  
 the knee. The accident left him 
1,413 crutches, 2,590 hand-pedalled  
 struggling with loss, unable to 
tricycles, and 2,056 wheelchairs.  
 work, and feeling hopeless. 
To further extend reach, ﬁve special  
 Everything changed when he 
mobile workshops will be conducted  
 learned about Shree Bhagwan 
over three years, bringing services  
 Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata 
directly to those in need.  
 Samiti (BMVSS), Jaipur. There, he 
 received a free artiﬁcial limb. After 
 the ﬁtting and gait training, Sh. 
 Sachin regained his ability to walk 
 and returned to his business. 
 and returned to his business. 
Behaviour Change Campaign – community-led approach, the project and socio-political hurdles, ongoing
Waste Warriors ensures long-term sustainability engagement and collaboration have
 through local capacity building, user helped establish a replicable rural
Between April 2022 and March  
 fee collection, and recyclable sales. waste management model.
2025, a solid waste management  
 Despite challenges like tough terrain 
system was implemented across 10  
panchayats in Bir and Dharamshala  
Combating Tuberculosis in To combat tuberculosis (TB) in receive necessary medical attention
Uttarakhand Uttarakhand, we donated 13 portable without traveling long distances.
 X-ray machines to the 13 District 
Tuberculosis (TB) remains a signiﬁcant  
  Our project aligns with the National
 TB Centres. This intervention aims 
public health challenge in India,  
  Tuberculosis Elimination Programme
 to enhance early detection and 
especially in rural and underserved  
  (NTEP), emphasising the pillars of
 diagnosis, beneﬁting approximately 
areas. Early detection and treatment  
  Detect, Treat, Prevent, and Build
 39,000 individuals. The portability of 
are crucial to control its spread and  
  (DTPB).
 the X-ray machines allows healthcare 
reduce mortality rates. However,  
 workers to conduct screenings in 
inadequate healthcare infrastructure  
 various settings, including community 
leads to delayed treatment, increased  
 health camps and mobile clinics, 
transmission, and higher rates of drug-  
 ensuring vulnerable populations 
resistant TB.  
 Goals to be completed under NRM include: 
Natural Resource  
Management  
 Our Goals Our Targets
In Financial Year 2024-25, we  
introduced Natural Resource Bringing unirrigated − Two lakh acres of unirrigated land to be
Management as a new focus under land under irrigation brought under irrigation
Parivartan, to address climate and uncultivated land 
  − One lakh acres of uncultivated land to be
vulnerabilities in rural communities. under cultivation 
  brought under cultivation
This aligns with global and domestic  
efforts to combat climate change and  
 Reducing our carbon − Support 1,000 villages with clean and
protect vital resources, deepening  
 footprint renewable energy solutions
our commitment to building  
  − Plant 25 lakh trees
climate resilience.  
Rural communities increasingly face  
 Promoting chemical − One lakh acres to adopt chemical-free
climate related challenges such as  
 free farming farming practices
water stress, declining soil health,  
Key Interventions  
 Ice Stupas are artiﬁcial glaciers Kargil districts, improving livelihoods
Ladakh Ice Stupa Project  
 that divert stream water during and quality of life.
HDFC Bank Parivartan partnered  
 winter, freezing it into cone-shaped 
with Himalyan Institute of  The Ice Stupa project offers a
 structures. As they melt in spring, 
Alternatives Ladakh (HIAL) on the  lifeline to Ladakh, ensuring a stable
 they provide a steady water supply for 
Ice Stupa project in Ladakh to  water supply, boosting agricultural
 agriculture. Automation technology is 
address critical water shortages  output, and securing livelihoods.
 being integrated to regulate water ﬂow, 
due to climate change. Glaciers  The evolving technology, with
 optimise ice formation, and monitor 
in the Drass basin, Ladakh, have  automation systems, helps regulate
 weather patterns, enhancing water 
thinned by 1.27 meters from  water ﬂow and improve efﬁciency.
 management and scalability. 
2000 to 2020, leading to severe  This partnership aims to make a
water shortages. Precipitation has With support from HDFC Bank signiﬁcant impact on the region's
dropped by nearly 50% in some Parivartan, four new Ice Stupas water security and set an example
areas over the last two decades, serving seven villages were built for of sustainable innovation.
and rising temperatures have the winter season 2024-25, with a 
accelerated glacial melt as per an storage capacity of over 35 million 
IIT Kanpur study, threatening water liters of water. This project can beneﬁt 
security and agricultural livelihoods. nearly 200 more villages in Leh and 
 potential of solar energy in diverse − Tamil Nadu: Solar fencing in
Solar Interventions in  
 applications, improving livelihoods and Krishnagiri has reduced crop
South India  
 sustainability in rural areas. Innovative losses from wild animals.
Under its Natural Resource  
 Solar Projects include: Solar pumps in the Nilgiris and
Management pillar, HDFC Bank  
  Coimbatore enable year-round
Parivartan has installed 61,655+ − Karnataka: Solar streetlights in 
  farming, raising yields by up
solar lights across 22 states. Solar Raichur have made roads safer 
  to 30%. Terrain-speciﬁc solar
panels have been installed in and extended working hours for 
  irrigation systems in Pillur and
government schools and hospitals small vendors. 
  Masinagudi support high-value
to ensure uninterrupted power  
 − Andhra Pradesh: In Karraguda, a 
  crop cultivation.
supply. Additionally, we have  
 solar-powered lift irrigation system 
  − Telangana: In Bheemraopally,
implemented innovative solar  
 supports year-round farming. In 
  a shared solar irrigation
initiatives to enhance rural life by  
 Peramvandlapalli, a solar-driven bio- 
  system has tripled income
improving street safety, access to  
 resource centre promotes natural 
  through crop diversiﬁcation.
clean water, farming efﬁciency, food  
 farming. In Maniga, a solar-powered 
  In Nagaram, solar insect traps
processing, and livelihoods.  
 energy cart aids irrigation and post- 
  have reduced pesticide use,
 harvest processing. 
The projects showcase the  
  enhancing productivity and
versatility and transformative  
  health outcomes.
  Responsible Business
Key Interventions  
 Ice Stupas are artiﬁcial glaciers Kargil districts, improving livelihoods
Ladakh Ice Stupa Project  
 that divert stream water during and quality of life.
HDFC Bank Parivartan partnered  
 winter, freezing it into cone-shaped 
with Himalyan Institute of  The Ice Stupa project offers a
 structures. As they melt in spring, 
Alternatives Ladakh (HIAL) on the  lifeline to Ladakh, ensuring a stable
 they provide a steady water supply for 
Ice Stupa project in Ladakh to  water supply, boosting agricultural
 agriculture. Automation technology is 
address critical water shortages  output, and securing livelihoods.
 being integrated to regulate water ﬂow, 
due to climate change. Glaciers  The evolving technology, with
 optimise ice formation, and monitor 
in the Drass basin, Ladakh, have  automation systems, helps regulate
 weather patterns, enhancing water 
thinned by 1.27 meters from  water ﬂow and improve efﬁciency.
 management and scalability. 
2000 to 2020, leading to severe  This partnership aims to make a
water shortages. Precipitation has With support from HDFC Bank signiﬁcant impact on the region's
dropped by nearly 50% in some Parivartan, four new Ice Stupas water security and set an example
areas over the last two decades, serving seven villages were built for of sustainable innovation.
and rising temperatures have the winter season 2024-25, with a 
accelerated glacial melt as per an storage capacity of over 35 million 
IIT Kanpur study, threatening water liters of water. This project can beneﬁt 
security and agricultural livelihoods. nearly 200 more villages in Leh and 
 potential of solar energy in diverse − Tamil Nadu: Solar fencing in
Solar Interventions in  
 applications, improving livelihoods and Krishnagiri has reduced crop
South India  
 sustainability in rural areas. Innovative losses from wild animals.
Under its Natural Resource  
 Solar Projects include: Solar pumps in the Nilgiris and
Management pillar, HDFC Bank  
  Coimbatore enable year-round
Parivartan has installed 61,655+ − Karnataka: Solar streetlights in 
  farming, raising yields by up
solar lights across 22 states. Solar Raichur have made roads safer 
  to 30%. Terrain-speciﬁc solar
panels have been installed in and extended working hours for 
  irrigation systems in Pillur and
government schools and hospitals small vendors. 
  Masinagudi support high-value
to ensure uninterrupted power  
 − Andhra Pradesh: In Karraguda, a 
  crop cultivation.
supply. Additionally, we have  
 solar-powered lift irrigation system 
  − Telangana: In Bheemraopally,
implemented innovative solar  
 supports year-round farming. In 
  a shared solar irrigation
initiatives to enhance rural life by  
 Peramvandlapalli, a solar-driven bio- 
  system has tripled income
improving street safety, access to  
 resource centre promotes natural 
  through crop diversiﬁcation.
clean water, farming efﬁciency, food  
 farming. In Maniga, a solar-powered 
  In Nagaram, solar insect traps
processing, and livelihoods.  
 energy cart aids irrigation and post- 
  have reduced pesticide use,
 harvest processing. 
The projects showcase the  
  enhancing productivity and
versatility and transformative  
  health outcomes.
Solar Shiksha The initiative addresses energy government schemes and
 challenges in semi-urban communities subsidies. Educational materials
India receives an average of  
 by promoting awareness and are delivered in multiple regional
seven hours of sunlight for over  
 adoption of solar solutions such languages for accessibility.
300 days a year, making it the  
 as solar pumps, panels, cookers, 
world's third-largest solar power  
  90+ awareness workshops have
 stoves, streetlights, and water 
generator. This abundant resource  
  been conducted in eight states,
 heaters. It provides education and 
can unlock H30 lakh crore in solar  
  empowering 3,000+ individuals
 practical demonstrations to overcome 
power generation.  
  across 450+ communities.
 barriers and misconceptions about 
S O C I A L   –   C O M M U N I T Y  
Shaping the Future through  Outcomes
 Outputs 
NRM Activities  
  Improved Water 
 −
The "SMART" (Sustainable Management of − Construction of water 
  Access to households
Agriculture with Resourceful Techniques in harvesting structures 
  established nearby
Tribal Area) project, led by Mahatma Gandhi and farm ponds. 
Seva Ashram (MGSA) in partnership with  − Average daily income
 − Establishment of a 
HDFC Bank under the Parivartan initiative,  increased by H800– H900
 community seed 
focused on transforming the tribal agricultural  for smallholder farmers
 bank and Farmer 
ecosystem in the Ghatigaon block of Gwalior,  who shifted to vegetable
 Field School. 
Madhya Pradesh. Targeting 60 villages—15  cultivation and roadside
of which were situated in the historically  marketing, reducing
signiﬁcant Chambal Ghati region—the project  migration and enhancing
aimed to uplift marginalised tribal communities  family stability.
by promoting sustainable agriculture,  
enhancing natural resource management, and  
fostering inclusive livelihood development.  
fostering inclusive livelihood development.  
  To promote self-reliance, we support
  entrepreneurship through capacity
  building, ﬁnancial literacy, and
  market linkages. Our partners work
  with farmers, artisans, and small
  entrepreneurs to strengthen value
  chains by building technical capacities
  and integrating technological solutions,
  improving productivity and income.
  Sericulture Project
  The Sericulture Focus Development
  Project aims to revitalise the sericulture
  sector by addressing key challenges
  faced by farmers—such as poor
  cocoon marketing, limited value
  addition, lack of advisory support, and
  inadequate access to capital assets.
  The primary goal is to empower
  1,415 farmers and strengthen rural
  economies through sustainable
 livelihood initiatives. Our partners offer 
Skill Development and  
  sericulture practices.
 NSQF-aligned vocational courses to 
Livelihood Enhancement  
 enhance employability and connect The project sets out to:
India's economic growth and  
 candidates to job opportunities. We 
  Increase farmer incomes
 −
demographic dividend present a  
 also focus on future skills by training 
signiﬁcant opportunity, with over 65%  − Establish two community enterprises
 youth in digital technologies and 
of the population in the working age  
 green skills. − Bring 410 acres of unirrigated land
group. Under Parivartan, HDFC Bank  
  under irrigation
empowers individuals through skill and  
  − Cultivate 100 acres of previously
  fallow land
HDFC Bank Limited
182  
is introducing improved mulberry cocoon quality, enable value addition,
varieties to 100 farmers and and ensure better price realisation.
promoting bio-fertilisers and drip 
 Expected Outcomes:
irrigation systems. 
 Increased cocoon yield from 80–90 
 −
Cocoon Production 
 kg to 90–100 kg per half acre
Support includes the distribution 
 Input cost reduction of 5–10% 
 −
of wooden rearing racks to 150 
 through efﬁcient fertiliser use
farmers, expansion of Netrikae 
 − Additional farmer income of
and Chandrikae units for 200 and 
 approximately H9,000 per cycle
150 farmers respectively, and the 
 − Sustainable employment and
setup of compost pits for 240 
 monthly proﬁts of H60,000 through
farmers to enhance soil health and 
 the reeling unit
waste management. 
  Responsible Business
Key Intervention include  
Mulberry Cultivation Silk Reeling By strengthening every stage of
  the sericulture value chain, the
To address low yields and A dedicated reeling unit employing 15 
  project enhances livelihoods
improper fertiliser use, the project workers will be established to improve 
  and contributes to long-term
is introducing improved mulberry cocoon quality, enable value addition, 
  rural development.
varieties to 100 farmers and and ensure better price realisation. 
promoting bio-fertilisers and drip  
 Expected Outcomes: 
irrigation systems.  
 Increased cocoon yield from 80–90 
 − 
Cocoon Production  
 kg to 90–100 kg per half acre 
Support includes the distribution  
 Input cost reduction of 5–10% 
 − 
of wooden rearing racks to 150  
 through efﬁcient fertiliser use 
farmers, expansion of Netrikae  
 − Additional farmer income of 
and Chandrikae units for 200 and  
 approximately H9,000 per cycle 
150 farmers respectively, and the  
 − Sustainable employment and 
setup of compost pits for 240  
 monthly proﬁts of H60,000 through 
farmers to enhance soil health and  
 the reeling unit 
waste management.  
monthly proﬁts of H60,000 through
farmers to enhance soil health and
the reeling unit
waste management.
Support to Athletes and Para-Athletes
HDFC Bank Parivartan partnered with Olympic Gold Quest to empower Indian athletes and para-athletes, focusing on
shooters and wrestlers. The project aims to enhance performances at national and international levels, providing professional
training, health check-ups, nutrition guidance, and participation in tournaments. Over ﬁve years, 839 athletes and 74 para-
athletes have been supported. Project Leap aims to identify and nurture talented young shooters, providing them with
comprehensive support to improve their performance at national and international levels.
comprehensive support to improve their performance at national and international levels.
− 4 out of 7 medal winners for India at Tokyo 2020
− 8 medals won at 65th National Shooting
Olympics were supported by HDFC and OGQ.
Championship 2022 by Project Leap shooters.
− 10 out of 19 medal winners at Tokyo 2020
− 153 international medals won by Project Leap
Paralympics were supported by HDFC and OGQ.
shooters since 2016-17, with 40 in 2024-25.
− 12 out of 24 medals at ISSF Junior Shooting
World Championship 2024 were by Project Leap
shooters, including 9 Gold medals.
− 6 wrestlers from Virender Akhada won medals at
− 2 shooters from 10X Shooting Academy won
the National level, with 2 parts of the Indian team
medals at ISSF Junior World Championship
at Senior Asian Wrestling Championship 2025,
2024, potential contenders for LA 2028 Olympics.
potential contenders for LA 2028 Olympics.
− 6 shooters from Project Leap are key medal
prospects for LA 2028 Olympics.
 Case 
Support to Women Athletes  
 Study 
The 'Unstoppable: Karke Dikhaungi'  
athlete scholarship program, Aishwarya Mishra – From World Athletics Championships.
supported by HDFC Bank and curated  Her transformation was recognised
 Setback to Podium 
by GoSports Foundation, addresses  with the “Sports Person of the
 After missing Olympic qualiﬁcation 
barriers faced by female athletes. It  Year” title and Maharashtra’s Shiv
 in early 2024 with a time of 
supports athletes in archery, athletics,  Chhatrapati Award.
 53.79 seconds, 400m athlete 
badminton, swimming, table tennis,  
 Aishwarya Mishra faced 
and weightlifting, providing coaching,  
 challenges in conﬁdence and 
training, living expenses, competition  
 clarity. Under the HDFC UKD 
costs, equipment, and sports  
 programme, she received targeted 
science support.  
 support—physical training in 
 Trivandrum, mental conditioning 
 and technique reﬁnement 
 under Olympian Dai Greene at 
 Loughborough University. 
 By 2025, Aishwarya clocked a 
 personal best of 51.12 seconds, 
 won Gold and Silver at the National 
 Games, and qualiﬁed for the 
Skill Training and Livelihood  Outcomes
 Outputs 
Enhancement  
  − 1,320 youth completed
The project aimed to enhance livelihoods and − 1,460 youth enrolled 
  training, with 954
secure socio-economic empowerment for in two NSQF-alligned 
  successfully placed (72%
marginalised and unemployed youth across trades - General Duty 
  placement rate)
Bilaspur through market-relevant skill training Assistant (460 trainees 
and job placement. Special focus was given across 23 batches) & − Total annualised income
to female aspirants, youth from forest and Retail Sales Associate generated by placed
hilly areas, those impacted by COVID-19, and (1,000 trainees across candidates (based on
individuals involved in hazardous or informal 50 batches) retention): H6.86 crore
work. As part of the initiative, industry-  
 − 73 training batches 
aligned skill training was provided under  
 conducted with 
NSDC guidelines to ensure relevance and  
 integrated soft skills, 
quality. The project also facilitated placement  
 IT skills, and career 
opportunities to help youth establish  
 mentoring support 
sustainable career paths.  
infrastructure and resource access technology and the internet, especially
in underserved schools is essential in remote areas. Inclusive education
for  holistic learning. Equally vital is remains a key focus, addressing
teacher training to equip educators the needs of children with special
with the skills and tools to guide requirements and promoting equality
students effectively. We also prioritise and diversity throughout the system.
digital literacy by ensuring access to 
 students effectively. We also prioritise 
and diversity throughout the system.
 digital literacy by ensuring access to
Promoting Education 
India’s education system has evolved, 
shifting focus from access and equity 
to improving learning outcomes 
through quality education. While 
foundational goals have been met, 
schools still need better resources, 
teaching materials, and technology to 
prepare students for the future. Our Goals
Our Targets
Our initiatives complement To convert 3,500 traditional schools to
 Creation of
government efforts by addressing smart schools
 Smart Schools
gaps in infrastructure, resources, and 
 To support 25,000 meritorious students with 
Education Crisis
teacher training, aligning with the New 
 scholarships by 2025-26
Scholarship
Education Policy 2020. 
 Support
Our projects aim to close the 
achievement gap through To cover 20 lakh students in grade-appropriate 
Improving
scholarships, mentorship, and learning levels in all intervention schools 
Learning Level
learning resources. Strengthening by 2025-26
Outcomes
Case  
Study  
Jagruti's prioritised her education. She discovered HDFC Bank Parivartan's
 excelled academically with ECSS Program in 2023-24.
Scholarship Story  
 their support. 
From a young age, Jagriti, from  "Securing a scholarship of INR
Roorkee Uttarakhand, witnessed However, Jagriti faced the stark 50,000 was a turning point for
her family's sacriﬁces for her reality of her family's health me, empowering me to ﬁnance
welfare, particularly evident through struggles - her father's respiratory my education independently and
her father's diligent management issues and subsequent heart attack relieved my loved ones of monetary
of a cotton and ﬂour mill business. placed immense strain on her stress." shares Jagriti. Jagriti aims
Despite ﬁnancial constraints and family. With limited external support, to join the corporate sector as a
health setbacks, her parents she sought opportunities and Computer Applications Specialist.
Educational Crisis Scholarship the underserved sections of society. risk of dropping out are provided with
Scheme The scholarship program is meant monetary assistance of up to H75,000
 for school students from Class 1 to for their studies. The initiative aims
Many students in India are forced to  
 12 and those pursuing diploma, ITI, to reduce dropout rates and ease
drop out due to unforeseen ﬁnancial  
 polytechnic, UG and PG (general and the ﬁnancial burden of education. In
hardships. To address this, HDFC  
 professional) program. Under the FY 2024-25, the program provided
Bank Parivartan, in partnership with  
 ECSS program, the students who are over 7400 scholarships across India.
Buddy4Study India Foundation, has  
 unable to bear the cost of education 
launched a nationwide scholarship  
 due to personal/family crises or any 
programme to support meritorious  
 other ﬁnancial problems and are at a 
and needy students belonging to  
Teach for India Fellowship
HDFC Bank Parivartan supports the Teach for India Fellowship in Kolkata and
Ahmedabad, enabling graduates and professionals to teach in low-income
communities. The two-year programme includes recruitment, full-time teaching,
student vision-setting, teacher training, assessments, and alumni engagement—
fostering leadership and addressing educational inequity.
Foundational Literacy and Numeracy Program
To improve primary education outcomes, HDFC Bank Parivartan partnered
with Central Square Foundation to promote the FLN Mission in Telangana,
Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Assam, and Odisha. The programme targets basic reading
and math skills, beneﬁting around 70 lakh stakeholders across 150,000+
government schools. Key outcomes include reduced dropout rates, improved
attendance, enhanced teacher training, and better learning experiences.
Financial Literacy and manage money effectively, and
 build ﬁnancial conﬁdence. Despite
Inclusion 
 the growing availability of ﬁnancial
According to SEBI’s Garg report, only 
 services, many lack the awareness to
27% of Indians are ﬁnancially literate— 
 use them efﬁciently. Financial literacy
signiﬁcantly lower than in advanced 
 programs help bridge this gap through
economies and among the top ﬁve 
 targeted education.
emerging markets. To address this 
gap, we aim to implement ﬁnancial Financial inclusion complements these
literacy initiatives that equip individuals efforts by ensuring access to essential
with the knowledge and tools to make services such as banking, credit,
informed ﬁnancial decisions and and insurance, encouraging broader
promote long-term ﬁnancial well-being. participation in the formal ﬁnancial
 system and empowering individuals to
Financial literacy and inclusion are 
 take control of their ﬁnancial futures.
critical for enabling individuals to 
understand ﬁnancial products, 
Parivartan Financial Literacy Vigil Aunty Money Made Easy
Camps  
 Vigil Aunty is a public awareness Money Made Easy is a program
Between August and September campaign focused on educating designed for the working-age
2024, HDFC Bank held ﬁnancial people about cyber fraud. It population, offering practical
literacy camps featuring interactive helps individuals recognise and knowledge on budgeting, saving,
sessions, product demos, and avoid scams, addressing the and navigating ﬁnancial challenges
simulations. The initiative aimed to growing threat of cybercrime in the across different life stages. It equips
raise ﬁnancial awareness, improve digital age. individuals with the tools they need
money management, and promote  to plan and manage their ﬁnances
inclusion. Facilitated by 40 HDFC  more effectively.
Bank employees, it saw strong  
  As part of this initiative, Financially
community engagement. Future  
  Ever After is an interactive quiz that
plans include expanding to more  
  helps couples assess their ﬁnancial
states, customising content, and  
  compatibility and build a stronger
integrating microﬁnance and small  
  ﬁnancial future together.
business training.  
Small Grants Program 62 community-led projects across 20
FY 24-25 A Year of Local states, addressing diverse, localised
Action, Lasting Impact challenges—from enhancing digital
 learning and healthcare access in
At HDFC Bank, we recognise that 
 remote regions to water conservation
meaningful change often stems from 
 and inclusive infrastructure for
quiet, sustained efforts that respond 
 persons with disabilities. Anchored
to real needs on the ground. Our 
 by Bharat Cares, these initiatives
Small Grants Program reﬂects this 
 remain aligned with our commitment
philosophy by supporting grassroots 
 to inclusive, need-based and human
organisations working at the forefront 
 centric development.
of India’s development landscape. In 
FY 2024–25, the program enabled 
Education Healthcare Livelihood and Skilling
984,000 children and youth 306,000 individuals beneﬁtted via 125,000 youth and women
beneﬁtted from bridge learning, mobile clinics, cancer treatment equipped with vocational
school enhancements, and support, and maternal care in training and pathways to
digital tools. underserved communities. income generation.
Parivartan Start-up Grants HDFC Bank’s Parivartan initiative Goals (SDGs). By actively engaging
 continues to drive positive change employees and collaborating with
Under the ﬂagship, Parivartan Start-  
 across India by empowering trusted partners, Parivartan is not just
up Grants, HDFC Bank launched its  
 communities, promoting inclusive transforming lives but also building a
eighth edition, supporting sustainable  
 growth, and fostering sustainable future where every individual has the
development aligned with the UN  
 development. Through a broad opportunity to thrive. As we move
SDGs. The program focuses on AI  
 range of impactful interventions, the towards our 2025-26 goals, HDFC
for social good, climate innovation,  
 Bank addresses key issues such Bank remains committed to creating a
ﬁnancial inclusion, and agricultural  
 as poverty, education, healthcare, lasting, meaningful impact on society,
sustainability, with targeted support  
 gender equality, and environmental ensuring that no one is left behind in
in areas like assistive tech, circular  
 sustainability, aligning its efforts with the journey toward a more equitable
economy, green life sciences, and  
 global Sustainable Development and prosperous India.
electric mobility. Key partnerships  
with DPIIT-Start-up India and India AI  
A Decade of Strengthening operated by veterans and their In parallel, our collaboration with
 families. These centres provide India AI, under the Ministry of
Partnerships, Deepening  
 pension-related support, Government- Electronics and Information
Impact  
 to-Citizen (G2C) services, and Technology (MeitY), advances national
As HDFC Bank Parivartan marks  
 Business-to-Consumer (B2C) services innovation goals. By supporting AI-
its 10th anniversary, we reﬂect on  
 within defence establishments, led solutions in digital infrastructure,
the transformative journey shaped  
 ensuring continued dignity and agriculture, SME ﬁnancing, and credit
by robust partnerships and shared  
 assistance for our nation’s heroes. assessment, we aim to contribute
purpose. Over the past decade, our  
  to India’s emergence as a global
 Project HAKK (Hawai Anubhavi 
collaboration with more than 150  
  AI hub while fostering inclusive
 Kalyan Kendra) 
implementing agencies, government  
  technological progress.
bodies, and diverse stakeholders Extending our commitment to the 
has enabled us to drive systemic defence community, Project HAKK 
change and deliver long-lasting impact (Hawai Anubhavi Kalyan Kendra), 
across communities. launched with the Indian Air Force and 
 CSC Academy, focuses on easing 
Project NAMAN  
 administrative and ﬁnancial processes 
Among our initiatives is Project  
 for Air Force veterans. Planned across 
NAMAN, launched in partnership  
 25 Air Force units in major cities, these 
with the Indian Army and CSC  
 centres facilitate access to banking, 
e-Governance. Renewed in  
 pension services, and essential 
FY 2024–25, the initiative now  
 documentation. Further, targeted 
spans 26 Directorate of Indian Army  
 skilling and ﬁnancial literacy training 
Veterans (DIAV) locations, offering  
 aim to empower veterans and their 
comprehensive service delivery  
 families to navigate their post-service 
through Common Service Centres  
 lives with greater conﬁdence. 
  bringing convenience to customers
In the Financial Year Mobilising Taxes and 
  and augmenting collections for
2024-25, HDFC Bank Deposits for Government 
  the Government. HDFC Bank also
strengthened its of India 
  continued its robust growth in
collaboration with multiple HDFC Bank continues to be among collections of railway freight services.
 the top agency banks for collection In FY25, freight collections witnessed
tiers of Government—  
 of Government taxes. To enable this, more than 300 per cent growth
integrating systems,  
 the Bank has integrated with various over FY24.
enhancing features and  
 central Government systems including 
  The Bank completed integration with
expanding its solution TIN 2.0 (Direct Tax), GSTN, ICEGATE 
  Rajasthan eGRAS during FY25 to
 (Custom Duties), FOIS and many state 
suite. The Bank also  
  enable collection of taxes in the state.
 tax portals. 
championed start-up  
  Its leading position in the collection
 The Bank continues to drive growth in 
growth and ﬁnancial  
  of taxes and support towards
 collection of taxes where it witnessed 
inclusion, reinforcing its  mobilisation of deposits from citizens,
 approximately 24 per cent growth 
  demonstrated its expanding customer
role as a trusted partner  
 as compared to FY24 and helped 
  base, wide distribution network and
in driving innovation collect over H12.3 lakh crore in FY25. 
  strong commitment to leveraging its
 It also introduced additional modes 
and accelerating India’s  
  strengths to contribute to the overall
 of collections such as cards and UPI 
nation-building journey.  development of the nation.
 for paying GST and Customs Duty 
  Digitalising Local
  Administration
  HDFC Bank continued to strengthen
  its collaboration with urban and
  rural bodies, playing a key role in
  accelerating revenue realisation by
  collecting taxes and fees digitally. This
  has helped provide convenience to
  citizens and increased efﬁciency in
  ﬁscal management.
  The Bank has facilitated the
  digitalisation of collections from leased
  and rented government properties
  and the auction-based sale of assets.
  Notably, institutions like the State Waqf
  Boards, Development Authorities and
  Housing Boards have beneﬁted from
  streamlined revenue collections.
  In addition, the Bank has enabled
local bodies for online collection This has helped customers through government organisations in effectively
of construction and development- faster revenue realisation and efﬁcient monitoring their ﬁnancial operations
related fees and charges. This is fund management. across locations.
complemented by a governance  
  HDFC Bank is also a key player in
 Disbursing 
platform that enables effective  
  the implementation of District Mineral
monitoring of these activities Government Funds 
  Foundation mandates by disbursing
transparently. Government entities  
 HDFC Bank continues to be one of 
  funds directly to the beneﬁciaries
have beneﬁted from such platforms  
 the leading banks to mobilise funds 
  affected by mining related operations.
by driving revenue growth through  
 under the public welfare schemes. 
enhanced collections.  
 Reinforcing its commitment, the Partnering with Institutions
 Bank has enhanced its systems and 
  The Bank is a preferred partner to
Supporting Infrastructure  
 processes to adapt to the evolving 
  a signiﬁcant number of societies,
Development  
 public expenditure guidelines. It 
  associations, NGOs, trusts, clubs,
The Bank partnered with the helped disburse over H90,000 crore 
  educational and religious institutions.
Government in digitalising activities by processing approximately 10 crore 
  In addition, it has been at the forefront
pertaining to infrastructure transactions, representing a volume 
  of enabling the digital transformation
development like ﬁnancial activities growth of 12 per cent over 
  of such entities by providing a
associated with land acquisition and FY 2023-24. 
  comprehensive suite of customised
project execution. Further, to enhance  
  banking services and solutions thus
 The Bank’s FARSight Dashboard, 
customer experience it has introduced  
  facilitating seamless management
 offers a comprehensive and 
a digital platform for submission and  
  of fees, donations and operational
 consolidated view across multiple 
validation of bank guarantees which is  
  transactions. Today, HDFC Bank
 accounts in the parent child construct. 
integrated with National e-Governance  
  partners with over 2.7 lakh institutions
 By offering in-depth analytics, the 
Services Limited (NeSL).  
  across the country supporting their
 platform has empowered various 
  end-to-end ﬁnancial requirements.
Across states, HDFC Bank has government entities to analyse 
partnered with government expenditure patterns better and make 
  Leveraging its integrated ’CollectNow’
organisations, industrial development informed decisions. This has helped 
  platform, the Bank has enabled
authorities and airport authorities to  
  payments and collections for large
advance infrastructure projects. These  
  numbers of customers that include
collaborations include digitalising  
  development authorities, housing
the compensation process for land  
  societies, clubs amongst others.
acquisition thereby contributing to  
  ‘CollectNow’ is a one-stop solution
faster project execution and improved  
  and is a ﬁrst of its kind in the industry
beneﬁciary support. The Bank is  
  offering users convenient and efﬁcient
also working with port authorities to  
  digital banking options. The Bank
provide solutions. These solutions  
  has processed over H1,00,000 crore
are offered through a digital platform  
  as collections in the Financial Year
which enables online rent collection  
  2024-25 for these users. It has helped
from various entities for utilising port  
  the Government monetise over 20,000
infrastructure while handling freight.  
assets worth more than H60,000 crore The Garv Pension Saving Account related digital services. HDFC Bank
owned by 21 government entities. from HDFC Bank is designed with also facilitates skill development
 a focus on the well-being of the through training sessions / awareness
CollectNow as part of its value-added  
 pensioner. In addition to offering a programme for defence pensioners
services offer is also integrated  
 secure avenue to park retirement thus empowering them in their post-
with a few of the third-party service  
 funds, the product is bundled with retirement journey.
providers to deliver digital solutions  
 a host of beneﬁts including health, 
to institutions offering education and  Similarly, HDFC Bank has partnered
 travel and cyber insurance.This leads 
healthcare services which constitute  with the Indian Air Force under its
 to all-round security and peace of 
the social infrastructure of the country.  initiative, Project HAKK to extend the
 mind. HDFC Bank provides dedicated 
Along with seamless and efﬁcient fee  same set of services to veterans.
 services to pensioners across its 
collections through these solutions,  
 branch network. The pension services 
  Building New Economy
educational institutions can align with  
 for defence pensioners are further 
the NEP 2020, AICTE and NAAC  Businesses
 strengthened by the Bank’s integration 
certiﬁcation standards. Similarly,  
  Leveraging Government
 with SPARSH, a portal by Ministry 
healthcare institutions can align with  
  Partnerships to Fuel
 of Defence. The Pension offering is 
NABH certiﬁcation and accreditation  
  Entrepreneurship
 suitably complemented by the Senior 
standards and deliver on various  
 Citizens Savings Scheme deposit, HDFC Bank remains committed to
government initiatives like Ayushman  
 a government-sponsored ﬁnancial fostering innovation by supporting
Bharat (AB-PMJAY)amongst others.  
 instrument to promote savings among India’s growing Start-Ups ecosystem
 pensioners and senior citizens which by offering tailored banking solutions,
Serving our Nation Builders,  
 the Bank started collecting from access to loans through Credit
our Pensioners  
 January 2025. Guarantee Scheme for Start-Ups
HDFC Bank provides tailor made  
  (CGSS) and integrated digital
 HDFC Bank has signed an MoU with 
ﬁnancial products and services to  
  platforms designed to meet the needs
 the Indian Army under its ﬂagship 
assist pensioners. This includes  
  of Start-Ups.
 initiative, Project NAMAN, with a 
specialised pension accounts,  
 focus on serving veterans. Through HDFC Tech Innovators 2024 was
investment options and retirement  
 this partnership, the Bank helps Army the ﬁrst HDFC BANK Group level
planning services aimed at maximising  
 veterans to easily access government- initiative to promote innovations and
the value of their pension funds.  
opportunities for Start-Ups across Leveraging HDFC Bank’s Serving the Underserved
segments including PropTech,  
 Parivartan Initiative for HDFC Bank launched ‘GIGA’, a
FinTech, Sustainability Tech,  
  comprehensive suite of ﬁnancial
 Start-Ups 
Consumer Tech and New Age Tech.  
  products and services to meet the
 In its eighth edition, HDFC Bank 
This augmented engagement with  
  manifold needs of various freelancer
 Parivartan Grants were provided to 
the Start–Ups ecosystem to create  
  segments and gig workers. It’s a
 20 incubators and 87 Start-Ups. In 
mutual opportunities to do business,  
  digital-ﬁrst offering with customised
 addition, the Bank engaged with three 
share platforms, provide ﬁnancing and  
  products like savings and current
 nodal government partners with the 
investments, facilitate co-learning and  
  accounts which comes with a
 objective of contributing to speciﬁc 
co-creation of products / services.  
  business debit and credit card with
 thematic areas namely - 
The Bank announced 10 winners  
  curated offers, affordable health
from over 2,000 applicants who were  
 Reserve Bank Innovation Hub: insurance, ﬂexible investment products
selected by a grand jury comprising  
  and retail asset products.
 Identifying/developing a product/ 
the HDFC Bank Group leadership,  
 process/policy to make banking 
venture capitalists, senior industry  Enabling Cross-Border
 inclusive for women 
executives and unicorn founders.  
  Payments
 Startup India: 
The Bank has strengthened its  Dedicated to facilitating smooth
 Strategic partnership to support 
engagements with government nodal  cross-border transactions for
 manufacturing Start-Ups 
agencies and key incubators. It has  Indian merchants, freelancers,
signed an MoU with the Department  MSMEs and exporters, HDFC
 MEITY India AI Mission: 
for Promotion of Industry and Internal  Bank has collaborated with ﬁntech
 Strategic partnership towards 
Trade (DPIIT), Government of India,  partners under RBI regulations. This
 nurturing AI solutions for large scale 
the Start-up promotion councils/  partnership provides authorised dealer
 socio-economic impact 
incubators of various states and  services, ensuring secure and hassle-
premier educational and technological  free cross-border trade settlements.
institutes across the country.  
    Value creation at the Bank is guided by the 
Manufactured In FY 2025, we expanded our distribution    
     
 network by adding over 700 branches and   understanding that capitals are interdependent. 
 200+ ATMs/CRMs, with 51% located in    
     
 semi-urban and rural areas. Branch banking   Strategic outcomes—whether growth, resilience or 
 at HDFC Bank is evolving into a multi-format    
     
 model, designed for micro-market needs,   inclusion—require thoughtful trade-offs and synergies 
 positioning branches as engagement centres    
 to strengthen customer relationships and drive   across ﬁnancial, human, intellectual, manufactured, 
 feedback-led service enhancements and long-    
 term deposit mobilisation.   social and natural capital. By embedding integrated 
    thinking across our operations, we aim to strengthen 
Intellectual In FY 2025, the Bank accelerated its digital Flagship platforms such as PayZapp 2.0 and   
     
 transformation journey, expanding digital Pixel Credit Card saw strong adoption. The  long-term outcomes for all stakeholders. 
 coverage across 89% of common retail service bank also commenced the phased launch   
 interactions—up from 73% the previous year. of its new Mobile Banking and Net Banking   
 Anchored in the ‘Shift Right’ strategy, the Bank platforms during the year. The platforms offer   
 modernised its core systems and reinforced holistic, new-age banking experiences along   
 integration and resilience, laying the foundation with enhanced performance and advanced   
 for responsible GenAI deployment at scale. security which has garnered positive responses   
  from customers.   
Human Strategic investments in capability-building We maintain a safe, healthy workplace through We continued to scale digital-ﬁrst learning  
 and culture continue to drive productivity and updated safety policies, deployment of and HR systems to build workforce  
 performance. In FY 2025, employees logged protective technologies and regular awareness capability and enhance agility. The  
 over 1.25 crore learning hours—an 88% rise sessions. Alongside physical and environmental MPower platform, supported by 22  
 over the previous year. Institutionalised talent safety, we have a wellness framework which training centres and the GenAI Academy,  
 and succession frameworks ensure talent has four pillars i.e. physical, emotional, social enabled personalised, modular learning at  
 readiness, while tech-enabled HR systems and ﬁnancial. This holistic approach ensures scale. AI tools streamlined hiring, service  
 enhanced efﬁciency and employee experience. our people feel secure and supported. delivery and employee engagement—  
   automating responses, improving  
   HR efﬁciency and capturing real-time  
   employee insights.  
Social and The Bank remains committed to long-term The Bank’s physical infrastructure enables We continued to enhance customer Employee engagement remained integral 
Relationship value creation for its stakeholders. Under access to essential services in underserved engagement through AI-powered service to Parivartan initiatives. Our employees 
 Parivartan, we continue to drive inclusive regions. Rural branches, partner platforms platforms, managing 3.7 crore+ monthly participated in structured volunteering across 
 growth through focused community and mobile interventions such as ‘Parivartan interactions across IVR, WhatsApp and ﬁnancial literacy camps, SHG exhibitions and 
 interventions. In FY 2025, we spent H1,068.03 on Wheels’ support CSR intitatives of the digital channels, improving accessibility, inclusion-focused events. Collaborations with 
 crore on CSR initiatives across priority themes, Bank, while several branches also serve as efﬁciency and experience consistency. In NGO partners enabled ofﬁce-led and ﬁeld- 
 geographies and strategic partnerships. touchpoints for ﬁnancial literacy and community parallel, digital tools scaled our community based programmes, while digital sessions on 
  engagement initiatives. initiatives, enabling remote water sustainability, corporate values and ﬁnancial 
   monitoring and expanding skilling access. education supported wider participation. 
Natural As operations expand, we continue to invest Sustainability is built into our infrastructure via The Bank continues to leverage digital The Bank continues to embed environmental 
Under Parivartan, the Bank’s community-led climate 
 in climate-aligned infrastructure to meet our energy-efﬁcient systems, green materials, and systems and data analytics to monitor consciousness across employee 
initiatives are designed to respond to local environmental 
 Scope 1 and 2 carbon neutrality target by standardised eco-features. As of March 2025, energy usage patterns, supporting engagement and learning initiatives. In 
challenges while supporting resilient livelihoods. In 
 FY 2031–32. we commissioned 25 rooftop solar plants and emission reduction and operational FY 2025, over 5,000 volunteering hours were 
FY 2025, these efforts included planting over 17.63 lakh 
  shifted 19 premises to 100% green power. Our efﬁciency. Additionally, digital products recorded for initiatives promoting inclusion, 
trees (80 lakh trees planted since inception), enabling clean 
  Bangalore data centre is IGBC-certiﬁed as a and services, combined with automation, well-being, and community development. 
energy access through 61,000+ solar lights across 22 
  Green Data Centre. have further contributed to lowering states and strengthening water security through context- 
   paper consumption and minimising speciﬁc solutions such as artiﬁcial glaciers in Ladakh and 
   environmental impact. ﬂood-resilient community infrastructure. 
 Finance Manufactured Intellectual Human
Social and Relationship Natural
          H Crore
 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2024-25
Interest income 60,221.45 69,305.96 80,241.35 98,972.05 1,14,812.65 1,20,858.23 1,27,753.12 1,61,585.54 2,58,340.58 3,00,517.04
Interest expense 32,629.93 36,166.74 40,146.49 50,728.83 58,626.40 55,978.66 55,743.53 74,743.32 1,49,808.10 1,77,846.95
Net interest income 27,591.52 33,139.22 40,094.86 48,243.22 56,186.25 64,879.57 72,009.59 86,842.22 1,08,532.48 1,22,670.09
Other income 10,751.72 12,296.49 15,220.31 17,625.87 23,260.82 25,204.89 29,509.90 31,214.83 49,241.00 45,632.28
Net revenues 38,343.24 45,435.71 55,315.17 65,869.09 79,447.07 90,084.46 1,01,519.49 1,18,057.05 1,57,773.48 1,68,302.37
Operating costs 16,979.69 19,703.32 22,690.36 26,119.37 30,697.53 32,722.63 37,442.19 47,652.08 63,386.02 68,174.88
Operating result 21,363.55 25,732.39 32,624.81 39,749.72 48,749.54 57,361.83 64,077.30 70,404.97 94,387.46 1,00,127.49
Provisions and contingencies 2,725.61 3,593.30 5,927.49 7,550.08 12,142.39 15,702.85 15,061.83 11,919.66 23,492.15 11,649.43
Loan loss provisions 2,133.63 3,145.30 4,910.43 6,394.11 9,083.32 11,450.19 10,119.38 11,783.25 10,764.66 12,803.11
Others 591.98 448.00 1,017.06 1,155.97 3,059.07 4,252.66 4,942.45 136.41 12,727.49 (1,153.68)
Proﬁt before tax 18,637.94 22,139.09 26,697.32 32,199.64 36,607.15 41,658.98 49,015.47 58,485.31 70,895.31 88,478.06
Provision for taxation 6,341.71 7,589.43 9,210.57 11,121.50 10,349.84 10,542.46 12,054.12 14,376.60 10,083.03 21,130.70
Proﬁt after tax 12,296.23 14,549.66 17,486.75 21,078.14 26,257.31 31,116.52 36,961.35 44,108.71 60,812.28 67,347.36
Funds :          
Deposits 5,46,424.19 6,43,639.66 7,88,770.64 9,23,140.93 11,47,502.29 13,35,060.22 15,59,217.44 18,83,394.65 23,79,786.28 27,14,714.90
Subordinated debt 15,090.45 13,182.00 21,107.00 18,232.00 18,232.00 17,127.00 21,795.25 33,956.00 34,133.12 34,362.69
Stockholders’ equity 72,677.77 89,462.38 1,06,295.03 1,49,206.32 1,70,986.03 2,03,720.83 2,40,092.94 2,80,199.01 4,40,245.81 5,01,424.64
Working funds 7,40,796.07 8,63,840.19 10,63,934.32 12,44,540.69 15,30,511.26 17,46,870.52 20,68,535.05 24,66,081.47 36,17,623.09 39,10,198.94
Loans 4,64,593.96 5,54,568.20 6,58,333.09 8,19,401.22 9,93,702.88 11,32,836.63 13,68,820.93 16,00,585.90 24,84,861.52 26,19,608.62
Investments 1,95,836.29 2,14,463.34 2,42,200.24 2,93,116.07 3,91,826.66 4,43,728.29 4,55,535.69 5,17,001.43 7,02,414.96 8,36,359.67
Key Ratios :          
Earnings per share (H)1 24.42 28.59 33.88 39.33 48.01 56.58 66.80 79.25 85.83 88.29
Return on equity 17.97% 18.04% 18.22% 16.30% 16.76% 16.60% 16.90% 17.39% 16.1% 14.56%
Tier 1 capital ratio 13.22% 12.79% 13.25% 15.78% 17.23% 17.56% 17.87% 17.13% 16.79% 17.69%
Total capital ratio 15.53% 14.55% 14.82% 17.11% 18.52% 18.79% 18.90% 19.26% 18.80% 19.55%
Dividend per share (H)1 4.75 5.50 6.50 7.50 Nil3 6.504 15.50 19.00 19.50 22.005
Dividend payout ratio 23.51% 23.32% 23.26% 23.36% NA3 11.54%4 23.28% 24.07% 24.38% 25.00%5
Book value per share as at March 31 (H)1 143.74 174.56 204.80 273.94 311.83 369.54 432.95 502.17 579.51 655.27
Market price per share as at March 31 (H)2 535.58 721.28 964.50 1,159.45 861.90 1,493.65 1,470.35 1,609.55 1,447.90 1,828.20
Price to earnings ratio 21.93 25.23 28.47 29.48 17.95 26.40 22.01 20.31 16.87 20.71
          H Crore
 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2024-25
Interest income 60,221.45 69,305.96 80,241.35 98,972.05 1,14,812.65 1,20,858.23 1,27,753.12 1,61,585.54 2,58,340.58 3,00,517.04
Interest expense 32,629.93 36,166.74 40,146.49 50,728.83 58,626.40 55,978.66 55,743.53 74,743.32 1,49,808.10 1,77,846.95
Net interest income 27,591.52 33,139.22 40,094.86 48,243.22 56,186.25 64,879.57 72,009.59 86,842.22 1,08,532.48 1,22,670.09
Other income 10,751.72 12,296.49 15,220.31 17,625.87 23,260.82 25,204.89 29,509.90 31,214.83 49,241.00 45,632.28
Net revenues 38,343.24 45,435.71 55,315.17 65,869.09 79,447.07 90,084.46 1,01,519.49 1,18,057.05 1,57,773.48 1,68,302.37
Operating costs 16,979.69 19,703.32 22,690.36 26,119.37 30,697.53 32,722.63 37,442.19 47,652.08 63,386.02 68,174.88
Operating result 21,363.55 25,732.39 32,624.81 39,749.72 48,749.54 57,361.83 64,077.30 70,404.97 94,387.46 1,00,127.49
Provisions and contingencies 2,725.61 3,593.30 5,927.49 7,550.08 12,142.39 15,702.85 15,061.83 11,919.66 23,492.15 11,649.43
Loan loss provisions 2,133.63 3,145.30 4,910.43 6,394.11 9,083.32 11,450.19 10,119.38 11,783.25 10,764.66 12,803.11
Others 591.98 448.00 1,017.06 1,155.97 3,059.07 4,252.66 4,942.45 136.41 12,727.49 (1,153.68)
Proﬁt before tax 18,637.94 22,139.09 26,697.32 32,199.64 36,607.15 41,658.98 49,015.47 58,485.31 70,895.31 88,478.06
Provision for taxation 6,341.71 7,589.43 9,210.57 11,121.50 10,349.84 10,542.46 12,054.12 14,376.60 10,083.03 21,130.70
Proﬁt after tax 12,296.23 14,549.66 17,486.75 21,078.14 26,257.31 31,116.52 36,961.35 44,108.71 60,812.28 67,347.36
Funds :          
Deposits 5,46,424.19 6,43,639.66 7,88,770.64 9,23,140.93 11,47,502.29 13,35,060.22 15,59,217.44 18,83,394.65 23,79,786.28 27,14,714.90
Subordinated debt 15,090.45 13,182.00 21,107.00 18,232.00 18,232.00 17,127.00 21,795.25 33,956.00 34,133.12 34,362.69
Stockholders’ equity 72,677.77 89,462.38 1,06,295.03 1,49,206.32 1,70,986.03 2,03,720.83 2,40,092.94 2,80,199.01 4,40,245.81 5,01,424.64
Working funds 7,40,796.07 8,63,840.19 10,63,934.32 12,44,540.69 15,30,511.26 17,46,870.52 20,68,535.05 24,66,081.47 36,17,623.09 39,10,198.94
Loans 4,64,593.96 5,54,568.20 6,58,333.09 8,19,401.22 9,93,702.88 11,32,836.63 13,68,820.93 16,00,585.90 24,84,861.52 26,19,608.62
Investments 1,95,836.29 2,14,463.34 2,42,200.24 2,93,116.07 3,91,826.66 4,43,728.29 4,55,535.69 5,17,001.43 7,02,414.96 8,36,359.67
Key Ratios :          
Earnings per share (H)1 24.42 28.59 33.88 39.33 48.01 56.58 66.80 79.25 85.83 88.29
Return on equity 17.97% 18.04% 18.22% 16.30% 16.76% 16.60% 16.90% 17.39% 16.1% 14.56%
Tier 1 capital ratio 13.22% 12.79% 13.25% 15.78% 17.23% 17.56% 17.87% 17.13% 16.79% 17.69%
Total capital ratio 15.53% 14.55% 14.82% 17.11% 18.52% 18.79% 18.90% 19.26% 18.80% 19.55%
Dividend per share (H)1 4.75 5.50 6.50 7.50 Nil3 6.504 15.50 19.00 19.50 22.005
Dividend payout ratio 23.51% 23.32% 23.26% 23.36% NA3 11.54%4 23.28% 24.07% 24.38% 25.00%5
Book value per share as at March 31 (H)1 143.74 174.56 204.80 273.94 311.83 369.54 432.95 502.17 579.51 655.27
Market price per share as at March 31 (H)2 535.58 721.28 964.50 1,159.45 861.90 1,493.65 1,470.35 1,609.55 1,447.90 1,828.20
Price to earnings ratio 21.93 25.23 28.47 29.48 17.95 26.40 22.01 20.31 16.87 20.71
AWA R D S   &   AC C O L A D E S  
 Recognised for Excellence 
The Asian Banker Global  
 Euromoney Private Banking PWM & The Banker Global
Excellence in Retail Finance  
 Awards 2025 Private Banking Awards 2024
Awards 2025  
 India's Best for HNW Best Private Bank in India
Best Retail Bank in India  
2nd ICC Emerging Asia Banking  Dun & Bradstreet BFSI &
 The Economic Times Infra 
Conclave and Awards 2024  FinTech Summit 2025
 Leadership Awards 2024 
Best Performance on Growth  India's Leading Private Bank
 Infra Financer of the Year 
(Private Sector - Large Bank)  (Large)
  Doing Good for Bharat
Golden Peacock National CSR Journal Excellence 
  Awards 2024
Training Award 2025 Awards 2024 
  Winner in ‘Doing Good Through
Winner in ‘Financial Sector - Best Project Award in the 
  Business for Women and
Banking’ Category Education and Skill training 
  Inclusion’ category
Listings  
Kantar BrandZ 2025  
Most Valuable Global Brands  
Only Indian Bank in the  
Top 100 Most Valuable  
Brands Globally  
HDFC Bank Limited
200  
 Responsible Business 
A S S U R A N C E  S TAT E M E N T  
 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25 201
A S S U R A N C E   S TAT E M E N T 
202 HDFC Bank Limited
Responsible Business 
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25 203
GRI Standard Disclosure Description Page Number(s) URL(s)/ Section
General Disclosures    
GRI 2: General 2-1 Organizational details 529 Business Responsibility and
Disclosures    Sustainability Report
 2-2 Entities included in the organization's 529 Business Responsibility and
  sustainability reporting  Sustainability Report
 2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point 04; 529 About the Report; Business
    Responsibility and Sustainability Report
 2-4 Restatements of information 04 About the Report
 2-5 External assurance 04 About the Report
 2-6 Activities, value chain and other business 48 Re-Imagining Value Creation
  relationships  
 2-7 Employees 154-156 Social-People
 2-8 Workers who are not employees 154 Social-People
 2-9 Governance structure and composition 280-282 Report on Corporate Governance
 2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest 283 Report on Corporate Governance
  governance body  
 2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 18 Board of Directors
 2-12 Role of the highest governance body in 113; 282 ESG Strategy Encompassing
  overseeing the management of impacts  Sustainable Finance; Report on
    Corporate Governance
 2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts 96 Risk Management
 2-14 Role of the highest governance body in 113; 282 ESG Strategy Encompassing
  sustainability reporting  Sustainable Finance; Report on
    Corporate Governance
 2-15 Conﬂicts of interest 541 Business Responsibility and
    Sustainability Report
 2-16 Communication of critical concerns 305-306 Report on Corporate Governance
 2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance 284 Report on Corporate Governance
  body  
 2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest 250-251 Directors’ Report
  governance body  
 2-19 Remuneration policies 388-403 Schedules to Standalone Financial
    Statements
 2-20 Process to determine remuneration 388-403 Schedules to Standalone Financial
    Statements
 2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 269-270 Annexure 4 to Directors’ Report
 2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy 528 Statement by the Director Responsible
    for the Business Responsibility and
    Sustainability Report
 2-23 Policy commitments 305-306 Report on Corporate Governance
 2-24 Embedding policy commitments 305-306; 536- Report on Corporate Governance;
   538 Business Responsibility and
    Sustainability Report
 2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts 56-59; 532-534 Stakeholder Engagement; Business
    Responsibility and Sustainability Report
 2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising 56-59; 136-138 Stakeholder Engagement; Customer
  concerns  Centricity
 2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 540; 303-305 Business Responsibility and
    Sustainability Report; Report on
    Corporate Governance
 2-28 Membership associations 570 Business Responsibility and
    Sustainability Report
 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement 56-59; 552-555 Stakeholder Engagement; Business
    Responsibility and Sustainability Report
 2-30 Collective bargaining agreement 157 Business Responsibility and
    Sustainability Report
GRI Standard Disclosure Description Page Number(s) URL(s)/ Section
Material Topics    
GRI 3: Material 3-1 Process to determine material topics 60 Materiality
Topics 2021    
 3-2 List of material topics 61 Materiality
 3-3 Management of material topics 62-73 Materiality
GRI 200: Economic    
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 62, 63, 67 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 40-41; 198-199; Financial Performance; 10 Year
Performance   211, 215-216 Financial Highlights; Directors' Report
 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 128-133; 238- Environment; Director’s Report
  opportunities due to climate change 239 
 201-3 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations and other 547 Business Responsibility and
  retirement plans  Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 62, 66, 69 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender 556 Business Responsibility and
  compared to local minimum wage  Sustainability Report
 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the NA NA
  local community  
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 66, 71 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Indirect Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 168-191 Social - Community
Impacts  supported  
 203-2 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts 168-191 Social - Community
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 67 Measuring What Matters: Impact and
Topics 2021    Value
Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 571 Business Responsibility and
Practices    Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 62, 64 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 64; 305 Materiality; Report on Corporate
  corruption  Governance
 205-2 Communication and training about anti- 64 Materiality
  corruption policies and procedures  
 205-3 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions 64; 540-541 Materiality; Business
  taken  
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 62, 64 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Anti-competitive 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti- 570 Business Responsibility and
Behaviour  trust, and monopoly practices  Sustainability Report
GRI 300: Environment    
Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 119 Environment
 302-3 Energy intensity 119 Environment
 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 119-120 Environment
 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products NA NA
  and services  
GRI Standard Disclosure Description Page Number(s) URL(s)/ Section
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 67, 72 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 121 Environment
 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 122 Environment
 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 122 - 123 Environment
 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 123 Environment
 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 122, 124-126 Environment
 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and 562-563 Business Responsibility and
  other signiﬁcant air emissions  Sustainability Report
Waste 306-3 Waste generated 127 Environment
 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 127 Environment
 306-5 Waste directed to disposal 127 Environment
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 67 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 568-569 Business Responsibility and
Environmental  environmental criteria  Sustainability Report
Assessment    
 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply 568-569 Business Responsibility and
  chain and actions taken  Sustainability Report
GRI 400: Social    
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 70 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 155-156 Social - People
 401-2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that 161-162, 546- Social – People; Business
  are not provided to temporary or part-time 547 Responsibility and Sustainability Report
  employees  
 401-3 Parental leave 159 Social - People
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 62, 64, 70 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Labor/ 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 157 Social - People
Management  changes  
Relations    
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 70 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Occupational 403-3 Occupational health services 549-552 Business Responsibility and
Health and Safety    Sustainability Report
 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and NA NA
  communication on occupational health and  
  safety  
 403-6 Promotion of worker health NA NA
 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health NA NA
  and safety impacts directly linked by business  
  relationships  
 403-10 Work-related ill health NA NA
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 70 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 153 Social - People
Education    
 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 150-153 Social - People
  transition assistance programs  
 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 154; 548-549 Social – People; Business
  performance and career development reviews  Responsibility and Sustainability Report
GRI Standard Disclosure Description Page Number(s) URL(s)/ Section
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 64,70 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 19; 159 – 161; Board of Directors; Social -People;
Equal Opportunity   530-531 Business Responsibility and
    Sustainability Report
 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women 556-557 Business Responsibility and
  to men  Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 64,70 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Non- 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 557-559 Business Responsibility and
discrimination  taken  Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 70 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights 306; 556 Report on Corporate Governance;
  policies or procedures  Business Responsibility and
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 62, 64, 70 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Human Rights 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human 306,556 Business Responsibility and
Assessment  rights reviews or impact assessments  Sustainability Report
 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or 556 Business Responsibility and
  procedures  Sustainability Report
 412-3 Signiﬁcant investment agreements and contracts 558 Business Responsibility and
  that include human rights clauses or that  Sustainability Report
  underwent human rights screening  
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 71 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 170-171 Social - Community
Communities  impact assessments, and development  
  programs  
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 67 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 558 Business Responsibility and
Assessment  criteria  Sustainability Report
 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 558 Business Responsibility and
  actions taken  Sustainability Report
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 68 Materiality
Topics 2021    
Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 578 Business Responsibility and
  of customer privacy and losses of customer data  Sustainability Report
  49,241  
due to its robust credit evaluation of targeted customers and a 1,20,000   
well-diversified loan book across sectors, customer segments    
 1,00,000   
and products. Its performance is an outcome of its disciplined    
approach to managing risk and return. 80,000   
 60,000   122,670
  108,532 13.0% 
The Indian economy is expected to remain one of the fastest    
 40,000   
growing economies in 2025-26. RBI has forecast GDP growth    
of 6.5 per cent. Rural demand is expected to be healthy on    
 20,000   
account of robust agricultural output, lower food inflation and    
 ` 85.83.   
For more details, please refer to the Macroeconomic and    
Industry section on page no. 214.    
 Net Profit   
In  this  changing  environment,  your  Bank  continued  to    
 80,000  10.7% 
    67,347.4
prioritise growth while strengthening its focus on governance,    
 70,000   
  60,812.3  
sustainability and inclusive development. 60,000   
 50,000   
    
Financial Parameters 40,000   
 30,000   
 20,000   
The  results  for  the  year  ended  March  31,  2025  include  the    
 10,000   
operations  of  Housing  Development  Finance  Corporation    
 0   
 D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
Dear Shareholders, Net Revenue Distribution 
Your Directors take great pleasure in presenting the 31st Annual  
 6.7% 
Report on the business and financial operations of HDFC Bank  
 1,80,000 
Limited (“HDFC Bank” or “Bank”), together with the audited  
accounts for the year ended March 31, 2025. 1,60,000 
  45,632
  
The Bank’s key financial parameters continued to be healthy, 1,40,000
-7.33% 
 49,241 
due to its robust credit evaluation of targeted customers and a 1,20,000 
well-diversified loan book across sectors, customer segments  
 1,00,000 
and products. Its performance is an outcome of its disciplined  
approach to managing risk and return. 80,000 
 60,000 122,670
 108,532
13.0% 
The Indian economy is expected to remain one of the fastest  
 40,000 
growing economies in 2025-26. RBI has forecast GDP growth  
of 6.5 per cent. Rural demand is expected to be healthy on  
 20,000 
account of robust agricultural output, lower food inflation and  
 0 
easing input costs. Urban consumption is also likely to benefit  
 FY 2023-24 FY 2024-25
from tax cuts announced in the Budget, reduction in interest  
rates by the RBI and moderating inflation.  
 Net Interest Income Non-Interest Income
 in ` crore 
Global growth stood at 3.3 per cent in 2024, which was below  
the  historical  average.  The  growth  in  countries  like  the  US  
  Net Profit increased by 10.7 per cent to ` 67,347.4 crore from
remained strong at 2.8 per cent, while the growth contracted  
  ` 60,812.3 crore. Return on Average Net Worth was 14.56
or remained muted in the Eurozone, Japan and UK.  
  per cent while Basic Earnings Per Share was ` 88.29 up from
 ` 85.83. 
For more details, please refer to the Macroeconomic and  
Industry section on page no. 214.  
 Net Profit 
In  this  changing  environment,  your  Bank  continued  to  
 80,000
10.7% 
  67,347.4
prioritise growth while strengthening its focus on governance,  
 70,000 
 60,812.3 
sustainability and inclusive development. 60,000 
 50,000 
  
Financial Parameters 40,000 
 30,000 
 20,000 
The  results  for  the  year  ended  March  31,  2025  include  the  
 10,000 
operations  of  Housing  Development  Finance  Corporation  
 0 
Limited (“HDFC Limited”) and its subsidiaries (which became FY 2023-24 FY 2024-25
 in ` crore 
subsidiaries of the Bank on amalgamation) effective from July  
01, 2023 and hence are not comparable with results for the  
  Total Advances grew by 5.4 per cent and Total Deposits grew
year ended March 31, 2024.  
  by 14.1 per cent year-on-year. Net Interest Margin (NIM) was
 at 3.48 per cent. 
Based on Standalone Financial Statements  
The income statement reflected a growth in revenue comprising  
Net Interest Income and Non-Interest Income. While the former  
grew by 13.0 per cent, the latter fell by 7.33 per cent year-  
on-year. On an overall basis, Total Net Revenue for the year  
ended March 31, 2025, reached ` 1,68,302.4 crore, reflecting  
an increase of 6.7 per cent over the previous year.  
Growth in Advances and Deposits   Gross  Non-Performing  Assets  (GNPAs)  stood  at  1.33  per
   cent as against 1.24 per cent. This is amongst the lowest in
   the industry.
5.4%  27,14,715 
28,00,000   
26,19,609 14.1%  
24,84,862   
24,00,000   
 23,79,786  Gross Non-Performing Assets (GNPAs)
20,00,000   
   
16,00,000   1.33 per cent
   Amongst the lowest in the industry
12,00,000   
8,00,000   
4,00,000   
-   
ecosystems,  it  identifies  and  supports  programmes  that  
  2025-26. Consumption demand in the rural areas is expected
nurture and uplift communities.  
  to  be  supported  on  account  of  healthy  agricultural  output,
  lower  food  inflation  and  moderating  input  costs.  Urban
Parivartan concentrates on six key areas:  
  consumption demand will be supported by tax cuts, reduction
1. Rural Development 
  in interest rates by RBI and moderating inflation. The RBI has
  reduced  its  policy  rate  by  100  basis  points  since  February
2. Promotion of Education 
  2025,  bringing  it  to  5.50  per  cent.  This  along  with  liquidity
3. Skill Development & Livelihood Enhancement 
  infusion is likely to help reduce borrowing costs and spur credit
  demand in the economy.
4. Healthcare & Hygiene 
5. Financial Literacy & Inclusion 
  In  the  year  under  review,  the  Bank  focused  on  expanding
  customer  reach,  maintaining  balance  sheet  strength,  and
6. Natural Resource Management. 
  advancing post-merger integration across business lines and
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
Merger 
 CSR Beneficiaries
 
Two years into the merger, the integration of HDFC Limited’s Over 10.56 crore
home loan expertise with HDFC Bank’s scale and reach has 
 Lives impacted cumulatively
solidified  our  position  as  a  leading  financial  institution.  Our 
enhanced capacity to support large-scale and infrastructure (including both immediate and
financing underscores our continued commitment to nation- extended beneficiaries)
building and job creation. As our role expands, so does our 
emphasis  on  strong  governance  across  the  HDFC  Bank 
 For  further  details  on  Parivartan  please  refer  to
Group. We remain steadfast in upholding ethical practices, 
 pages 168 to 191.
transparency,  and  strong  risk  management—ensuring  we 
retain the trust that defines our legacy. 
 Summary
Parivartan 
 Indian GDP grew at 6.5 per cent in 2024-25. It had registered a
 healthy average growth of 8.8 per cent over the previous three
Parivartan,  HDFC  Bank’s  CSR  initiative,  is  dedicated  to 
 years. This was due to moderation in urban demand as inflation
supporting  the 
inclusion  of  economically  and  socially 
 and elevated interest rates weighed on discretionary spending.
disadvantaged groups by fostering growth, development and 
empowerment. With a commitment to creating sustainable 
 According to RBI, India is expected to grow at 6.5 per cent in
ecosystems,  it  identifies  and  supports  programmes  that 
 2025-26. Consumption demand in the rural areas is expected
nurture and uplift communities. 
 to  be  supported  on  account  of  healthy  agricultural  output,
 lower  food  inflation  and  moderating  input  costs.  Urban
Parivartan concentrates on six key areas: 
 consumption demand will be supported by tax cuts, reduction
1. 
Rural Development 
 in interest rates by RBI and moderating inflation. The RBI has
 reduced  its  policy  rate  by  100  basis  points  since  February
2. 
Promotion of Education 
 2025,  bringing  it  to  5.50  per  cent.  This  along  with  liquidity
3. 
Skill Development & Livelihood Enhancement 
 infusion is likely to help reduce borrowing costs and spur credit
 demand in the economy.
4. 
Healthcare & Hygiene 
5. 
Financial Literacy & Inclusion 
 In  the  year  under  review,  the  Bank  focused  on  expanding
 customer  reach,  maintaining  balance  sheet  strength,  and
6. 
Natural Resource Management. 
 advancing post-merger integration across business lines and
Each of these pillars is designed to foster holistic growth and systems. As the scale and complexity of operations increased,
empower  communities,  ensuring  sustainable  and  inclusive a 
formal  Group  Oversight  Framework  was 
introduced
development.  Through Parivartan, your Bank has reached out to  ensure  alignment  of  governance  and  risk  practices
to underserved communities in the tribal belt, border villages across subsidiaries.
and locations with limited access. The Bank through its Holistic 
Rural Development Programme (HRDP), has worked towards The Bank continued to contribute to national development by
creating self-reliant villages. enhancing access to financial services in underserved regions
 and  supporting  rural  prosperity  through  both  commercial
Your  Directors  are  pleased  to  announce  that  the  Bank and  social  initiatives.  We  remain  committed  to  responsible
successfully fulfilled its CSR obligation for the Financial Year corporate citizenship by contributing to the development of
2024-25. society and promoting sustainability.
 These  efforts  are  made  possible  by  the  resilience  and
CSR Spend 
 dedication of over 2,14,000 employees  whose  contribution
 remains integral to the Bank’s progress. We continue to focus
` 1,068.03 crore on attracting and retaining top talent, striving to be one of the
In the Financial Year 2024-25 industry’s premier employers.
Mission and Strategic Focus The Bank is focusing on:
 • 
Delivering  a  better  experience  and  greater
Your Bank’s mission is to be a ‘World-Class Indian Bank’. Its 
 convenience to customers
business philosophy is based on five core values: 
 • 
Increasing market share in India’s growing banking
• 
Customer Focus 
 and financial services industry
• 
Operational Excellence 
 • 
Expanding geographical reach
• 
Product Leadership 
 • 
Cross-selling  the broad financial product portfolio
• 
People 
 • 
Sustaining  strong asset quality through disciplined
• 
Sustainability 
 credit risk management
 • 
Maintaining  low cost of funds
Sustainability should be viewed in unison with Environmental, 
Social and Governance performance. As a part of this your 
Summary of Financial Performance  
  (` crore)
 For the year ended For the year ended /
Particulars / As on As on
 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Deposits and Borrowings 3,262,645.8 3,041,939.4
Advances 2,619,608.6 2,484,861.5
Total Income 346,149.3 307,581.6
Profit Before Depreciation and Tax 91,857.5 73,705.4
Profit After Tax 67,347.4 60,812.3
Profit Brought Forward 139,579.9 112,960.0
Additions on Amalgamation (net) - 3,570.1
Total Profit Available for Appropriation 206,927.3 177,342.4
Appropriations  
Transfer to Statutory Reserve 16,836.8 15,203.1
Transfer to General Reserve 6,734.7 6,081.2
Transfer to Capital Reserve 507.0 4,166.4
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve - 529.4
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve - 378.0
Transfer to Special Reserve 3,200.0 3,000.0
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year 14,826.2 8,404.4
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet 164,822.4 139,579.9
 D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T
Dividend In general, your Bank’s dividend policy, among other things,
 balances  the  objectives  of  rewarding  shareholders  and
The Board of Directors of the Bank, at its meeting held on April 
 retaining capital to fund future growth. It has a consistent track
19, 2025, has recommended a dividend of ` 22.00 (Rupees 
 record of dividend distribution, with the Dividend Payout Ratio
Twenty-two only) per equity share of ` 1/- (Rupee One only), 
 ranging between 20 per cent and 25 per cent, which the Board
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025. This translates 
 endeavours to maintain. The dividend policy of your Bank is
to a Dividend Payout Ratio of 25.00 per cent of the profits for 
 available on the Bank’s website.
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025. 
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/?path=/Footer/About%20Us/ 
Corporate%20Governance/Codes%20and%20Policie/pdf/Dividend-Distribution-Policy.pdf 
Ratings 
Ratings    
Instrument  Rating Rating Agency Comments
Fixed Deposit  CARE AAA (FD) CARE Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
Programme    regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
    Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
  IND AAA India Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
    regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
    Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
Fixed Deposit  CRISIL AAA CRISIL Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
Programme    regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
( Tr a n s f e r r e d f r o m   Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
HDFC Limited)*    
  ICRA AAA ICRA Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
    regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
    Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
Certificate of Deposits  CARE A1+ CARE Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have very strong degree of safety
Programme    regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
    Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
  IND A1+ India Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have very strong degree of safety
    regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
    Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
Infrastructure Bonds  CARE AAA CARE Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
    regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
    Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
  CRISIL AAA CRISIL Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
    regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
    Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
  IND AAA India Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
    regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
    Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
  ICRA AAA ICRA Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
    regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
    Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Additional Tier I  CARE AA+ CARE Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have high degree of safety regarding
Bonds    timely servicing of financial obligations.
(Under Basel III)    Such securities carry very low credit risk.
  CRISIL AA+ CRISIL Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
    regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
    Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
  IND AA+ India Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have high degree of safety regarding
    timely servicing of financial obligations.
    Such securities carry very low credit risk.
   Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Instrument Rating Rating Agency Comments
Tier II Bonds CARE AAA CARE Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
(Under Basel III)   regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
   Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
 CRISIL AAA CRISIL Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
   regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
   Such securities carry the lowest credit risk.
 IND AAA India Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
   regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
   Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
 ICRA AAA ICRA Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
   regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.
   Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Commercial Paper CRISIL A1+ CRISIL Securities with this rating are considered to have very strong degree of safety
(Transferred from   regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
HDFC Limited)*   Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Bank Loans CARE AAA CARE Ratings Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
(Transferred from   regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
HDFC Limited)*   Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
 ICRA AAA ICRA Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
   regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
   Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Unsecured NCD CRISIL AAA CRISIL Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
(Transferred from   regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
HDFC Limited)*   Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
 ICRA AAA ICRA Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
   regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
   Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
Subordinated Debt CRISIL AAA CRISIL Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
(Transferred from   regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
HDFC Limited)*   Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
 ICRA AAA ICRA Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
   regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
   Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
ICRA AAA
ICRA Securities with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety
 regarding timely payment of financial obligations.
 Such securities carry lowest credit risk.
* The instruments / bank facilities have been transferred from Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (HDFC Limited) on account 
of amalgamation of HDFC Limited into HDFC Bank Limited with effect from July 01, 2023. 
Issuance  of  Equity  Shares  and  Employee  Stock regulatory minimum requirement of 11.7 per cent, including a
Option Scheme (ESOP) Capital Conservation Buffer of 2.5 per cent and an additional
 requirement of 0.2 per cent on account of the Bank being
As on March 31, 2025, the issued, subscribed and paid-up 
 identified as a Domestic Systemically Important Bank. Tier I
capital of your Bank stood at ` 7,65,22,21,674.00 /- comprising 
 Capital was at 17.7 per cent as of March 31, 2025.
7,65,22,21,674 equity shares of ` 1/- each. Further, 5,53,11,012 
equity shares of face value of ` 1/- each were issued by your 
Bank  pursuant  to  the  exercise  of  Employee  Stock  Options Total CAR
(ESOPs) and Restricted Stock Units (RSUs). 
 19.6 per cent
For information pertaining to ESOPs, please refer Annexure 1 
 Well Above Regulatory Minimum
of the Directors’ Report. 
 Requirement of 11.7 per cent
Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) 
As on March 31, 2025, your Bank’s total CAR, calculated as 
per Basel III Regulations, stood at 19.6 per cent, well above the 
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
Management Discussion and Analysis conditions,  private  capex  is  expected  to  also  see  some
 recovery. At the same time accommodative monetary policy,
Macroeconomic and Industry Developments 
 lower inflation and healthy balance sheets of financial institutions
India’s GDP growth moderated to 6.5 per cent in 2024-25, and corporates are likely to support private investments.
after registering a healthy average growth of 8.8 per cent over 
the preceding three years. This was driven by a moderation in Inflationary  pressures  started  to  ease  towards  the  end  of
urban demand as inflation and elevated interest rates weighed Financial Year 2024-25, with headline Consumer Price Index
on  discretionary  spending,  growth  in  fixed  investments (CPI) averaging at 4.6 per cent from 5.4 per cent in Financial
remained muted and government spending was off to a slow Year 2023-24. Though inflation increased to a high of 6.2 per
start due to union and state elections in the first half of 2024- cent in October 2024, it has continuously moderated since
25. Further, Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) flows remained then, reaching 3.3 per cent in March 2025. The moderation
weak as rising global uncertainty related to US tariff threats in headline inflation was led by moderating food price inflation
led to outflow of capital in second half of Financial Year 2024- in  H2-2024-25.  Core  inflation  (which  excludes  the  volatile
25. On the other hand, domestic growth was supported by food and fuel prices) continued to remain below 4 per cent
an improvement in rural demand conditions on the back of for  most  part  of  the  fiscal  year.  Going  forward,  we  expect
healthy  agriculture  output.  In  addition,  exports  also  added headline inflation to moderate further to 3.7 per cent in 2025-
positively to growth increasing by 6.3 per cent. Export growth 26,  with  a  continued  easing  in  food  inflation,  assuming  a
was led by strong momentum in net services exports, driven normal monsoon. The risk to inflation stems from weather-
by the continued expansion of global capability centers and related disruptions reigniting food inflation.
strong demand from large trading partners like the US. 
 Tariff threats and related disruptions in global trade flows pose
From the supply side, manufacturing growth slowed in 2024- the biggest risks to global and India’s  growth prospects. The
25 with a rise in input costs and slower volume growth while US had imposed reciprocal tariffs across all countries with
service  sector  growth  broadly  held  up  above  7  per  cent. India attracting a tariff of 26 per cent in early April, 2025. Higher
Elsewhere, growth in the construction sector remained healthy tariffs were later put on pause for a 90-day period and replaced
at 9.4 per cent. The biggest support to growth came from with  a  blanket  tariff  of  10  per  cent  on  all  countries  except
above trend growth in the agriculture sector, as favourable China which attracts a 30 per cent tariff for now. The final tariff
monsoon  conditions  supported  kharif  output  while  healthy imposed will depend on country specific trade agreements
reservoir  levels  and  soil  moisture  conditions  supported including between India and the US. The diversification and
rabi crops. derisking of supply chains could open an opportunity for India
 to  expand  its  exports  to  the  US  in  sectors  like  electronics
On the external front, global growth stood at 3.3 per cent in and  textiles  amongst  others.  Moreover,  India  could  benefit
2024 - below the historical average. While growth in countries from  closer  trade  ties  with  the  US  depending  on  the  final
like the US remained strong at 2.8 per cent, growth contracted negotiations under the Bilateral Trade Agreement. That said,
or remained muted in the Eurozone, Japan, and UK. the risk of a sharp global growth slowdown, recession in the
 US and supply chain disruptions due to US tariffs and any
Looking ahead, India is widely expected to remain one of the retaliation by other countries poses a risk for India’s overall
fastest growing economies in Financial Year 2025-26, with the exports in Financial Year 2025-26.
RBI forecasting GDP growth at 6.5 per cent. Consumption 
demand in the rural areas is expected to be supported by Geopolitical tensions in the Middle East, Russia and Ukraine
healthy agricultural output, lower food inflation and moderating or  closer  home  with  neighbours  could  impact  domestic
input costs. Tax cuts, reduction in interest rates by RBI and growth. The geopolitical tensions between India and Pakistan
moderating inflation are likely to support urban consumption have currently subsided but need to be closely monitored.
demand. The RBI has reduced its policy rate by 100 basis Similarly,  a  further  escalation  in  Ukraine  –  Russia  tensions
points  since  February  2025  bringing  it  down  to  5.5  per could disrupt global trade and energy flows and negatively
cent. This along with liquidity infusion is likely to help reduce impact the domestic economy. Furthermore, financial market
borrowing costs and spur credit demand in the economy. volatility and climate induced uncertainties continue to pose
 risks to growth.
The government is expected to continue supporting growth 
through capital spending which is budgeted at `11 lakh crore Domestically,  a  slower  than  expected  improvement  in
for  2025-26.  In  addition,  with  an  improvement  in  demand consumption  demand  due  to  weather  related  disruptions,
HDFC Bank Limited
214 
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
inflation  spikes  and  any  sharp  corrections  in  the  domestic Total  Provisions  and  Contingencies  were  `  11,649.4  crore
equity market could also weigh on growth prospects. as compared to ` 23,492.2 crore in the preceding year. The
 decrease is mainly on account of floating provision created in
That  said,  India’s  domestic  economy  remains  resilient  and the previous year of ` 10,900.0 crore. Your Bank’s provisioning
its  financial  system  sound  to  navigate  global  headwinds. policies remain more stringent than regulatory requirements.
Moreover, proactive monetary and fiscal support are likely to 
 The  Coverage  Ratio  based  on  specific  provisions  alone
provide further support to growth in Financial Year 2025-26. 
 excluding write-offs was 67.9 per cent and including general,
 floating and contingent provisions was 172.1 per cent. Your
Financial Performance 
 Bank made General Provisions of  ` 198.4 crore during the
The financial performance of your Bank during the year ended year.  Gross  Non-Performing  Assets  (GNPAs)  were  at  1.33
March  31,  2025  remained  healthy  with  Total  Net  Revenue per cent of Gross Advances, as against 1.24 per cent in the
(Net Interest Income plus Other Income) rising 6.7 per cent previous year. Net NPA ratio stood at 0.43 per cent as against
to ` 1,68,302.4 crore from ` 1,57,773.5 crore in the previous 0.33 per cent in the previous year.
year.  Revenue  growth  was  driven  by  an  increase  in  Net 
 Profit Before Tax grew by 24.8 per cent to ` 88,478.1 crore.
Interest Income. Net Interest Income grew by 13.0 per cent 
 After providing for Income Tax of ` 21,130.7 crore, Net Profit
to ` 1,22,670.1 crore. Net Interest Margin (NIM) stood 3.48 
 increased by 10.7 per cent to ` 67,347.4 crore from ` 60,812.3
per cent. 
 crore. Return on Average Net Worth was 14.56 per cent while
 Basic Earnings Per Share (EPS) was ` 88.29 up from ` 85.83.
TOTAL NET REVENUE 
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
HDFC Limited’s Borrowing Maturity Schedule The  payments  business  is  one  of  the  stated  strategic
 pillars for the Bank.
Of the HDFC Limited’s borrowings of ` 2,87,923 crore as at 
March 31, 2025, approximately 15 per cent is due for repayment 
 With over 7.5 crore cards issued (credit, debit and pre-
in each of the two years up to FY27 and the balance 70 per 
 paid)  and  a  widely  distributed  acceptance  network
cent is due thereafter. 
 across the online and offline merchant ecosystem, HDFC
 Bank continues to maintain a leadership position across
Business Review 
 multiple product offerings in the payments landscape.
Your Bank’s operations are split into Domestic and International. 
 In  the  Financial  Year  2024-25,  HDFC  Bank  scaled  up
 with a slew of new products launched across UPI, TATA,
A. 
Domestic Business comprises the following: 
 Swiggy in the Payments Business.
Retail Banking 
 The  year  ended  March  31,  2025  saw  62  lakh  new
Your  Bank’s  Retail  Assets  are  built  on  three  key credit cards being issued covering retail and business
principles: Strong Digital Offering, Optimal Risk Pricing segments. Of total cards in force in market, HDFC Bank
and Maintaining Pristine Portfolio Quality. Adherence to crossed 2.38 crore cards in force which is the highest
these principles combined with the strength of merger amongst all issuers. To provide better service to all card
boosted  your  Bank’s  Retail  Advances  to  `  13,75,769 holders, the recently launched Mycards, emerged as a
crore witnessing a growth of about 9 per cent year-on- robust and comprehensive card servicing platform and
year. currently has 3.45 crore registered customers availing
 several card related services.
Brief on segment performance: 
 Further, the Bank launched PayZapp 2.0 a comprehensive
The  Bank’s  increased  focus  on  top  corporates  and 
 mobile payment commerce app in March 2023. PayZapp
good credit score customers contributed to the overall 
 not only supports a complete range of payments from
pristine portfolio quality. Personal Loans segment has 
 credit cards, debit cards, wallet and UPI with customers
experienced  strong  growth  with  the  overall  portfolio 
 getting  the  choice  of  form  factor  to  make  payments
touching ` 1,99,334 crore towards the end of the year. 
 at  merchant  stores  using  Scan  or  Tap  or  at  Online
Nearly all applications (99.6 per cent) of this segment are 
 merchants with a Swipe action. The app has reached
originated digitally and 87 per cent of these applications 
 the milestone of 1.6 crore registrations in FY 2025 and
are disbursed digitally. 
 over 50 lakh (on an average) active users per month.
The  Xpress  car  loans,  offering  seamless  end-to-end 
 To  enhance  and  strengthen  offerings  to  merchants,
digital disbursement, has increased the digital origination 
 SmartHub  Vyapar-  an  integrated  payment,  banking
to 36 per cent of the total New Car Loan business. 
 and business solution that caters to the daily needs of
 merchants and helps them drive business growth was
Two-Wheeler advances are close to ` 12,359 crore with 
 formally  launched  in  October  2022.  The  platform  has
nearly 100 per cent digital acquisition. 
 witnessed  widespread  adoption  ever  since  and  has
 onboarded close to 19.3 lakh users across the country
Your Bank has exhibited significant year-on-year growth 
 as on March 31, 2025.
of 28 per cent in Gold Loans capitalising on an expanded 
branch network. 
 SmartHub Payment Gateway, a unified payment platform
 for online merchants was launched in February 2024 in
Post  the  merger,  your  Bank,  has  emerged  as  an 
 line with the Bank’s endeavour to provide merchants a
institution with one of the largest mortgage loan portfolios 
 comprehensive platform to cater to their payments and
in the country. The retail mortgage advances stood at 
 banking needs and help drive their growth. This platform
`  8,35,656  crore  compared  to  the  previous  year’s 
 enables  merchants  to  collect  payments  through  150
` 7,74,406 crore representing a growth of 8 per cent year 
 plus  methods  and  assists  them  in  maximising  sales
on year. 
 with  best-in-class  success  rate.  SmartHub  Payment
 Gateway provides an insightful dashboard powered by
  Other digitally enabled loan products—such as personal
with  projected  March  exit  volume  of  approximately  
  loans, gold loans and business loans—saw increased
1,000 crore.  
  adoption, supported by features like:
Lastly,  in  tune  with  the  evolving  payments  landscape  
 • Pre-qualified offer journeys
the business continues to transform itself with significant  
investments  across  Cloud  Computing,  Analytics, • Bank statement analytics
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Open APIs  
 • Automated underwriting
and Cyber Security. The objective is to manage large  
scale and continuously grow volumes while processing • Real-time KYC and biometric authentication
transactions in a safe and secure manner.  
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
smart analytics and empowers merchants to provide a for auto loans and extends full-service capabilities even
frictionless  check  out  experience  for  their  customers. to new-to-bank customers.
The  platform  has  onboarded  over  1,600  Merchants 
 Other digitally enabled loan products—such as personal
with  projected  March  exit  volume  of  approximately 
 loans, gold loans and business loans—saw increased
1,000 crore. 
 adoption, supported by features like:
Lastly,  in  tune  with  the  evolving  payments  landscape 
 • 
Pre-qualified offer journeys
the business continues to transform itself with significant 
investments  across  Cloud  Computing,  Analytics, • 
Bank statement analytics
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Open APIs 
 • 
Automated underwriting
and Cyber Security. The objective is to manage large 
scale and continuously grow volumes while processing • 
Real-time KYC and biometric authentication
transactions in a safe and secure manner. 
 Digital 
journeys  were  also 
introduced 
for  Group
 Health  and  Group  Term  insurance,  embedded  within
Key  digital  initiatives  in  the  Retail  segment  in 
 account  and  loan  offerings  for  existing-to-bank  (ETB)
FY 2024-25: 
 customers—reflecting  a  growing  focus  on  integrated
In  the  Financial  Year  2024-25,  the  Bank  continued  to protection products.
expand and deepen its digital footprint across the retail 
segment, with a strong emphasis on simplifying customer Expanded  Digital  Journeys  Across  Liabilities
journeys,  scaling  digital  fulfilment,  and  embedding and Cards
services across channels and platforms. 
 In  deposits  and  liabilities,  the  Bank  launched  new
 journeys for:
Driven by the Bank’s broader Shift Right strategy, the 
focus this year was on developing end-to-end journeys 
 • 
Assisted and unassisted savings account onboarding
that minimise friction, reduce paperwork and enhance 
 • 
M i n o r-to -m a j o r 
c o nve r s i o n s 
a n d 
s a l a r y
speed-to-fulfilment—while ensuring security, regulatory 
 family accounts
alignment and accessibility. 
 • 
Fixed deposits with external funding
Digital Origination and Fulfilment at Scale 
 • 
Standalone card and asset customer servicing
Retail  customer  acquisition  through  digital  channels 
reached  new  milestones  during  the  year.  86  per  cent Digital issuance and activation journeys for credit cards,
of all new retail products—including savings accounts, including  DSA-assisted  and  corporate  card  variants,
loans, credit cards and deposits—were sourced digitally, were  expanded  during  the  year.  These  journeys  were
up from 82 per cent in the previous year. The bank now integrated with real-time bureau checks and document
enables 97 per cent of all financial transactions through validations, reducing manual touchpoints and enabling
digital  channels,  highlighting  the  shift  towards  a  self- faster disbursals.
service ecosystem. Additionally, 79 per cent of servicing 
requests  were  fulfilled  digitally,  compared  to  73  per Enhanced  Customer  Service  and  Post-Sale
cent in FY 2024. The Bank’s self-service and assisted Fulfilment
journeys  now  support  onboarding  across  a  diverse 
 Customer  servicing  continued  to  see  strong  digital
customer base, from digitally native users to first-time 
 adoption.  The  Bank  now  offers  89  per  cent  digital
users in semi-urban and rural markets. 
 coverage across common retail service interactions—up
 from 73 per cent in FY 2024.
The Bank’s Xpress Car Loan (XCL) platform continued 
to scale as India’s largest end-to-end digital auto loan 
 Key services journeys rolled out during the year included:
journey.  The  platform  processed  over  1.3  lakh  units, 
 • 
Address update (cards and assets)
disbursing ` 13,110 crore digitally in FY 2025. This zero- 
paper, zero-touch model is now the preferred channel 
 • 
Re-KYC for standalone asset customers
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
Over 55 per cent of support interactions were resolved technology to connect with customers, build relationships
through  self-service  channels,  powered  by  intelligent and promote banking products and services. This helps
routing, contextual nudges and fallback to live assistance the  Bank  to  expand  the  managed  customer  base,
where required. generate leads and drive revenue growth.
Embedded  Retail  Journeys  and  Ecosystem Recognising  employees  and  customers  as 
the
Integration capitals  for  this  business,  your  Bank  has  invested
 heavily  in  training  and  development  of  its  relationship
Retail journeys were also extended beyond the Bank’s 
 managers.  Training  covers  product  knowledge,  sales
direct platforms through embedded finance partnerships 
 techniques,  communication  skills,  compliance  and
with  e-commerce,  fintech  and  mobility  platforms. 
 regulatory  requirements  and  customer  relationship
Strategic tie-ups with platforms like Tata Neu, Swiggy 
 management skills.
and  PhonePe  enabled  real-time,  near  100  per  cent 
digital fulfilment of savings accounts, personal loans and As we transition into the digital age, a banking experience
credit cards. characterised  by  digital  ease  and  personalised
 conversations  remains  at 
the  core  of  our  Virtual
Behind  the  scenes,  these  embedded  journeys  were 
 Relationship Management (VRM) strategy.
powered  by  the  Bank’s  growing  library  of  secure, 
reusable  APIs  and  an  orchestration  framework  that As a part of this strategy, relationship managers reach
enabled straight-through processing (STP), verification, out to customers through remote and digital platforms
and activation at the point of need. resulting in deeper and cost-effective engagement. As
 digital  literacy  and  exposure  increases  exponentially,
Inclusive and Assisted Digital Journeys 
 VRMs  are  gaining  wider  acceptance  through  deeper
 engagement  and  relationships  backed  by  a  strong
The  Bank  continued  to  prioritise  accessibility  through 
 product  offering  thereby  constituting  an  important
assisted digital journeys, especially in semi-urban and 
 component of the Bank’s customer engagement strategy.
rural  markets.  These  journeys  leverage  field  agents, 
business correspondents and biometric-ready apps to 
 With proper training, technology support, and adherence
support onboarding and fulfilment. 
 to compliance, this channel is a highly effective tool for
 the Bank to drive revenue growth, expand its customer
Key features included: 
 base and provide excellent customer service.
• 
Aadhaar and biometric-based KYC 
 Retail Banking – Mortgage Business
• 
Geo-tagged documentation 
 Post  the  merger,  HDFC  Bank,  has  emerged  as  an
• 
Offline-ready functionality for low-connectivity areas 
 institution with one of the largest mortgage loan portfolios
 in  the  country.  This  brings  together  HDFC  Limited’s
Products such as gold loans, microcredit, and deposits 
 segment expertise of over four and a half decades and
were offered through assisted apps, ensuring financial 
 in person customer connect with HDFC Bank’s extensive
inclusion while maintaining the speed and simplicity of 
 branch  network  and  an  ability  to  leverage  technology
digital fulfilment. 
 platforms.  The  home  loan  business  has  opened  a
 fresh pathway for future growth for the Bank due to a
Our Distribution Channel: 
 large customer base. This increases its ability to serve
The virtual channels of the Bank were set up to enhance customers better due to a longer tenure engagement and
coverage across customer segments and to ensure a enhances its ability to tap into opportunities for cross-
holistic service experience to all customers. This is one sell. The retail mortgage advances stood at ` 8,35,656
of the key engagement channels in the Bank. crore compared to ` 7,74,406 crore in FY 2024.
 Cross-sell remains a primary focus for both existing and
Virtual Relationship Banking is an integrated customer 
 new customers. The Bank leverages its digital channels
centric  approach  covering 
three  pillars  -  Virtual 
 to minimise acquisition costs. Post the merger, over 95
Relationship, Virtual Sales and Virtual Care serving as 
 per  cent  of  the  newly  acquired  home  loan  customers
a crucial component of the Bank’s sales and customer 
 hold  a liability account with  the  Bank. The home  loan
engagement  strategy.  This  approach  harnesses 
relationships and enables HDFC Bank to emerge as the representing a growth of 4 per cent over the previous year.
primary banker for these customers. 
 Premium Earned
Third Party Products 
 5,000
 4,500
4,381.6
Your Bank distributes Life, General and Health Insurance 4%
 4,208.4
 4,000
as  well  as  Mutual  Funds  (Third  Party  Products)  to  its 
 3,500
customers. In the Financial Year 2024-25, the income 3,000
from this business accounted for 24.7 per cent of the 2,500
 2,000
Bank’s Total Fee Income. 
 1,500
 1,000
Life Insurance 
 500
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
customers  also  enjoy  the  benefit  of  a  strong  suite  of and processes. To meet customer demands, additional
financial products and solutions that the Bank offers, like manpower has been deployed across non-life insurers.
credit cards, consumer durable loans, wealth products As on March 31, 2025, premium mobilisation in General
and insurance. This culminates in strengthening customer and Health Insurance reached a total of ` 4,381.6 crore
relationships and enables HDFC Bank to emerge as the representing a growth of 4 per cent over the previous year.
primary banker for these customers. 
 Premium Earned
Third Party Products 
 5,000
 4,500
4,381.6
Your Bank distributes Life, General and Health Insurance 4%
 4,208.4
 4,000
as  well  as  Mutual  Funds  (Third  Party  Products)  to  its 
 3,500
customers. In the Financial Year 2024-25, the income 3,000
from this business accounted for 24.7 per cent of the 2,500
 2,000
Bank’s Total Fee Income. 
 1,500
 1,000
Life Insurance 
 500
 0
Your  Bank  has  adopted  an  open  architecture  model FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
 in ` crore
for  distributing  insurance  products  from  three  trusted 
partners with a focus on offering customers a diverse 
 Mutual Funds
array of options. For the year ended March 31, 2025, the 
 Your  Bank  follows  an  open  architecture  approach  in
Bank mobilised premium of ` 10,331 crore representing 
 distribution of Mutual Funds and is currently associated
a  year-on-year  growth  of  16  per  cent.  HDFC  Bank’s 
 with 37 Asset Management Companies (AMCs).
extensive distribution network includes branches, virtual 
channels, NRI services and wealth management. The 
 The Bank’s Assets Under Management (AUM) grew by
key focus would continue to be on staff training, robust 
 14 per cent to reach ` 1,56,321 crore for the year ended
quality  and  control  processes  uniformly  implemented 
 March  31,  2025.  The  Bank  offers  digital  on-boarding
across  all  partners  as  well  as  offering  integrated  and 
 platform  to  customers  for  Mutual  Fund  investments
seamless  digital  on-boarding  journeys.  Currently,  the 
 through 
Investment  Services  Account 
(ISA)  and
Bank’s NetBanking platform offers 66 insurance products 
 SmartWealth (app based).
across all partners accounting for over 49 per cent of the 
total policies. 
 During 
the  same  period,  HDFC  Bank  and  HSL
 (InvestNow) witnessed a significant growth of 40 per cent
Premium Earned 
 in Systematic Investment Plans (SIPs) mobilisation.
     in Systematic Investment Plans (SIPs) mobilisation.  
  16%     
     Assets Under Management (AUM)  
12,000   10,331    
10,000 8,940      
    1,80,000   
8,000      14% 
6,000       1,56,321
    1,60,000   
4,000       
     1,37,343  
2,000       
    1,40,000   
0       
 FY 2023-24  FY 2024-25 1,20,000   
in ` crore       
    1,00,000   
Non-Life Insurance       
0 
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25 1,20,000
in ` crore 
 1,00,000
Non-Life Insurance 
 80,000
Your Bank, in collaboration with its four General Insurance 
 60,000
and two Standalone Health and Insurance partners, has 
introduced  innovative  non-life  insurance  products  to 40,000
expand the range of offerings and provide comprehensive 
 20,000
coverage to customers. These products are accessible 
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
Wealth Management offerings in each segment. For Ultra-HNW clients,  we
 have more than doubled the number of products referred
In  the  Financial  Year  2024-25,  our  team  of  over  1000 
 on  our platform. Keeping our  Super-Affluent clients  in
Sales and Service experts have focused on extending 
 mind, we’ve introduced State-of-the-art Wealthfy reports
Wealth  services  to  clients  ranging  from  Ultra-HNW  to 
 that provide detailed portfolio diagnostics and analysis.
Mass Affluent client segments. 
 We  have  developed  an  advanced  unassisted  digital
HDFC Bank was adjudged as “India’s  Best for HNW” 
 investment platform - SmartWealth that enables our clients
in  the  Euromoney  Private  Banking  Awards  2025.  In 
 to track their portfolios and make investments along with
the Global Private Banking Awards 2024 organised by 
 access  to  goal-based  investment  recommendations.
Professional Wealth Management (PWM), published by 
 With highly intuitive client experience and gamification of
the Financial Times, HDFC Bank was adjudged the Best 
 client journeys, this mobile first platform aims to provide
Private Bank in India. 
 access of our research to all mass affluent clients. It has
 more than six lakh downloads and nearly four lakh clients
Your Bank made continuous and incremental efforts to 
 onboarded on SmartWealth.
generate as well as quantify the alpha delivered in each 
client’s portfolio. In 2025, 87 per cent of our clients had 
 HDFC  Bank’s  wide  range  of  investment  offerings
generated a positive alpha with the median client alpha 
 successfully adapt to the changing economic landscape
at 2.6 per cent. Our aim is to incorporate alpha in all client 
 to manage and create wealth for our clients, with “Protect,
reports and portfolio reviews. 
 Manage, Grow.” being our brand identity.
With a sales force of over 850 team members supported 
 Wholesale Banking
by 150+ service staff and over 100 Investment Analysts, 
we have the largest Wealth bankers in the country. With The Wholesale Banking business focuses on institutional
an increase in manpower, we’ve put in consistent efforts customers such as the Government, PSUs, Large and
in providing the best education and training to our private Emerging  Corporates  and  SMEs.  Your  Bank  offers  a
bankers.  By  conducting  intensive  training  sessions  in range of products and services encompassing working
collaboration  with  top-ranked  business  schools  such capital and term loans, trade credit, cash management,
as Indian Institute of Management at Ahmedabad and supply chain financing, foreign exchange and investment
Bangalore, we have groomed our in-house talent. banking services.
Service First culture is the central pillar for our business Wholesale Banking business constituted about 42 per
as  we  focus  on  service  led  sales  by  prioritising  client cent of your Bank’s Gross domestic advances as per
delight and relationship banking. Service Quality is an Basel II classification, with a book size of ` 10,82,413 crore.
essential part of RM scorecards and Supervisor KPIs. 
Client engagement, portfolio servicing and Net Promoter The Bank has continued making significant inroads into
Score  are  key  business  performance  assessment the banking consortia of a number of leading corporates.
measures. Our Service First Culture has led to an NPS Corporate  Banking, 
focusing  on 
large,  well-rated
score of 87 in the Financial Year 2024-25 which is one of companies continued to be the biggest contributor to
the highest in the industry. Wholesale Banking in terms of asset size.
With  this  segment  specific 
focus,  we  have  been This business continued its attention towards engaging
consistent in growing our market share and proving to be with Multi-National Corporations (MNCs) and capitalised
one of the largest Wealth Managers in the country. With on  the  increasing  trend  among  large  companies  to
the help of over 100 Investor Education Initiatives having consolidate  their  banking  relationships.  Your  Bank
fund managers as expert guest speakers, your Bank has strengthened its existing relationships and expanded its
been able to reach across the length and breath of the market share by leveraging its extensive array of product
country, covering Tier II and III cities as well. offerings. The Emerging Corporates Group focuses on
 the mid- market segment. Your Bank leveraged its vast
Your  Bank  has  endeavoured  to  become  the  market geographical reach, technology backbone, automated
leader  across  all  investor  segments  through  curated processes,  suite  of 
financial  products  and  quick
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
turnaround times to offer a differentiated service.  The Your  Bank  has  embarked  on  strategic  digital
business continues to have a diversified portfolio in terms transformation to enhance Customer Engagement and
of both industry and geography. Employee  Experience  and  create  an  ecosystem  for
 seamless banking.
In the year under review, the Bank continued its focus 
on the MSME sector. There has already been increased It also leverages analytics to delve deeper into corporate
formalistion and digitalisation of the MSME sector owing ecosystems resulting in better product structuring, cross
to  the  implementation  of  the  Goods  and  Service  Tax sell  opportunities,  improved  yields  thus  improving  the
(GST). Through MyBusiness, which offers comprehensive Bank’s share of Revenue Pools from Corporates.
financial solutions like Business Banking, Easy Loans, 
Trade  Services  and  Digital  Solutions,  MSMEs  can HDFC Bank provides a comprehensive suite of cutting-
conveniently access a suite of product / services tailored edge  platforms  tailored  to  meet  the  diverse  needs  of
to meet the business requirements. corporate  clients.  Among  these,  our  Corporate  E-Net
 Banking platform stands out, offering both the reliable
Post the merger of HDFC Limited with HDFC Bank, the e-Net  service  and  the  more  recently  upgraded  CBX
Bank inherited the realty finance business. During the platform.  These  platforms  provide  intuitive  interfaces
year, the bank increased its focus to provide construction and  robust  functionalities  empowering  businesses
finance in the residential and commercial space as well with  seamless  control  over  their  financial  operations.
as lease rental discounting to leading developers in the Additionally,  our  Trade  Platform  -  Trade  on  Net  (TON)
country. The Bank increased its market share in existing serves  as  a  cornerstone  for  facilitating  efficient  trade
relationships  and  added  new  customers.  it  plans  to transactions.  Also,  our  Supply  Chain  Finance  (SCF)
increase its geographical presence in the coming year to transaction platform enables digital contract bookings
cater to new customers in key growing markets. The Bank and  automated  disbursements,  streamlining  end-to-
focuses on providing a gamut of banking services and end  SCF  transactions  for  the  corporates.  Your  Bank
customised solutions to its customers in this segment. has  integrated  with  all  the  three  TReDS  platforms.
 We  are  also  collaborating  with  Fintechs  to  integrate
The Investment Banking business further cemented its with  Corporate  ERP  and  offer  Embedded  Banking  in
prominent position in the Debt Capital Markets, Equity Corporate Ecosystems journeys.
Capital Markets and INR Loan Syndication. Your Bank is 
among the top three in the Bloomberg rankings of Rupee Treasury
Bond Book Runners for the Financial Year 2024-25 with a 
 The  Treasury  Department  is  the  custodian  of  your
market share of 11.61 per cent. Your Bank is amongst the 
 Bank’s cash / liquid assets and handles its investments
top five in the Bloomberg rankings of Syndicated INR term 
 in  securities,  foreign  exchange  and  cash  instruments.
loans for Financial Year 2024-25. The Bank has provided 
 It  manages  the  liquidity  and  interest  rate  risks  on  the
advisory services and actively assisted clients in equity 
 balance  sheet  and  is  also  responsible  for  meeting
fund  raising  through  five  Initial  Public  Offerings  (IPOs) 
 reserve requirements. The vertical also helps manage
amounting to ` 17,250 crore (including one InvIT IPO) and 
 the hedging needs of customers and earns a fee income
one Institutional Placement of units of InvIT amounting to 
 generated from transactions customers undertake with
` 8,400 crore, aggregating to about ` 25,650 crore for 
 your Bank while managing their foreign exchange and
the Financial Year 2024-25. Additionally, the Bank also 
 interest rate risks.
assisted in a government. disinvestment through an Offer 
for Sale amounting to about ` 3,450 crore. 
 Revenue accrues from spreads on customer transactions
 based on trade and remittance flows and demonstrated
In  the  Government  Business,  your  Bank  sustained  its 
 hedging  needs.  Your  Bank  recorded  a  revenue  of
focus on tax collections, collecting direct tax (CBDT) of 
 ` 4,919.04 crore from foreign exchange and derivative
` 6,08,278.22 crore and Indirect tax - CBIC (Custom duty 
 transactions in the year under review.
+ GST) of over ` 5,15,558.20 crore during Financial Year 
2024-25.  It  continues  to  enjoy  a  pre-eminent  position 
 As  a  part  of  its  prudent  risk  management,  your  Bank
among  the  country’s  major  stock  and  commodity 
 enters into foreign exchange and derivatives deals with
exchanges  in  both  Cash  Management  Services  and 
 counterparties after it has set up appropriate credit limits
Cash Settlement Services. 
 based on its evaluation of the ability of the counterparty
 Liquidity Ratio (SLR). A significant portion of these SLR Government,  Institutional  Business  and  Start–Ups
 securities are in ‘Held-to-Maturity’ (HTM) category, while within your Bank. Some of the key highlights and new
 some are ‘Available for Sale’ (AFS). The Bank is also a initiatives include:
 primary dealer for Government Securities. As a part of 
 this business, your Bank holds fixed income securities 1. 
Increased focus on the retail Government deposits
 as ‘Held for Trading’ (HFT). resulted in your Bank acquiring over 10 per cent of
  the market share in 201 districts.
 In the year under review, your Bank continued to be a 
 significant  participant  in  the  domestic  exchange  and 
  2. 
Your Bank continues to rank among the top three
 interest rate markets. It also capitalised on falling bond 
  leading Government Agency Banks for collecting
 yields  to  book  profits  and  is  now  looking  at  tapping 
  Central  Government  taxes.  Substantial  market
 opportunities arising out of the liberalisation in the foreign 
  shares were acquired in collections of Direct Tax,
 exchange and interest rate markets. 
  GST and Custom Duty as per tax collection data
  reported through PIB & CGA, Government of India.
B. International Business 
  Your  Bank  has  now  started  sourcing  accounts
  under  the  Senior  Citizens  Savings  Scheme  on
 During the year, your Bank stayed on course to cater 
  behalf of the Central Government.
 to  NRI  clients  and  deepen  its  product  and  service 
  D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
 to  meet  its  obligations.  Where  your  Bank  enters  into  As  on  March  31,  2025,  the  Balance  Sheet  size  of
 foreign currency derivatives contracts not involving the  International Business was US $ 10.83 billion. Advances
 Indian Rupee with its customers, it typically lays them off  constituted  1.75  per  cent  of  the  Bank’s  advances.
 in the inter-bank market on a matched basis. For such  The  Total  Income  contributed  by  Overseas  Branches
 foreign currency derivatives, your Bank primarily carries  constituted 1.44 per cent of the Bank’s Total Income for
 the  counterparty  credit  risk  (where  the  customer  has  the year.
 crystallised  payables  or  ‘mark-to-market’  losses)  and  
 may carry only residual market risk, if any. Your Bank  
   International Business Balance Sheet
 also deals in derivatives on its own account including for  
 the purpose of its own balance sheet risk management.  
   US $ 10.83 billion
 HDFC  Bank 
is  also  a  nominated  agent 
for 
the  
 bullion  imports  and  has  a  significant  market  share  in  
 that business. C. Partnering  with  Government, 
Institutions  and
   Start–Ups
 Your Bank maintains a portfolio of Government securities  
 in line with the regulatory norms governing the Statutory  It  has  been  another  year  of  steady  progress 
for
 Liquidity Ratio (SLR). A significant portion of these SLR  Government,  Institutional  Business  and  Start–Ups
 securities are in ‘Held-to-Maturity’ (HTM) category, while  within your Bank. Some of the key highlights and new
 some are ‘Available for Sale’ (AFS). The Bank is also a  initiatives include:
 primary dealer for Government Securities. As a part of  
 this business, your Bank holds fixed income securities  1. 
Increased focus on the retail Government deposits
 as ‘Held for Trading’ (HFT).  resulted in your Bank acquiring over 10 per cent of
   the market share in 201 districts.
 In the year under review, your Bank continued to be a  
 significant  participant  in  the  domestic  exchange  and  
   2. 
Your Bank continues to rank among the top three
 interest rate markets. It also capitalised on falling bond  
   leading Government Agency Banks for collecting
 yields  to  book  profits  and  is  now  looking  at  tapping  
   Central  Government  taxes.  Substantial  market
 opportunities arising out of the liberalisation in the foreign  
   shares were acquired in collections of Direct Tax,
 exchange and interest rate markets.  
   GST and Custom Duty as per tax collection data
   reported through PIB & CGA, Government of India.
B. International Business  
   Your  Bank  has  now  started  sourcing  accounts
   under  the  Senior  Citizens  Savings  Scheme  on
 During the year, your Bank stayed on course to cater  
   behalf of the Central Government.
 to  NRI  clients  and  deepen  its  product  and  service  
 proposition.  HDFC  Bank’s  international  operations  
   HDFC Bank’s Market Share:
 comprise five branches, located in Hong Kong, Bahrain,  
 Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC), Singapore  
 and an IFSC Banking Unit in Gujarat International Finance  
 Tec-City. Additionally, it has four representative offices  
 in Kenya, Abu Dhabi, Dubai and London respectively,  
 catering  to  Non-Resident  Indians  and  Persons  of  
 Indian Origin.  
 The Bank’s product strategy in International Markets is  
   3. 
Your Bank facilitated the transfer of funds flowing
 customer centric and it has products to cater to client  
   from the Central Government to various beneficiaries
 needs  across  asset  classes.  GIFT  City  branch  offers  
   under 
the  aegis  of 
the  Centrally  Sponsored
 products  such  as  trade  credits  and  foreign  currency  
   Schemes, Central Sector Schemes, and the 15th
 term loans (including external commercial borrowings).  
   Finance  Commission.  The  total  flows  processed
 It  is  gradually  widening  the  product  offerings  to  cater  
   grew by 11 per cent year on year.
 to the needs of Resident and Non-Resident clients and  
 capitalise on the growth in the financial centre.  
   Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
4. Your Bank continues its initiatives on digitalisation 11. Your  Bank  continues  to  expand  its  presence  in
 of  financial  operations  of  government  entities.  the  education  sector  and  has  successfully  on-
 For  example,  it  has  enabled  online  collection  of  boarded approximately 42 per cent of universities
 revenues  from  wayside  amenities  for  National  nationwide. Some of the marquee additions during
 Highway Logistics Management Limited.  the year include IIM Kozhikode, IIM Visakhapatnam,
   AIIMS  Jammu,  Mahadevappa  Rampure 
(MR)
5. On disbursements, your Bank has helped digitalise  Medical  College,  Shekhawati  University  and
 payments to beneficiaries against land acquisition  Central Sanskrit University. Additionally, your Bank
 activities  undertaken  by  various  authorities  for  onboarded notable religious organisations, including
 development of national infrastructure.  Dwarkadhishji  Mandir,  Thakur  Shri  Bankey  Bihari
   Ji Maharaj Vrindavan, Shri Digamber Jain Atishay
6. Your  Bank 
is  now 
integrated  with  National  Teerth Kshetra Chandragiri Dongargarh, Sri Rajapur
 e-Governance  Services  Limited  (NeSL)  enabling  Jagannath Mandir, Catholic diocese of Kottayam,
 online  access  and  validation  of  electronic  Bank  Shri Bhimakali Temple, Haryana Wakf Board and
 Guarantees (eBGs) to serve customers better.  the chain of ISKCON temples.
  12. Your Bank has received positive customer feedback
7. Your  Bank 
is  now 
integrated  with 
treasury  
   for its recent digital products and solutions:
 systems  across  six  states  to  enable  beneficiary  
 account  validation,  payments,  transaction  and  
   a. 
FarSight  Dashboard:  Building  on 
the
 balance reporting.  
   existing  solution,  your  Bank  has 
further
   enhanced the FARSight Dashboard to provide
8. Your Bank has successfully harnessed the granular  
   visibility across accounts and offer cashflow
 business  opportunity  at  District-level,  Block-level  
   forecasting capabilities for customers to plan
 and Gram Panchayat-level. It has introduced a new  
   their finances.
 bundled offering called “Panchayat Kavach” where  
 complimentary non-life insurance of ` 5 lakh and  b. 
GIGA: Your bank launched GIGA – an industry
 several  exclusive  benefits  are  provided  to  secure  first banking programme tailored specifically
 the Gram Panchayats from various calamities.  for gig/platform workers. GIGA addresses an
   underserved demographic, by understanding
9. Your Bank has also driven digitalisation at district  the unique challenges faced by them such as
 level  through  solutions  that  enable  expenditure  irregular income, lack of financial security and
 reporting  and  associated  payments 
through  limited access to traditional banking services.
 integration with the Bank’s payment channels.  
   GIGA  Program  includes  a  specialised  savings
   account with relaxed quarterly balance requirements,
10. Your Bank has intensified its efforts to engage with  
   debit  and  credit  cards  with  value  added  offers,
 pensioners implementing the following measures:  
   affordable health insurance for themselves and their
   family, unique flexible investment products which
 a. 
Enhancing  pension  product 
for  defence  
   enables  them  to  ‘invest  when  they  can  and  how
 pensioners,  with  personal  accidental  death  
   much they can’ instead of a traditional systematic
 coverage of ` 50 lakh till the age of 80.  
   investment plan. Additionally, a range of loans to
   meet their borrowing needs are also offered.
 b. 
In the Financial Year 2024-25, we ensured that  
 99  per  cent  of  pensioners  (our  customers)  
  13. Your  Bank  is  committed  to  enabling  smooth
 successfully  submitted 
their  digital 
life  
   cross-border  transactions  for  Indian  merchants,
 certificates in the Pension Processing System  
   freelancers,  MSMEs  and  exporters.  In  line  with
 of the Bank through a hassle-free experience.  
   RBI’s  regulations  on  online  payment  gateway
   service  providers/  payment  aggregators  –  cross
 c. 
Further, your Bank has extended its pension  
   border,  your  Bank  is  collaborating  with  fintech
 disbursement 
ser vices 
to 
non-HDFC  
   partners  for  providing  authorised  dealer  services
 Bank  accounts 
thus  servicing  a  wider  
   to  enable  secure  and  hassle  free  cross–border
 pensioner population.  
   trade settlements.
 of  them  are  government  nodal  agencies  and   
 incubators located at educational institutions. Some  c. MeitY India AI Mission: Strategic partnership
 of the partners are:   towards nurturing AI solutions for large scale
    socio-economic impact.
 a. 
Department  for  Promotion  of  Industry  and   
 Internal Trade (DPIIT), Government of India d. Semi-Urban and Rural 
   Your Bank has traditionally focused on the Semi-Urban 
 b. 
Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship   
   and  Rural  (SURU)  markets.  As  rural  incomes  and 
 (SINE), IIT Bombay   
   aspirations rise, your Bank’s focus on this market has 
   only  increased  as  it  caters  to  the  demand  for  better 
 c. 
Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM)   
   quality financial products and services. The Bank has 
   been increasing its presence in Semi-Urban and Rural 
 d. 
Startup Odisha   
   markets  through  various  groups  in  the  Bank  with  the 
   objective of increasing lending. 
 e. 
Startup Assam   
   Apart from meeting its statutory obligations under PSL 
 f. 
Hyderabad University   
   (Agri and Allied activities, Small and Marginal Farmers and 
   Weaker Sections), your Bank has been offering a wide 
 g. 
Manipal  University,  Jaipur–Technological   
   range of products on the asset side, such as Auto, Two- 
 Incubation Centre   
   Wheeler, Personal, Gold, Light Commercial Vehicle (LCV) 
   and Small Shopkeeper Loans in these markets. Having 
 h. 
Chitkara University   
   expanded  the  rural  footprint  to  more  than  2.35  lakh 
   villages, HDFC Bank now plans to increase its coverage 
15. HDFC Tech Innovators 2024: Your Bank along   
   in  existing  villages  and  deepen  the  relationships.  The 
 with  HDFC  Capital  Advisors  spearheaded  HDFC   
   Semi-Urban  and  Rural  push  has  been  backed  by  the 
 Tech  Innovators  2024,  a  joint  initiative  of  HDFC   
   Bank’s digital strategy. Your Bank’s operations in Semi- 
 Bank group companies - HDFC AMC, HDFC Ergo,   
   Urban and Rural locations are explained below: 
 HDB  Financial  Services,  HDFC  Life,  and  HDFC   
 Securities to promote innovations and opportunities   
   Agriculture and Allied Activities 
 for technology related start-up ventures. Over 2,000   
 applications were received across five categories -   
   Your  Bank’s  assets  in  Agriculture  and  Allied  activities 
 Fintech, Proptech, Sustainability Tech, Consumer   
   (PSL + Non PSL) stood at  ` 3,73,863.65 crore as on 
 Tech  and  New  Age  Tech.  The  top  10  winners   
   March 31, 2025. 
 were  selected  by  a  grand  jury  comprising  HDFC   
 Bank Group leadership, venture capitalists, senior   
   The Key to HDFC Bank’s success in the existing market has 
 industry executives and unicorn founders.   
   been its ability to leverage various opportunities through: 
  D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T  
14. Start–up  Banking:  Your  Bank  provides  a  a. Reserve Bank Innovation Hub: Identifying/
 comprehensive range of banking products specially   developing a product/process/policy to make
 curated for the start-up ecosystem. In furtherance   banking inclusive for women
 of its objective to support the banking and financial   
 needs of start-ups, your Bank signed MoUs with  b. Startup  India:  Strategic  partnership  for
 prominent  start-up  ecosystem  partners.  Most   access to startup ecosystem
 of  them  are  government  nodal  agencies  and   
 incubators located at educational institutions. Some  c. MeitY India AI Mission: Strategic partnership
 of the partners are:   towards nurturing AI solutions for large scale
    socio-economic impact.
 a. 
Department  for  Promotion  of  Industry  and   
 Internal Trade (DPIIT), Government of India d. Semi-Urban and Rural 
   Your Bank has traditionally focused on the Semi-Urban 
 b. 
Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship   
   and  Rural  (SURU)  markets.  As  rural  incomes  and 
 (SINE), IIT Bombay   
   aspirations rise, your Bank’s focus on this market has 
   only  increased  as  it  caters  to  the  demand  for  better 
 c. 
Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM)   
   quality financial products and services. The Bank has 
   been increasing its presence in Semi-Urban and Rural 
 d. 
Startup Odisha   
   markets  through  various  groups  in  the  Bank  with  the 
   objective of increasing lending. 
 e. 
Startup Assam   
   Apart from meeting its statutory obligations under PSL 
 f. 
Hyderabad University   
   (Agri and Allied activities, Small and Marginal Farmers and 
   Weaker Sections), your Bank has been offering a wide 
 g. 
Manipal  University,  Jaipur–Technological   
   range of products on the asset side, such as Auto, Two- 
 Incubation Centre   
   Wheeler, Personal, Gold, Light Commercial Vehicle (LCV) 
   and Small Shopkeeper Loans in these markets. Having 
 h. 
Chitkara University   
   expanded  the  rural  footprint  to  more  than  2.35  lakh 
   villages, HDFC Bank now plans to increase its coverage 
15. HDFC Tech Innovators 2024: Your Bank along   
   in  existing  villages  and  deepen  the  relationships.  The 
 with  HDFC  Capital  Advisors  spearheaded  HDFC   
   Semi-Urban  and  Rural  push  has  been  backed  by  the 
 Tech  Innovators  2024,  a  joint  initiative  of  HDFC   
   Bank’s digital strategy. Your Bank’s operations in Semi- 
 Bank group companies - HDFC AMC, HDFC Ergo,   
   Urban and Rural locations are explained below: 
 HDB  Financial  Services,  HDFC  Life,  and  HDFC   
 Securities to promote innovations and opportunities   
   Agriculture and Allied Activities 
 for technology related start-up ventures. Over 2,000   
 applications were received across five categories -   
   Your  Bank’s  assets  in  Agriculture  and  Allied  activities 
 Fintech, Proptech, Sustainability Tech, Consumer   
   (PSL + Non PSL) stood at  ` 3,73,863.65 crore as on 
 Tech  and  New  Age  Tech.  The  top  10  winners   
   March 31, 2025. 
 were  selected  by  a  grand  jury  comprising  HDFC   
 Bank Group leadership, venture capitalists, senior   
   The Key to HDFC Bank’s success in the existing market has 
 industry executives and unicorn founders.   
   been its ability to leverage various opportunities through: 
16. Parivar tan  Star t– Up  grants:  Your  Bank  1. A diverse product range
 supported 20 incubators associated with reputed   
   2. Faster turnaround time
 academic institutions and 87 start-ups through the   
 eighth  edition  of  the  Parivartan  Start-Up  Grants.   
   3. Distribution strength
 This  year,  your  Bank  partnered  with  three  nodal   
 government agencies, each contributing to specific   
   4. Innovative digital solutions
 thematic areas:   
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
HDFC Bank’s extensive product portfolio encompasses crore for 3,529 projects and disbursed ` 1,843 crore for
pre and post-harvest Crop Loans, Farm Development 3,363 projects.
/ Investment Loans, Two-Wheeler Loans, Auto Loans, 
 • 
The  Project  Monitoring  Unit,  AIF,  Ministry  of
Tractor Loans, Small Agri Business Loans, Loan Against 
 Agriculture  and  Farmer  Welfare  has  set  specific
Gold,  Loan  to  landless  labourers  and  more.  This 
 targets  through  various  campaigns.  Your  Bank
comprehensive offering has enabled the Bank to establish 
 achieved  106  per  cent  of  assigned  target  by
a robust presence in rural areas with its asset products. 
 approving ` 688 crore against target of ` 650 crore
Additionally, it has been a prominent participant in the 
 in  AIF  PRAGATI  Campaign  conducted  between
Agri Infrastructure Fund Scheme consistently achieving 
 January 1 and February 15, 2025.
allocated targets set by the Government. 
 • 
In  the  ARISE  Campaign  conducted  between
HDFC Bank is increasingly involved in facilitating various 
 June 18 and July 31, 2024, your Bank has secured
Government / Regulatory Schemes to other Non-crop 
 second position amongst all Scheduled Commercial
Segments, including Agri-allied and Small Agri-Business 
 Banks (SCBs) by approving 1,421 applications.
Enterprises, as well as Rural MSMEs. A unique business 
model  encompassing  a  wide  variety  of  products  and 
 Pradhan  Mantri  Formalisation  of  Food  and
services driven by a relationship management approach 
 Micro Enterprises (PMFME):
ensures  suitable  solutions  as  well  as  financial  literacy 
to farmers. The Bank has tailored a range of crop and 
 Your  Bank  is  actively  implementing  the  scheme  and
geography-specific products to align with harvest cycles 
 passing the benefits to all eligible borrowers in the food
and address the specific needs of farmers across diverse 
 processing sector.
Agro-climatic  zones.  This  customer-centric  approach 
has transformed the rural banking services, enabling the 
 In the year under review, loans worth ` 549 crore were
delivery of personalised offerings to meet the evolving 
 sanctioned for 2,929 projects and ` 567 crore has been
needs of rural customers effectively. 
 disbursed for 3,319 projects.
Products  such  as  post-harvest  cash  credit  and 
 Other Agri schemes, where your Bank has significantly
warehouse receipt financing facilitate faster cash flows to 
 contributed include Agri Marketing Infrastructure Fund
farmers, while credit is also extended for Allied Agricultural 
 (AMIF), Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Fund (AHIDF),
Activities  such  as  Dairy,  Pisciculture,  and  Sericulture. 
 Credit  Guarantee  Fund 
for  Micro  Units,  National
Moreover, HDFC Bank’s targeted branch expansion in 
 Livestock  Mission  (NLM)  as  well  as  state-specific
SURU regions coupled with digital interventions aims to 
 Government schemes.
create a superior customer experience and position it as 
a future-ready institution. To  address  high  volume  and  low-value  ticket  loans  in
 Agri-Business with a digital optimisation strategy, your
Participation in Government Schemes 
 Bank plans to onboard AgriTech-BCs with differentiated
 business models. These BCs will help source and service
As a part of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the Government 
 small and marginal farmers.
of India has announced several schemes/enablers across 
several sectors, particularly in the Agriculture sector. Your Funding Small and Marginal Farmers (SMFs):
Bank is implementing almost all such initiatives / schemes 
 Your  Bank  views  lending  to  the  agriculture  sector,
targeting multiple stakeholders in the Agri ecosystem. 
 including  to  small  and  marginal  farmers,  as  a  huge
Agriculture  Infrastructure  Fund  (AIF)  Scheme: opportunity and not just a regulatory mandate to meet
Through this scheme, the Bank is offering medium to priority  sector  lending  requirements.  The  Bank  has
long-term debt for investment in viable projects pertaining leveraged  its  extensive  knowledge  of  rural  customers
to  post-harvest  management  and 
infrastructure to  create  as  well  as  deliver  products  and  services  at
development like construction of warehouses/silos. As affordable price points with a quick turnaround time. This
of March 31, 2025, under the AIF scheme, your Bank has has enabled HDFC Bank to establish a strong footprint
sanctioned ` 6,359 crore covering 8,859 projects and in the rural geographies which it has now leveraged to
disbursed ` 4,642 crore covering 7,494 projects. During increase its penetration of liability products.
the year under review, your Bank has sanctioned ` 1,991 
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
In  the  Financial  Year  2023-24,  your  Bank  serviced Gold Loans:
customers in about 2.25 lakh villages. Through a plethora 
 Your Bank is making inroads into a market dominated
of interventions, the number of villages grew to over 2.35 
 by  the  unorganised  sector,  moneylenders  and  pawn
lakh in the Financial Year 2024-25. Your Bank has put in 
 brokers.  The  Bank  is  keen  on  making  the  gold  loan
place a strategy to further penetrate these villages and 
 facility  available  across  the  length  and  breadth  of  the
add more customers through a variety of products for 
 country. As on March 31, 2025, the Bank is offering gold
farmer financing. 
 loans through 4,617 branches, with 46 per cent of these
HDFC Bank has financed and supported 35 lakh Small branches in Semi-Urban and Rural location. HDFC Bank
and  Marginal  Farmers.  This  was  achieved  through  a ended the year with a Gold Loan Portfolio of ` 18,716
strategy to engage closely with small and marginal farmers crore with growth of 28 per cent over the previous year.
through  customised  agriculture  loans.  Leveraging  the 
 Your Bank is implementing its blueprint of making gold
government schemes it has launched various secured/ 
 loans available in most of its branches and thereby taking
unsecured loan products including Loan Against Gold as 
 this  product  within  the  reach  of  otherwise  untapped
security, targeting small and marginal farmers in Agri and 
 customer segments
Allied segments. 
Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs): Social Initiatives in Farm Sector
For  agriculture  productivity  and  incomes  to  grow, 
 The  farm  sector  faces  threats  arising  out  of  climate
aggregation of farm holdings in the form of FPOs is the 
 change as evident from the growing number of extreme
key strategy to double farmers’ income. Leveraging the 
 weather events. In addition, factors like soil health, input
government  scheme  for  formation  and  promotion  of 
 quality  (seeds  and  fertilisers),  water  availability  and
10,000  new  FPOs  (Credit  guarantee  is  available  from 
 Government policy have significant impact, along with
NABARD  /  CGTMSE),  your  Bank  has  funded  eligible 
 price realisations and storage facilities. All this has an
FPOs for working capital and term loan requirements. As 
 impact on farm yield and income.
of March 31, 2025, your Bank was able to reach 249 FPOs 
covering about one lakh small and marginal farmers. Given the vulnerabilities, it is critical to strengthen climate
 resilience and adaptability of the agri-food sector. In this
Digital Interventions 
 context, your Bank has launched a variety of initiatives
 such  as  Holistic  Rural  Development  Programme
Some  of 
the  digital 
interventions  made  by  your 
 (HRDP),  Crop  Residue  Management  Project  amongst
bank include: 
 others. Within regulatory guidelines, your Bank has also
 been  providing  relief  to  impacted  farmers.  It  also  has
Digitalising Milk Procurement: 
 put in place systems designed to enable Direct Benefit
This initiative brings transparency in the milk procurement Transfers in a time-bound manner.
and payment process which benefits both farmers and 
 Lending  to  the  agriculture  sector,  including  to  small
dairy societies. Multi-function Terminals (MFTs), popularly 
 and marginal farmers, is a regulatory mandate as part
known  as  Milk-to-Money  ATMs,  are  deployed  in  dairy 
 of  priority  sector  lending  requirements.  The  Bank  has
societies. The MFTs link the milk procurement system  of 
 leveraged  its  extensive  knowledge  of  rural  customers
the dairy society to the farmer’s account to enable faster 
 to  create  as  well  as  deliver  products  and  services  at
payments.  MFTs  have  cash  dispensers  that  function 
 affordable  price  points  and  with  a  quick  turnaround
as standard ATMs. Payments are credited without the 
 time. This has enabled it to establish a strong footprint
hassles of cash distribution. Further, this process creates 
 in the rural geographies which has now been leveraged
a credit history which can then be used for accessing 
 to  increase  penetration  of  liability  products.  Further,
bank credit. So far, the Bank has digitalised payments 
 your  Bank  has  been  working  with  a  segment-specific
at  various  milk  cooperatives  across  two  states  also 
 approach  like  funding  to  horticulture  clusters,  supply
279 milk cooperatives actively serving and benefitting 
 chain finance, agri business, MSMEs and dairy farmers. It
more than 1.66 lakh dairy farmers and facilitated 41.72 
 also continues to engage closely with farmers to mitigate
lakhs  transactions.  Apart  from  dairy  and  cattle  loans, 
 risks and protect portfolio quality.
customers gain access to the Bank’s products including 
digital offerings such as 10 Second Personal Loan, Kisan 
Credit Card and Bill Pay. 
the adoption of GST and reforms in return filings, such  
  Your  Bank  has  been  actively  committed  to  offering  a
as income tax have made it easier to access customer  
  multitude  of  Government  schemes  across  diverse
cash  flow  and  financial  data,  which  can  be  used  to  
  geographies. Below are key highlights:
support decision making and portfolio monitoring. Your  
Bank’s SME portal continues to offer ad hoc approvals • Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana and Social
and  pre-approved  Temporary  Overdrafts  (TODs)  on  a  Security  Schemes  (PMJJBY,  PMSBY  and
simplified and faster basis to existing customers. They  APY): To enhance financial inclusion coverage.
can request a top-up of loans and submit the required  
  Support:  Opened  more  than  50  lakh  PMJDY
documents online. The SME portal also allows customers  
  accounts  and  enrolled  90.97  lakh  customers  in
to  access  your  Bank’s  services  related  to  sanctioned  
  Social  Security  Schemes  (PMJJBY,  PMSBY  and
credit  facilities  24/7  from  anywhere.  Customers  can  
  APY) since inception.
download various certificates and statements as needed  
on an ongoing basis.  
 • Financial  Literacy  Camps  (FLCs):  To  educate
  and empower citizens to understand the benefits
On  the  trade  side,  your  Bank  focuses  on  customer  
  of joining the formal financial system.
engagement to increase the penetration of Trade on Net  
applications. Trade on Net is a complete enterprise trade  
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) trade. It enables them to initiate and track requests online
 seamlessly, reducing time and costs.
The  MSME  sector  serves  as  an  important  engine  for 
economic growth and is one of the largest employers in Financial Inclusion and Financial Literacy to
the economy. educate and empower the under-banked
As on March 31, 2025, your Bank’s assets in the MSME The philosophy of financial inclusion is about seamless
segment stood at ` 5,24,101.10 crore. delivery of financial services. This includes opening of
 savings bank accounts to inculcate the savings habit/
The  Micro  Enterprises  assets  alone  stood  at 
 transactions, extending credit for productive, personal
`  1,54,028.51 crore. 
 and other purposes and offering value added services
 such  as  micro-insurance,  pension  products  among
The Union Government and the Reserve Bank of India 
 others. The Bank, through its wide network of branches
(RBI) have been providing support for lending to MSME 
 and business correspondents coupled with enhanced
segment  on  an  ongoing  basis.  Apart  from  various 
 digital offerings such as BHIM UPI as well as Aadhaar and
schemes to support MSMEs during the pandemic, the 
 RuPay-enabled Micro-ATMs ensures a wide coverage
Government has also launched a revamped CGTMSE 
 pan-India.
scheme with an increased limit threshold for guarantee 
cover  and  reduction  of  guarantee  fee.  Many  other 
 HDFC Bank is committed to extending banking services
schemes  like  Credit  Guarantee  to  Start  Ups  (CGSS), 
 to  deeper  geographies  in  the  country  to  educate,
eNWR guarantee scheme have been rolled out. 
 empower and enable citizens to be a part of the formal
 financial system. The bank believes that financial literacy
Your bank emerged as one of the leading contributors to 
 is an important tool for promoting financial inclusion and
CGTMSE in the Financial Year 2024-25 also, supporting 
 has adopted an integrated approach, wherein its efforts
the MSME sector with guarantee-covered credit facilities. 
 towards  Financial  Inclusion  and  Financial  Literacy  go
This has further supported the growth of MSME loans 
 hand in hand.
which have shown a year-on-year growth of 4.07 per cent. 
 Through  Financial  literacy  and  education,  the  Bank
The pace of digitalisation among MSMEs has accelerated, 
 disseminates 
information  on 
the  general  banking
which has helped to speed up the pace of disbursement 
 concepts to diverse target groups, including students,
and increase transparency in the sector. Customers can 
 women,  rural  and  urban  poor,  pensioners  and  senior
now apply online and submit required documents digitally 
 citizens  to  enable  them  to  make  informed  financial
and  they  can  also  execute  post-sanction  agreements 
 decisions  as  well  as  to  make  people  understand  the
digitally to avail of facilities quickly with straight-through 
 benefits of linking with the banking system.
disbursement.  The  Government’s  digitalisation  push, 
the adoption of GST and reforms in return filings, such 
 Your  Bank  has  been  actively  committed  to  offering  a
as income tax have made it easier to access customer 
 multitude  of  Government  schemes  across  diverse
cash  flow  and  financial  data,  which  can  be  used  to 
 geographies. Below are key highlights:
support decision making and portfolio monitoring. Your 
Bank’s SME portal continues to offer ad hoc approvals Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana and Social 
•
and  pre-approved  Temporary  Overdrafts  (TODs)  on  a Security  Schemes  (PMJJBY,  PMSBY  and
simplified and faster basis to existing customers. They APY): To enhance financial inclusion coverage.
can request a top-up of loans and submit the required 
 Support:  Opened  more  than  50  lakh  PMJDY
documents online. The SME portal also allows customers 
 accounts  and  enrolled  90.97  lakh  customers  in
to  access  your  Bank’s  services  related  to  sanctioned 
 Social  Security  Schemes  (PMJJBY,  PMSBY  and
credit  facilities  24/7  from  anywhere.  Customers  can 
 APY) since inception.
download various certificates and statements as needed 
on an ongoing basis. 
 • 
Financial  Literacy  Camps  (FLCs):  To  educate
 and empower citizens to understand the benefits
On  the  trade  side,  your  Bank  focuses  on  customer 
 of joining the formal financial system.
engagement to increase the penetration of Trade on Net 
applications. Trade on Net is a complete enterprise trade 
solution for customers engaged in domestic and foreign 
 Street Vendors since inception and educated and  
   that technology must serve the customer, not complexity.
 encouraged  them  to  adopt  digital  transactions  
 through the “Main Bhi Digital” campaign.  
   The year saw the convergence of three key forces:
• Aadhaar  Seva  Kendras  (Aadhaar  enrolment  
  • A pivot towards platform-led architecture,
 and  updation  service):  Your  Bank  provides  
 Aadhaar enrolment and update services at branches  
  • A  sharp  focus  on  digitalising  every  meaningful
 that are designated as Aadhaar Seva Kendras.  
   journey, and
 Support:  More  than  65.8  lakh  enrolments  and  
  • A proactive stance  on resilience  and responsible
 updates undertaken since inception basis explicit  
   AI exploration.
 customer request.  
 D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
 Support:  The  Bank  has  cumulatively  covered Sustainable Livelihood Initiative
 over  1.84  crore  customers  through  its  FLCs. 
  Our Sustainable Livelihood Initiative (SLI) is a holistic approach
 During  the  Financial  Year  2024-25,  the  bank  has 
  that  aims  to  deliver  financial  support  to  that  section  of  the
 conducted  4.97  lakh  FLC  camps  covering  30.65 
  population who lack access to formal banking services.
 lakh participants. 
  For  details  click  on  https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/
• Pradhan  Mantri  Mudra  Yojana  (PMMY):  To 
  borrow/other-loans/sustainable-livelihood-initiative
 enable small borrowers to borrow upto ` 20 lakh 
 for non-farm income generating activities. 
  E. 
Environmental Sustainability
 Support: Since the launch of the scheme, the Bank 
  Sustainability is one of the core values of the Bank. The
 has extended loans amounting to ` 88,664 crore to 
  details are covered in pages 112 to 135.
 1.32 crore beneficiaries. 
  F. 
Business Enablers
• Stand Up India (SUPI): To empower Scheduled 
 Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Women borrowers. 
  1. 
People
 Support: Your Bank has extended loans amounting People is one of the core values of the Bank. Through
 to  `  3,720  crore  to  16,115  beneficiaries  since continuous  reinforcement  and  alignment  with  our
 inception of the scheme. strategic objectives, the HDFC Bank Culture Framework
  ensures that over 2.14 lakh employees are equipped to
• Prime  Minister’s  Employment  Generation 
  succeed in an ever-evolving landscape. Our supervisory
 Programme (PMEGP): A special scheme aimed 
  behaviour  framework  -  Nurture,  Care,  Collaborate
 at  generating  employment  opportunities  in  rural 
  (NCC) - empowers our workforce with the knowledge
 and  urban  areas  through  establishment  of  new 
  and guidance needed to lead transformation. We focus
 self-employment  ventures,  projects  and  micro- 
  on  acquiring  diverse  talent  and  prioritise  their  well-
 enterprises. 
  being,  safety  and  development,  fostering  an  inclusive
  environment where they can thrive and grow.
 Support: The Bank has disbursed funding of ` 390 
 crore  since  inception  to  micro-enterprise  units  in For details please refer to pages 150 to 167.
 manufacturing and service sectors. 
  2. 
Leveraging 
Technology 
for 
Growth 
and
• PM-Street Vendors AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM- 
  Technology Absorption
 SVANidhi):  Special  scheme  under  micro-credit 
 facility for street vendors providing collateral-free, In  the  Financial  Year  2024-25  HDFC  Bank  advanced
 affordable term loans of ` 10,000 for one year in the its  long-term  technology  strategy  with  an  integrated
 1st tranche. approach to digital, data, and risk transformation. Our
  ambition  to  build  a  future-ready,  inclusive  financial
 Support: Your Bank has provided loans to 40,302 
  institution continued to gain ground—guided by the belief
 Street Vendors since inception and educated and 
  that technology must serve the customer, not complexity.
 encouraged  them  to  adopt  digital  transactions 
 through the “Main Bhi Digital” campaign. 
  The year saw the convergence of three key forces:
• Aadhaar  Seva  Kendras  (Aadhaar  enrolment 
  • 
A pivot towards platform-led architecture,
 and  updation  service):  Your  Bank  provides 
 Aadhaar enrolment and update services at branches 
  • 
A  sharp  focus  on  digitalising  every  meaningful
 that are designated as Aadhaar Seva Kendras. 
  journey, and
 Support:  More  than  65.8  lakh  enrolments  and 
  • 
A proactive stance  on resilience  and responsible
 updates undertaken since inception basis explicit 
  AI exploration.
 customer request. 
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Our “Shift Right” strategy, launched in FY 2024., served • We scaled integrations with partners like Tata Neu,
as the compass—anchoring transformation around five  PhonePe and Swiggy  enabling seamless  API-led
pillars: Journeys, Channels, Core, Data, and Security.  journeys for retail lending and cards.
Reimagining the Banking Experience • Over  one  lakh  products  were  sourced  monthly
  through these ecosystems.
Across  customer 
segments—retail,  SME,  and  
enterprise—we reengineered critical touchpoints to be  
 • Our  co-branded  cards  portfolio  expanded
more responsive, inclusive and insight-led.  
  with  curated  benefits,  contextual  offers  and
  intelligent onboarding.
• 
86  per  cent  of  new  account  acquisitions  and  79  
per  cent  service  requests  were  fulfilled  digitally,  
  We also enhanced our cross-border offering:
supported  by  simplified  onboarding,  real-time  
validations, and assisted journeys where needed.  
 • HDFC Bank now handles over 20 per cent of India’s
  inbound  remittances  through  tie-ups  with  Lulu
• 
High-volume  lending  products  like  Xpress  Car  
  Exchange, Flywire and PayMyTuition, supported by
Loans, Business Loans and Gold Loans saw scale  
  over 115 correspondent arrangements.
through straight-through processing and biometric  
KYC flows.  
  A  robust  API-first  orchestration  layer  continues  to
  drive  plug-and-play  capability  for  partners,  enabling
• 
In  rural  and  semi-urban  India,  digitally  assisted  
  secure,  real-time  access  to  banking  infrastructure
journeys enabled credit and deposit access via local  
 across platforms. 
business  correspondents—reducing  onboarding  
time and improving branch capacities.  
  Modernising  the  Core  for  Real-Time,  Resilient
 Scale 
data,  and  strengthens  governance  through  unified  
  Our  Corporate  and  Wholesale  Banking  business  saw
controls, lineage tracking and reduced duplication.  
  strong digital adoption through:
Cybersecurity  and  Digital  Risk:  A  Measured  
 • Rollout  of  fully  digital  onboarding  journeys  for
Approach  
  working capital and trade finance.
As the Bank expands its digital footprint, safeguarding  
 • Enhancements 
to  CBX 
(Corporate  Banking
customer  data  and  ensuring  system  integrity  remain  
  Exchange), which now processes large volume of
paramount.  In  FY  2025,  HDFC  Bank  strengthened  its  
  transactions  monthly, with API share steadily rising.
cybersecurity architecture with a comprehensive suite of  
tools and governance frameworks designed to manage  
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
Built on modern open-stack technologies, the platform Serving Enterprises and SMEs with Speed and
supports better decision-making, standardises  master Simplicity
data,  and  strengthens  governance  through  unified 
 Our  Corporate  and  Wholesale  Banking  business  saw
controls, lineage tracking and reduced duplication. 
 strong digital adoption through:
Cybersecurity  and  Digital  Risk:  A  Measured 
 • 
Rollout  of  fully  digital  onboarding  journeys  for
Approach 
 working capital and trade finance.
As the Bank expands its digital footprint, safeguarding 
 • 
Enhancements 
to  CBX 
(Corporate  Banking
customer  data  and  ensuring  system  integrity  remain 
 Exchange), which now processes large volume of
paramount.  In  FY  2025,  HDFC  Bank  strengthened  its 
 transactions  monthly, with API share steadily rising.
cybersecurity architecture with a comprehensive suite of 
tools and governance frameworks designed to manage 
 In parallel, our SmartHub suite scaled across SME and
evolving risks, ensure regulatory alignment and preserve 
 merchant communities with embedded finance, payments
operational continuity. 
 and loan origination stitched into a single interface.
The  Bank  continued 
to  enhance 
its  Zero  Trust 
 Building at Scale: Agile Tech Delivery
Architecture, reducing reliance on perimeter defences 
and  embedding  verification  at  every  access  point— 
 The  Factory  model  continues  to  be  the  nucleus  of
across users, systems and APIs. These principles now 
 digital  execution at HDFC  Bank—with  dedicated units
underpin access controls, policy enforcement and cloud 
 focused on:
governance across business-critical environments. 
 • 
Experience design
The Bank protects its customer data and digital services 
 • 
Mobile and cloud engineering
through  a  range  of  advanced  security  measures.  By 
deploying  PRISMA  Cloud  Infrastructure  Entitlement • 
APIs and orchestration
Management (CIEM), the Bank effectively manages and 
 • 
Data and GenAI
restricts  cloud  permissions  based  on  least-privilege 
principles. The integration of Accops Secure Gateway • 
Secure-by-design architecture
provides  MFA-protected  access  to  crucial  internet- 
facing applications while Zscaler Private Access (ZPA) Various  high-impact  programmes  were  executed
ensures  secure,  policy-driven  remote  connectivity  in in  FY  2025  using  this  construct—ranging  from  core
line  with  the  Bank’s  Zero  Trust  roadmap.  Additionally, modernisation to next-gen servicing platforms.
the  Cloud  Web  Application  Firewall  (WAF)  safeguards 
against application-layer threats across digital channels. The  Next  Chapter:  Responsible  GenAI  and
Continuous  monitoring,  detection  and  remediation  of Platform-Led Innovation
cloud misconfigurations and vulnerabilities are achieved 
 Financial Year 2024-25 served as the foundation year for
through the Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM) 
 AI-readiness. A structured platform approach is being
and Cloud Workload Protection Platform (CWPP). The 
 developed with focus on:
Bank  also  employs  Cloud  Access  Security  Broker 
(CASB), Browser Isolation and CI/CD Security Controls 
 • 
Secure, 
reusable  models  and  components
to secure SaaS usage and development pipelines. Lastly, 
 for scalability
Attack Surface Monitoring (ASM) continuously scans and 
secures exposed digital assets throughout the enterprise. 
 • 
Built-in observability and compliance
Collectively,  these  investments  reinforce  the  Bank’s 
 The  Bank 
is  exploring  a  Class  of  Problems
commitment to secure-by-design architecture ensuring 
 methodology—prioritising high-impact, enterprise-
that innovation, scale and resilience go hand in hand with 
 wide  opportunities  over  isolated  use  cases.  This
responsible risk management. 
 approach  ensures  scalability,  consistency  and
 Financial  Year  2024-25  was  a  year  of  bold  action, 
 modernisation and simplification. In FY 2026, our focus 
sharpens towards:  
• Scaling digital platforms with embedded capabilities 
  •
• Operationalising responsible GenAI 
• Delivering contextual experiences at the edge 
  •
• Sustaining resilience while enabling agility 
focused not just on keeping pace with change—but on  
  computers are protected by the anti-APT system.
shaping  the  future  of  customer-centric,  inclusive  and  
intelligent banking in India.  
 • Enterprise solutions such as Data Loss Prevention (DLP)
  to monitor sensitive data stored, transmitted and shared
Cybersecurity  
  by users, and to prevent and detect data breaches. All
  endpoints have proxy agent configured to ensure that
Cybersecurity is at the heart of the technology transformation  
  only  authorised  websites  are  accessed.  All  outgoing
journey and the Bank is deeply committed to ensuring robust  
  e-mails are monitored through DLP solution.
cyber security with substantial advancements being made to  
further fortify its infrastructure and applications. Key initiatives  
 • Laptop  Encryption:  Data  encryption  ensures  that
in this regard include:  
  business-critical  and  sensitive  data  is  not  misplaced,
   Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 Early  pilots  in  documentation,  support,  underwriting  testing,  etc.  for  minimising  the  surface  area  for  cyber
 and productivity workflows have validated the potential  security  attacks  and  fortifying  the  Bank’s  assets  like
 for  GenAI  to  augment  decision-making  and  reduce  infrastructure and applications.
 operational friction.  
  • Dedicated  program  for  attack  surface  management
 What Lies Ahead  (ASM) that includes continuous attack surface discovery
   and probing for weaknesses on the discovered assets.
 Financial  Year  2024-25  was  a  year  of  bold  action,  
   There  has  been  a  continuous  effort  to  ensure  that
 modernisation and simplification. In FY 2026, our focus  
   all  significant  weaknesses  are  remediated  within  a
 sharpens towards:  
   reasonable timeframe.
 • 
Scaling digital platforms with embedded capabilities  
  • Adopting a zero-trust architecture approach to ensure
 • 
Operationalising responsible GenAI  
   protection against cyber-attacks.
 • 
Delivering contextual experiences at the edge  
  • Implementation  of  Anti-Advanced  Persistence  Threat
 • 
Sustaining resilience while enabling agility  
   (Anti-APT)  system  agent  on  all  endpoints  in  the  Bank
   to protect from zero-day malware attacks. All network
 HDFC  Bank’s technology and digital strategy remains  
   elements  such  as  email,  web  as  well  as  endpoint
 focused not just on keeping pace with change—but on  
   computers are protected by the anti-APT system.
 shaping  the  future  of  customer-centric,  inclusive  and  
 intelligent banking in India.  
  • Enterprise solutions such as Data Loss Prevention (DLP)
   to monitor sensitive data stored, transmitted and shared
Cybersecurity   
   by users, and to prevent and detect data breaches. All
   endpoints have proxy agent configured to ensure that
Cybersecurity is at the heart of the technology transformation   
   only  authorised  websites  are  accessed.  All  outgoing
journey and the Bank is deeply committed to ensuring robust   
   e-mails are monitored through DLP solution.
cyber security with substantial advancements being made to   
further fortify its infrastructure and applications. Key initiatives   
  • Laptop  Encryption:  Data  encryption  ensures  that
in this regard include:   
   business-critical  and  sensitive  data  is  not  misplaced,
   thereby  preventing  any  reputational  damage  and
• Significant advancements to consolidate cyber security  
   curtailing  monetary  losses.  Hard  disk  encryption  is
 through  initiatives  such  as  the  foundation  of  a  next-  
   implemented on all laptops.
 generation  Cybersecurity  Operations  Center  (CSOC)  
 for  predictive  security  and  incident  management,  
  • I m p l e m e nt ati o n 
of 
D o m a i n-b a s e d  M e s s a g e
 introduction of Security Orchestration, Automation and  
   Authentication, Reporting and Conformance (DMARC)
 Response (SOAR) to reduce incident response times and  
   system 
for  protecting 
the  Bank’s  domain 
from
 network micro-segmentation for better control, visibility  
   unauthorized use, commonly known as ‘email spoofing’.
 and preparedness against ransomware.  
   Authentication, Reporting and Conformance (DMARC)  
 Response (SOAR) to reduce incident response times and    
  system for  protecting the  Bank’s  domain from
 network micro-segmentation for better control, visibility    
   unauthorized use, commonly known as ‘email spoofing’.  
 and preparedness against ransomware.    
  Technology related challenges over the past few years have   
• The initiative and approach to leverage AI and ML as an    
  only  made  the  Bank’s  resolve  stronger  to  consolidate  and   
 entire suite to proactively detect and respond to threats    
  fortify  its  technology  environment.  Focused  technology  /   
 is managed through the deployment of next generation    
  digital investments and programs in technology are pivotal to   
 Security  Incident  Event  Management  (SIEM)  solution    
  the Bank in the new age of digital banking and experiences   
 augmented  by  Artificial  Intelligence  (AI)  and  Machine    
  for its customers.   
 Learning (ML) capabilities along with strong User Entity    
 Behavioral  Analysis  (UEBA)  functionalities  and  built-in    
  Service Quality Initiatives and Grievance Redressal   
 threat modelling.    
  Customer Focus is one of the five core values of the Bank.   
• 24/7  defacement  monitoring  and 
vulnerability    
  Given a highly competitive business environment, especially   
 management of the bank’s internet properties, antivirus    
  with  diverse  lines  of  businesses,  we  continuously  strive  to   
 /  malware  program,  patch  management,  penetration    
  enhance customer experience. Delivering exceptional product   
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
quality and customer service is a prerequisite for sustained Customer Compensation Policy duly approved by the Board
growth. The Bank strives to achieve this by seeking customer which outline a framework for resolving customer grievances
feedback, benchmarking with best-in-class business entities in  an  effective  manner.  These  policies  are  accessible  to
and implementing customer-centric improvements. We have customers through the Bank’s website and branch network.
adopted a well-defined three-step strategy towards Customer 
Service - Define, Measure and Improve. Towards improving HDFC  Bank  has  created  multiple  channels  for  customers
customer experience, the Bank has  adopted industry  best to  provide  feedback  and  register  grievances  facilitating
practices  and  continuously  acts  on  customer  feedback a  transparent  and  accessible  system.  As  a  pioneer  in
secured across multiple channels. innovative  financial  solutions  and  digital  platforms,  the
 Bank  has  witnessed  an  increased  utilisation  of  its  digital
HDFC  Bank  has  adopted  a  multi-pronged  approach  to channels. Keeping customer interest in focus, the Bank has
provide  an  omnichannel  experience  to  its  customers.  On formulated a Board approved Protection Policy which limits
the  one  hand,  it  has  traditional  touchpoints  like  branches, the liability of customers in case of unauthorised electronic
email  care  and  PhoneBanking.  On  the  other  hand,  it  has banking transactions.
state-of-the-art  platforms  like  NetBanking,  MobileBanking, 
WhatsApp Banking, the chatbot Eva and the Bank’s exclusive This  Bank  is  compliant  with  the  RBI  Internal  Ombudsman
social care handles. The Bank also has a Virtual Relationship Scheme  of  RBI  Guidelines.  At  the  apex  level,  as  a  part  of
Management programme to cater to various financial needs the Internal Grievance Redressal mechanism, the Bank has
in a personalised manner. appointed seasoned-retired bankers as Internal Ombudsmen
 to  independently  review  any  customer  grievance  which  is
One of the key strategies adopted by your bank is to leverage partly/wholly rejected by the Bank before the final decision is
the  benefits  of  Artificial  Intelligence  (AI)  and  Automation  in communicated to the customer.
providing better customer service – which entails (a) Speed 
of Response (b) Accuracy of Response (c) Response being In HDFC  Bank  is  on  a  journey  to  measure  customer  loyalty
line with regulatory prescriptions and (d) in-depth root cause through  a  high  velocity,  closed  loop  customer  feedback
analysis to reduce/eliminate recurrence of customer grievances. system. This customer experience transformation programme
 helps  employees  to  empathise  better  with  customers  and
Customer service performance and grievance redressal are improve  turnaround  times.  Branded  as  ‘Infinite  Smiles’,
regularly assessed at various levels, including Branch Level the  programme  helps  establish  behaviours  and  practices
Customer  Service  Committees,  Virtual  Level  Customer that  result  in  customer-centric  actions  through  continuous
Service  Committees,  Standing  Committee  on  Customer improvement in products, services, processes and policies.
Service and Customer Service Committee of the Board. HDFC 
Bank  has  implemented  robust  processes  to  monitor  and The Bank remains committed to placing the customer at the
measure service quality levels across touchpoints, including centre of its operations. By consistently improving customer
at product and process level through the efforts of the Quality experience,  adopting  an  omnichannel  approach  and
Initiatives Group. implementing robust service quality and grievance redressal
 mechanisms, it aims to build and nurture lasting relationships.
The  service  quality  team  conducts  regular  reviews  across 
 Risk Management and Portfolio Quality
various  products,  processes  and  channels,  focusing  on 
improving the customer experience. A unique Service Quality 
 Your Bank’s historical focus on Pillar 1 risks, including Credit
Index (SQI) has been developed to measure the performance 
 Risk, Market Risk and Operational Risk has been expanded
of key customer facing channels based on critical customer 
 in  response  to  the  evolving  banking  landscape.  Liquidity
service  parameters.  This  SQI  enables  customer  facing 
 Risk, Information Technology Risk, Information Security Risk,
channels  to  identify  improvement  areas,  thereby  raising 
 Group  Risk  and  Model  Risk  have  also  emerged  as  critical
service standards. 
 considerations.  These  risks  not  only  impact  your  Bank’s
 financial strength and operations but also its reputation. To
One  of  the  basic  building  blocks  of  providing  acceptable 
 address these concerns, your Bank has established Board-
level  of  customer  service  is  to  have  an  effective  Internal 
 approved risk strategy and policies overseen by the Risk Policy
Grievance Redressal Mechanism / Framework. HDFC Bank 
 and Monitoring Committee (RPMC). RPMC is a Board level
has developed a comprehensive Grievance Redressal Policy, 
 committee,  which  supports  the  Board  by  supervising  the
Customer  Rights  Policy,  Customer  Protection  Policy  and  a 
HDFC Bank Limited
232 
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
implementation of the risk strategy. It guides the development • 
Strategic Risk
of  policies,  procedures  and  systems  for  managing  risk.  It 
ensures that these are adequate and appropriate to changing • 
Compliance Risk
business conditions, the structure and needs of the Bank and 
the risk appetite of the Bank. It ensures that frameworks are • 
Reputation Risk
established for assessing and managing various risks faced 
by  the  Bank,  systems  are  developed  to  relate  risk  to  the Financial Risks:
Bank’s capital level and methods are in place for monitoring 
 Credit Risk
compliance  with  internal  risk  management  policies  and 
processes. 
 Credit  Risk  is  the  possibility  of  losses  associated  with
 diminution in the credit quality of borrowers or counterparties.
The hallmark of your Bank’s risk management function is that it 
 Losses  stem  from  outright  default  or  reduction  in  portfolio
is independent of the business sourcing unit with convergence 
 value. Your Bank has a comprehensive credit risk architecture,
only at the CEO level. 
 policies,  procedures  and  systems  for  managing  credit  risk
 in  its  retail  and  wholesale  businesses.  Wholesale  lending
The  gamut  of  key  risks  faced  by  the  Bank  which  are 
 is  managed  on  an  individual  as  well  as  portfolio  basis.  In
dimensioned and managed include: 
 contrast, given the granularity of individual exposures, retail
• 
Financial Risks: lending  is  managed  largely  on  a  portfolio  basis  across
 various products and customer segments. Robust front-end
Credit Risk,

y 
 and back-end systems are in place to ensure credit quality
 and  minimise  default  losses.  The  factors  considered  while
y Market Risk 
 sanctioning  retail  loans  include  income,  demographics,
 credit history, loan tenure and banking behavior. In addition,
Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book
y 
 multiple credit risk models are developed and used to assess
Liquidity Risk
y different segments of customers based on portfolio behavior.
 In  wholesale  loans,  credit  risk  is  managed  by  capping
y Intraday Liquidity Risk 
 exposures based on borrower group, industry, credit rating
 grades and country, among others. This is backed by portfolio
y Intraday Credit Risk 
 diversification, stringent credit approval processes, periodic
 post-disbursement monitoring and remedial measures. Your
y Credit Concentration Risk 
 Bank has ensured strong asset quality through volatile times
 in the lending environment by stringently adhering to prudent
• 
Non-Financial Risks 
 norms and institutionalised processes. Your Bank also has a

y Operational Risk robust framework for assessing Counterparty Banks, which
 are reviewed periodically to ensure interbank exposures are
Technology 
and 
Information 

y Information 
 within approved appetite.
Security Practices 
 As  on  March  31,  2025,  your  Bank’s  ratio  of  Gross  Non-
y Technology Risk 
 Performing Assets (GNPAs) to Gross Advances was 1.33 per
 cent.  Net  Non-  Performing  Assets  (Gross  Non-Performing
Third Party Products Risk

y 
 Assets Less Specific Loan Loss provisions) was 0.43 per cent
Outsourcing Risk

y of Net Advances.
• 
Group Risk (various risks pertaining to subsidiaries) Your Bank has a conservative and prudent policy for specific
 provisions  on  NPAs.  Its  provision  for  NPAs  is  higher  than
• 
Model Risk 
 the  minimum  regulatory  requirements  and  adheres  to  the
 regulatory norms for Standard Assets.
• 
People Risk 
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
Credit Risk emanating from digital lending the banking book. The Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) is a
 decision-making unit responsible for implementing the liquidity
Driven  by  rapid  technological  advancements,  the  banking 
 and interest rate risk management strategy of the Bank in line
sector is witnessing the increasing importance of digitalisation 
 with its risk management objectives and ensures adherence
as a critical differentiator for customer retention and service 
 to the risk tolerance/limits set by the Board. ALCO reviews
delivery.  Digital  lending  has  emerged  as  a  convenient  and 
 the  policy’s  implementation  and  monitoring  of  limits.  While
quick  method  for  customers  to  secure  loans  with  just  a 
 the maturity gap, Basel III ratios, and stock ratio limits help
few clicks, often in minutes. However, addressing the risks 
 manage liquidity risk, Net Interest Income impact and Market
associated with digital lending is crucial, and your Bank has 
 Value of Equity (MVE) impact help mitigate interest rate risk
implemented appropriate measures to manage these risks 
 in the banking book. This is reinforced by a comprehensive
effectively. Digital loans are sanctioned primarily to your Bank’s 
 Board-approved  stress  testing  programme  covering  both
existing customers. Often, they are customers across multiple 
 liquidity and interest rate risk.
products,  thus  enabling  the  Bank  ready  access  to  their 
credit history and risk profile. This accessibility facilitates the 
 Your Bank conducts various studies to assess the behavioural
evaluation of their loan eligibility. Moreover, the credit checks 
 pattern  of  non-contractual  assets  and 
liabilities  and
and scores used by your Bank in process-based underwriting 
 embedded options available to customers, which are used
are replicated for digital loans. This ensures consistency in the 
 while managing maturity gaps and repricing risk respectively.
evaluation process. 
 Further, your Bank has the necessary framework to manage
 intraday liquidity risk.
Market Risk 
 The  Liquidity  Coverage  Ratio  (LCR)  is  one  of  the  Basel
Market Risk arises primarily from your Bank’s statutory reserve 
 Committee’s key reforms to develop a more resilient banking
management  and  trading  activity  in  interest  rates,  equity 
 sector. The LCR, a global standard, is also used to measure
and  currency  market.  These  risks  are  managed  through  a 
 your Bank’s liquidity position. LCR seeks to ensure that the
well-defined Board approved Market Risk Policy, Investment 
 Bank has an adequate stock of unencumbered High-Quality
Policy, Foreign Exchange Trading Policy and Derivatives Policy 
 Liquid Assets (HQLA) that can be converted into cash easily
that caps risk in different trading desks or various securities 
 and immediately to meet its liquidity needs under a 30-day
through trading risk limits/triggers. The risk measures include 
 calendar liquidity stress scenario. The LCR helps in improving
position  limits,  tenor  restrictions,  sensitivity  limits,  namely, 
 the  banking  sector’s  ability  to  absorb  shocks  arising  from
PV01,  Modified  Duration  of  Hold  to  Maturity  Portfolio  and 
 financial  and  economic  stress,  whatever  the  source,  thus
Option Greeks, Value-at-Risk (VaR) Limit, Stop Loss Trigger 
 reducing the risk of spillover from the financial sector to the
Level  (SLTL),  Scenario-based  P&L  Triggers,  Potential  Loss 
 real economy.
Trigger Level (PLTL), YTD Trigger for AFS book. These limits 
are monitored on an end-of-day basis by treasury mid office. 
In addition, forex open positions, currency option delta and Average Liquidity Coverage Ratio
interest  rate  sensitivity  limits  are  computed  and  monitored 
 
on  an  intraday  basis.  This  is  supplemented  by  a  Board- 119.04  per cent
approved stress testing policy and framework that simulates 
 On a Consolidated Basis for the Financial Year
various market risk scenarios to measure losses and initiate 
 2024-25
remedial measures. Your Bank’s Market Risk capital charge is 
 Above the regulatory threshold of 100 per cent
computed daily using the Standardised Measurement Method 
applying the regulatory factors. 
Liquidity Risk The  Net  Stable  Funding  Ratio  (NSFR),  a  key  liquidity  risk
 measure  under  BCBS  liquidity  standards,  is  also  used  to
Liquidity  risk  is  the  risk  that  the  Bank  may  not  be  able  to 
 measure your Bank’s liquidity position. The NSFR seeks to
meet its financial obligations as they fall due without incurring 
 ensure that your Bank maintains a stable funding profile in
unacceptable losses. Your Bank’s liquidity and interest rate 
 relation to the composition of its assets and off-balance sheet
risk  management  framework  is  spelt  out  through  a  well- 
 activities. The NSFR promotes resilience over a longer-term
defined Board approved Asset Liability Management Policy. 
 time horizon by requiring banks to fund their activities with
As part of this process, your Bank has established various 
 more stable sources of funding on an ongoing basis. The RBI
Board-approved limits for liquidity and interest rate risks in 
HDFC Bank Limited
234 
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
guidelines stipulated a minimum NSFR requirement of 100 per  
cent at a consolidated level and your Bank has maintained  
the NSFR well above 100 per cent since its implementation.  
Based on guidelines issued by RBI, your Bank’s NSFR stood  
at 119.80 per cent on a consolidated basis at March 31, 2025.  
Non-financial Risks:  
Operational Risk  
This is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal  
processes, people and systems or from external events. It also  
includes risk of loss due to legal risk but excludes strategic  
and reputational risk.  
Given  below  is  a  detailed  explanation  under  four  different  
heads: Framework and Process, Internal Control, Information  
Technology  and  Information  Security  Practices  and  Fraud  
Monitoring and Control.  
  *  In  order  to  achieve  the  aforesaid  objective  pertaining
A. Framework and Process 
  to  operational  risk  management  framework,  the  ORMC
 To manage Operational Risks, your Bank has established guides  and  oversees  the  functioning,  implementation,  and
 a  comprehensive  Operational  Risk  Management maintenance  of  operational  risk  management  activities  of
 Framework, whose implementation is supervised by the Bank, with special focus on:
 Operational Risk Management Committee (ORMC) and 
 reviewed by the RPMC of the Board. An independent • 
Identification and assessment of risks across the Bank
 Operational  Risk  Management  Department  (ORMD) through the Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA)
 is  responsible  for  implementing  the  framework.  The and Scenario analysis
 framework  incorporates,  three  lines  of  defence  to 
 ensure implementation. • 
Measurement of Operational Risk based on the actual
  loss data
  • 
Monitoring of risk through Key Risk Indicators (KRI)
  • 
Management  and  reporting  through  KRI,  RCSA  and
  operational risk losses of the Bank
  B. 
Internal Control
  Your  Bank  has  implemented  sound  internal  control
  practices across all processes, units and functions. It has
  well laid down policies and processes for the management
  of its day-to-day activities. Your Bank follows established,
  well-designed controls, which include traditional four eye
  principles, effective segregation of business and support
  functions,  segregation  of  duties,  call  back  processes,
  reconciliation,  exception  reporting  and  periodic  MIS.
  Specialised  risk  control  units  function  in  risk-  prone
  products/ functions to minimise operational risk. Controls
  are tested as part of the SOX control testing framework.
  D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
C. Information 
Technology 
and 
Information d. Our centralized patch management tool automates
 Security Practices  the  discovery,  management,  and  remediation  of
   endpoints  and  servers  across  various  operating
 Your Bank operates in a highly automated environment  
   systems and environments for the available patches.
 and makes use of the latest technologies available on  
   It further facilitates patching, software deployment,
 cloud or on-premises Data Centres to support various  
   and  compliance  with  security  standards,  thus
 business segments. With the advent of new technology  
   reducing the risk of the introduction of vulnerability
 tools  and  increased  sophistication,  your  Bank  has  
   due to lack of timely patching.
 improved its efficiency, reduced operational complexities,  
 aided decision making and enhanced the accessibility of  
  e. With  the  growing  use  of  cloud  infrastructure,
 products and services. This results in various risks such  
   tools such as Cloud Posture and Access Security
 as those associated with the use, ownership, operation,  
   Tools  (CSPM  &  CASB)  have  been  implemented
 redundancy, involvement, influence, and adoption of IT  
   to  detect  misconfigurations,  enforce  compliance
 within an enterprise, as well as business disruption due  
   requirements, and proactively reduce cloud-related
 to technological failures. Additionally, it can lead to risks  
   risks.
 related  to  information  assets,  data  security,  integrity,  
 reliability,  and  availability,  among  others.  Your  Bank  
  f. Our  Red  Team  proactively  assesses  our  cyber
 has put in place a governance framework, Information  
   assets for vulnerabilities through various periodic
 Security Practices, Business Continuity Plan, Disaster  
   tests  which  also  include  red  team  assessments.
 Recovery (DR) resiliency, Public Cloud and Cloud Native  
   Any issues identified during the assessments are
 Services Adoption and Enhanced Automated Monitoring  
   remediated in a timely manner to ensure that the
 mechanisms  to  mitigate  Information  Technology  and  
   banking services remain resilient and stay protected
 Information Security-related risks. Our Bank continues  
   against the evolving threats.
 to  enhance  its  information  security  posture  through  a  
 range of strategic and technology-driven initiatives aimed  
  g. Our Bank has also adopted zero-trust architecture
 at strengthening its information security and resilience  
   approach  to  ensure  protection  against  cyber-
 against evolving cyber threats.  
   attacks.
 a. 
The  Next-generation  Cybersecurity  Operations  
  h. Bank’s comprehensive e-learning module, iSecurity
 Center 
(CSOC)  has  brought 
in  significant  
   Ambassador (iSA), a mandatory assessment-based
 advancements  to  improve  overall  cyber  security  
   course on information and cyber security, helps in
 posture  of  the  Bank  by  deploying  a  predictive  
   promoting security awareness culture in the Bank.
 /  proactive  security  monitoring  of  Bank 
IT  
 Infrastructure and Applications. We have deployed  
   Overall, the bank’s cybersecurity measures are focused
 next generation Security Incident Event Management  
   on ensuring the highest level of protection against cyber
 (SIEM) solution augmented by Artificial Intelligence  
   threats, with proactive monitoring and automated incident
 (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) capabilities along  
   response capabilities, enhanced network visibility and a
 with strong User Entity Behavioral Analysis (UEBA)  
   zero-trust approach to security.
 functionalities and built-in threat modelling.  
   The Bank has defined various policies and frameworks
 b. 
The Bank’s dedicated Attack Surface Management  
   for  managing  the  IT  and  Information  Security  risks
 (ASM) program is aimed at continuously identifying  
   including risks emanating from third party engagements
 and  addressing  vulnerabilities  across  its  assets,  
   and  it  follows  the  three  lines  of  defence  principle  in
 thereby ensuring a secure environment for the Bank  
   managing these risks. With the evolving changes in the
 and its customers.  
   technology landscape, the Bank has been reviewing and
   enhancing the scope for monitoring and mitigating the
 c. 
Additionally, vulnerability management of the Bank’s  
   risks through revision of frameworks and policies, tools,
 internet properties, penetration testing, antivirus /  
  and governance. 
 anti-malware  program  etc.  minimize  the  surface  
 area for cyber security attacks.  
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 Your Bank has a well-defined Business Continuity and focus is on identifying and reducing risk by rigorously testing
 Disaster  Recovery  plan  that  is  periodically  tested  to products and also putting in place robust  internal  policies.
 ensure that it can meet any operational contingencies. Products  that  adhere  to  regulatory  norms  are  tested  after
 Further, there is a well-documented crisis management rollout and shortcomings, if any, are fully addressed till the
 plan in place to address the strategic issues of a crisis product stabilises. Internal policies are reviewed and updated
 impacting the Bank and to direct and communicate the periodically  as  per  agreed  frequency  or  based  on  market
 corporate response to the crisis including cyber crisis. actions  or  regulatory  guidelines/  actions.  The  compliance
 In addition, employees periodically undergo mandatory team also seeks regular feedback on regulatory compliance
 business continuity awareness training and sensitisation from  product,  business  and  operation  teams  through  self-
 exercises on a periodic basis. certifications and monitoring.
  Group Risk
 For  details  on  Business  Continuity  Management, 
 Information and Cyber Security Practices and Data 
  Your Bank has diverse set of subsidiaries including NBFC,
 Privacy Measures, please refer page 106 to 111 and 
  AMC,  Life  Insurance,  General  Insurance,  Venture  Capital
 231 & 239. 
  entities, amongst others. In order to manage the risk arising
  from  subsidiaries  with  regard  to  potential  uncertainties  or
 An  independent  assurance  team  within  Internal  Audit 
  adverse  events  that  can  impact  the  operations,  financial
 acts as a third line of defence that provides assurance 
  stability, reputation of the Group, your Bank has established
 on the management of IT-related risks. 
  Group Risk Management function within the Risk Management
  Group. Your Bank shall have a reasonable oversight on the
D. Fraud Monitoring and Control 
  Risk  Management  Framework  of  the  group  entities  on  an
 Your  Bank  has  defined  a  comprehensive  Fraud  Risk ongoing basis through Group Risk Management Committee
 Management  Policy  encompassing  the  life  cycle,  i.e. (GRMC)  and  Group  Risk  Council  (GRC).  The  Board  /  Risk
 prevention,  detection,  investigation,  accountability, Management  committees  of  respective  subsidiary  shall  be
 monitoring, recovery, analysis and reporting. Further, the driving the day to day risk management in accordance with
 Bank has Whistle Blower and Vigilance Policies and there the requirements of the respective regulator. Stress testing
 are designated functions responsible for implementation for the group is carried out by integrating the stress tests of
 of fraud prevention measures. Frauds are investigated to the subsidiaries. Similarly, capital adequacy projections are
 identify the root cause and relevant corrective steps are formulated  for  the  group  after  incorporating  the  business/
 recommended to prevent recurrence. capital plans of the subsidiaries. The Group Risk Management
  Committee  reports  to  the  Bank’s  Risk  Policy  &  Monitoring
 Fraud Monitoring committees at the senior management Committee (RPMC).
 and  Board  level  also  deliberate  on  high  value  fraud 
  Group Oversight Framework:
 events  and  advise  preventive  actions.  Periodic 
 reports  are  submitted 
to 
the  Board  and  senior 
  As HDFC Bank continues to grow in scale and complexity as the
 management committees. 
  parent of a diversified financial group, the need for coordinated
  oversight  across  group  entities  has  become  increasingly
Compliance Risk  
  important.  In  April  2024,  the  Bank  formally  introduced  a
  Group Oversight Framework to reinforce governance across
Compliance Risk is defined as the risk of impairment of your  
  subsidiaries. This initiative aligns with regulatory expectations
Bank’s integrity, leading to damage to its reputation, legal or  
  set out in the inter-regulatory forum reports by the Reserve
regulatory sanctions, or financial loss, as a result of a failure (or  
  Bank of India (RBI), Securities and Exchange Board of India
perceived failure) to comply with applicable laws, regulations  
  (SEBI) and Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
and standards. Your Bank has a Compliance Policy to ensure  
  of India (IRDAI) on the monitoring of systemically important
the highest standards of compliance. A dedicated team of  
  financial intermediaries.
subject matter experts in the Compliance Department works  
with business, support and operations teams to ensure active  
  The Framework applies to HDFC Bank and its group companies
Compliance  Risk  management  and  monitoring.  The  team  
  that are consolidated in the Bank’s financial statements, with
also provides advisory services on regulatory matters. The  
  the  exception  of  entities  where  the  Bank  neither  exercises
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
significant  control  nor  qualifies  as  a  significant  beneficial Owners, Model Users, Model Developers, and the Model Risk
owner—such as HDFC Mutual Fund, Alternative Investment Management (MRM).
Funds  and  Separately  Managed  Accounts  managed  or 
advised by HDFC Asset Management Company Limited and There  is  Model  Risk  Management  Committee  (MRMC)
its international subsidiary. which is an executive committee to govern the Model Risk
 Management Framework as defined in the MRM policy. It also
The Framework establishes a defined structure for oversight, oversees the development and implementation of MRM policy,
reporting and escalation across the Group. The Board of HDFC governance structure and ensure that necessary processes
Bank exercises overall oversight through periodic information and  systems  are  put  in  place.  The  Committee  reviews  the
reported  by  various  stakeholders.  The  Group  Oversight results of the model validation/monitoring on a periodic basis.
Department reports critical matters to the Board, including The MRMC shall report to the Bank’s Risk Policy & Monitoring
critical overdue action items, material risks, exceptions in intra- Committee (RPMC).
group transactions, material related-party transactions and 
significant governance concerns (if any). ICAAP
 Your Bank has a structured management framework in the
Enabling and control functions of the Bank report Group-level 
 Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) for
key metrics and any observed exceptions through designated 
 the identification and evaluation of all material risks that the
channels. Oversight responsibilities and escalation protocols 
 Bank  is  exposed  to,  which  may  have  an  adverse  material
are set out in the framework and is illustrated as below. 
 impact  on  its  financial  position.  Your  Bank  has  identified
 material  risks  which  include,  in  addition  to  Pillar  1,  several
 Pillar  2  risks  for  which  capital  is  primarily  quantified  using
 stress testing approach. The ICAAP framework is guided by
 the Board approved ICAAP Policy. The ICAAP encompasses
 assessment of capital adequacy for the base period and for
 the projected plan years.
 Climate Risk
 The risks from climate change are divided into (i) Physical risk
 (acute  and  chronic)  which  captures  economic  losses  from
 acute impacts on account of extreme weather events or long-
 term chronic impact on environment and (ii) Transition risks
 which captures financial asset level losses due to the possible
Model Risk 
 process of adjustment to a low carbon economy.
The use of models invariably presents model risk, which is the 
 The CSR and ESG committee of the Board oversees your
potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on 
 Bank’s sustainability and climate change initiatives. This
incorrect or misused model outputs and reports. The Model 
 Committee monitors the ESG framework, the Environmental
Risk  Management  (MRM)  under  Risk  Management  Group 
 Policy framework, actionables and initiatives strategised and
is  responsible  for  testing  and  verifying  the  accuracy  and 
 executed by the management level ESG Apex Council and
reliability of models used within the Bank. By establishing a 
 the ESG Working Groups.
dedicated MRM team, your Bank ensures that its models are 
independently  evaluated  before  implementation  and  on  an 
 The Committee also maintains an oversight over your Bank’s
ongoing basis. 
 ESG disclosures, highlighting your Bank’s ESG performance
 and prioritisation of material topics. A dedicated ESG vertical
There  is  an  established  Model  Risk  Management  Policy 
 works  in  conjunction  with  several  internal  and  external
(MRM Policy) which is a centralized, overarching policy whose 
 stakeholders,  to  drive  your  Bank’s  ESG  agenda  including
objective  is  to  provide  comprehensive  guidance  on  model 
 managing, mitigating and reporting on climate metrics. The
risk  management  across  the  Bank.  The  policy  defines  the 
 Deputy Managing Director of the Bank has direct oversight on
roles  and  responsibilities  across  stakeholders  i.e.,  Model 
 the ESG function and reports to the Board on such matters.
 Further, your Bank has formulated its ESG policy framework
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
and ESG Risk Management (ESGRM) Framework, which are Business Continuity Planning (BCP)
integrated into the Bank’s wholesale credit appraisal process. 
 Your  Bank  has  a  strong  BCP  programme  in  place  that
Specifically,  your  Bank’s  ESGRM  Framework  addresses 
 enables  operational  resilience  and  continuity  in  delivering
climate transition and mitigation plan and includes a prohibition 
 quality services across various business cycles. With our ISO
list criterion and ‘Category-A’ tagging of climate risk-related 
 22301:2019  certified  Business  Continuity  Programme,  we
vulnerable sectors. Your Bank’s commitment to enhance its 
 prioritise minimising service disruptions and safeguarding our
portfolio from a climate and ESG perspective is reflected in the 
 employees, customers and business during any unforeseen
development of the Board approved Sustainable Financing 
 adverse events or circumstances. The Programme is designed
Criteria Framework, which aligns with the overall sustainability 
 in accordance with the guidelines issued by regulatory bodies.
strategy of the Bank. 
 Further, our programme undergoes regular internal, external
 and regulatory reviews.
Your  Bank  is  in  the  process  of  evaluating  appropriate 
methodology and frameworks to assess climate transition risk 
 The  Business  Continuity  Management  function  focusses
for the wholesale borrowers. Your Bank also estimates financed 
 on  strengthening  the  Bank’s  preparedness  for  continuity.
emissions in its lending portfolio and is firming up an internal 
 Oversight  over  programme  is  provided  by  the  Business
strategy on tracking its portfolio-based financed emissions. 
 Continuity Steering Committee (BCSC), chaired by the Group
Additionally,  your  Bank  has  taken  initiatives  to  engage  in 
 Chief Risk Officer and Risk & Policy Monitoring Committee
capacity building programmes to familiarise the Board and 
 (RPMC), a Board-level committee.
its  staff  members  on  the  key  developments  in  climate  risk 
assessment, considering this risk is continuously evolving. 
 The  programme  is  guided  by  an  enterprise-wide  Board
 approved BCM Policy, supported by comprehensive processes
Additionally, your Bank is  continuously striving to align itself 
 and procedures. These enable the Bank to effectively respond
to make increased climate risk related disclosures in line with 
 to, recover from, resume and restore critical business functions
domestic and global regulations. Your Bank endeavours to 
 following disruptions caused by internal or external risk events.
align with climate risk related disclosures as per Task Force on 
 The framework clearly defines roles and responsibilities for
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework and 
 teams  involved  in  Crisis  Management,  Business  Recovery,
has been reporting on ESG KPIs in alignment with the Global 
 Emergency Response and IT Disaster Recovery, ensuring a
Reporting Initiative (GRI) since FY2014, along with reporting 
 coordinated approach.
in  line  with  the  SEBI-mandated  Business  Responsibility 
and  Sustainability  Reporting 
(BRSR) 
framework 
in 
its 
annual disclosures. 
Stress Testing Framework 
Your  Bank  has  implemented  a  Board  approved  Stress 
Testing Policy and Framework which forms an integral part of 
the Bank’s ICAAP. Stress testing involves the use of various 
techniques  to  assess  your  Bank’s  potential  vulnerability 
to  extreme  but  plausible  stressed  business  conditions. 
The  changes  in  the  levels  of  Pillar  I  risks  and  select  Pillar 
II  risks,  along  with  the  changes  in  the  on  and  off-Balance 
Sheet positions of your Bank are assessed under assumed 
‘stress’ scenarios and sensitivity factors. The suite of stress 
scenarios includes topical themes depending on prevailing 
geopolitical / macroeconomic / sectoral and other trends. 
The  stress  testing  outcome  may  be  analysed  through 
capital impact and/or identification of vulnerable borrowers 
depending on the scenario. 
Some of the key roles in this programme are as follows:
Steering Committee
It ensures centralised monitoring of your Bank's Business Continuity program implementation
Crisis Management teams
These work on effective management of recovery operations during disruptive events
Disaster Recovery (DR) Site
A dedicated DR site for recovery of critical core and customer facing applications
Functional recovery plans
Functional recovery plans ensure structured and expedited restoration of operations
Periodic drills
Periodic drills are conducted for testing the effectiveness of recovery plans.
Periodic drills are conducted for testing the effectiveness of recovery plans. 
As a responsible Bank, these steadfast practices have enabled and lay down policies and procedures by which the business
us to continue seamless service delivery to our customers functions manage risks, including compliance with applicable
through disruptive events and beyond. laws,  compliance  with  regulatory  guidelines,  adherence  to
 operational controls and relevant standards of conduct. At the
Internal Controls, Audit and Compliance ground level, your Bank has a mix of preventive and detective
 controls  implemented  through  systems  and  processes,
Your Bank has put in place extensive internal controls and 
 ensuring a robust framework in your Bank to enable correct
processes  that  are  commensurate  with  the  size  and  scale 
 and complete accounting, identification of outliers (if any) by
of  the  Bank  to  mitigate  Operational  and  other  allied  risks, 
 the management on a timely basis for corrective action and
including  centralised  operations  and  ‘segregation  of  duty’ 
 mitigating operational risks.
between  the  front  and  back-office.  The  front-office  units 
usually act as customer touchpoints and sales and service 
 Your Bank has put in place various preventive controls, including:
outlets while the back-office carries out the entire processing, 
accounting  and  settlement  of  transactions  in  the  Bank’s 
 a) 
Limited and need-based access to systems by users
core banking system. The policy framework, definition and 
monitoring of limits is carried out by various mid-office and b) 
Dual custody over cash and near-cash items
risk management functions. The credit sanctioning and debt 
 c) 
Segregation of duty in processing of transactions vis-à-
management units are also segregated and do not have any 
 vis creation of user IDs
sales and operations responsibilities. 
 d) 
Segregation  of  duty  in  processing  of  transactions
Your  Bank  has  set  up  various  executive-level  committees, 
 vis-à-vis  monitoring  and  review  of 
transactions
with participation from various business and control functions, 
 / reconciliation
that are designed to review and oversee matters pertaining to 
capital, assets and liabilities, business practices and customer 
 e) 
Four eye principle (maker-checker control) for processing
service,  operational  risk,  information  security,  business 
 of transactions
continuity planning and internal risk-based supervision among 
others. The second line of defence functions set standards f) 
Stringent password policy
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
g) Booking  of 
transactions 
in  core  banking  system The Internal Audit Department, during the course of audit, also
 mandates  the earmarking of line/limit  (fund as  well as ascertains the extent of adherence to regulatory guidelines,
 non-fund based) assigned to the customer legal requirements and operational processes and provides
  timely feedback to the management for corrective actions. A
h) STP  processes  between  core  banking  system  and 
  strong oversight on the operations is also kept through off-site
 payment interface systems for transmission of messages 
  monitoring by use of data analytics and automation tools to
  study trends/patterns to detect outliers (if any) and alert the
i) Additional authorisation leg in payment interface systems 
  management for due corrective action, wherever warranted.
 in applicable cases 
  The  Internal  Audit  Department  also  independently  reviews
j) Audit logs directly extracted from systems 
  your Bank’s implementation of Internal Rating Based (IRB) -
k) Empowerment grid approach for calculation of capital charge for Credit Risk, the
  appropriateness of your Bank’s ICAAP, as well as evaluates
Your Bank also has detective controls in place:  
  the quality and comprehensiveness of your Bank’s disaster
  recovery and business continuity plans and also carries out
l) Periodic review of user IDs and its usage logs 
  management  self-assessment  of  adequacy  of  the  Bank’s
  internal  financial  controls  and  operating  effectiveness  of
m) Post-transaction  monitoring  at  the  back-end  by  way 
  such  controls  in  terms  of  Sarbanes  Oxley  (SOX)  Act  and
 of  call  back  process  (through  daily  log  reports)  by  an 
  Companies Act, 2013. The Internal Audit Department plays
 independent person, i.e., to ascertain that entries in the 
  an important role in strengthening of the control functions by
 core banking system / messages in payment interface 
  periodically reviewing their practices and processes as well as
 systems are based on valid/authorised transactions and 
  recommending enhancements thereof. Additionally, oversight
 customer requests 
  is  also  kept  on  the  functioning  of  the  subsidiaries,  related
n) Daily tally of cash and near-cash items at end of day party transactions and extent of adherence to the licensing
  conditions of the RBI.
o) Reconciliation of Nostro accounts (by an independent 
 team) to ascertain and match-off the Nostro credits and 
  Any  new  product  /  process  introduced  in  your  Bank  is
 debits (external or internal) regularly to avoid / identify 
  reviewed by Compliance function in order to ensure adherence
 any unreconciled/ unmatched entries passing through 
  to regulatory guidelines. The Audit function may, if deemed
 the system 
  necessary  also  proactively  recommend 
improvements
  in  operational  processes  and  service  quality  for  such  new
p) Reconciliation   of   all   internal/transitory accounts   and 
  products / processes.
 establishment of responsibility in case of outstanding 
  To ensure independence, the Internal Audit Function has a
q) Independent      and      surprise      checks      periodically 
  direct reporting line to the Audit Committee of the Board and
 by supervisors. 
  an administrative line reporting to the Managing Director for
  administrative purposes.
Your  Bank  has  an  Internal  Audit  Department  which  is  
responsible  for  independently  evaluating  the  adequacy  
  The Compliance function independently tracks, reviews and
and  effectiveness  of  internal  controls,  risk  management,  
  ensures compliance with regulatory guidelines and promotes
compliance  with  extant  regulations,  governance  systems  
  a compliance culture in the Bank.
and processes and is manned by appropriately qualified and  
experienced personnel.  
  Your Bank has a comprehensive Know Your Customer (KYC),
  Anti Money Laundering (AML) and Combating Financing of
This department adopts a risk-based audit approach and carries  
  Terrorism (CFT) policy (based on the RBI guidelines/provisions
out audits across various businesses i.e., Retail, Wholesale and  
  of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002) incorporating
Treasury (for India and Overseas books), Audit of Operations  
  the key elements of Customer Acceptance Policy, Customer
units, Audit of Control functions, Management and Thematic  
  Identification Procedures, Risk Management and Monitoring
audits, Information Security audit, Revenue audit, Spot checks  
  of Transactions. The policy is subject to an annual review and
and Concurrent audit in order to independently evaluate the  
  is duly approved by the Board.
adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls on an ongoing  
basis and proactively recommending enhancements thereof.  
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
Your Bank besides having robust controls in place to ensure Established in 2000, HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited
adherence  to  the  KYC  guidelines  at  the  time  of  account (‘HDFC Life’ or the ‘Company’) is a leading provider of long-
opening also has monitoring processes at various stages of term life insurance solutions in India. It offers a broad range
the customer lifecycle including a continuous review process in of individual and group plans across the Protection, Pension,
the form of transaction monitoring carried out by a dedicated Savings,  Investment,  Annuity,  and  Health  categories,  with
AML  CFT  monitoring  team,  which  carries  out  transaction a portfolio comprising over 70 products and optional riders
reviews  for  identification  of  suspicious  patterns/trends  that designed to meet the diverse needs of its customers.
enables your Bank to further carry out enhanced due diligence 
(wherever required) and appropriate actions thereafter. The  Financial  Year  2024-25  was  a  year  in  which  HDFC
 Life  deepened  its  reach,  continued  sharpening  its  value
The Audit team and the Compliance team undergo regular propositions and demonstrated the resilience of its business
training and certifications, both in-house and external to equip model. The Company reported 18 per cent growth in Individual
them with the necessary know-how and expertise to carry out APE (Annualised Premium Equivalent) for FY2025, in line with
the function. the stated growth aspirations for the year. This growth was
 broad-based, driven  in  equal  measure by  an increase  of  9
The Audit Committee of the Board reviews the effectiveness per cent in policies written and an increase of 9 per cent in
of controls, compliance with regulatory guidelines as also the average ticket size.
performance of the Audit and Compliance functions in your 
Bank and provides direction, wherever deemed fit. The Audit Based  on  FY2025  industry  data,  HDFC  Life  outperformed
function is also subject to periodic external assurance reviews. both  the  private  peers  and  the  overall  sector.  HDFC  Life’s
Your Bank has always adhered to the highest standards of overall industry market share expanded by about 70 bps to
compliance and has put in place appropriate controls and risk 11.1 per cent and about 30 bps to 15.7 per cent in the private
measurement and risk management tools to ensure a robust sector. Notably, the Company’s policy count grew faster than
compliance and governance structure. the overall industry and private sector. Almost 75 per cent of
 the Company’s new customers on-boarded in FY2025 were
Performance of Subsidiary Companies first-time buyers from HDFC Life, reflecting its expanding reach
 across Tier I, II and III markets.
Your  Bank  has  five  key  subsidiaries,  HDFC  Life  Insurance 
Company Limited (HDFC Life), HDB Financial Services Limited 
 In FY2025, HDFC Life known for its innovative products and
(HDBFSL), HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited 
 customer-centric approach has secured about 5 crore lives
(HDFC ERGO), HDFC Asset Management Company Limited 
 with an overall claim settlement ratio of 99.8 per cent. The
(HDFC AMC) and HDFC Securities Limited (HSL). HDFC Life 
 company has over 650 branches across India.
is a leading, listed, long-term life insurance solutions provider 
in India. HDBFSL is a leading NBFC that caters primarily to 
 For  FY2025,  HDFC  Life  reported  New  Business  Margin  of
segments  not  covered  by  the  Bank.  HDFC  ERGO  offers  a 
 25.6 per cent, Value of New Business of ` 3,962 crore, an
complete range of general insurance products. HDFC AMC is 
 Embedded Value of ` 55,423 crore and delivered Profit After
Investment Manager to HDFC Mutual Fund, one of the largest 
 Tax of ` 1,802 crore. As of March 31 2025, HDFC Life had an
mutual funds in the country while HSL is among India’s leading 
 AUM of ` 3,36,282 crore.
retail broking firms. 
 HDFC Life has consistently delivered positive and range-bound
Amongst the Bank’s key subsidiaries, HDFC Life Insurance 
 operating variance over the past nine years (excluding Covid),
Company  Limited  and  HDFC  ERGO  General  Insurance 
 underscoring prudent risk management, disciplined execution
Company Limited prepare their financial results in accordance 
 and strong fundamentals. Moreover, aligning with the stated
with Indian GAAP and other subsidiaries do so in accordance 
 aspirations, the Company has nearly doubled all significant
with the notified Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind-AS’). 
 metrics between FY21 and FY2025. The Company was also
 recognised as a Great Place to Work and amongst the top 50
The  detailed  financial  performance  of  the  companies  is 
 companies in India for building a culture of innovation.
given below. 
 As the Company steps into its 25th year of operations, the focus
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (HDFC Life) 
 remains clear - to build a future-ready life insurer that grows
 sustainably, serves responsibly and innovates purposefully.
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFSL) requirements.  It  comprises  loans  for  consumer  durables,
 lifestyle  products  and  digital  products,  personal  loans,
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFSL) is a subsidiary of 
 auto  loans  for  new  and  used  cars,  two-wheeler  loans  and
HDFC Bank and is a Non-Banking Finance Company (NBFC). 
 gold loans.
HDBFSL  has  a  comprehensive  bouquet  of  products  and 
service offerings that are tailor-made to suit its customers’ Enterprise Loans
requirements 
including 
first-time  borrowers  and 
the 
 HDBFSL  offers  loans  to  businesses  for  their  growth  and
underserved segments. 
 working  capital  requirements.  Various  loans  offered  to
HDBFSL  is  engaged  in  the  business  of  lending,  fee-based enterprises  include:  Unsecured  Business  Loan,  Enterprise
products and BPO services. Business  Loan,  Loan  Against  Property,  Loan  Against
 Securities. These loans cater to the financial requirements of
The company’s Profit After Tax stood at ` 2,176 crore as on 
 enterprises for the purchase of new machinery, inventory or
March 31, 2025 compared to ` 2,461 crore as on March 31, 
 revamping the business.
2024. The Total Loan Book stood at ` 1,06,878 crore as on 
March 31, 2025 compared to ` 90,218 crore as on March 31, Asset Finance
2024, a growth of 18.47 per cent. The asset quality remained 
 HDBFSL provides loans for the purchase of new and used
robust, with Gross Non Performing Asset (GNPA) ratio at 2.26 
 commercial vehicles and provides refinance against existing
per cent and Net Non Performing Asset (NNPA) ratio at 0.99 
 vehicles  for  business  working  capital.  It  extends  these
per cent as on March 31, 2025. GNPA stood at 1.90 per cent 
 offerings  to  fleet  owners,  first-time  users,  first-time  buyers
and  NNPA  at  0.63  per  cent  for  the  year  ended  March  31, 
 and captive use buyers. Construction equipment loans are
2024. Capital Adequacy Ratio stood at 19.22 per cent as on 
 offered for the procurement of new and used construction
March 31, 2025. 
 equipment.  The  company  also  facilitates  refinancing  on
HDBFSL has continued to focus on diversifying its products existing equipment. HDBFSL also offers customised tractor
and  expanding  its  distribution  while  augmenting  its  digital loans for the purchase of tractors or tractor-related implements
infrastructure  and  offerings  to  effectively  deliver  credit to meet both agricultural and commercial needs.
solutions. The company has a strong network of over 1,771 
 Micro Lending
branches spread across 1,170 cities. As on March 31, 2025, 
your Bank held 94.32 per cent stake in HDBFSL. 
 HDBFSL offers micro-loans to borrowers through the Joint
 Liability  Group  (JLG)  framework  to  empower  and  promote
HDBFSL has a diverse range of product offerings (secured 
 financial inclusion for sustainable development.
and unsecured) to various customer segments. Given below 
are  the  key  product  as  well  as  service  offerings  to  various 
 These loans were initiated in 2019 and are currently available in
customer segments. 
 seven states including Maharashtra, Bihar, Rajasthan, Gujarat,
 Madhya  Pradesh,  Uttar  Pradesh,  Odisha  and  Tamil  Nadu
On October 19, 2024, the Board of Directors of HDFC Bank 
 covering 144 districts with more than 269 operational branches.
approved sale of such number of shares of HDBFSL equivalent 
to up to ` 10,000 crore in the Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) of 
 Fee-Based Products / Insurance Services
HDBFSL, by way of Offer for Sale. The IPO also consists of a 
fresh issue of such number of shares of HDBFSL equivalent 
 HDBFSL  has  a  licence  from  the  Insurance  Regulatory  and
to  up  to  `  2,500  crore,  and  accordingly  the  IPO  would  be 
 Development  Authority  of  India  (IRDAI)  and  is  a  registered
for an aggregate amount of ` 12,500 crore. The Red Herring 
 Corporate  Insurance  Agent  certified  to  sell  both  life  and
Prospectus in relation to the IPO was filed on June 19, 2025 
 general (non-life) insurance products. The company has tie-
and the price band for the issue has been fixed at ` 700 to 
 ups with HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited and Aditya
` 740 per share. The anchor bidding date would be June 24, 
 Birla Sun Life Insurance for life insurance products. HDBFSL
2025 and the public issue would open on June 25, 2025 and 
 has partnered with HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company
close on June 27, 2025. 
 Ltd, Tata AIG General Insurance Company Ltd and Go Digit
 General Insurance for general insurance products.
Consumer Loans 
Consumer  Loans  are  provided  to  individuals  for  personal 
or household purposes to meet their short to medium term 
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
BPO Services Riding  on  the  motto  of  ‘Customer  First’,  HDFC  ERGO  has
 a  comprehensive  distribution  network  of  over  1,20,000
The  BPO  service  offerings  include  running  collection  call 
 individual agents including Point of Sales Personnel (POSPs),
centres, sales support services, back office operations and 
 177 Banks / Corporate Agents and over 600 brokers with 299
processing  support  services.  Under  collection  services, 
 offices and over 600 digital offices spread across the country,
HDBFSL  has  a  contract  to  run  collection  call  centres  for 
 enabling it to ‘Insure More, Serve More, Reach More’.
HDFC  Bank.  These  centres  provide  collection  services  for 
the  entire  range  of  HDFC  Bank’s  retail  lending  products Product Segments
offering comprehensive end-to-end collection services. Under 
 Accident & Health Insurance: As an important stakeholder in
back office and sales support, HDBFSL offers sales support 
 building a ‘Healthy India’, HDFC ERGO offers various products
and  back-office  services  like  forms  processing,  document 
 under Accident & Health Insurance – retail health insurance
verification, finance and accounting operations and processing 
 to those seeking individual or family floater health insurance
support for HDFC Bank. 
 plans, group health insurance to insured groups, top-up health
Digital Presence insurance to those who seek to protect themselves from high
 medical expenses, mass health insurance to those interested
HDBFSL’s presence across digital channels enables it to offer 
 in participating in Government schemes. The Company is the
a wide range of financial solutions to its customers. They can 
 fourth largest retail health insurer in the industry as of March
access and manage their loan account 24/7 through its new, 
 31, 2025.
upgraded  version  of  Mobile  Banking  Application  HDB-On- 
the-Go with enhanced features, customer Service Portal to Commercial  Business:  HDFC  ERGO  has  a  track  record
manage  the  loan  account,  missed  call  service,  WhatsApp of providing customised insurance solutions to its corporate
Account Management and the Chatbot #AskPriya. clients. Be it property, engineering insurance, marine insurance
 or  liability  insurance,  the  Company  follows  an  advisory
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited 
 approach to its clients based on a thorough understanding of
(HDFC ERGO) 
 their requirement. It is the fourth largest insurer in the private
 sector in the Commercial segment in the Financial Year 2024-
HDFC  ERGO  General  Insurance  Company  Limited  (HDFC 
 25.
ERGO), is a subsidiary of HDFC Bank. It offers a comprehensive 
bouquet  of  general  insurance  products  -  such  as  Health, 
 Motor Insurance: HDFC ERGO offers motor insurance for
Motor, Travel, Home, Personal Accident and Cyber Insurance 
 various segments – private cars, two wheelers, passenger
to its retail customers. It also offers products like Property, 
 vehicles, commercial vehicles, electronic vehicles as well as
Engineering,  Marine  and  Liability  Insurance  to  its  SME  & 
 new and old vehicles.
Corporate Customers. For Rural Customers it offers Crop and 
Cattle Insurance. Rural  and  Agri  Business:  HDFC  ERGO’s  rural  market
 development activities are spearheaded by crop insurance
HDFC  ERGO  has  a  track  record  of  consistent  profitable 
 covering  a  large  agrarian  population  which  is  frequently
growth. Over the past 17 years, it has grown faster than the 
 affected by crop losses attributable to an irregular climatic
industry – with a 28 per cent CAGR vis-à-vis 15 per cent CAGR 
 pattern. It is the second largest insurer in the private sector
for the General Insurance industry. As a result, HDFC ERGO 
 in the crop insurance segment in FY2025. HDFC ERGO also
has improved its market share from 0.8 per cent in FY08 to 
 supports deepening insurance penetration in rural India via its
5.1 per cent in FY2025. 
 Common Service Centre (CSC) channel.
Profit After Tax for the year ended March 31, 2025 stood at Servicing
` 500 crore as compared to ` 438 crore for the year ended 
 The Company continues to invest in developing robust digital
March 31, 2024. 
 capabilities supported by Artificial Intelligence. Be it unique
 insurance products, integrated customer service models, top
Distribution Network 
 in-class claim processes or a host of technologically innovative
HDFC ERGO has a pan-India presence and a multi-channel solutions, the Company strives to consistently enhance the
distribution network. This enables it to provide its customers customer / partner experience. It has ISO certified processes
flexibility while availing its products and services. for  Claims,  Operations,  Customer  Services,  Business
 Continuity  Management  System  and  Information  Security
 Management System.
HDFC Bank Limited
244 
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
HDFC  ERGO  has  a  fair  and  robust  claims  management launches and enabling swift deployment of niche offerings and
practice. The Company provides prompt response and quick embedded insurance journeys.
claim settlement and equity of treatment to all its stakeholders, 
 HDFC ERGO continues to be future-ready by innovating and
through its wide network of motor workshops and empanelled 
 focusing on new-age technologies like AI, VR, Robotics, etc.
hospitals across the country. Customers are able to view and 
 to continue to provide superior customer experience.
track  claims  status  and  provide  feedback  through  HDFC 
ERGO’s  website  and  mobile  application  thus  bringing  in 
 ESG
transparency.  Over  47  per  cent  of  motor  insurance  claim 
surveys  were  conducted  digitally  in  FY2025.  About  92  per 
 HDFC  ERGO  believes  in  building  a  sustainable  ecosystem
cent of motor insurance claims and about 69 per cent of health 
 to  ensure  it  can  continue  providing  value  to  its  customers
insurance claims were settled in cashless mode in FY2025. 
 and  society  at  large.  It  has  developed  an  ESG  policy  and
 framework, and has been undertaking a number of initiatives
HDFC ERGO issued more than 3.4 crore policies in FY2025, of 
 across  Environmental  and  Social  aspects  and 
further
which about 92 per cent were issued digitally. The Company 
 strengthening its Governance related processes.
has enabled multilingual support across digital platforms to 
service the customers in their preferred language. It Introduced 
 As an example, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) is a key
“1UP”, an AI-driven application that provides advisors with AI- 
 part  of  the  Company’s  culture  and  embedded  in  various
powered contextual prompts for sales, retention, and daily 
 processes.  The  share  of  women  in  overall  workforce  has
planning,  optimising  their  workflow.  It  also  embedded  an 
 improved from 19 per cent in FY22 to 27 per cent in FY2025.
AI-enabled inspection technology on its WhatsApp chatbot, 
which allows the customers instant motor claim settlement HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (HDFC
feature for minor damages like dents, scratches among others. AMC)
In line with its customer centric philosophy, the Company’s 
 Established  in  1999,  HDFC  AMC  offers  a  comprehensive
grievance  resolution  TAT  is  lower  than  industry  average  by 
 suite of mutual fund and alternative investments across asset
about 5 days. 
 classes, including equity, fixed income, hybrid and multi-asset
HDFC ERGO’s Here app is a one-of-a-kind ecosystem which solutions. These offerings are available on  both active  and
aims to address consumers’ anxiety and provide convenience passive platforms, catering to a broad and diverse customer
towards  healthcare  &  mobility  needs  and  helps  them  save base. As of March 31, 2025, HDFC Bank held a 52.47 per cent
cost on their daily healthcare and vehicles expenses. The app stake in HDFC AMC.
is free for use by all, irrespective of whether or not one is an 
 As the investment manager to HDFC Mutual Fund – one of
HDFC  ERGO  policyholder,  and  has  been  well  received,  as 
 India’s leading mutual funds - HDFC AMC reported a closing
evident by over 70 lakh downloads since launch. The app also 
 AUM of over ` 7,54,453 crore, representing a market share
includes features to help people manage their cyber and pets 
 of 11.5 per cent as on March 31, 2025. It serves over 1.32
related requirements. 
 crore unique investors through 2.33 crore live accounts. With a
The  Company  continues  to  invest  in  developing  robust strong nationwide presence across 280 offices and a network
digital capabilities to ensure long-term success in the digital of  over  95,000  distribution  partners,  HDFC  AMC  is  further
landscape. Its transition of the policy administration system enabled  by  modern  digital  platforms,  ensuring  broad  and
to  Duck  Creek  marks  a  significant  stride  towards  future efficient access for clients across India.
readiness  and  unlocking  growth.  The  new  core  system 
facilitates dynamic product configuration, expediting product 
HDCF AMC extends Portfolio Management, Segregated Account Services, along with Alternative Investment Funds to high net- 
worth individuals, family offices, domestic corporates, trusts, provident funds and domestic cum global institutions. 
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
Additionally,  the  company  has  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary volatility during this period. This economic environment created
company - HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited in Gujarat a stark contrast in market performance, with the strong gains
International Finance Tec-City (GIFT City) offering investment achieved in the first half of the fiscal year largely erased in the
management, advisory and related services. second half, though a late recovery helped the Nifty 50 close
 with a modest 5 per cent annual gain.
HDFC Securities Limited (HSL) 
 Other Statutory Disclosures
HDFC Securities Limited surpassed a key milestone of 25 years 
of existence in April 2025. The company has demonstrated a Number of Meetings of the Board, attendance and
strong financial performance over the years underscored by constitution of various Committees
a 31 per cent CAGR in total income and a 24 per cent CAGR 
 During FY 2024-25 the Board met 14 (Fourteen)  times. The
in profit after tax, both over the last five years. As one of the 
 details of Board Meetings held during the year, attendance
long-standing bank-based stockbrokers and a key subsidiary 
 of  Directors  at  the  Meetings  and  constitution  of  various
of HDFC Bank, HDFC Securities Ltd. (HSL) leverages real- 
 Committees of the Board are included separately in the Report
time, data-driven insights and research-backed information to 
 on Corporate Governance.
empower investors. HSL serves 68 lakh customers, offering a 
comprehensive range of investment and protection products. 
 Annual Return
HSL’s distribution footprint stood at 134 branches across 106 
cities/towns as of March 31, 2025. Approximately, 96 per cent 
 In accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013
of its customers accessed its services digitally. HSL’s ranking 
 (“Act”), the Annual Return of the Bank in the prescribed Form
in  NSE  active  clients  has  improved  to  the  6th  position  with 
 MGT-7 for FY 2024-25 is available on the website of the Bank
15.25 lakh customers from the 7th position last year. 
 at  https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/investor-
 relations/annual-report.
HDFC Bank held a 94.5 per cent stake in HDFC Securities 
Ltd. (HSL) as of March 31, 2025. Total equity raised, pursuant 
 Requirement for maintenance of cost records
to the rights issue in fiscal 2025 aggregated to ` 996 crore. 
 The  cost  records  as  specified  by  the  Central  Government
In FY 2024-25, HSL achieved a total income of ` 3,265 crore, 
 under  Section  148(1)  of  the  Act,  are  not  required  to  be
reflecting a  23 per  cent increase from  ` 2,661 crore in the 
 maintained by the Bank.
previous financial year. Net revenue (total income less finance 
costs) aggregated to ` 2,479 crore in the year ended March 
 Details  in  respect  of  frauds  reported  by  auditors
31,  2025,  a  20  per  cent  year-on-year  increase.  Operating 
 under Section 143(12)
expenses were ` 983 crore, resulting in a cost-to-revenue ratio 
of 39.7 per cent. PAT for fiscal 2025 was ` 1,125 crore marking Pursuant  to  Section  143(12)  of  the  Act  and  circular  issued
an 18 per cent rise year-on-year, and registering an earnings by  National  Financial  Reporting  Authority  on  Statutory
per share of ` 638. The average margin trading funding (MTF) Auditors’ Responsibilities in relation to fraud in a company dated
portfolio increased significantly by 50 per cent year-on-year to June  26,  2023,  there  were  2  (Two)  instances  of  fraud
` 8,343 crore, while equity trade volumes grew by 24 per cent committed during FY 2024-25, by the employees of the Bank
year-on-year to ` 8 lakh crore. and reported by the Statutory Auditors to the Audit Committee.
 Details of the frauds are as under:
HSL launched its wealth advisory platform viz., HDFC TRU, 
in fiscal 2025. It has an aggregate of ` 10,000 crore assets 
under management. During the year under review, HSL has 
incorporated  a  Wholly  Owned  Subsidiary  namely  HDFC 
Securities IFSC Limited (HSIL) in the GIFT City-Gujrat. 
India’s financial markets in FY2025 reflected a clear duality— 
marked  by  strong  domestic  investor  participation  in  the 
first  half,  followed  by  a  more  subdued  second  half  due  to 
weaker corporate earnings, rupee depreciation, and global 
risk aversion. Foreign capital outflows also added to market 
HDFC Bank Limited
246 
   Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Sr. Nature of fraud with Approximate Remedial action taken
No.   
 description amount 
  involved 
  (Rs. in Lakh) 
1 Cheating & Forgery 265.17 At the time of sanction:
   Various checks at the time of sanction of loan is conducted by evaluation of gold
 Case 
pertains 
to 
fraud  
   by a designated assayer and further dual valuation is carried out by an alternate
 perpetrated  by  borrowers 
in  
   independent assayer for higher value loans crossing certain threshold limits.
 connivance  with  staff  and  third  
 parties 
by 
processing 
gold  
   Post sanction of loan:
 loan 
in 
the  name  of  dummy  
 customers by pledging spurious  Increase in proactive sample checks of gold jewellery packets by an independent
 gold.  team, which will help in identification of suspected fraud cases.
2 Misappropriation  of  funds  and 385.55 For  mitigating  such  frauds,  a  revised  process  has  been  shared  with  Retail
 criminal breach of trust  Branches.
   1. 
Process  of 
Issuance  Confirmation  with 
the  account  holder  by 
the
 Pursuant 
to 
customer  
   Relationship  Manager  has  been  stopped  and  has  been  assigned 
to
 complaints 
received,  a 
fraud  
   the  staff  processing  the  transaction.  Issuance  Confirmation  details  are
 was  detected  which 
involved  
   annotated on the reverse of cheque.
 a 
relationship 
manager 
in  
 misappropriation  of  customer  
   2. 
At  the  end  of  day,  this  is  re-verified  through  a  Callback  Report  by  an
 funds.  
   independent  staff. 
In  event  of  miss-out, 
the  staff  will  seek 
issuance
   confirmation  from  the  account  holder  and  annotate  on  reverse  of  the
   cheque.
 independent  staff. 
In  event  of  miss-out, 
the  staff  will  seek 
issuance
 confirmation  from  the  account  holder  and  annotate  on  reverse  of  the
cheque. 
Directors’ Responsibility Statement Compliance with Secretarial Standards
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(c) and Section 134(5) of the Act, The Bank has complied with Secretarial Standards on Meetings
and based on the information provided by the Management, of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and General Meetings (SS-2)
the Board of Directors hereby confirm that: issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
• 
In the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable 
 Statutory Auditors
accounting  standards  have  been  followed  along  with 
proper explanation relating to material departures; 
 The Members of the Bank at the 28th Annual General Meeting
 held  on  July  16,  2022  had  approved  the  appointment  of
• 
Accounting  policies  have  been  selected  and  applied 
 M/s.  Price  Waterhouse  LLP,  Chartered  Accountants  (ICAI
consistently.  Reasonable  and  prudent 
judgments 
 Firm Registration No. 301112E/E300264) [“PW”], as the Joint
and  estimates  have  been  made  so  as  to  give  a  true 
 Statutory Auditors of the Bank for a period of 3 (Three) years
and  fair  view  of  the  state  of  affairs  of  the  Bank  as  at 
 from FY 2022-23 till (and including) FY 2024-25. Further, the
March 31, 2025 and of the profit of the Bank for the year 
 Members  of  the  Bank  at  the  30th  Annual  General  Meeting
ended on that date; 
 held  on  August  9,  2024  had  approved  the  appointment  of
• 
Proper  and  sufficient  care  has  been  taken  for  the 
 M/s.  Batliboi  &  Purohit,  Chartered  Accountants  (ICAI  Firm
maintenance  of  adequate  accounting 
records 
 Registration  No.  101048W)  [“B&P”]  as  the  Joint  Statutory
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  for 
 Auditors  of  the  Bank  for  a  period  of  3  (Three)  years  from
safeguarding the assets of the Bank and for preventing 
 FY 2024-25 till (and including) FY 2026-27.
and detecting fraud and other irregularities; 
 In view of the completion of term of PW, the Board of Directors
• 
The annual accounts have been prepared on a going 
 based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee has
concern basis; 
 vide  its  resolution  dated  June  20,  2025  recommended  the
• 
Internal  financial  controls  have  been  laid  down  to  be appointment of M/s. B S R & Co. LLP (ICAI Firm Registration
followed by the Bank and such internal financial controls No.  101248W/W-100022)  [“BSR”]  as  the  Joint  Statutory
are adequate and operating effectively; and Auditors  of  the  Bank  for  a  period  of  3  (Three)  years  from
 FY 2025-26 till (and including) FY 2027-28, subject to approval
• 
Systems  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  provisions  of 
 of  the  Members  at  the  ensuing  Annual  General  Meeting
all applicable laws are in place and such systems are 
 (“AGM”).
adequate and operating effectively. 
PW  and  B&P  (“Joint  Statutory  Auditors”)  as  well  as    their  
  (“RPT Policy”) ensures that the related party transactions are
respective network firms, on aggregated basis, are as follows:  
  based on principles of transparency and arm’s length pricing.
 ` in Crore RPT  Policy outlines the basis on which the materiality of related
HDFC Bank to Subsidiaries of party transactions will be determined and the manner of dealing
Joint Statutory HDFC Bank to 
  with the related party transactions by the Bank. Pursuant to
Auditor(s) Joint Statutory 
  SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
 Auditors and its 
 network firms Amendment) Regulations, 2024, the RPT policy was amended
  to align it with all the applicable amendments.
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
The  said  appointment  shall  also  be  subject  to  approval  of Particulars  of  Contracts  or  Arrangements  with
Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) every year. Accordingly, RBI vide Related Parties
its letter dated May 16, 2025 has approved the appointment 
 There were no contracts or arrangements entered into with
of BSR as the Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank along with 
 related parties referred to in Section 188(1) of the Act during
B&P for FY 2025-26. 
 FY  2024-25  and  hence  Form  AOC-2  as  required  under
The resolution in this regard is being proposed at the ensuing Rule  8(2)  of  the  Companies  (Accounts)  Rules,  2014,  is
AGM for approval of the Members. not enclosed.
During  the  year  ended  March  31,  2025,  the  fees  paid  to 
 Further, the Policy on Related Party Transactions of the Bank
PW  and  B&P  (“Joint  Statutory  Auditors”)  as  well  as    their 
 (“RPT Policy”) ensures that the related party transactions are
respective network firms, on aggregated basis, are as follows: 
 based on principles of transparency and arm’s length pricing.
` in Crore RPT  Policy outlines the basis on which the materiality of related
Subsidiaries of 
Fees (excluding taxes)*
HDFC Bank to party transactions will be determined and the manner of dealing
HDFC Bank to 
Joint Statutory 
 with the related party transactions by the Bank. Pursuant to
Joint Statutory 
Auditor(s) 
 SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third
Auditors and its 
network firms Amendment) Regulations, 2024, the RPT policy was amended
 to align it with all the applicable amendments.
Statutory Audit
9.90
0.36 
Certification & Other 
1.76
0.02 
 RPT Policy is available at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/
Audit / Attestation 
 about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and-policies.
Services 
Non-Audit Services
-
- 
 Further,  the Directors  / Key Managerial Personnel who  are
 interested in the related party transaction(s) do not participate
Outlays
1.28
0.01 
 in the discussion / abstain from voting on the said matter at
Total
12.94
0.39 
 Board / Audit Committee meetings. The Bank has engaged
 M/s.  Vinod  Kothari  &  Company  as  external  consultant
*No fees were paid to network firms of Joint Statutory Auditor(s) 
 to  advise  the  Bank  on  related  party  transactions  and
by the Bank. 
 related compliances.
The  aggregate  fees  paid  to  Joint  Statutory  Auditors  were 
 Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments
within the limits approved by the Audit Committee. 
 Pursuant to applicable provisions of Section 186 of the Act,
Corporate Social Responsibility 
 the particulars of investments made by the Bank are disclosed
 in  Note  no.  9  of  Schedule  18  of  the  standalone  financial
The composition of CSR & ESG Committee, brief outline of 
 statements as per the applicable provisions of the Banking
the CSR policy of the Bank and the initiatives undertaken by 
 Regulation Act, 1949.
the Bank on CSR activities during FY 2024-25 are set out in 
Annexure 2 to this report in the format prescribed in Companies 
 Material Development
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. 
 There were no material developments / changes / commitments
The CSR & ESG  Committee confirms that the implementation 
 affecting the financial position of  the  Bank  which occurred
and monitoring of the CSR Policy was done in compliance with 
 after March 31, 2025 till the date of this Report.
the CSR objectives and policy of the Bank. 
 Financial Statements of Subsidiaries and Associates
The Bank’s CSR Policy & Environmental Social & Governance 
(ESG) Policy Framework are available on the Bank’s website 
 In  terms  of  Section  134  of  the  Act  read  with  Rule  8(1)  of
at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate- 
 the  Companies  (Accounts)  Rules,  2014,  the  highlights  of
governance/codes-and-policies. 
 the  performance  of  the  Bank’s  subsidiaries  &  entity  over
 which  control  is  exercised  and  their  contribution  to  overall
 performance  of  the  Bank  during  FY  2024-25  are  enclosed
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
as Annexure 3 to this Report. The Bank does not have any Disclosure under Foreign Exchange Management
associate companies or other joint venture companies. Act, 1999 (“FEMA”)
 During FY 2024-25 the Bank has complied with the applicable
Pursuant  to  amalgamation  of  HDFC  Limited  with  and  into 
 provisions of FEMA with respect to downstream investments
the  Bank  and  conditions  as  stipulated  by  RBI,  on  October 
 made by it. Further, as required under the Foreign Exchange
18, 2024, the Bank sold 18,20,00,000 equity shares of face 
 Management  (Non-Debt  Instruments)  Rules,  2019,  the
value of  ` 10 each of Edu Voyage Education Private Limited 
 Bank has obtained a certificate from M/s. Batliboi & Purohit,
(formerly  known  as  HDFC  Education  and  Development 
 Chartered Accountants, one of the Joint Statutory Auditors of
Services Private Limited) (“Edu Voyage”), corresponding to 
 the Bank, to this effect.
91% of its paid-up share capital, to Vama Sundari Investments 
(Delhi)  Private  Limited  (“Vama  Sundari”).  Accordingly,  Edu 
 Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism
Voyage ceased to be a subsidiary of the Bank with effect from 
October 18, 2024. Further, on December 20, 2024, the Bank 
 The  Bank  encourages  an  open  and  transparent  system  of
completed the sale of balance 1,80,00,000 equity shares of 
 working and dealing amongst its stakeholders.
face value of ` 10 each of Edu Voyage, corresponding to 9% of 
paid-up  share  capital  of  Edu  Voyage  to  Vama  Sundari. 
 While the Bank’s “Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy” directs
Accordingly, as on March 31, 2025, the Bank does not have 
 employees  to  uphold  Bank  values  and  conduct  business
any shareholding in Edu Voyage. 
 worldwide  with  integrity  and  highest  ethical  standards,
 the  Bank  has  also  adopted  a  “Whistle  Blower  Policy”
HDFC Securities Limited (“HSL”), a subsidiary of the Bank, 
 (“WB Policy”) to encourage and empower the employees /
incorporated  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary,  namely  “HDFC 
 stakeholders  to  make  or  report  any  Protected  Disclosures
Securities  IFSC  Limited”  on  October  1,  2024.  Accordingly, 
 as  defined  under  WB  Policy,  without  any  fear  of  reprisal,
HDFC  Securities  IFSC  Limited  has  become  a  step  down 
 retaliation, discrimination or harassment of any kind.
subsidiary of the Bank with effect from October 1, 2024. 
 WB Policy has also been put in place to provide a mechanism
Further,  during  FY  2024-25,  the  Bank  made  the  following 
 through which adequate safeguards can be provided against
investments in its subsidiaries: 
 victimization  of  employees  who  avail  this  mechanism.
 WB  Policy  covers  and 
is  applicable  to  the  Protected
• 
In April 2024, pursuant to the rights issue of HSL, the 
 Disclosures related to violation / suspected violation of the
Bank was allotted 16,13,176 equity shares amounting to 
 Code of Conduct including:
` 9,53,22,56,984. The Bank held 94.55% shareholding 
in HSL as on March 31, 2025. 
 (a)  
breach of applicable law;
• 
In August 2024, pursuant to the rights issue of HDFC 
 (b)  
fraud / criminal offence or corruption / misuse of office
ERGO  General  Insurance  Company  Limited  (“HDFC 
 to obtain personal benefit / pecuniary advantage for self
ERGO”), the Bank was allotted 44,20,598 equity shares 
 or any other person;
amounting to ` 2,89,10,71,092. The Bank held 50.33% 
shareholding in HDFC ERGO as on March 31, 2025. 
 (c)  
leakage / suspected leakage of unpublished price sensitive
 information which are in violation of SEBI (Prohibition of
• 
In  accordance  with  the  Employee  Stock  Option  Plan 
 Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and internal code of
2021  of  HDFC  Capital  Advisors  Limited  (“HCAL”),  the 
 the Bank i.e. Share Dealing Code of the Bank;
Bank acquired 69,330 equity shares of HCAL amounting 
to  `  67,47,19,560  from  the  employees  of  HCAL.  The 
 (d)  
wilful data breach and / or unauthorized disclosure of
Bank held 89.34% shareholding in HCAL as on March 
 Bank’s proprietary data including customer data.
31, 2025. 
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
(a) 
Matters relating to personal grievances on issues such as Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala and Mr. Santhosh Keshavan
appraisals, compensation, promotions, rating, behavioral are the Independent Directors on the Board of the Bank as
issues  /  concerns  of  the  manager(s)  /  supervisor(s)  / on March 31, 2025.
other  colleague(s),  complaint  of  sexual  harassment  at 
workplace,  etc.  for  which  alternate  internal  redressal The  Independent  Directors  have  submitted  declarations
mechanisms in the Bank are in place. that  each  of  them  meets  the  criteria  of  independence  as
 provided in Section 149(6) of the Act, along with the Rules
(b) 
Matters which are pending before a court of law, tribunal, framed thereunder and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI (Listing
other quasi- judicial bodies or any governmental authority. Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
(c) 
Anonymous  /  pseudonymous  complaints  will  not  be During  FY  2024-25  there  has  been  no  change  in  the
considered as Protected Disclosures under this Policy. circumstances affecting their status as Independent Directors
 of  the  Bank.  In  the  opinion  of  the  Board,  the  Independent
All Protected Disclosures made under WB Policy are made to Directors possess the requisite integrity, experience, expertise,
the Whistle Blower Committee through the following modes: skills, and proficiency required under all applicable laws and
 the policies of the Bank.
(a) 
By letter in a closed / sealed envelope addressed to the 
Whistle Blower Committee, or Evaluation of Board of Directors
 The  performance  evaluation  of  the  Board,  its  Committees
(b) 
by submission of the same on the information portal of 
 and  the  individual  members  of  the  Board  (including  the
the Bank, or 
 Part-Time Chairman) for FY 2024-25, was carried out internally
 pursuant to the framework laid down by the Nomination and
(c) 
by  way  of  an  email  addressed  to  whistleblower@ 
 Remuneration  Committee  (“NRC”).  A  questionnaire  for  the
hdfcbank.com. In exceptional circumstances, the Whistle 
 evaluation  of  the  Board,  its  Committees  and  the  individual
Blower may make such Protected Disclosures directly to 
 members of the Board (including the Part-Time Chairman),
the Chairperson of the Audit Committee of the Board. 
 covering various aspects of the performance of the Board and its
 Committees, including composition, roles and responsibilities,
All  Protected  Disclosures  received  under  WB  Policy  are 
 board processes, boardroom culture, adherence to Code of
examined  by 
the  Whistle  Blower  Committee  and 
the 
 Conduct and Ethics, quality and flow of information, as well
investigation is further assigned to an appropriate investigating 
 as measurement of performance in the areas of strength as
Officer(s) depending on the nature of the subject matter of the 
 identified in the previous board evaluation, was sent out to
Protected Disclosure. 
 the Directors. The Committees were evaluated inter-alia on
 parameters such as composition, terms of reference, quality
Details of whistle blower complaints received and subsequent 
 of discussions, contribution to Board decisions and balance
action  taken  and  the  functioning  of  the  whistle  blower 
 of agenda between the Committees and the Board.
mechanism are reviewed periodically by the Audit Committee. 
During  FY  2024-25,  a  total  of  97  such  complaints  were 
 The responses received to the questionnaires on evaluation
received and taken up for investigation which has resulted in 
 of the Board, its Committees and Non-Independent Directors
certain staff actions in 41 cases, post investigation. The broad 
 were  then  placed  before  the  meeting  of  the  Independent
categories of whistle blower complaints were in the areas of 
 Directors for consideration. The assessment of performance
misappropriation of Bank / customer funds, forgery related 
 of Non-Independent Directors on personal and professional
cases, improper business practices and corruption. 
 attributes was also carried out at the meeting of Independent
 Directors. The assessment of performance of the Independent
WB  Policy  is  available  on  the  website  of  the  Bank  at 
 Directors on the Board (including Chairman) was subsequently
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate- 
 discussed  at  the  Board  meeting.  In  addition  to  the  above
governance/codes-and-policies. 
 parameters, the Board evaluated and was satisfied that the
 Independent Directors  of the Bank fulfill the independence
Statement on Declaration by Independent Directors 
 criteria as specified in SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Mr. M. D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and was independent from
Parekh,  Dr.  (Mrs.)  Sunita  Maheshwari,  Mrs.  Lily  Vadera, the management.
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
The Board of Directors complimented the improved effective ultimate objective is to provide a fair and transparent structure
oversight on the group entities. Other areas such as code of that helps the Bank to retain and acquire the talent pool critical
conduct, board processes, board composition and boardroom to build competitive advantage and brand equity.
culture  demonstrated 
the  best  corporate  governance 
practices adopted by the Bank. The Board appreciated the The  Bank’s  approach  is  to  have  a  “pay  for  performance”
independent  and  transparent  discussion  at  the  meetings. culture based on the belief that the performance management
The Board noted that it has been dedicating significant time system provides a sound basis for assessing performance
in Strategic planning, Competitive positioning, Benchmark, holistically. The compensation system also takes into account
talent management & Succession planning and the same will factors such as roles, skills / competencies, experience and
continue. The Board further realised the need to focus more on grade / seniority to differentiate pay appropriately on the basis
Gen AI and Cyber Security aspect considering that the same of contribution, expertise and availability of talent on account
has become increasingly important. The Board also noted that of competitive market forces. The details of the Compensation
while there has been positive development in the areas of focus Policy are also included in Note No. 18 of Schedule 18 forming
identified in the previous evaluation, efforts need to continue in part of the standalone financial statements.
that direction. The appropriate feedback was conveyed to the 
Board members on their respective evaluation. During  FY  2024-25  based  on  the  recommendation  of  the
 NRC, the Compensation Policy of Bank was reviewed by the
Policy 
on 
Appointment 
and  Remuneration 
of 
 Board  of  Directors  and  necessary  changes  were  made  to
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 
 the policy with respect to addition of clauses pertaining to
 ‘Special Payouts’ and inclusion of ‘Guidelines to grant LTI to
The Bank has in place a Policy for appointment and fit and 
 New Joiners’.
proper criteria for Directors of the Bank. This Policy lays down 
the criteria for identification of persons who are qualified as 
 The  NEDs 
including 
Independent  Directors  are  paid
‘fit  and  proper’  to  become  Directors    such  as  academic 
 remuneration by way of sitting fees for attending meetings of
qualifications,  competence,  track  record,  integrity,  relevant 
 the Board and its Committees, which are determined by the
skills, etc. which shall be considered by the Nomination and 
 Board based on applicable regulatory guidelines / circulars.
Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) while recommending the 
appointment of proposed candidate as a Director of the Bank. 
 Further,  expenses  incurred  by  them,  if  any,  for  attending
 meetings  of  the  Board  and  Committees  in  person  are
This Policy also deals with the process for re-appointment of 
 reimbursed at actuals. Pursuant to the relevant RBI guidelines
directors, annual affirmations, familiarization programme for 
 and approval of the Members, the NEDs including Independent
Non-Executive Directors (“NEDs”), etc. and is available on the 
 Directors, are paid fixed remuneration as detailed in the Report
website of the Bank at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/ 
 on Corporate Governance.
about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and-policies. 
The  remuneration  of  all  employees  of  the  Bank,  including 
Whole Time Directors, Material Risk Takers, Key Managerial 
Personnel,  Senior  Management  and  other  employees  is 
governed by the Compensation Policy of the Bank. The same 
is available at the https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about- 
us/corporate-governance/codes-and-policies. 
The  Compensation  Policy  of  the  Bank,  duly  reviewed  and 
recommended by the NRC has been articulated in line with 
the relevant Reserve Bank of India guidelines. 
The Bank’s Compensation Policy is aimed to attract, retain, 
reward and motivate talented individuals critical for achieving 
strategic goals and long-term success. The Compensation 
Policy  is  aligned  to  business  strategy,  market  dynamics, 
internal characteristics and complexities within the Bank. The 
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
The following Directors of the Bank are also the director(s) of Board composition and the desired skill sets / areas of expertise
the Bank’s subsidiaries / step down subsidiaries as on the at the Board level are continuously reviewed and vacancies,
date of this report: if any, are reviewed in advance through a systematic process.
 Succession planning at Senior Management level, including
Name of Directors
Name of Subsidiary /
Designation 
 business and assurance functions, is continuously reviewed
Step down Subsidiary 
Company to  ensure  continuity  and  depth  of  leadership  at  two  levels
Mr. M D Ranganath
HDFC Pension 
Non-Executive below the Managing Director. Successors are identified prior
Fund Management 
Independent to the Senior Management positions falling vacant, to ensure
Limited (Subsidiary of 
Director 
 a smooth and seamless transition.
HDFC Life Insurance 
Company Limited) 
 Succession  planning  is  a  continuous  process  which  is
Mr. Keki Mistry
HDFC ERGO General 
Non-Executive 
 periodically reviewed by NRC and the Board.
Insurance Company 
Director (Chairman) 
Limited 
 Significant and Material orders passed by Regulators
HDFC Life Insurance 
Non-Executive 
Company Limited
Director (Chairman) 
 There are no significant and material orders passed by the
HDFC Capital 
Non-Executive 
Advisors Limited
Director regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going concern
Mrs. Renu Karnad
HDFC Asset 
Non-Executive status and operations of the Bank in the future.
Management 
Director 
Company Limited 
 Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
HDFC ERGO General 
Non-Executive 
Insurance Company 
Nominee Director 
 In compliance with Section 152 of the Act and the Articles of
Limited 
(HDFC Bank) 
 Association of the Bank, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha and Mrs. Renu
HDFC Capital 
Non-Executive 
 Karnad will retire by rotation at the ensuing AGM and are eligible
Advisors Limited
Director 
 for re-appointment. The resolutions for their re-appointment
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
HDFC Life Insurance 
Non-Executive 
Company Limited
Nominee Director are being proposed at the ensuing AGM for the approval of
(HDFC Bank) 
 the Members.  A brief profile of Mr. Bharucha and Mrs. Karnad
HDFC Capital 
Non-Executive 
 is furnished elsewhere in the Integrated Annual Report and
Advisors Limited
Nominee Director 
 Notice of the AGM for the information of the Members.
(HDFC Bank) 
HDFC Securities 
Non-Executive 
IFSC Limited 
Nominee Director During FY 2024-25 following were the changes in composition
(Subsidiary of HDFC 
(HDFC Bank) of the Board of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of
Securities Limited) 
 the Bank:
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri
HDFC Trustee 
Non-Executive 
Company Limited
Nominee Director 
 1. 
Re -a p po intm e nt 
of  M r. 
Ata nu  C h a k ra bo r t y
(HDFC Bank) 
 (DIN:  01469375)  as 
the  Part-Time  Chairman  and
HDFC Sales Private 
Non-Executive 
 Independent Director of the Bank for a period of 3 (Three)
Limited
Nominee Director 
(HDFC Bank) years with effect from May 5, 2024 to May 4, 2027 (both
[Chairman] 
 days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation, as approved
HDFC Securities 
Non-Executive 
 by RBI and the Members through Postal Ballot on May
Limited
Nominee Director 
 3, 2024;
(HDFC Bank) 
Mr. V Srinivasa 
HDFC Asset 
Non-Executive 2. 
A p p o i n t m e n t  
o f  
M r.  
S a n t h o s h  
K e s h a v a n
Rangan
Management 
Nominee Director 
 (DIN:  08466631)  as  an  Independent  Director  of  the
Company Limited
(HDFC Bank) 
 Bank  for  a  period  of  3  (Three)  years  with  effect  from
 November 18, 2024 to November 17, 2027 (both days
Note: As per the Bank’s Policy, no sitting fees were paid to the Executive 
Director(s) of the Bank nominated on the board of its subsidiary/ step inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation, as approved by the
down subsidiary. 
 Members through Postal Ballot on January 11, 2025;
 3. 
Resignation of Mr. Santosh Haldankar (ICSI Membership
Succession Planning 
 No.: A19201) as the Company Secretary and Compliance
The  NRC  and  Board  reviews  succession  planning  and Officer of the Bank effective from July 20, 2024 (close of
transitions at the Board and Senior Management level. The business hours); and
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
4. Appointment  of  Mr.  Ajay  Agarwal  (ICSI  Membership as Secretarial Auditors of the Bank for FY 2024-25. The report
 No.: F9023) as the Company Secretary and Compliance of  Secretarial  Auditors  is  enclosed  as  Annexure  5  to  this
 Officer of the Bank with effect from July 21, 2024. Report. There are no qualifications, reservations or adverse
  remarks in the report of the Secretarial Auditors.
All the Directors of the Bank have confirmed that they satisfy  
the fit and proper criteria as prescribed under the applicable  
  Further, the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors of
regulations  and  that  they  are  not  disqualified  from  being  
  the Bank at their respective meetings held on April 12, 2025
appointed as Directors in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.  
  and April 19, 2025 have recommended the appointment of
  M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries
Particulars of Employees  
  (ICSI Firm Registration No. P1981MH043700), as Secretarial
  Auditors of the Bank at an overall audit fees of Rs. 15,00,000
In accordance with the provisions of Section 197(12) of the  
  (Rupees Fifteen Lakh Only) per annum in addition to out of
Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and  
  pocket expenses, outlays and taxes as applicable, to conduct
Remuneration  of  Managerial  Personnel)  Rules,  2014,  the  
  secretarial audit of the Bank for a period of 5 (Five) years i.e.
requisite details are set out in Annexure 4 to this Report.  
  from FY 2025-26 till (and including) FY 2029-30.
Further, the statement containing particulars of employees as  
  The  resolution  in  this  regard  is  being  proposed  at  ensuing
required under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) and  
  AGM for approval of the Members.
Rule 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration  
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is given in an Annexure  
  Corporate Governance
and forms part of this Report. In terms of Section 136(1) of  
the Act, the Integrated Annual Report including the financial  
  In  compliance  with  applicable  provisions  of  SEBI  Listing
statements  are  being  sent  to  the  Members  excluding  the  
  Regulations,  a  separate  report  on  Corporate  Governance
aforesaid Annexure. The Annexure is available for inspection  
  along  with  a  certificate  of  compliance  from  the  Secretarial
and any Member interested in obtaining a copy of the Annexure  
  Auditors, forms an integral part of this Annual Report.
may write to the Company Secretary of the Bank.  
  Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
Compliance on Maternity Benefit Act, 1961  
  The Bank’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
The  Bank  has  complied  with  the  applicable  provisions  of  
  forms an integral part of this Report.
Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 for female employees of the Bank  
with respect to leaves and maternity benefits thereunder.  
  Prevention,  Prohibition  and  Redressal  of  Sexual
  Harassment of Women at the Workplace
Conservation of Energy and Technology Absorption  
  The  relevant  information  is  included  in  the  Report  on
Please refer to page nos. 119 to 120 and 125 of this Integrated  
  Corporate Governance.
Annual Report for information on Conservation of Energy and  
page no. 228 of this Integrated Annual Report for information  
  Customer complaints and grievance redressal
on Technology Absorption.  
  Details  of  customer  complaints  and  grievance  redressal  is
Foreign Exchange Earnings and outgo  
  enclosed as Annexure 6 to this Report.
During  the  year,  the  total  foreign  exchange  earned  by  the  
  Unclaimed Deposits of HDFC Limited
Bank was ` 4,919.04 crore (on account of net gains arising  
on all exchange / derivative transactions) and the total foreign  
  The Bank is a private sector bank registered with RBI and in
exchange outgo was ` 4,092.04 crore towards the operating  
  terms of applicable RBI norms, deposits remaining unclaimed /
and capital expenditure requirements.  
  unpaid for a period of 10 (Ten) years, need to be transferred by
  the Bank to Depositor Education and Awareness (DEA) Fund
Secretarial Audit  
  maintained by RBI.
In  terms  of  Section  204  of  the  Act  and  the  Rules  made  
thereunder, M/s. BNP & Associates, Company Secretaries,  
(ICSI Firm Registration No. P2014MH037400), were appointed  
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
In accordance with applicable provisions of the Act read with Conclusion
Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, 
 After  two  years  of  the  merger,  the  integration  of  HDFC
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, as amended, HDFC 
 Limited’s home loan expertise with HDFC Bank’s extensive
Limited, has transferred deposits remaining unclaimed for a 
 scale  and  reach  has  strengthened  our  position  as  a
period of 7 (Seven) years upto June 30, 2023,  to the Investor 
 leading  financial  institution.  The  merger  has  resulted  in
Education  and  Protection  Fund  (IEPF)  established  by  the 
 a  much  stronger  Bank  that  is  now  poised  to  capitalise
Central Government. The deposit holders of HDFC Limited 
 further  on 
the  growth  opportunities 
in 
the  market.
can claim their respective unclaimed deposits from IEPF. The 
 In  FY  2024-25,  the  Bank  reported  healthy  growth  while
process of claiming the deposits from IEPF is uploaded on 
 maintaining  pristine  asset  quality.  There 
is 
immense
the website of the Bank. Post merger of HDFC Limited with 
 opportunity  for  offering  banking  services  in  India  as  the
and into the Bank i.e. effective July 1, 2023, the Bank has 
 economy grows. HDFC Bank is well positioned to capitalise
been transferring all the unclaimed deposits of HDFC Limited 
 on this due to its strong balance sheet as well as established
(remaining unclaimed for more than 10 years) to the DEA Fund. 
 brand  name.  While  pursuing  growth,  the  Bank  will  not
 compromise on high corporate governance standards and
Acknowledgement 
 will  continue  focusing  on  its  five  core  values:  Customer
The Directors of the Bank would like to place on record their Focus, Operational Excellence, Product Leadership, People
gratitude  towards  the  guidance  and  co-operation  received and Sustainability.
from  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India,  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India,  Stock  exchanges,  Ministry  of  Corporate 
 On behalf of the Board of Directors
Affairs and other Government and Regulatory Agencies. The 
Directors of the Bank would like to take this opportunity to 
 Atanu Chakraborty                      Sashidhar Jagdishan
express their appreciation for the hard work and dedicated 
 Part-Time Chairman
Managing Director
efforts put in by the Bank’s employees and look forward to 
 and Independent Director
and Chief Executive Officer
their continued contribution. 
 Place : Mumbai
 Date : June 20, 2025
  value (FV) of  balance FV Options,   Allotted of FV   31, 2025
  Re. 1/- each  Re. 1/ Units   Re. 1/-   
     Reinstated      
     FV Re. 1/-      
Plan F-ESOS 27 27th June, 2013 20,00,00,000 716.60 30,18,118  0 0 29,90,718 0 27,400 0
Plan F-ESOS 28 27th June, 2013 20,00,00,000 731.08 0  0 0 0 0 0 0
Plan G-ESOS 29 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,030.60 25,99,650  0 0 25,81,050 0 18,600 0
Plan G-ESOS 30 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,003.03 66,910  0 0 66,910 0 0 0
Plan G-ESOS 31 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,045.23 83,400  0 0 83,400 0 0 0
Plan G -ESOS 32 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,107.18 58,100  0 0 21,800 0 7,900 28,400
Plan G -ESOS 33 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,229.00 1,66,54,400  0 0 1,02,11,400 0 39,000 64,04,000
Plan G -ESOS 34 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 882.85 4,40,400  0 0 3,10,000 0 0 1,30,400
Plan G -ESOS 35 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,235.80 3,60,82,300  0 1,11,60,100 1,53,96,200 4,89,500 1,42,300 2,00,54,300
Plan G -ESOS 36 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,426.45 2,31,04,400  0 56,10,300 73,10,700 4,87,700 1,93,800 1,51,12,200
Plan G -ESOS 37 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,516.95 2,38,000  0 59,600 1,04,600 0 0 1,33,400
Plan G -ESOS 38 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,493.50 1,20,730  0 30,200 30,200 0 0 90,530
Plan G -ESOS 39 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,287.05 6,27,612  0 1,69,600 1,45,400 76,320 0 4,05,892
Plan G -ESOS 40 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,360.75 97,877  0 24,500 0 0 0 97,877
Plan G -ESOS 41 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1486.10 0  0 0 0 0 0 0
Plan G -ESOS 42 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,426.65 2,80,94,500  0 67,90,000 15,61,700 9,64,500 15,500 2,55,52,800
Plan G -ESOS 43 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,673.10 52,700  0 13,100 0 0 0 52,700
Plan G -ESOS 44 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1584.45 3,17,091  0 79,200 0 0 0 3,17,091
Plan G -ESOS 45 30th June, 2010 20,00,00,000 1,636.90 50,75,360  0 12,62,900 33,800 2,45,280 2,600 47,93,680
Plan G -ESOS 46 27th June, 2013 20,00,00,000 1,636.90 1,25,33,590  0 30,13,100 97,400 9,40,110 5,400 1,14,90,680
Plan G -ESOS 47 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,636.90 22,13,560  0 4,95,500 0 2,38,810 0 19,74,750
Plan G -ESOS 48 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,506.05 29,32,674  0 8,65,100 48,200 3,70,814 0 25,13,660
Plan G -ESOS 49 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,506.05 74,560  0 18,600 0 0 0 74,560
Plan G -ESOS 50 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,506.05 10,34,520  0 2,47,900 11,500 46,600 0 9,76,420
Plan G -ESOS 51 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,506.05 63,026  0 17,760 2,060 6,553 0 54,413
Plan G -ESOS 52 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,478.85 3,36,057  0 84,000 0 0 0 3,36,057
Plan G -ESOS 53 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,478.85 93,343  0 23,300 23,300 0 0 70,043
Plan G -ESOS 54 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,419.90 24,670  0 6,200 0 0 0 24,670
Plan G -ESOS 55 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,419.90 3,330  0 1,000 0 0 0 3,330
ESOS-07 eHDFC 2007 25th November, 2022 44,411 255.84 44,411  0 0 0 0 0 44,411
ESOS-08 eHDFC 2008 25th November, 2022 40,942 160.79 40,942  0 0 0 0 0 40,942
ESOS-14 eHDFC 2014 25th November, 2022 12,483 603.96 12,483  0 0 0 0 0 12,483
ESOS-17 eHDFC 2017-1 25th November, 2022 4,95,190 934.44 2,22,926  0 0 1,59,547 0 15,767 47,612
ESOS-17 eHDFC 2017-2 25th November, 2022 1,20,960 1,011.34 120,960  0 0 120,960 0 0 0
  Approved Face  Opening Granted / FV Re. 1/- & Shares Forfeited  as on March
  value (FV) of  balance FV Options,  Allotted of FV   31, 2025
  Re. 1/- each  Re. 1/ Units  Re. 1/-   
     Reinstated     
     FV Re. 1/-     
ESOS-17 eHDFC 2017-3 25th November, 2022 57,120 1,089.29 57,120 0 0 13,500 0 0 43,620
ESOS-17 eHDFC 2017-4 25th November, 2022 2,16,720 1,242.15 2,12,920 0 0 70,120 0 0 1,42,800
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-1 25th November, 2022 3,80,86,981 1,076.64 3,02,22,276 0 1,73,229 98,78,029 0 662 2,03,43,585
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-2 25th November, 2022 42,000 1,535.27 42,000 0 0 0 0 0 42,000
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-3 25th November, 2022 1,68,000 1,477.68 1,68,000 0 84,000 0 0 0 1,68,000
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-4 25th November, 2022 1,00,800 1,497.92 1,00,800 0 50,400 0 0 0 1,00,800
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-5 25th November, 2022 1,78,080 1,423.75 1,78,080 0 89,040 0 0 0 1,78,080
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-6 25th November, 2022 88,19,594 1,327.21 80,61,228 0 39,92,834 16,82,553 1,11,291 30,120 62,37,264
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-7 25th November, 2022 1,59,600 1,391.40 1,17,600 0 8,400 0 0 0 1,17,600
ESOS-20 eHDFC 2020-8 25th November, 2022 16,800 1,523.75 16,800 0 0 0 0 0 16,800
Plan G -ESOS 56 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1573.35 0 96,650 0 0 0 0 96,650
Plan G -ESOS 57 21st July, 2016 20,00,00,000 1,605.05 0 4,77,150 0 0 0 0 4,77,150
Plan H -ESOS 58 9th August, 2024 9,50,00,000 1,734.20 0 2,21,56,230 0 0 0 0 2,21,56,230
Plan H -ESOS 59 9th August, 2024 9,50,00,000 1,677.30 0 4,16,630 0 0 0 0 4,16,630
ESIS-2022 RSU 001 14th May, 2022 10,00,00,000 1.00 23,34,200 0 6,51,850 7,14,630 62,320 46,850 1,510,400
ESIS-2022 RSU 002 14th May, 2022 10,00,00,000 1.00 13,220 0 3,700 4,380 300 120 8,420
ESIS-2022 RSU 003 14th May, 2022 10,00,00,000 1.00 20,160 0 5,050 6,600 1,850 570 11,140
ESIS-2022 RSU 004 14th May, 2022 10,00,00,000 1.00 56,29,190 0 9,86,870 9,14,120 2,53,470 2,490 4,459,110
ESIS-2022 RSU 005 14th May, 2022 10,00,00,000 1.00 36,72,637 0 11,32,072 7,12,500 3,62,657 1,100 2,596,380
ESIS-2022 RSU 006 14th May, 2022 10,00,00,000 1.00 208 0 70 51 0 0 157
ESIS-2022 RSU 007 14th May, 2022 10,00,00,000 1.00 31,430 0 7,911 2,702 3,096 25 25,607
ESIS-2022 RSU 008 14th May, 2022 10,00,00,000 1.00 20,759 0 6,859 982 138 0 19,639
ESIS-2022 RSU 009 14th May, 2022 10,00,00,000 1.00 0 60,41,515 0 0 0 0 60,41,515
ESIS-2022 RSU 010 14th May, 2022 10,00,00,000 1.00 0 1,98,060 0 0 0 0 1,98,060
ESIS-2022 RSU 011 14th May, 2022 10,00,00,000 1.00 0 15,000 0 0 0 0 15,000
Total    18,73,81,228 2,94,01,235 3,71,64,245 5,53,11,012 46,61,309 5,50,204 15,62,59,938
Vesting Requirements Except for the death / permanent disablement or retirement of the employee, the options will vest
 only if the employee is in the continuous and uninterrupted employment of the Bank as on the date
 of vesting.
Maximum Term of Options Provided  the  employee  is  in  the  continuous  and  uninterrupted  employment  of  the  Bank,  the
 options  vested  under  the  ESOP  Schemes  25  to  ESOP  Scheme  28  and  ESOP  Scheme  41  to
 ESOP Scheme 59 will lapse in case the same are not exercised by the employee within four years
 from the respective dates of vesting. However, for the grant of options under the ESOP Schemes
 29 to ESOP Scheme 40 the vested options will lapse in case the same are not exercised by the
 employee within two years from the respective dates of vesting. Further, for the grant of options
 under the RSU 001 to 011 the vested options will lapse in case the same are not exercised by the
 employee  within  one  year  from  the  respective  dates  of  vesting.  Further,  for  the  grant  of  options
 under the schemes of HDFC Limited, the vested will lapse in case the same are not exercised by
 the employee within five years from the respective dates of vesting.
 In case of death/ permanent disablement or retirement of the employee to whom the options are
 granted, all unvested options shall get vested to the employee on the date of happening of such
 event and should be exercised within one year period or its lapse date whichever is earlier from the
 date of such event for options granted under ESOP Scheme 23 to ESOP Scheme 34 and RSU
 001 to 011. However, in case of ESOP Scheme 35 to ESOP Scheme 40 the vesting will happen
 on  date  of  such  event  and  exercisable  within  two  years  from  the  occurrence  of  the  event  or  its
 lapse date whichever is earlier and in case of ESOP Scheme 41 to 59 the vesting will happen on
 date of such event and exercisable within four years from the occurrence of the event or its lapse
 date whichever is earlier and in case of schemes of HDFC Limited, the vested will happen on date
 of such event and exercisable within five years from the occurrence of the event or its lapse date
 whichever is earlier.
Source of shares Primary
Variation in terms of ESOS None
DETAILS OF OPTIONS GRANTED TO DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL AND KEY  
MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL AS ON MARCH 31, 2025  
Sr. no. Name Grade
1. Arvind Vohra CX
2. Ashish Parthasarthy CX
3. Bhavesh Zaveri ED
4. Gourab Roy CX
5. Jimmy M Tata CX
6. N Srinivasan CX
7. Nirav Vimal Shah CX
8. Parag Rao CX
9. Rakesh Kumar Rajput CX
10. Rakesh Singh CX
11. Ramesh Lakshminarayanan CX
12. Sanmoy Chakrabarti CX
13. Sashidhar Jagdishan MD
14. Srinivasa V Rangan ED
15. Srinivasan Vaidyanathan CX
16. Sudhir Kumar Jha CX
17. Suketu Kapadia CX
18. Sumant Vinay Rampal CX
19. Vinayak Ravindra Mavinkurve CX
20. Ajay Agarwal* C2
DETAILS OF OPTIONS GRANTED TO DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL AND KEY   
MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL AS ON MARCH 31, 2025   
Sr. no. Name Grade Final Grant
1. Arvind Vohra CX 83,200
2. Ashish Parthasarthy CX 83,200
3. Bhavesh Zaveri ED 78,602
4. Gourab Roy CX 69,160
5. Jimmy M Tata CX 83,200
6. N Srinivasan CX 69,160
7. Nirav Vimal Shah CX 83,200
8. Parag Rao CX 83,200
9. Rakesh Kumar Rajput CX 47,030
10. Rakesh Singh CX 83,200
11. Ramesh Lakshminarayanan CX 83,200
12. Sanmoy Chakrabarti CX 48,510
13. Sashidhar Jagdishan MD 2,12,052
14. Srinivasa V Rangan ED 1,25,976
15. Srinivasan Vaidyanathan CX 59,440
16. Sudhir Kumar Jha CX 69,160
17. Suketu Kapadia CX 37,940
18. Sumant Vinay Rampal CX 69,160
19. Vinayak Ravindra Mavinkurve CX 55,310
20. Ajay Agarwal* C2 26,660
 *Mr. Ajay Agarwal was appointed as Company Secretary and Head- Group Oversight with effect from July 21, 2024. He was further elevated as
Group Head-Secretarial & Group Oversight with effect from April 1, 2025. 
i.
Other employees who receive a grant in any one year of share-linked None
instruments 
(employee  stock  options  and 
restricted  stock  units) 
amounting to 5 % or more of share-linked instruments granted during 
that year 
ii.
Identified  employees  who  were  granted  share  linked  instruments, None
during any one year, equal to or exceeding 1 percent of the issued 
capital (excluding outstanding warrants and conversions) 
iii.
Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) pursuant to the issue of shares on The  diluted  EPS  of  the  Bank  calculated  after  considering
exercise  of  share  linked  instruments  calculated  in  accordance  with the  effect  of  potential  equity  shares  arising  on  account  of
Accounting Standard (AS) - 20 (Earnings Per Share) exercise of share- linked instruments is ` 87.90
iv.
Where the company has calculated the employee compensation cost During  the  year,  the  compensation  cost  for  share-linked
using the intrinsic value of the share-linked instruments, the difference instruments  granted  has  been  recognised  basis  the  fair
between  the  employee  compensation  cost  so  computed  and  the value of the share-linked instruments calculated based on
employee  compensation  cost  that  shall  have  been  recognized  if the Black-Scholes model.
it  had  used  the  fair  value  of  the  share  linked  instruments,  shall  be 
disclosed. The impact of this difference on profits and on EPS of the 
company shall also be disclosed 
v.
Weighted average exercise prices and weighted average fair values The weighted average price of the stock options exercised
of share-linked instruments shall be disclosed separately for share- is  `  1,198.42  and  the  weighted  average  fair  value  cost  is
linked instruments whose exercise price either equals or exceeds or ` 326.02
is less than the market price of the stock share-linked instruments. 
 The weighted average price of the RSU’s exercised is ` 1
 and the weighted average fair value is ` 1,485.15
vi.
A description of the method and significant assumptions used during The Bank calculated the fair value of share linked instruments
the year to estimate the fair value of share-linked instruments, at the at  the  time  of  grant,  using  Black-Scholes  model  with  the
time of grant including the following weighted average information: following assumptions
I. 
Risk-free interest rate 6.73 percent to 7.19 percent
II. 
Expected life 1  to 8 years
III.
Expected volatility 20.05 percent to 27.70 percent
IV.
Expected dividends 0.77 percent to 1.58 percent
V. 
The price of the underlying share in the market at the time of share For ESOS, the market price per share at the time of grant
linked instrument grant of options was ` 1,561.30 for ESOS 56, and ` 1,615.55 for
 ESOS 57, and ` 1,751.85 for ESOS 58 and ` 1,691.50 for
 ESOS 59
 For  RSU,  the  market  price  per  share  was  `  1,751.85  for
 RSU 009, RSU 010 and RSU 011
VI.
The weighted average market price of Bank’s shares on NSE at the For ESOS, the weighted average market price at the time
time of share linked instruments grant of grant was ` 1,566.93 for ESOS 56, and ` 1,615.74 for
 ESOS 57, and ` 1,744.14 for ESOS 58 and ` 1,685.73 for
 ESOS 59
 For  RSU, 
the  weighted 
average  market 
price  was
 ` 1,744.14 for RSU 009, RSU 010 and RSU 011
VII.
Method  used  and  assumptions  made 
to 
incorporate  effects  of The Black-Scholes model is used to calculate the fair value
expected early exercise of options at the time of grant.
VIII.
How expected volatility was determined, including explanation of the Stock  expected  volatility  is  completely  based  on  GARCH
extent to which expected volatility was based on historical volatility volatility forecasting model using historical stock prices from
 the market.
IX.   Whether and how any other features of the share linked instrument Stock  price  and  risk-free  interest  rate  are  variables  based
grant were incorporated into the measurement of fair value, such as on actual market data at the time of share linked instrument
a market condition valuation.
ANNEXURE 2 TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
1. Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
 The Bank’s CSR is implemented under the aegis of ‘Parivartan’ which is the umbrella brand for all the Bank’s social initiatives.
 Parivartan aims to bring about a transformation in the communities in which the Bank operates through multiple initiatives
 in the areas of education, skill training and livelihood enhancement, health care, sports, environmental sustainability and
 rural development. The Bank’s programs are guided by CSR Policy duly approved by the Board which is driven by the
 vision of “Creating Sustainable Communities.” The CSR policy and programs are aligned to comply with the requirements
 of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and are monitored by a Board level Committee.
2. Composition of CSR Committee:
of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and are monitored by a Board level Committee.   
Composition of CSR Committee:   
Sl. Name of Designation Number of meetings of CSR
No. Director / Nature of Directorship Committee attended / held during
   the year
1 Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari Independent Director – Chairperson 5/5
2 Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Independent Director 2/2
 Bhanwala*  
3 Mrs. Renu Karnad Non-Executive Director 5/5
4 Mr. Santhosh Keshavan** Independent Director N.A.
4 Mr. Kaizad Bharucha Deputy Managing Director 5/5
 * Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala was appointed as a Member of the CSR & ESG Committee with effect from October 19, 2024.  
https://v.hdfcbank.com/csr/our-commitment.html  
Sr. Project Code Focus of the Impact Assessment
No.  
1 P0745 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to the Community Health Centers for proving
  CT Scan machines
2 P0693 Assessment  of  the  FDP  project  for  the  support  provided  Banaras  Hindu  University  Hospital  for  the
  medical equipment
3 P0387 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
4 P0692 Assessment  of  the  FDP  project  primarily  focused  on  installing  smart  TVs  in  one  classroom  of  the
  intervention schools
5 P0335 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
6 P0336 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
7 P0338 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
Sr. Project Code Focus of the Impact Assessment
No.  
8 P0340 Assessment  of  the  FDP  project  aimed  at  strengthening  rural  livelihoods  by  establishing  robust  value
  chains around garlic and other high-value crops, thereby enhancing income opportunities for smallholder
  farmers
9 P0342 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to the marginalized youth with future-ready skills
  in the IT/ITES sector, thereby enhancing their employability and income-generating potential
10 P0343 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to marginalized youth with skills in the Healthcare
  sector, thereby enhancing their employability and income-generating potential
11 P0349 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
12 P0354 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
13 P0358 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
14 P0359 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
15 P0436 Assessment of the FDP project for skill training provided to youth in AI, Digital Marketing, Core Java, and
  Cloud Computing, aiming to boost employability through digital skill development
16 P0626 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
17 P0700 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to government hospitals for providing medical
  equipment
18 P0754 Assessment of the FDP project for the support to the disabled persons provided with tricycles
19 P0327 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
20 P0350 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to promote sustainable livelihoods and socio-
  economic  development  in  rural  communities,  focusing  on  enhancing  agricultural  practices,  improving
  community infrastructure, and increasing income-generating opportunities
21 P0357 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
22 P0581 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for the school infrastructure development
23 P0638 Assessment  of  the  FDP  project  focused  on  enabling  digital  skills  for  employability  of  rural  youth  by
  ensuring well-equipped IT Labs with desktops
24 P0601 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for quality nursing education to young tribal
  women from disadvantaged backgrounds
25 P0331 Assessment of the FDP project aimed to adopt a comprehensive area intervention approach combining
  varied  approaches,  appropriate  technologies  and  livelihood  prototypes  deployed  or  developed  and
  strengthen supply chains
26 P0382 Assessment  of  the  FDP  project  for  the  support  for  skill  development  and  livelihood  enhancement  of
  marginalized communities
27 P0384 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for skill development and livelihood enhancement
  of marginalized communities
28 P0388 Assessment  of  the  FDP  project  for  the  support  for  skill  development  and  livelihood  enhancement  of
  marginalized communities
29 P0323 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
30 P0332 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
31 P0315 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
32 P0330 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
33 P0314 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
34 P0329 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
35 P0433 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
36 P0326 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
37 P0341 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
38 P0347 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
39 P0362 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
Sr. Project Code Focus of the Impact Assessment
No.  
40 P0398 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
41 P0413 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
42 P0317 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
43 P0312 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
44 P0322 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
45 P0503 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention
  areas
46 P0316 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
47 P0319 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
48 P0320 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
49 P0289 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
50 P0334 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
51 P0364 Assessment of the FDP project aimed to enhance the livelihoods of rural villagers by promoting sustainable
  farming practices, encouraging an entrepreneurial mindset, creating an enabling learning environment
  and developing employability (self/wage) among rural youths/ farmers/ women by sharpening the existing
  skills and knowledge to sustain in existing market
52 P0328 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
53 P0313 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
54 P0282 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
55 G0040 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for HPV vaccination drive.
56 G0166 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for CT scan and MRI machines to the Municipality
  Hospital
57 P0627 Assessment of the FDP project supporting junior athletes for Olympics.
58 P0286 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
59 G0120 Assessment of the FDP project supported with artificial limbs calipers for differently abled.
60 G0161 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for the school infrastructure development.
61 P0311 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
62 P0400 Assessment  of  the  FDP  project  for  the  support  provided  for  women  empowerment  through  creating
  sustainable livelihood by providing vocational training.
63 P0212 Assessment of the FDP project for support provided to students for promoting education.
64 P0630 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention
  areas.
65 P0635 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention
  areas.
66 P0287 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
67 P0466 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
68 P0617 Assessment  of  the  FDP  project  aiming  at  fostering  competencies  rather  than  content  retention,  the
  program aimed to equip students with the tools needed for academic and lifelong success.
69 P0321 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
70 P0295 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for waste management in intervention areas.
71 P0648 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided to strengthen the school infrastructure holistically.
72 P0526 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention
  areas.
73 P0279 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
74 P0582 Assessment  of  the  FDP  project  for  the  support  provided  for  women  empowerment  through  creating
  sustainable livelihood by providing vocational training.
Sr. Project Code Focus of the Impact Assessment
No.  
75 P0280 Assessment of a Holistic Rural Development Project
76 P0310 Assessment of the FDP project aimed at improving learning attainment levels and enhancing the learning
  experiences of students while fostering holistic development through edutainment methods.
77 P0478 Assessment of the FDP project for the support provided for smart school development in intervention
  areas.
78 P0064 Assessment  of  the  FDP  project,  Zero  Investment  Innovations  for  Education  Initiatives  (ZIIEI)  aimed  to
  contribute  towards  quality  education,  personality  development  and  skilling  by  introducing  innovative
  teaching methods such as arts, sports, storytelling, and project-based learning.
  All amounts in INR crore rounded off.
  All amounts in INR crore rounded off.
5.  
 a) Average net profit of the Bank as per sub-section (5) of section 135: INR 53,001.70 Cr
 b) Two percent of average net profit of the Bank as per sub-section (5) of section 135: INR 1,060.03 Cr
 c) Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: 0.08 Cr
 d) Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: INR 0 Cr
 e) Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]: INR 1,060.11 Cr
6.  
 a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): INR 1,039.29 Cr
 b) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: INR 20.92 Cr
 c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: INR 7.82 Cr
 d) Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: INR 1,068.03 Cr
 e) CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year:
1,068.03 0 
NA
NA
NA NA 
Excess amount for set-off, if any:   
Sl. Particular  Amount (in ` Cr)
No.   (rounded off)
(1) (2)  (3)
(i) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135  1,060.03
(ii) Total amount spent for the Financial Year  1,068.03
(iii) Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)]  8.00
(iv) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous Financial Years, if any  0.08
(v) Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]  7.92
    CSR Name Registered
    Registration  address
    Number, if  
    applicable  
Lenovo Desktop, Canon 414001, 03-05-2024 15,41,977.58 NA Mahar Regiment Khangabok
Printer, Biometric Matra 900461,    (Infantry Desktops were
MFS 470001,    Regiment of provided in
 144005,    Indian Army), 11 States as
 734424,    Mechanized Ahmed Nagar,
 500087,    Infantry Maharashtra;
 284001,    Regimental Dehradun,
 342006,    Centre, DIAV Uttarakhand;
 194101,    Dehradun, 2 Bangalore,
 522006,    ASC Training Karnataka;
 273008,    Centre Jalandhar,
 226002,    (Erstwhile ASC Punjab;
 560001    Centre, Corps Darjeeling,
     of Indian Army, West Bengal;
     Indian Army Secunderabad,
     Division, EME, Telangana;
     Cantonment Jhansi,
     Board, HQ Gorakhpur,
     Sub Area C/o Lucknow,
     56 APO, Leh Uttar Pradesh;
     Sub Area, Jodhpur,
     Guntur, Andhra Rajasthan;
     Pradesh, DIAV Guntur, Andhra
     Gorakhpur, Pradesh;
     DIAV Lucknow Sagar, Madhya
      Pradesh; Leh,
      Ladakh
      CSR Name Registered
      Registration  address
      Number, if  
      applicable  
2 Medical Grade Oxygen 110005 18-01-2024 1,30,04,273.65 NA  Ayurvedic and Ayurvedic and
 Generation Plant of      Tibbia College Tibbia College,
 capacity 57.60 Cu. Mtr       Ajmal Khan
 per hour equivalent to 960       Road, Block
 LPM (catering to 195 beds       56, Karol Bagh,
 at flow rate of 5 LPM)       New Delhi
3 Ambulance T1 AMB 3350 402304 22-03-2024 21,31,684.00 NA  Sahyadri House no 244,
 FM 2.6 BS6.2 (9+D+P) AC      Vanyajiv at Sambhe,
 PS ABS Type-B      Rakashnarth Post Kolad,
       Samajik Taluka Roha,
       Sanstha Raigarh
4 UPS & Server Room 560029 25-06-2024 67,51,283.70 NA  National Hosur Road
 Creation with Door &      Institute / Marigowda
 Ventilation; Meeting Room      of Mental Road,
 Creation with Door &      Health and (Lakkasandra,
 Ventilation; Meeting Room      Neurosciences Wilson Garden),
 Table with 6 Chairs (incl      (NIMHANS) Bangalore,
 2 chairs for Server room);       Karnataka
 Work Stations with Chair       
 & Pedestal ; Entrance       
 Door in Complete Glass;       
 Covering of Storage below       
 Granite area with Frame       
 & Shutter in MR Ply;       
 Electrical Total Turnkey –       
 LPSM; CCTV & its Cabling       
 with 8CH DVR; Painting       
 Approx & Lumpsum       
 – Only walls & Roof;       
 Transportation, Loading       
 & Unloading; Design &       
 Supervision & Warranty       
 Coverage; Vitrified Tiles       
 with Roff Laying 8x4 tiles       
 Approx; Grid Ceiling Hilux       
 Grof Tiling for Roof.       
5 Portable Septage 629002 28-06-2024 30,89,500.00 NA  Compost Yard Compost Yard
 Treatment Unit      Vallampurivilai Vallampurivilai,
        Beach Road,
     CSR Name Registered
     Registration  address
     Number, if  
     applicable  
7 150 24-Watt Solar 249401 24-01-2025 34,82,033.62 NA Haridwar district 150 Streetlights
 Lights with accessories      has been
 including installation and      installed in
 transportation charges      different Gram
       panchayats
       of block
       Bhadrabaad,
       Haridwar
8 Ultra-portable digital 246401 14-12-2024 3,64,00,000.00 NA Netaji Subhash Set up of 13
 -X Ray machine- make 262523    Chandra Bose X-ray machines
 Prognosis 246171    Bhavan, Civil in 9 district
  246001    Secretariat hospitals
  263642     at Chamoli,
  249401     Champawat,
  263139     Rudraprayag,
  262501     Garhwal,
  248001     Bageshwar,
       Paudi,
       Haldwani,
       Pithorgarh,
       Dehradun
9 Motor vehicle Body 400601 15-04-2025 19,85,114.00 NA Assistant Assistant
 Building, Mobile rest room     Commissioner Commissioner
 for Ladies police     of Police, RTO of Police, RTO,
       Thane, Near
       Kalwa Bridge,
       Thane 400601
10 Hemodialysis Machine 768107 14-12-2024 25,95,500.00 NA Community The Medical
 4008S NG, RO Plant 500     Health Centre Office(I/C)
 LPH, Online UPS 3KVA     Fasimal CHC Fasimal
 BPE Inbuilt Battery      Block -
       Jamankira
       Dist-Sambalpur
       Pin - 768107
11 Cruzio 5360WB OBD2 422222 23-12-2024 30,52,000.00 NA Yashwantrao Yashwantrao
 44+D REG – School Bus     Chavan Chavan
      Maharashtra Maharashtra
      Open University Open University,
       Gat no -49,
       Goverdhan
       Village, Nashik
12 Hemodialysis Machine 767020 14-12-2024 25,95,500.00 NA Community The Medical
 4008S NG, RO Plant 500     Health Centre Office(I/C) CHC-
 LPH, Online UPS 3KVA     Loisingha II, Loisingha
 BPE Inbuilt Battery      Dist-Balangir
       Pin - 767020
     CSR Name Registered
     Registration  address
     Number, if  
     applicable  
13 Solid waste management 221010 15-03-2025 3,80,05,208.22 NA Sankul Dhara Sankul Dhara
 unit with 2-SC - 260 -     Transfer Station, Transfer Station,
 static Compactor with     Varanasi Nagar Sankul Dhara,
 tipcart, hopper and 2     Nigam Bhelupur Zone,
 container change over      Nagar Nigam,
 system as per scope of      Varanasi
 supply; 2-Hook Loader      
 20253S with chasis (6X2),      
 GVW, 28T; 6-20 Cum      
 Container cylindrical type;      
 1-Civil work of 1 transfer      
 station      
14 30 Carbon Dragon Boat 160001 02-12-2024 9,00,000.00 NA Water Sport Punjab
 Paddle     Chandigarh education
       Department,
       Mohali, Punjab
15 Equipment for medical 422004 04-03-2024 31,10,000.00 NA Maharashtra Maharashtra
 lab - LC-20AD BLK     University of University of
 L20106298877, Washing     Health Science Health Science,
 Kit 20AD, Reservoir      University
 Tray 20A BLK, Mixer,      research
 Low Pressure Gradient      department,
 Unit, DGU-20A5R, Auto      Dindori Road,
 Sampler SIL-20ACHT,      Mhasrul, Nashik
 CTO-10ASVP BLK SUB      422004
 P-N 228-45059-58,      
 SPD-M40 Photo Diode      
 Array, System Controller      
 CBM 20A LITE, LabSol      
 LC Connect CS Ready      
 & L54746101784-KE2,      
 Solvent Bottles with Cap      
 5/PKT      
16 Neurosurgery Microscope 382007 12-03-2025 61,00,000.00 NA SMVS SMVS, 1,
      Swaminarayan Swaminarayan
     CSR Name Registered
     Registration  address
     Number, if  
     applicable  
18 E-tricycle for specially 425103 09-03-2024 12,16,000.00 NA E- tricycles for Sugoki Lawns,
 abled     400 Persons Shaam Colony,
      with Disabilities Paladhi,
       Dharangaon,
       Jalgaon,
       Maharashtra
19 Bailer Thresher Machine 751007 22-02-2024 8,55,900.00 NA Bhubaneshwar ICOMC Tower,
 with fully Automatic Coir     Municipal Infront of
 Yarn Spinning, sensor     Corporation Satya Nagar
 and auto cut, Willowing      Kali Temple
 machine, Extraction      on Janpath,
 Machine, starter, belt,      Unit-IX,
 pully and conveyor from      Bhubaneswar,
 Extraction to screener,      Odisha
 Automatic 4bobbin type      
 Unit-IX,
 Bhubaneswar,
 Odisha
 Note: We have disclosed only the capital assets created / acquired by Bank itself (i.e., invoice is in the name of Bank). The assets created / acquired by
 IA where project directly belongs to creation / acquisition is disclosed in the following link: https://v.hdfcbank.com/csr/our-commitment.html. Further,
 none of the capital assets created / acquired out of CSR funds, directly by Bank or by IA / other beneﬁciary have been capitalized in the books of
 accounts of Bank and all the expenses have been debited to CSR expenditure in Proﬁt & Loss Statement.
 (All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office/Municipal Corporation/ Gram panchayat are
 to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well as boundaries).
9. Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per sub-section (5) of
 section 135. NA
Performance and financial position of the subsidiaries/entity over which control is exercised of the Bank as on March 31, 2025    
 Net assets as of March 31, 2025  Profit or (loss) for the year ended 
   March 31, 2025 
Name of entity    
 As % of  As % of 
  Amount  Amount
 consolidated  consolidated 
  Rs in crore  Rs in crore
 net assets**  profit or loss 
Parent:    
HDFC Bank Limited 93.18% 501,424.64 91.70% 67,347.36
Subsidiaries:    
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (Consolidated)*1 3.00% 16,153.93 2.39% 1,757.94
HDB Financial Services Limited* 3.00% 16,142.41 2.88% 2,117.32
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (Consolidated)*2 1.51% 8,130.96 3.35% 2,456.68
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited* 0.97% 5,201.60 0.66% 485.82
HDFC Securities Limited (Consolidated)*3 0.62% 3,340.85 1.51% 1,111.42
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited* 0.08% 428.16 0.19% 141.33
HDFC Sales Private Limited* 0.05% 273.26 0.10% 71.07
Griha Pte Limited 0.01% 39.17 (0.01%) (4.62)
Griha Investments 0.00% 6.86 (0.01%) (3.98)
HDFC Trustee Company Limited* 0.00% 3.88 0.00% 0.57
Entity over which control is exercised:    
HDB Employee Welfare Trust* 0.14% 738.73 0.23% 169.79
Minority Interest 3.04% 16,359.04 3.61% 2,647.92
Inter-company adjustments (5.60%) (30,095.06) (6.60%) (4,858.45)
Total 100.00% 538,148.43 100.00% 73,440.17
Inter-company adjustments (5.60%)
(30,095.06)
(6.60%)
(4,858.45)
Total 100.00%
538,148.43
100.00%
73,440.17
*These are Indian entities. 
 **Consolidated net assets are total assets minus total liabilities.
1. HDFC  Life  Insurance  Company  Limited  (Consolidated)  includes  details  of  its  wholly  owned  Indian  subsidiary  -  HDFC  Pension  Fund
 Management Limited and wholly owned foreign subsidiary HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited.
2. HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary - HDFC AMC International
 (IFSC) Limited.
3. HDFC Securities Limited (Consolidated) includes details of its wholly owned Indian subsidiary – HDFC Securities IFSC Limited.
Disclosures on Remuneration 2. Percentage 
increase 
in  remuneration  of  each
  Director  and  Key  Managerial  Personnel  in  the
Ratio  of  Remuneration  of  each  Director 
to  
  FY 2024-25
the  median  employees’  remuneration  for  the  
  
FY 2024-25  Designation
Percentage Increase
Name and Designation
Ratio  Directors
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Part-Time Chairman and 
21.27 : 1  
  00.00
Managing DirectorA
Independent Director @  
Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Independent Director
22.69 : 1  00.00
Deputy Managing DirectorB
Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Independent Director
27.35 : 1  00.00
Executive DirectorC
Dr. (Mrs). Sunita Maheshwari, Independent 
12.46 : 1  
  Key Managerial Personnel
Director  
Mrs. Lily Vadera, Independent Director
17.12 : 1  Chief Financial Officer
29.21
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala, Independent 
18.23 : 1  
  41.71
Company SecretaryD
Director  
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan, Independent Director ^
4.68 : 1  
  A,B  &  C As  per  the  salary  review  process  thus  far,  the
Mr. Keki Mistry, Non-Executive Director
12.26 : 1  
  salary increment proposal to be effected from April 1st in
Mrs. Renu Karnad, Non-Executive Director
18.23 : 1  a given financial year has been  made in the subsequent
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director & 
161.28 : 1  financial  year  post  assessment  of  performance  for
Chief Executive Officer *  the  reference  financial  year.  For  e.g.  salary  increment
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director *
156.76 : 1  
  proposal  to  be  made  to  the  RBI  effective  April  01,
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director*
98.90 : 1  2024 is made post assessment of performance for the
Mr. V Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director*
150.69: 1  FY  2024–25.  The  approval  received  from  the  RBI  will
  therefore be retrospectively applied from April 01, 2024.
 D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
Non-executive / Independent Directors: 3. Percentage Increase in the median remuneration
  of employees in the FY 2024-25
The  Non-Executive  Directors  are  paid  sitting  fees  
of  `  50,000  or  `  1,00,000  per  meeting  for  attending  The  percentage  increase  in  median  remuneration  of
Committee  and  Board  meetings,  the  details  of  which  employees in the FY 2024-25 was 9.27%. This includes
are provided in the Report on Corporate Governance.  front  line  sales  and  overseas  staff.  This  includes  only
  fixed pay.
Further,  pursuant  to  the  circular  issued  by  RBI  on  
“Review  of  Fixed  Remuneration  Granted  to  Non- 4. The  number  of  permanent  employees  on  the
Executive  Directors”  dated  February  09,  2024  read  rolls of the Bank
with  the  RBI  circular  on  “Corporate  Governance  in  
  As  of  March  31,  2025,  the  number  of  permanent
Banks - Appointment of  Directors and Constitution of  
  employees on the rolls of the Bank was 2,14,521.
Committees  of  the  Board”  dated  April  26,  2021  and  
subsequent resolution passed by the Members of the  
 5. Average  percentage 
increase  already  made
Bank  through  Postal  ballot  on  March  29,  2024,  each  
  in  the  salaries  of  employees  other  than  the
Non-Executive Directors (NEDs) of the Bank, other than  
  managerial  personnel 
in 
the 
last 
financial
the  Part-Time  Chairman,  were  paid  compensation  in  
  year  and  its  comparison  with  the  percentage
the form of fixed remuneration of ` 30,00,000 (Rupees  
  increase  in  the  managerial  remuneration  and
Thirty Lakhs Only) for FY 2024-25. This is in addition to  
  justification  thereof  and  point  out  if  there  are
payment of sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses  
  any  exceptional  circumstances  for  increase  in
for attending the Board and Committee meetings.  
  the managerial remuneration.
Further,  pursuant  to  approval  of  the  Members  of  The  average  percentage  increase  for  Key  Managerial
the  Bank  through  postal  ballot  on  May  3,  2024  and  Personnel: 35.46%*
RBI,  Mr.  Atanu  Chakraborty  was  re-appointed  as  the  
Part-Time  Chairman  and  Independent  Director  of  the  The  average  percentage  increase  for  Non-Managerial
Bank for a period of 3 (three) years with effect from May  Staff : 7.11%
5, 2024 up to May 4, 2027 (both days inclusive), not liable  
to  retire  by  rotation  at  a  remuneration  of  `  50,00,000  The  average  percentage  increase  in  the  salaries  is
(Rupees Fifty Lakhs Only) per annum.  inclusive  of  front-line  sales  and  overseas  staff  and
  is  primarily  on  account  of  annual  fixed  pay  increase
Accordingly, 
the  details  of 
remuneration  paid 
to  and promotions.
Mr. Chakraborty for FY 2024-25 is as under:  
  *The average percentage increase is only for Company
i. 
From  April  1,  2024  to  May  4,  2024-  `  35,00,000  Secretary  and  Chief  Financial  Officer.  Whole  Time
(Rupees Thirty Five Lakhs Only) per annum, on a  Directors are excluded from the calculation since they
proportionate basis.  did not receive increment for FY 2024 – 2025. For more
  details please refer to the foot notes to point number 2.
ii. 
From May 5, 2024 to March 31, 2025- ` 50,00,000  
(Rupees  Fifty  Lakhs  Only)  per  annum,  on  a  6. 
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per
proportionate basis.  the remuneration policy of the company:
In addition to the above, Mr. Chakraborty was also paid  Yes
sitting fees, reimbursement of expenses for attending the  
Board and Committee meetings and provision of car for  
official and personal use, during FY 2024-25.  
ANNEXURE 5 TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT  
 FORM NO. MR-3 III. 
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the
 SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT Rules made thereunder;
 For the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025 
  IV. 
The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the
  Rules  /  Regulations  made thereunder  to the extent of
 [Pursuant to Section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 
  Overseas  /  Foreign  Direct  Investments  and  External
 and Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
  Commercial Borrowings;
 Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] 
  V. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and
To,  
  Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021;
The Members  
HDFC Bank Limited,  
  VI. 
The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing
HDFC Bank House,  
  Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
Senapati Bapat Marg,  
  2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
Lower Parel (W), Mumbai,  
Maharashtra 400013.  
  VII. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition
  of 
Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  2015, 
including
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance  
  maintenance of a ‘Structured Digital Database’;
of  applicable  statutory  provisions  and  the  adherence  to  
good  corporate  practices  by  HDFC  Bank  Limited,  (CIN:  
  VIII. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial
L65920MH1994PLC080618) (hereinafter called the ‘Bank’)  
  Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 (‘period under  
audit’).  Secretarial  Audit  was  conducted  in  a  manner  that  
  IX. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of  India  (Issue of
provided  us  with  a  reasonable  basis  for  evaluating  the  
  Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
Bank’s corporate conducts / statutory compliances and for  
expressing our opinion thereon.  
  X. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based
  Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
Based on our verification of the Bank’s books, papers, minute  
books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained  
  XI. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories
by the Bank and the information provided by the Bank,  its  
  and Participants) Regulations, 2018;
officers,  agents  and  authorized  representatives,  during  the  
conduct  of  Secretarial  Audit,  we  hereby  report  that  in  our  
  XII. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Bankers to
opinion, the Bank has, during the period under audit, complied  
  an issue) Regulations, 1994;
with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that  
the  Bank  has  proper  Board  processes  and  compliance-  
  XIII. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject  
  Bankers) Regulations, 1992;
to the reporting made hereinafter.  
  XIV. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian)
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms  
  Regulations, 1996;
and returns filed and other records maintained by the Bank for  
the period under audit according to the provisions of:  
  XV. 
The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Foreign
  Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019;
I. The  Companies  Act,  2013  (“the  Act”)  and  the  Rules 
 made thereunder; 
  XVI.   The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture
  Trustees) Regulations, 1993;
II. The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye- 
 laws framed thereunder; 
  XVII.  The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India
  (Intermediaries) Regulation, 2008;
D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
XVIII. Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010; During  the  period  under  audit,  provisions  of  the  following
 Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities
XIX. 
KYC  /  PML  Policy  on  Securities  of  the  Prevention  of and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 were not applicable
Money Laundering Act, 2002; to the Bank:
XX. 
The  Securitisation  and  Reconstruction  of  Financial (a) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars
Assets  and  Enforcement  of  Security  Interest  Act, to  an  Issue  and  Share  Transfer  Agents)  Regulations,
2002; and 1993 relating to the Companies Act, 2013 and dealing
 with clients;
XXI. 
The  Recovery  of  Debts  Due  to  Banks  and  Financial 
Institutions Act, 1993. (b) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of
 Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;
We  have  also  examined  compliance  by  the  Bank  with  the 
applicable clauses of the Secretarial Standard on Meetings of (c) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-back
Board of Directors and its Committees (SS-1) and Secretarial of Securities) Regulations, 2018.
Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India and notified by the Central We further report that:
Government  under  Section  118(10)  of  the  Act  which  are 
 The Board of Directors of the Bank is duly constituted with
mandatorily applicable to the Bank. 
 a  proper  balance  of  Managing  Director,  Deputy  Managing
 Director,  Executive  Directors,  Non-Executive  Directors  and
During the period under audit, the Bank has complied with 
 Independent Directors including women independent directors.
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Standards, as 
 The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors and
mentioned above. 
 Key Managerial Personnel, which have taken place during the
 period under audit were carried out in compliance with the
We  have  also  examined,  on  test-check  basis,  the  relevant 
 provisions of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations.
documents and records maintained by the Bank according to 
the following laws applicable specifically to the Bank: 
 We would report that there have been instances where the
 Regulatory authorities have imposed penalties / fines on the
(a) 
Banking  Regulation  Act,  1949,  Master  Circulars, 
 Bank which have been paid and duly reported to the Stock
Notifications, Guidelines and other directions pertaining 
 Exchanges in accordance with the Regulations.
compliance system prevailing in the Bank, we report that, the   
   from May 05, 2024 to May 04, 2027 (both days inclusive),
Bank has complied with the provisions of the above laws during   
   not liable to retire by rotation as per the approval of RBI,
the period under audit, except for the following observations:   
   shareholders of the Bank through Postal Ballot on May
   3, 2024.
a) The maintenance of secretarial records, the processes  
 relating  to  holding  of  meetings  of  the  Board  and  its  
  ii) Re-appointment of Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri (DIN: 1550468),
 committees have shown improvement during the course  
   as a Director of the Bank (Executive Director), liable to
 of the Audit period.  
   retire by rotation, at the 30th Annual General Meeting held
   on August 09, 2024.
b) During 
the  year, 
the  Bank  has 
received  certain  
 administrative warnings from the regulatory authorities  
  iii) Re-appointment of Mr. Keki Mistry (DIN: 00008886), as
 which have been duly reported to the Stock Exchanges  
   a  Director  of  the  Bank  (Non-executive),  liable  to  retire
 from time to time.  
   by rotation, at the 30th Annual General Meeting held on
   August 09, 2024.
   Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
iv) Appointment of Mr. Santhosh Iyengar Keshavan (DIN:  named  as  HDFC  Securities 
IFSC  Limited, 
(CIN:
 08466631), as an Independent Director of the Bank for a  U64990GJ2024PLC155489),  a  Company  limited  by
 period of 3 (three) years, with effect from November 18,  shares, vide Certificate of Incorporation dated October
 2024 to November 17, 2027 (both days inclusive), not liable  01,  2024,  issued  by  the  Registrar  of  Companies,
 to retire by rotation, as approved by the shareholders of  Ahmedabad, Gujarat.
 the Bank through Postal Ballot on January 11, 2025.  
  iii) The Bank has disposed of its 100% stake in Edu Voyage
v) Appointment  of  Mr.  Ajay  Giridharilal  Agarwal  (ICSI  Education  Private  Limited  (earlier  known  as  HDFC
 Membership No.: F9023) as the Company   Secretary  Education and Development Services Private Limited),
 and Head of Secretarial & Group Oversight Department  in tranches.
 of  the  Bank  on  July  21,  2024,  consequent  upon  the  
  iv) The Board of Directors of the Bank at its meeting held
 resignation of Mr. Santosh Haldankar as the Company  
   on July 20, 2024, has provided an in-principle approval
 Secretary of the Bank from the close of business hours  
   to initiate the process of listing of equity shares of HDB
 on July 20, 2024.  
   Financial  Services  Limited,  a  subsidiary  of  the  Bank,
   through a potential Initial Public Offering (IPO) and to seek
Adequate notices have been given to all directors of the Bank   
   necessary approvals from the regulatory authorities in
as regards the schedule of the meetings of the Board (including   
   this regard.
the  meetings  of  its  Committees)  except  where  consent  of   
directors / members of the Committees has been received for   
  v) The members of the Bank have approved the following
holding the meetings at a shorter notice. Agenda and detailed   
   at  the  30th  Annual  General  Meeting  held  on  August
notes on Agenda were also sent to all the directors of the Bank   
   09, 2024:
at least seven days in advance, except in cases where consent   
of directors / members of the Committees, was received for   
   a. 
Declaration  of  Dividend  of  `  19.50/-  per  Equity
circulation of the agenda and notes on Agenda at a shorter   
   Share of face Value of Re. 1 (Rupee One) each /-,
notice.  A  system  exists  for  seeking  and  obtaining  further   
   for  the  Financial  Year  ended  March  31,  2024,  as
information and clarifications on the agenda items before the   
   recommended by the Board;
meetings and for meaningful participation by the directors at   
the meetings.   
   b. 
Appointment of M/s. Batliboi & Purohit, Chartered
   Accountants as one of the Joint Statutory Auditors
All decisions at the meetings of the Board and the meetings   
   of  the  Bank  for  a  period  of  3  (three)  years  w.e.f.
of the Committees were carried out unanimously as recorded   
   FY  2024-25  till  and  including  FY  2026-27  and
in the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and   
   overall audit for FY 2024-25 aggregating to a fee
its Committees.   
   of ` 9,90,00,000 (Nine Crore and Ninety Lakhs) to
   be allocated between the Joint Statutory Auditors
We  further  report  that  there  are  adequate  systems  and   
   as may be mutually agreed between  the Bank and
processes  in  the  Bank,  which  are  commensurate  with  its   
   Joint Statutory Auditors.
size and operations, to monitor and ensure compliance with   
applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.   
   c. 
Issue of Long-Term Bonds (financing of infrastructure
   and affordable housing), perpetual Debt Instruments
We further report that during the period under audit, the   
   (part of additional Tier I Capital) and Tier II Capital
following specific events / actions having major bearing on   
   Bonds of an amount in aggregate not exceeding
the Bank’s affairs have taken place in pursuance of the above   
   ` 60,000/- crore through private placement mode.
referred laws, rules, regulations and standards:   
   d. 
Grant, offer, issue and allot 9,50,00,000 (Nine Crore
i) The Bank has allotted 5,53,11,012 equity shares of Re.  
   and Fifty Lakhs) equity stock options (“ESOPs”),
 1/- each to the eligible employees of the Bank during the  
   convertible into 9,50,00,000 (Nine Crore and Fifty
 period under audit, pursuant to exercise of options under  
   Lakhs) equity shares of the nominal face value not
 its Employees Stock Options Scheme (ESOS).  
   exceeding Re. 1 (Rupee One) per equity share under
   the Employee Stock Option Master Scheme-2024
ii) A  subsidiary  of  the  Bank  namely  HDFC  Securities  
   (“ESOS-Plan H-2024” / “ESOS 2024”), fully paid
 Limited  has  incorporated  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  
   in one or more tranches.
Technologies  Limited,  proposed  to  be  entered  
during  the  financial  year  2025-26  which  could  in 5. The  compliance  of  the  provisions  or  corporate  and
aggregate, be up to Rs. 2,500 crores.  other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards, is
  the responsibility of the Management. Our examination
For BNP & Associates  was  limited  to  the  verification  of  procedures  on  test-
Company Secretaries  check basis.
[Firm Reg No: P2014MH037400]  
 6. The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as
PR No: 6316/2024  
  to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficacy or
 D I R E C T O R S ’   R E P O R T 
vi) 
The members of the Bank have approved the following  Annexure - A
through Postal Ballot involving the process of e-voting  
 To, 
on March 26, 2025:  
 The Members, 
 HDFC Bank Limited 
a. 
Material  Related  Party  Transactions  with  HDB  
 HDFC Bank House, 
Financial Services Limited, proposed to be entered  
 Senapati Bapat Marg, 
during the financial year 2025-26 up to an amount  
 Lower Parel (W), Mumbai, 
of Rs. 40,234 crores.  
 Maharashtra 400013. 
b. 
Material  Related  Party  Transactions  with  HDFC  
  Re: Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read
Securities Limited, proposed to be entered during  
 along with this letter. 
the financial year 2025-26 which could aggregate,  
up to Rs. 8,248 crores. 1. Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility
  of the Management. Our responsibility is to express an
c. 
Material  Related  Party  Transactions  with  HDFC  
  opinion on the secretarial records based on our audit.
Life Insurance Company Limited, proposed to be  
 2. We  have  followed  the  audit  practices  and  processes
entered  during  the  financial  year  2025-26  which  
  as  were  considered  appropriate  to  obtain  reasonable
could in aggregate, be up to Rs. 40,695 crores.  
  assurance about the correctness of the contents of the
  secretarial records. The verification was done on test-
d. 
Material Related Party Transaction with HDFC ERGO  
  check  basis  to  ensure  that  correct  facts  are  reflected
General Insurance Company Limited, proposed to  
  in secretarial records. We believe that the process and
be entered during the financial year 2025-26 which  
  practices,  we  followed  provide  a  reasonable  basis  for
could in aggregate, be up to Rs. 9,249 crores.  
  our opinion.
e. 
Material  Related  Party  Transactions  with  PayU  
 3. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness
Payments Private Limited, proposed to be entered  
  of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Bank.
during the financial year 2025-26 which could, in  
aggregate, be up to Rs. 1,521 crores.  
 4. Wherever  required,  we  have  obtained  Management
  representation about the compliance of laws, rules and
f. 
Material  Related  Party  Transactions  with  HCL  
  regulations and happening of material events, etc.
Technologies  Limited,  proposed  to  be  entered  
during  the  financial  year  2025-26  which  could  in 5. The  compliance  of  the  provisions  or  corporate  and
aggregate, be up to Rs. 2,500 crores.  other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards, is
  the responsibility of the Management. Our examination
For BNP & Associates  was  limited  to  the  verification  of  procedures  on  test-
Company Secretaries  check basis.
[Firm Reg No: P2014MH037400]  
 6. The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as
PR No: 6316/2024  
  to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficacy or
Date: April 19, 2025  effectiveness with which the Management has conducted
  the affairs of the Bank.
Place: Mumbai  
PR No: 6316/2024  
  to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficacy or
  effectiveness with which the Management has conducted
 the affairs of the Bank. 
  For BNP & Associates
Sd/  
  Company Secretaries
Kalidas Ramaswami  
  [Firm Reg No: P2014MH037400]
Partner  
  PR No: 6316/2024
FCS: F2440 / COP: 22856  
UDIN: F002440G000122549 Date: April 19, 2025 
 Place: Mumbai 
 FCS: F2440 / COP: 22856  
 UDIN: F002440G000122549 Date: April 19, 2025 
  Place: Mumbai 
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date   
   Sd/
which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part   
   Kalidas Ramaswami
of this report.   
   Partner
   FCS: F2440 / COP: 22856
   UDIN: F002440G000122549
Sr. Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No   
 Complaints received by the bank from its customers  
1 Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year 14,232 13,361
1.1 Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) NA 1,224
2 Number of complaints received during the year 4,57,466 4,85,339
3 Number of complaints disposed during the year 4,55,392 4,85,692
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the bank* 1,50,965 1,27,112
4 Number of complaints pending at the end of the year 16,306 14,232
 Maintainable complaints received by the bank from RBIOs*  
5 Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from RBIOs 13,578 14,563
5.1 Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the bank by RBIOs 6,515 6,834
5.2 Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation / mediation / advisories 7,063 7,729
 issued by RBIOs  
5.3 Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by RBIOs against NIL 1
 the bank  
6 Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than those NIL NIL
 appealed)  
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2025:      
Grounds of complaints (i.e. Number of Addition Number of % increase / Number of Of  6, number
complaints relating to) complaints on amalg- complaints (decrease) in complaints of complaints
 pending at amation received the number pending at pending
 the beginning ( Refer during the of complaints the end of the beyond 30
 of the year Schedule year received over year* days
  18(1))  the previous  
    year  
 of the year Schedule  year received over  year* days 
  18(1))   the previous    
     year    
1 2 3  4 5  6 7 
ATM / Debit Cards 3,013  - 1,19,694  (17%) 3,467  218
Credit Cards 2,565  - 1,16,242  23% 3,839  3
Internet / Mobile / Electronic 2,910  - 1,00,306  (11%) 3,160  21
Banking         
Loans and advances 3,981  - 64,833  (13%) 3,927  6
Account opening / difficulty in 327  - 20,986  (14%) 386  1
operation of accounts         
Others 1,436  - 35,405  3% 1,527  29
Total 14,232  - 4,57,466  (6%) 16,306  278
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2024:      
Grounds of complaints (i.e. Number of Addition on Number of % increase Number of Of 6, number
complaints relating to) complaints amalgamation complaints /  (decrease) complaints of complaints
 pending at the ( Refer received during in the number pending at the pending
 beginning of Schedule 18(1)) the year of complaints end of the year* beyond 30 days
 the year   received over  
    the previous  
    year  
     year     
1 2  3 4 5  6  7 
ATM / Debit Cards  2,955  1,44,803  (12%)  3,013  72
Credit Cards  2,207  94,755  21%  2,565  0
Internet / Mobile /  3,621  1,12,279  16%  2,910  24
Electronic Banking          
Loans and advances  3,168 1,208 74,491  66%  3,981  0
Account opening /  247 16 24,472  46%  327  2
difficulty in operation          
of accounts          
Others  1,163  34,539  21%  1,436  9
Total  13,361 1,224 4,85,339  13%  14,232  107
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
C E R T I F I C A T E   O N   C O R P O R A T E   G O V E R N A N C E
To,
The Members of
HDFC Bank Limited
HDFC Bank House,
Senapati Bapat Marg,
Lower Parel (West),
Mumbai – 400013.
We, BNP & Associates have examined all relevant records of HDFC Bank Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Bank”)
as provided  for  the purpose of certifying the compliance ensured  by  the  Bank  of applicable disclosure requirements and
corporate governance norms as prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“LODR”), during the financial year ended March 31, 2025. We have obtained all the information
and explanations, which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were necessary for the purpose of this certification.
We state that the compliance with Corporate Governance requirements is the responsibility of the management of the Bank
and our examination is limited to procedures and implementation thereof, as adopted by the Bank for ensuring compliance. It
is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Bank.
In our opinion, and to the best of the information and explanations provided to us, we certify that the Bank has complied with
the conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in the LODR during the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
We further state that the above certification is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor the efficiency or
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Bank during the financial year.
 C E R T I F I C A T E   U N D E R   S E B I   L I S T I N G   R E G U L A T I O N S  
To,   
The Members of   
HDFC Bank Limited   
HDFC Bank House,   
Senapati Bapat Marg,   
Lower Parel (West),   
Mumbai – 400013.   
 We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of HDFC Bank  
 Limited [CIN.: L65920MH1994PLC080618] (hereinafter called  the “Bank”) having its Registered Office at HDFC Bank  
House, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel (West), Mumbai – 400013 and also the information provided by the Bank, its officers   
and the authorised representatives for the purpose of issuance of the Certificate, in accordance with Regulations 34 (3) read   
with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10 (i) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure   
Requirements), Regulations, 2015  (“LODR”), as amended from time to time.   
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications {including Directors Identification Number   
 (DIN) status at the portal (www.mca.gov.in)} as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Bank and its  
 officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Bank as stated below for the Financial Year ended on  
 March 31, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of the Bank by Securities  
 and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.  
S. No. Name of the Director DIN Date of Appointment in the
   Bank *
 and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority. 
S. No. Name of the Director DIN
1. Mr. Atanu Chakraborty1 01469375
2. Mr. M.D. Ranganath 07565125
3. Mr. Sandeep Parekh 03268043
4. Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 01641411
5. Mrs. Lily Vadera 09400410
6. Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 06417704
7. Mr. Santhosh Iyengar Keshavan2 08466631
8. Mr. Keki Mistry 00008886
9. Mrs. Renu Karnad 00008064
10. Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 08614396
11. Mr. Kaizad Bharucha 02490648
12. Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri 01550468
13.
  * Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan 00030248
 and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.  
S. No. Name of the Director DIN Date of Appointment in the
   Bank *
1. Mr. Atanu Chakraborty1 01469375 05/05/2021
2. Mr. M.D. Ranganath 07565125 31/01/2019
3. Mr. Sandeep Parekh 03268043 19/01/2019
4. Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 01641411 30/03/2021
5. Mrs. Lily Vadera 09400410 26/11/2021
6. Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 06417704 25/01/2024
7. Mr. Santhosh Iyengar Keshavan2 08466631 18/11/2024
8. Mr. Keki Mistry 00008886 30/06/2023
9. Mrs. Renu Karnad 00008064 03/03/2020
10. Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 08614396 27/10/2020
11. Mr. Kaizad Bharucha 02490648 24/12/2013
12. Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri 01550468 19/04/2023
13.
  * Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan 00030248 23/11/2023
13. Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan 
00030248
23/11/2023
*
 Date of appointment is taken from MCA 
1. Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was re-appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank for a period of three (3) years from May
 5, 2024 up to May 4, 2027 (both days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation.
2. Mr. Santhosh Iyengar Keshavan was appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank for the period of three (3) years
 from November 18, 2024 to November 17, 2027 (both days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation.
 For BNP & Associates
 Company Secretaries
 [Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
 PR No. 6316/2024
 Kalidas Ramaswami
 Partner
 FCS No.: F2440
 CP No.: 22856
Date: May 13, 2025 UDIN: F002440G000327446
Place: Mumbai 
R E P O R T   O N   C O R P O R A T E   G O V E R N A N C E 
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE commitment to nation-building and job creation. As Bank's
 role expands, so does Bank's emphasis on strong governance
The corporate governance environment in India has evolved 
 across the HDFC Bank Group. The Bank remains steadfast
significantly over the years, driven by regulatory reforms and 
 in upholding ethical practices, transparency and strong risk
increasing  emphasis  on  transparency,  accountability  and 
 management—ensuring  we  retain  the  trust  that  defines
ethical business practices. 
 our legacy.
India’s  corporate  governance  landscape  is  characterized 
 Commitment to good governance has a distinctive competitive
by a strong focus on compliance and the adoption of best 
 advantage, enhances trust and creates long-term sustainability.
practices. Companies are encouraged to implement robust 
 The  Bank  is  committed  to  maintaining  the  highest  level  of
internal  control  systems,  audit  mechanisms  and  policies 
 ethical standards, professional integrity, corporate governance
related to whistleblowing, anti-corruption and anti-bribery. 
 and regulatory compliance. Its business philosophy is based
 on five core values: Operational Excellence, Customer Focus,
The emphasis on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) further 
 Product Leadership, People and Sustainability.
strengthens  the  governance  framework,  with  companies 
required to contribute to social and environmental causes. 
 During FY 2024-25, the Bank strengthened its governance
 architecture to reflect the growing complexity of operations
The  digitisation  of  corporate  governance 
is  also  a 
 across  the  group.  The  Bank  has  formalised  oversight
transformative trend that is reshaping how companies manage 
 mechanisms  across  the  group  through  the  introduction  of
their governance practices. 
 a  structured  Group  Oversight  Framework.  This  aligns  with
 regulatory guidance on financial conglomerates and reinforces
The  Reserve  Bank  of  India  (RBI)  and  the  Securities  and 
 Bank's approach to responsible growth, risk management and
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) have continued to raise the 
 institutional integrity.
bar on corporate governance standards in India. The Business 
Responsibility  and  Sustainability  Framework  introduced  by 
 The  Bank  has  a  strong  corporate  governance  framework
SEBI, is rightly urging companies to increase their non-financial 
 comprising  robust  board  governance  processes,  internal
disclosures which helps to provide a more holistic perspective 
 control systems and audit mechanisms, which are implemented
about a company. 
 through its policies, procedures, code of conduct and ethics
 and corporate governance guidelines.
Philosophy on Code of Corporate Governance 
 The Bank has a two-tiered Board structure with the Board of
The  Bank  is  one  of  India’s  leading  private  bank  and  was 
 Directors at helm, supported by Committees of the Board.
among the first to receive approval from the RBI to set up a 
 The Board of Directors comprised of seasoned and diverse
private sector bank in 1994. Since its inception, the Bank has 
 professionals, serve as the principal steward of the Bank’s
imbibed the principles of kindness, fairness, efficiency and 
 governance philosophy. They ensure that oversight is both
effectiveness in all its activities. 
 strategic and values-driven. Through its formally constituted
 Committees,  the  Board  provides  active  oversight  across
Corporate governance also plays a crucial role during mergers 
 operational conduct, regulatory compliance, technology and
to  ensure  transparency,  accountability  and  compliance 
 cyber  resilience,  risk  management,  financial  stewardship,
with  regulatory  standards.  During  the  merger  of  Housing 
 succession  planning  and  other  critical  areas  that  shape
Development  Finance  Corporation  Limited  (HDFC  Limited) 
 the  Bank’s  sustained  performance.  Bank's  approach  to
with and into the Bank, the corporate governance standards 
 governance  is  anchored  in  a  firm  commitment  to  ethical
were meticulously followed to facilitate a smooth transition and 
 leadership,  robust  internal  controls  and  alignment  with
integration of the systems and processes and adherence to all 
 stakeholder expectations. This is reflected in practices such
regulatory requirements. 
 as linking executive compensation to long-term performance
 outcomes and maintaining a vigilant whistle-blower mechanism
Two years into the merger, the integration of HDFC Limited’s 
 that safeguards transparency. The continued engagement of
home  loan  expertise  with  the  Bank’s  scale  and  reach  has 
 the Board and its Committees  ensures that accountability,
solidified the Bank’s position as a leading financial institution. 
 responsiveness, and trust remain embedded in how the Bank
The Bank has also enhanced its capacity to support large- 
 operates and grows.
scale financing and infrastructure financing with its continued 
HDFC Bank Limited
280 
Whole-Time Directors 
The Bank has set the highest standards by adhering to sound promotes  alignment  between  performance,  accountability
and  effective  corporate  governance  practices  and  strong and sustainable value creation.
leadership.  The  Bank  has  complied  with  the  requirements 
 We  have 
instituted  a  structured  Grievance  Redressal
stipulated under the  SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
 Mechanism  to  ensure  prompt  and  transparent  resolution
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (SEBI Listing Regulations), 
 of  customer  concerns.  Further  information  on  complaints
the Companies Act, 2013, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
 addressed during the year is available in Annexure 6 of the
and corporate governance norms issued by the RBI from time 
 Directors’ Report.
to time. 
 We also maintain a strong commitment to workplace dignity
Culture of Transparency and Accountability 
 and safety. The Bank adopts a zero-tolerance approach to
At the Bank, transparency and accountability are foundational sexual  harassment,  supported  by  an  Internal  Committee
to how we govern and engage. Anchored in globally recognised established  under  the  Prevention  of  Sexual  Harassment
governance principles, we strive to ensure that our disclosures Framework. Disclosures relating to this are available further
are  timely,  accurate  and  structured  to  support  regulatory down in this Report.
compliance as well as informed stakeholder dialogue. 
 Group Oversight Framework
This ethos is reflected in a coherent set of governance policies 
 As the Bank continues to grow in scale with a diversified financial
that  uphold  consistency,  fairness  and  disciplined  conduct. 
 group,  the  need  for  coordinated  oversight  across  Group
These  include  the  Share  Dealing  Code  and  the  Code  of 
 entities has become increasingly important. With effect from
Practices and Procedure for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished 
 April 2024, the Bank formally introduced a Group Oversight
Price  Sensitive  Information,  which  ensures  responsible 
 Framework to reinforce governance across subsidiaries.
communication and safeguard of price-sensitive information. 
 The  Framework  outlines  a  structured  approach  for  Group-
Our standards of integrity are articulated through the Code 
 wide effective oversight, reporting and escalation. The Bank’s
of Ethics and Conduct, which applies across all levels of the 
 Board is kept informed through periodic updates, with critical
organisation. These principles are reinforced by our Whistle- 
 matters—such as key risks, governance issues and related-
blower Policy, which provides a secure and impartial platform 
 party exposures by the Group Oversight Department. Group
for  reporting  concerns,  and  a  Compensation  Policy  that 
To  support  these  commitments,  we  have  implemented  a  
  As on the date of this report, the Board consists of thirteen
structured  ESG  governance  framework  with  oversight  at  
 (13) Directors. 
both  the  Board  and  executive  levels.  Detailed  disclosure  
can  be found in the Environment  section of this  Integrated  
 Board Diversity by Gender 
Annual Report.  
 As on March 31, 2025 Board Average Tenure
Board of Directors  
 Male  
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 4.15 years
The composition of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“Board”)  
 Female 
                 3 
is governed by the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the  
R E P O R T   O N   C O R P O R A T E   G O V E R N A N C E 
entities and control functions report relevant developments Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Section
and  metrics  through  defined  channels,  as  set  out  in  the 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and are independent of the
framework.  Detailed  disclosure  in  relation  to  the  same  is management of the Bank.
included in the Management Discussion and Analysis section 
 Each of the Directors of the Bank have confirmed that he/she
of this Integrated Annual Report. 
 is not debarred from holding the office of director by virtue
ESG Principles of  any  order  by  SEBI  or  any  other  authority.  The  Directors
 have ascertained that neither they nor any other company on
At  the  Bank,  Environmental,  Social  and  Governance  (ESG) 
 which they serve as Directors have been identified as a wilful
principles are integrated into both decision-making and long- 
 defaulter. Each of the Directors of the Bank have confirmed
term strategy. We recognise that ESG plays a critical role in 
 that he/she satisfies the fit and proper criteria as prescribed
strengthening  risk  management,  operational  discipline  and 
 under the applicable regulations and none of the Directors are
stakeholder value. 
 related to each other.
To  support  these  commitments,  we  have  implemented  a 
 As on the date of this report, the Board consists of thirteen
structured  ESG  governance  framework  with  oversight  at 
 (13) Directors.
both  the  Board  and  executive  levels.  Detailed  disclosure 
can  be found in the Environment  section of this  Integrated 
 Board Diversity by Gender
Annual Report. 
 Board Average Tenure
As on March 31, 2025
Board of Directors 
 Male  
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
4.15 years
The composition of the Board of Directors of the Bank (“Board”) 
 Female 
                 3
is governed by the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, SEBI Listing Regulations and 
other applicable laws. Details of the Board of Directors including their directorships/
 memberships in committees of public companies as at the
In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors continue 
 date of this report are as under:
to fulfil the criteria prescribed for an independent director in 
 In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors continue   
   date of this report are as under: 
 to fulfil the criteria prescribed for an independent director in   
   Directorships on Memberships of
Sr.    
 Category Name of Director the Board  of other committees of other
No.    
   companies companies*
1. Independent i. 
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (Part-time Chairman and Independent - -
 Directors Director)  
  ii.  Mr. M. D. Ranganath 1 1
  iii.  Mr. Sandeep Parekh - -
  iv.  Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 1 -
  v.  Mrs. Lily Vadera - -
  vi.  Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 1 1
  vii. Mr. Santhosh Keshavan - -
2. Non-Executive i.  Mr. Keki Mistry 5 (2) 5 (3)
 (Non-Independent) ii.  Mrs. Renu Karnad 6 (1) 7 (2)
 Directors   
3. Executive Directors i. 
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (Managing Director and Chief - -
  Executive Officer)  
  ii. 
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha (Deputy Managing Director) 3 -
  iii.  Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri 3 (1) 3 (1)
  iv.  Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan 2 3
* The ﬁgures in brackets indicate chairpersonships.    
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Appointment of Director(s) approved  by  the  shareholders  of  the  Bank  through  Postal
 Ballot on January 11, 2025.
The Bank has a Board approved Policy on Appointment and Fit 
and Proper Criteria for Directors, based on which an existing 
 Profile of Board of Directors
director whose appointment is intended to be continued and 
 The profile of the Directors of the Bank is provided elsewhere
a new director proposed to be appointed, is evaluated. 
 in this Integrated Annual Report.
The  said  policy  is  available  on  the  Bank’s  website  at 
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate- Responsibilities of the Board
governance/codes-and-policies 
 The Board represents the interests of the Bank’s stakeholders
The  Bank  recognizes  the  importance  of  a  diverse  Board in optimising long-term value by providing the management
which 
leverages  different  perspectives,  knowledge, with  guidance  and  strategic  direction.  The  Board’s
experience and expertise, which would help the Bank retain mandate is to oversee the Bank’s strategic direction, review
its competitive advantage. corporate performance, maintain highest ethical standards
 of  governance,  assess  the  adequacy  of  risk  management
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of Directors 
 and mitigation measures, evaluate internal financial controls,
recommends  and  the  Board  approves  the  appointment/ 
 authorise  and  monitor  strategic  investments,  facilitate  and
re-appointment  of  non-executive  and  executive  directors, 
 review Board and senior management succession planning
subject to the approval of the shareholders. The process for 
 and  oversee  regulatory  compliance,  environmental  and
re-appointment of non-executive directors entails a detailed 
 corporate social responsibility activities.
evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
of  the  existing  Directors.  New  Directors  are  inducted  after 
 The responsibilities of the Board also include ensuring that
assessing skill requirements of the Board and identifying areas 
 the Bank is transparent in all its dealings with its stakeholders,
of expertise which would be beneficial to the Bank. 
 overseeing the effectiveness of key executives of the Bank and
 aligning the remuneration policy with the long-term interests
During  the  year,  pursuant  to  approval  of  the  Shareholders 
 of the Bank and its stakeholders.
of the Bank through postal ballot on May 03, 2024 and the 
RBI, Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was re-appointed as the Part- 
 The Bank has a Directors’ & Officers’ liability insurance policy,
time Chairman and Independent Director of the Bank for a 
 which provides indemnity to its Directors and all employees
period of 3 (three) years with effect from May 05, 2024 up to 
 in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office. All
May 04, 2027 (both days inclusive) and not liable to retire by 
 the Board members ensure that their work in other capacities
rotation. Further, the shareholders and the RBI also approved 
 does not impinge on their fiduciary responsibilities as Directors
an increase in remuneration payable to Mr. Chakraborty from 
 of the Bank.
` 35,00,000 (Rupees Thirty-Five Lakhs Only) per annum to 
` 50,00,000 (Rupees Fifty Lakhs Only) per annum with effect 
from May 5, 2024. 
Further,  the  Board  at  its  meeting  held  on  November  18, 
2024 appointed Mr. Santhosh Keshavan as an Independent 
Director of the Bank for a period of 3 (three) years with effect 
from November 18, 2024 to November 17, 2027 (both days 
inclusive) and not liable to retire by rotation, which was also 
R E P O R T   O N   C O R P O R A T E   G O V E R N A N C E
A chart or a matrix setting out the skills /expertise / competence of the Board of Directors:
The Board comprises directors that bring a wide range of  skills,  expertise and  experience which enhances  overall Board
effectiveness. The Bank has identified the core skills/expertise (see table below) required by the Directors of the Bank, keeping in
mind the business requirements which span across parameters such as industry experience, technical/strategic competencies,
behavioural, other attributes and skills in line with the relevant provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and relevant
circulars issued by the RBI from time to time.
behavioural, other attributes and skills in line with the relevant provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and relevant       
circulars issued by the RBI from time to time.       
  Our  Board  is  distinguished  by  a  diverse  array  of  skills  and     
Busin
Business Management expe expertise,  spanning  accountancy,  business  management,    ent, 
       
B9 ban banking, payment and risk management etc. We emphasize    size 
       
Risk 
Risk Management inde
bac independence  and 
backgrounds  and  proficiencies  among  our  members.  From  inclusion,  ensuring  a  rich  tapestry  of  y of
rom 3 Law
8 R fina
financial acumen to industry 
insights, our rd's
Board's 
       
 com
composition  epitomizes a 
commitment to tive
effective Infor
Information Technology
r
3
       
Fina
anc
Finance
78 dec decision-making and accountability. Furthermore,  we we 
       
7 acti
refin actively  seek  input  from  external  experts  to  continually 
refine  our  governance  processes.  This  collective  wisdom    ally 
dom S
 ensu ensures  strategic  oversight  and  propels  our  unwavering    ring
g 2 Sma
2 Small Scale Industry
       
Accoun
Accountancy       
6 A ded dedication to governance excellence.     
       
Bankin
Banking       2 Human Resource
6 B
56       
       
    13   
Economics       1 Co-operation
1 CoC -o
    Board of   
35       
Payment & Settlement Systems    Directors   1 Agriculture and Rural Economy
3       
Skill Areas Mr. Atanu Mr. M.D. Mr. Dr. (Mrs.) Mrs. Lily Dr. (Mr.) Mr. Mr. Keki Mrs. Renu Mr. Mr. Kaizad Mr. Mr. V.
 Chakraborty Ranganath Sandeep Sunita Vadera Harsh Santhosh Mistry Karnad Sashidhar Bharucha Bhavesh Srinivasa
   Parekh Maheshwari  Kumar Keshavan   Jagdishan  Zaveri Rangan
      Bhanwala       
Business ض ض ض ض  ض  ض ض ض ض  
Management             
Risk ض ض     ض ض ض  ض ض ض
Management             
Finance ض ض    ض  ض ض ض   ض
Accountancy  ض      ض ض ض  ض ض
Banking ض    ض ض    ض ض ض 
Economics ض       ض ض ض   ض
Payment & ض  ض         ض 
Settlement             
Systems             
Law   ض      ض    ض
Information  ض     ض  ض    
Technology             
Small-Scale    ض  ض       
Industry             
Human        ض ض    
Resources             
Co-operation      ض       
Agriculture      ض       
and Rural             
Economy             
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Board  Meetings  and  Annual  General  Meeting presentations on various matters including the financial results,
 annual  plans  and  strategies,  liquidity,  cyber  security  and
(AGM) 
 information technology, operational and business continuity
The meetings of the Board are normally held at the Bank’s 
 measures of the Bank, customer grievances and customer
office in Mumbai. Meetings are generally scheduled well in 
 services  framework,  credit  portfolio  quality,  IT  strategic
advance and the notice of each Board  meeting is given in 
 initiatives,  ESG  &  climate  risk,  Sustainable  Livelihood  (SLI),
writing  to  each  director.  The  Board  Members  endeavor  to 
 compliance and risk management strategy, rewards strategy,
attend and participate in all Board meetings, unless he/she is 
 Enterprise-Wide Risk Management (ERM) Framework, global
unable to attend the meeting on account of reasonable cause 
 macro environment and any other relevant matter which the
for which leave of absence is requested, which is considered 
 Board needs to be apprised of.
by the Board for approval. Video-conference (VC) facility is 
also  provided  in  case  any  director  is  unable  to  attend  the The minutes of each Board meeting are finalised and recorded
meeting physically but wishes to participate through VC. in the minutes book. Post the board meetings, the Bank has
 a system of communication and follow up on actions required
The Board meets at least once a quarter to review the quarterly 
 to be taken by the management as suggested by the Board
performance and financial results of the Bank. Members of the 
 and the same is updated to the Board.
Board are free to convene a Board meeting at any time and 
shall inform the company secretary regarding the same. In Directors are also encouraged to attend relevant programs
case of a special and urgent business need, Board approval and seminars conducted by reputed external organizations.
is taken by passing resolutions by circulation  as permitted 
 During  the  financial  year  under  review,  fourteen  (14)  Board
by  law,  which  is  noted  and  confirmed  at  the  subsequent 
 meetings were held. The meetings were held on April 20, 2024,
Board meeting. 
 April 29, 2024, June 20, 2024, July 20, 2024, August 21, 2024,
The company secretary in consultation with the Chairman, September 20, 2024, October 19, 2024, November 18, 2024,
the whole-time directors and the Group Heads prepares a November 27, 2024, December 20, 2024, January 22, 2025,
detailed  agenda  for  the  meetings.  The  Board  is  provided February 20, 2025, March 27, 2025 and March 28, 2025.
with  the  relevant  information  as  stipulated  in  the  SEBI 
 The  Bank  endeavors  that  the  gap  between  the  approval
Listing  Regulations.  The  Board  members  have  access  to 
 of  financial  results  by  the  Audit  Committee  and  the  Board
all information of the Bank. The Board papers, agenda and 
 is  kept  to  minimum,  as  required  under  the  provisions  of
explanatory  notes  are  circulated  to  the  directors  well  in 
 SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. The
advance and are made available on a digital platform. The 
 attendance of the Directors at the above-mentioned Board
members of the Board are free to recommend inclusion of any 
 meetings  and  at  the  30th  Annual  General  Meeting  held  on
matter in the agenda for discussion. The Chairman moderates 
 August 9, 2024, are listed below:
the overall discussion to arrive at a conclusive and consensus 
opinion and also summarizes the discussions to ensure that 
decisions taken are appropriately recorded. 
Senior management of the Bank is invited to attend the Board 
meetings  to  discuss  matters  pertaining  to  their  respective 
business verticals so as to provide additional inputs on the 
matters being discussed by the Board. At the Board meetings, 
the  whole-time  directors  and  senior  management  make 
 R E P O R T   O N   C O R P O R A T E   G O V E R N A N C E  
Name of the Director No. of Board Meetings held No. of Board Meetings Attendance at last AGM
 during the financial year* attended during the financial (August 9, 2024)
  year 
Non-Executive (Independent)   
Directors   
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty 14 14 Present
Mr. M. D. Ranganath 14 13 Present
Mr. Sandeep Parekh 14 14 Present
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 14 12 Present
Mrs. Lily Vadera 14 14 Present
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala 14 14 Present
Mr. Santhosh Keshavan1 6 6 N.A.
Non-Executive (Non-Independent)   
Directors   
Mr. Keki Mistry 14 13 Present
Mrs. Renu Karnad 14 14 Present
Executive Directors   
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan 14 14 Present
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha 14 13 Present
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri 14 13 Present
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan 14 14 Present
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha 14 13 Present
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri 14 13 Present
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan 14 14 Present
* The maximum number of meetings that a Director was eligible to attend during the ﬁnancial year   
1. Mr. Santhosh Keshavan was appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank with effect from November 18, 2024.   
 Leave of absence was granted to the concerned director who could not attend the concerned board meeting  
Composition of Committees of Directors, Terms of Reference and Attendance at the Meetings   
To enable better and more focused attention on the affairs of the Bank, the Board delegates particular matters to Committees   
of the Board set up for the purpose. These Committees prepare the groundwork for decision-making and report the same to   
the Board at the subsequent meetings. These Committees monitor the activities as per the scope defined in their charter and   
terms of reference.   
There have been no instances wherein the Board has not accepted the recommendations of any committee.   
The composition and functioning of these Board committees is in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies   
Act, 2013, SEBI Listing Regulations and applicable guidelines issued by RBI.   
Audit
Nomination and
Remuneration
Stakeholders’
Relationship
CSR & ESG
Risk Policy and
Monitoring
Fraud Monitoring
Customer
Service
Credit Approval
IT Strategy*
Review
Committee for
Wilful Defaulters’
Identification
Review
Committee for
Non-Cooperative
Borrowers
Premises
Investments
Strategy
Committee for
Resolution of
NCLT Matters
Audit Committee 
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities 
• Review and discuss with management and the independent auditor, the Bank’s annual financial statements, interim financial statements, auditor’s report thereon
 and all internal control reports before submission to the Board for approval, with particular reference to:
 matters required to be included in the director’s responsibility statement to be included in the board’s report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the 
{
 Companies Act, 2013;
 {changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same;
 {major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by management;
 {significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings;
 {compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements;
 {disclosure of any related party transactions;
 {modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report.
• Overseeing the Bank’s compliances with legal and regulatory requirements.
• Overseeing the independent auditor’s qualifications and independence.
• Overseeing the performance of the Bank’s independent auditor and internal audit, compliance and vigilance functions.
• Overseeing the Bank’s systems of disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls over financial reporting, and compliance with ethical standards adopted
 by the Bank.
• Reviewing the disclosure required by Section 303A.11 of NYSE Continued Listing Standards in Form 20-F.
• Review of modus operandi / findings of any internal investigations, quarterly analysis of suspected / actual frauds or irregularity reported by the bank, failure of 

 internal control system of material nature, etc.
• Review important guidelines, circulars, notifications / directions etc. issued by RBI, SEBI, MCA and other regulatory bodies.

• Review the functioning of the whistle blower mechanism.
• Establish, review and update periodically a code of business conduct and ethics and determine whether management has established a system to enforce this
 code.
• Review of compliance with the Bank’s Share Dealing Code and SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and verify that the systems for internal
 control are adequate and are operating effectively.
• Grant of approval / omnibus approval for related party transactions as defined in the Board-approved ‘Policy on Related Party Transactions’ of the Bank and for
 their subsequent modifications, if any.
• Review at least on a quarterly basis, the details of related party transactions entered into by the Bank pursuant to the approvals given.
their subsequent modifications, if any.
• 
Review at least on a quarterly basis, the details of related party transactions entered into by the Bank pursuant to the approvals given.
Capitals Impacted
F
Financial, Social and Relationship capital
Stakeholders Impacted
I
Investors and Government and Regulatory Bodies
Mr.  M.  D.  Ranganath  (Chairman),  Mrs.  Lily  Vadera  and  Dr.  (Mr.)  Harsh  Kumar  Bhanwala,  all  of  whom  are  Independent  Directors.  Mr.  M.  D.
Composition
M RM
Ranganath and Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala are the members of Audit Committee having financial expertise.
During the financial year under review, the Audit Committee met 17 (seventeen) times on April 5, 2024, April 16, 2024, April 29, 2024, June 
D
6, 2024, June 28, 2024, July 15, 2024, August 3, 2024, August 20, 2024, September 27, 2024, October 17, 2024, November 25, 2024, 
Meetings
D 6 D
December 5, 2024, January 10, 2025, February 18, 2025, March 5, 2025, March 13, 2025 and March 30, 2025.
members as well as all employees of the Bank.
•  
Recommending remuneration of whole-time directors as well as recommending appointment including remuneration of Senior Management Personnel, to the
Board.
Capitals Impacted
H
Human capital
Stakeholders Impacted
Employees
E
Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala (Chairman), Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Mr. M.D. Ranganath and Mr. Sandeep Parekh. All the members of the
Composition
D CD
Committee are independent Directors.
D
During the financial year under review, the Nomination & Remuneration Committee met 17 (seventeen) times on April 19, 2024, May 3, 2024,
June 10, 2024, June 18, 2024, July 5, 2024, July 19, 2024, August 5, 2024, August 20, 2024, September 19, 2024, October 18, 2024, October 
Meetings
D J 2
29, 2024, November 15, 2024, November 25, 2024, December 9, 2024, January 21, 2025, January 30, 2025 and March 26, 2025.
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities 
• Monitoring the grievances /complaints relating to transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual reports, non-receipt of dividend, issue of duplicate share
 certificates and new certificates on split / consolidation / renewal, general meetings, non-receipt of interest on debentures / bonds, etc.;
• Noting of investor service requests relating to transmission, sub-division/ splitting and consolidation of securities certificate, issue of letter of
 confirmation, claim from unclaimed suspense account, and to consider requests for dematerialization and re-materialization of shares.
• Reviewing the measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders and reviewing adherence to the service standards adopted in respect of
 various services being rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
• Reviewing various measures and initiatives taken by the Bank for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants
 annual reports / statutory notices by the shareholders of the Bank.
• Resolving grievances of debenture holders, payment of interest / principal, maintenance of security cover and any other covenants.
• Noting of allotment of shares to the employees of the Bank on exercise of stock options and any other incentive-based instrument(s) granted under the various
 Schemes of the Bank.
•  
Noting of allotment of shares to the employees of the Bank on exercise of stock options and any other incentive-based instrument(s) granted under the various
Schemes of the Bank.
Capitals Impacted
F
Financial, Human, Social and Relationship capital
Stakeholders Impacted
Investors, Employees, Government and Regulatory Bodies
I
M
Mr. Keki Mistry (Chairman), Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mrs. Lily Vadera, Mrs. Renu Karnad, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha and Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan.
Details of re-constitution:  Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan was inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025. Out of the 
Composition
M D t
total Directors, 2 Directors are independent.
During the financial year under review, the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee met 5 (five) times on April 15, 2024, July 16, 2024, October
Meetings
16, 2024, November 19, 2024 and January 16, 2025.
Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee 
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities 
• Monitoring  the  compliance  of  risk  parameters/aggregate  exposures  with  the  appetite  set  by  the  Board  and  ensuring  that  frameworks  are  established  for
 assessing and managing various risks faced by the Bank, systems are developed to relate risk to the Bank’s capital level and methods are in place for monitoring
 compliance with internal risk management policies and processes.
• Ensuring that the Bank has a suitable framework for Risk Management and oversees the implementation of the risk management policy.
• Reviewing of the enterprise-wide risk frameworks viz.  Risk Appetite framework (RAF), Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), stress testing
 policy & framework, Enterprise Model Validation Policy, Group Risk Management Policy, Bank’s exposure to Central Counterparties including exposures arising
 from trading through CCP and exposures arising from CCP membership obligations such as default fund contributions, outcome of Money Laundering and
 Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment etc.
• Reviewing impaired credits and material risks faced by the subsidiaries.
• Reviewing the cyber security framework of the Bank, evaluating the probable risks associated with cyber security and ensure that appropriate measures and
 procedures have been put in place to mitigate the same.
• Reviewing impaired credits and material risks faced by the subsidiaries.
• Reviewing the cyber security framework of the Bank, evaluating the probable risks associated with cyber security and ensure that appropriate measures and
 procedures have been put in place to mitigate the same.
Capitals Impacted F
Financial capital
Stakeholders Impacted I
Investors, Government and Regulatory Bodies
 Mrs.  Lily  Vadera  (Chairperson),  Mr.  Atanu  Chakraborty,  Mr.  M.D.  Ranganath,  Mr.  Sandeep  Parekh,  Mrs.  Renu  Karnad  and  Mr.  Sashidhar
Composition 
 Jagdishan. Out of the total Directors, 4 Directors are independent.
 During the financial year under review, the Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee met 10 (ten) times on April 19, 2024, June 19, 2024, June 27,
Meetings 
 2024, July 19, 2024, September 19, 2024, October 18, 2024, November 26, 2024, January 21, 2025, February 20, 2025 and March 26, 2025.
Customer Service Committee 
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities 
• Formulation of comprehensive deposit policy incorporating the issues arising out of the demise of a depositor for operation of his account, the product approval
 process, annual survey of depositor satisfaction and the triennial audit of such services.
• Striving for continuous improvements in the quality of customer services provided by the Bank.
• Overseeing the function of the Standing Committee on Customer Service, and also bring out innovative measures for enhancing the customer experience and
 quality of customer service thereby enhancing the customer satisfaction level across all categories of clientele, at all times.
• Overseeing the function of the Standing Committee on Customer Service, and also bring out innovative measures for enhancing the customer experience and
quality of customer service thereby enhancing the customer satisfaction level across all categories of clientele, at all times. 
Capitals Impacted F
Financial, Social and Relationship capital
Stakeholders Impacted C
Customers
 Mr. Sandeep Parekh (Chairman), Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan and Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri.
 Details of Re-constitution:
 Mr.  Sandeep  Parekh  was  appointed  as  a  Chairman  of  the  Committee  with  effect  from  September  20,  2024  and  Mr.  Bhavesh  Zaveri  was
Composition 
 inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
 Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ceased to be Member of the Committee with effect from close of business hours on March 27, 2025.
 Out of the total Directors, 2 Directors are independent.
 D
D
During the financial year under review, the Customer Service Committee met 5 (five) times on May 29, 2024, May 31, 2024, August 20, 2024,
Meetings 
 November 26, 2024 and February 19, 2025.
IT Strategy Committee 
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities 
• Approving IT strategy and related policy documents and reviewing the same from time to time and ensuring that the management has put an effective strategic
 planning process in place.
• Approving the Bank’s IT strategy and budget to ensure it aligns with the business needs and approving re-allocation of resources within IT to facilitate meeting
 priorities and business needs.
• Reviewing and approving IT implementation plans and providing guidance on the review of third-party assessment outcomes, risks and compliance pertaining
 to IT outsourcing.
• Review the plans for managing IT Security and mitigating potential vulnerabilities and overseeing IT risks and controls and reviewing actions taken by the IT
 department to address such risks.
• Framing of the Bank-level strategy and action plans for achieving the target of digital transactions in an organized manner, as may be set by the Government,
 regulatory authorities, Indian Banks’ Association, etc. from time to time.
• Monitoring the progress of achievement in digital transactions in line with the Bank’s strategy and action plans.
• Exploring new opportunities for increasing the digital transactions of the Bank from time to time and providing necessary directions in implementing and
 improving high level of digitalization in Bank.
• Reviewing the Digital Banking strategy of the Bank as and when required thereby providing direction on focus areas.
• Reviewing the progress made on the initiatives relating to Digital Banking covering performance initiatives as determined by the Board and
 Government of India from time to time and reviewing the customer services rendered on digital platform from time to time.
•  
Reviewing the Digital Banking strategy of the Bank as and when required thereby providing direction on focus areas. 
• Reviewing the progress made on the initiatives relating to Digital Banking covering performance initiatives as determined by the Board and
Government of India from time to time and reviewing the customer services rendered on digital platform from time to time. 
Capitals Impacted F
Financial, Social, Relationship and Intellectual capital
Stakeholders Impacted I
Investors, Customers, Government and Regulatory Bodies and Suppliers
 Mr.  Santhosh  Keshavan  (Chairman),  Mr.  Atanu  Chakraborty,  Mr.  M.D.  Ranganath,  Dr.  (Mrs.)  Sunita  Maheshwari,  Mr.  Sashidhar  Jagdishan,
 Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan and Prof. H. Krishnamurthy (external IT consultant).
 Details of Re-constitution:
 Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari ceased to be a Chairperson of the Committee with effect from November 27, 2024.
Composition 
 Mr. Santhosh Keshavan was appointed as a Member with effect from November 18, 2024 and as a Chairman of the Committee with effect
 from November 27, 2024.
 Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan was inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from March 27, 2025.
 Out of the total Directors, 4 Directors are independent.
 D
During the financial year under review, the IT Strategy Committee met 5 (five) times on June 19, 2024, August 13, 2024, November 25, 2024, 
D
Meetings 
 January 20, 2025 and March 27, 2025.
Brief Terms of Reference / Roles and Responsibilities 
• Approving the acquisition and / or leasing / leave & license including renewal of lease and leave & license, of any property / premises/ building/ commercial
 & residential plot, as proposed by the Central Infrastructure Team of the Bank, for the purpose of setting up of Branch / Back Office / ATM / Currency Chest
 /  Residential  Training  Centre/  Storage  /  Godown/  Guest  House,  etc.,  as  per  the  terms  and  conditions  stipulated  and  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines  as
 prescribed and approved by the Board.
• Approving the acquisition of residential premises for the eligible employees of the Bank on lease / leave and license basis/ as per the terms and conditions
 stipulated and in accordance with the guidelines as prescribed and approved by the Board.
• Approving any other acquisition of property / space, which is proposed by the Central Infrastructure Team of the Bank, as per the terms and conditions stipulated
 and in accordance with the guidelines as prescribed and approved by the Board.
• Approving the construction of office building, residential tower etc. on (freehold / leasehold) properties acquired by the Bank as per the terms and conditions
 stipulated and in accordance with the guidelines as prescribed and approved by the Board.
• Approving the divestment of Bank owned properties / land parcel / flats, etc., not gainfully utilised.
•  
 Appointing  merchant  bankers  /  legal  advisors  /  consultants  and  other  agencies  towards  such  exploration/  evaluation  of  potential  investment/  divestment
opportunities, as it may deem fit.
•  
 Reviewing progress, for the proposals approved by the Committee/Board or provide the relevant recommendations, if any, to the Board.
Capitals Impacted
F
Financial capital
Stakeholders Impacted
Investors
I
M
Mr. Keki Mistry (Chairman), Mr.  M.D.  Ranganath and Mr.  Sandeep Parekh. Out of the total Directors, 2 Directors are independent.  
Composition
During the financial year under review the Investments Strategy Committee met 15 (fifteen) times on April 8, 2024, May 27, 2024, July 18, 
D
2024, August 3, 2024, August 20, 2024, September 2, 2024, September 18, 2024, October 3, 2024, October 16, 2024, October 25, 2024, 
Meetings
D 2 N
November 23, 2024, November 26, 2024, December 21, 2024, February 6, 2025 and March 23, 2025.
No  and Relationship  Policy and Monitoring Service Approval   Strategy Committee Resolution of
  Remuneration   Monitoring       for Wilful NCLT Matters
            Defaulters’ 
            Identification 
1.                     Mr. Atanu Chakraborty - 17/17 - - 10/10 - - - - 5/5 -  -
2.                     Mr. M. D. Ranganath 17/17 16/17 - - 9/10 - - - - 5/5 14/15 2/2 -
3.                     Mr. Sandeep Parekh* - 17/17 5/5 - 10/10 - 5/5 28/28 4/4 - 15/15 2/2 3/3
4.
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari$ - - - 5/5 - - 5/5 - 4/4 5/5 - - -
5.                     Mrs. Lily Vadera 17/17 - 5/5 - 10/10 4/4 - - - - - - -
6.                     Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar Bhanwala** 17/17 17/17 - 2/2 - 4/4 - - - - - - NA
7.                 Mr. Santhosh Keshavan*** - - - NA - - - - - 3/5 - - -
8.
Mr. Keki Mistry - - 5/5 - - - - - - - 15/15 - -
9.                     Mrs. Renu Karnad - - 5/5 5/5 9/10 4/4 - 28/28 4/4 - - - -
10.                     Mr. Sashi Jagdishan - - - - 10/10 4/4 3/5 - - 5/5 - 1/2 -
11.                 Mr. Kaizad Bharucha# - - 5/5 5/5 - 4/4 4/5 26/28 - - - 2/2 3/3
12.                     Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri## - - - - - - NA - - - - NA -
13.
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan### - - NA - - - - - NA NA - - 3/3
Leave of absence was granted to the concerned Director who could not attend the concerned Committee meeting             
Meeting of the Independent Directors
The Independent Directors convene separate meetings to discuss various issues at their discretion without the presence of the
management of the Bank. The main objective of such meetings is for the Independent Directors to evaluate the performance of
the Whole-Time Directors and the overall performance of the Board and its committees.
At the meetings, apart from conducting performance evaluation, the Independent Directors assessed the quality, quantity and
timeliness of the flow of information between the Bank’s management and the Board and expressed its satisfaction on the same.
The Independent Directors met 9 (nine) times during the year on June 18, 2024, July 19, 2024, August 21, 2024, September
19, 2024, October 18, 2024, November 26, 2024, January 21, 2025, February 19, 2025 and March 27, 2025. All Independent
Directors were present at all the Meetings except for the following wherein leave of absence was granted:
Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director, Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director and Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director    
during the FY 2024-2025 are as under:    
    (Amount in `)
Particulars Mr. Sashidhar Mr. Kaizad Bharucha Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri Mr. V. Srinivasa
 Jagdishan   Rangan
Basic 3,09,07,457 2,80,91,040 1,91,45,675 3,60,65,640
Allowances and Perquisites 3,46,43,301 3,24,64,367 2,14,07,698 2,15,65,108
Provident Fund 37,08,901 33,70,920 22,97,477 43,27,877
Superannuation 46,36,116 42,13,656 28,71,863 54,09,854
Performance Bonus 4,67,24,465 4,19,92,844 1,95,21,500* 2,11,23,294
Number of stock options Granted (Number of 2,12,052 1,30,206** 78,602 6,03,126***
ESOPs)    
  pay. This would also include payment received as part of deferred cash variable of previous years. The total cash 
  variable pay paid to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan in the FY 2024-25 is as follows: 
A) 50% of the cash variable pay for the Performance B) Tranche 1 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
 Year 2023-24 (Total cash variable pay approved by  Performance Year 2022-23: ` 68,45,311 was paid
 RBI was ` 5,25,38,346): ` 2,62,69,173. The same is  on April 23, 2025.
 in accordance with the RBI guidelines and was paid  
 in January 2025. C) Tranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
   Performance Year 2021-22: ` 61,75,225 was paid
B) Tranche 1 of the deferred cash variable pay for the  on April 23, 2025.
 Performance Year 2022-23: ` 83,32,777 was paid  
 on April 23, 2025. D) Tranche 3 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
   Performance Year 2020-21: ` 58,66,667 was paid
C) Tranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the  on April 23, 2025.
 Performance Year 2021-22: ` 86,15,293 was paid  
   Total Payout (A+B+C+D) = ` 4,19,92,844
 on April 23, 2025.  
Notes: 
1. Mr. Aditya Puri former Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Bank retired from the services of the Bank
 from the close of business hours on October 26, 2020. Mr. Aditya Puri was paid cash variable pay of ` 7,11,00,000 for
 the  performance  period  April  01,  2020  to  October  26,  2020.  The  same  was  approved  by  RBI  vide  their  letter  dated
 March 23, 2022. Basis RBI direction, 40% of the above-mentioned cash variable pay i.e. ` 2,84,40,000 was paid in the
 FY  2021-2022 and the balance 60% of the cash variable pay was to be deferred and subject to payment over a period
 of three years in three equal instalments. The first tranche of the aforementioned deferred amount of ` 4,26,60,000 i.e.
 ` 1,42,20,000 (Computed as 1/3rd of 4,26,60,000) was paid in April 2023 in line with the RBI directive. The second tranche
 of the aforementioned deferred amount of  ` 4,26,60,000 i.e. 1,42,20,000 (computed as 1/3rd of ` 4,26,60,000) was paid
 on April 02, 2024 in line with the RBI directive. The Third tranche of the aforementioned deferred amount of ` 4,26,60,000
 i.e. 1,42,20,000 (computed as 1/3rd of ` 4,26,60,000) was paid on April 23, 2025, in line with the RBI directive.
 2.  
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer was paid the following as part of cash variable
 pay. This would also include payment received as part of deferred cash variable of previous years. The total cash
 variable pay paid to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan in the FY 2024-25 is as follows:
 A)  
50% of the cash variable pay for the Performance 
 
B)   
Tranche 1 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
 Year 2023-24 (Total cash variable pay approved by 
Performance Year 2022-23: ` 68,45,311 was paid
 RBI was ` 5,25,38,346): ` 2,62,69,173. The same is 
on April 23, 2025.
 in accordance with the RBI guidelines and was paid
 in January 2025.
 
C)  
Tranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
 Performance Year 2021-22: ` 61,75,225 was paid
 B)  
Tranche 1 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
on April 23, 2025.
 Performance Year 2022-23: ` 83,32,777 was paid
 on April 23, 2025. 
 
D)  
Tranche 3 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
 Performance Year 2020-21: ` 58,66,667 was paid
 C)  
Tranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the 
on April 23, 2025.
 Performance Year 2021-22: ` 86,15,293 was paid
 Total Payout (A+B+C+D) = ` 4,19,92,844
 on April 23, 2025.
 4.  
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director (erstwhile Group
 D)  
Tranche 2 of the deferred cash variable pay for the
 Head and designated as Executive Director on April 19,
 Performance Year 2020-21: ` 35,07,222 was paid
 2023) was paid the following as part of cash variable pay.
 on July 25, 2024.
 This would include payment received as part of deferred
 Total Payout (A+B+C+D) = ` 4,67,24,465
 cash variable of previous years, post being designated
 as Executive Director as well as deferred cash variable
   Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
B) Tranche  1  of  the  deferred  cash  variable  pay  for  the 4.   Mr. V Srinivasa Rangan: 
 Performance  Year  2022-23:  `  13,29,724  was  paid  in  
   Mr. V Srinivasa Rangan was granted a total quantum of
 September 2024 (Performance as Group Head)  
   6,03,126 employee stock options in Financial 2024-25
   which was done through 2 grants:
C) Tranche  2  of  the  deferred  cash  variable  pay  for  the  
 Performance  Year  2021-22:  `  27,58,892  was  paid  in  
  a) 4,77,150 employee stock options were a one-time
 September 2024 (Performance as Group Head)  
   grant for the period 2020-2023, i.e. for the period
   before his appointment as an Executive Director of
D) Tranche  3  of  the  deferred  cash  variable  pay  for  the  
   the Bank and as a one-time grant for his performance
 Performance  Year  2020-21:  `  22,53,072  of  which  
   as  an  Executive  Director  of  the  erstwhile  HDFC
 ` 9,52,889 was paid in October 2024 and ` 13,00,183  
   Limited (i.e. prior to the amalgamation of erstwhile
 was paid in January 2025 (Performance as Group Head)  
   HDFC Limited with and into the Bank.). This was
 Total Payout (A+B+C+D) = ` 1,95,21,500  
   granted on July 30, 2024 ^
5. Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, designated as Executive Director  
  b) 1,25,976  employee  stock  options  granted  for
 effective from November 23, 2023 was paid the following  
   Performance Year 2023-24 on January 30, 2025.
 as part of cash variable pay in FY 2024-25:  
   The same had been approved by the RBI vide their
   letter dated January 07, 2025.
5.  
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, designated as Executive Director 
 b) 
1,25,976  employee  stock  options  granted  for
effective from November 23, 2023 was paid the following 
 Performance Year 2023-24 on January 30, 2025.
as part of cash variable pay in FY 2024-25: 
 The same had been approved by the RBI vide their
 letter dated January 07, 2025.
A) 
50% of the cash variable pay for the Performance 
Year 2023-24 (Total cash variable pay approved by 
 ^The vesting schedule for the 4,77,150 stock options granted
RBI was ` 4,22,46,588): ` 2,11,23,294. The same is 
 to Mr. V Srinivasa Rangan on July 30, 2024 is 33% of options
in accordance with the RBI guidelines and was paid 
 after expiry of twelve months from date of grant, 33% options
in January 2025. 
 after expiry of twenty-four months from the date of grant and
 the balance options after expiry of thirty-six months from date
Total Payout (A): ` 2,11,23,294 
 of grant.
*Grant of Employee Stock Options to Directors 
 The  vesting  schedule  for  the  stock  options  granted  to
1.   Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan: Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Mr. Bhavesh
 Zaveri and Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan (except 4,77,150 ESOPs
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan was granted a total quantum 
 granted to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan on July 30, 2024) is 25%
of 2,12,052 employee stock options for the performance 
 of options after expiry of twelve months from date of grant,
year 2023-24 on January 30, 2025. The same had been 
 25% options after expiry of twenty-four months from the date
approved  by  the  RBI  vide  their  letter  dated  January 
 of grant, 25% of options after expiry of thirty-six months from
07, 2025. 
 the date of grant and the balance options after expiry of forty-
 eight months from date of grant.
2.   Mr. Kaizad Bharucha: 
 The  notice  period  for  each  of  the  Whole-Time  Directors,
Mr.  Kaizad  Bharucha  was  granted  a  total  quantum  of 
 as  specified  in  their  respective  terms  of  appointments  is
1,30,206 employee stock options on May 10, 2025 for 
 three months.
the performance year  2023 -24. The same had been 
approved  by  the  RBI  vide  their  letter  dated  January 
 Pursuant to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the appointment
07, 2025. 
 and tenure of Whole-Time Directors is subject to the approval
 of RBI.
3.   Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri : 
 The  Bank  provides  for  gratuity  in  the  form  of  lump-sum
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri was granted a total quantum of 78,602 
 payment on retirement or on death while in employment or
employee stock options for the performance year 2023- 
 on termination of employment of an amount equivalent to 15
24 on January 30, 2025. The same had been approved 
 (fifteen) days basic salary payable for each completed year
by the RBI vide their letter dated January 07, 2025. 
 of service.
meetings of the Board and / or its Committees.    
    (Amount in `)
Details  of  Remuneration 
/  Sitting  Fees  Paid to   
  Director Sitting Fees Remuneration
Non-Executive Directors    
  Mr. Atanu Chakraborty 55,00,000 48,58,871
Criteria 
for  remuneration/sitting fees  paid  to  Non- Mr. M.D. Ranganath 82,00,000 30,00,000
Executive Director  Mr. Sandeep Parekh 1,05,00,000 30,00,000
  Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 31,50,000 30,00,000
All  the  non-executive  directors  including  the  Independent    
  Mrs. Lily Vadera 54,50,000 30,00,000
Directors  and 
the  Chairman 
receive  sitting fees  and   
  Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar 60,00,000 30,00,000
reimbursement of out of pocket expenses for attending each    
  Bhanwala  
meeting of the Board and its various Committees. No stock    
  Mr. Santhosh Keshavan1 12,00,000 11,11,644
options are granted to any of the non- executive directors.    
  Mr. Keki Mistry 30,50,000 30,00,000
The sitting fees paid for attending the committee meetings  Mrs. Renu Karnad 60,00,000 30,00,000
    
held during the FY 2024-25 is as follows:  Total 4,90,50,000 2,69,70,515
 R E P O R T   O N   C O R P O R A T E   G O V E R N A N C E   
The Bank makes annual contributions to funds administered   Additionally, sitting fees of ` 1,00,000 is paid to Non-Executive 
by  trustees  and  managed  by  insurance  companies  for   Directors for attending Board Meetings and to Independent 
amounts notified by the said insurance companies. The Bank   Directors for attending Independent Directors' meetings. 
accounts for the liability for future gratuity benefits based on an    
independent external actuarial valuation carried out annually.  The  details  of  sitting fees  and remuneration  paid 
to
   Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors during 
No sitting fees were paid to Executive Directors for attending  the FY 2024-25 is as under:  
meetings of the Board and / or its Committees.    
    (Amount in `)
Details  of  Remuneration 
/  Sitting  Fees  Paid to   
  Director Sitting Fees Remuneration
Non-Executive Directors    
  Mr. Atanu Chakraborty 55,00,000 48,58,871
Criteria 
for  remuneration/sitting fees  paid  to  Non- Mr. M.D. Ranganath 82,00,000 30,00,000
Executive Director  Mr. Sandeep Parekh 1,05,00,000 30,00,000
  Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari 31,50,000 30,00,000
All  the  non-executive  directors  including  the  Independent    
  Mrs. Lily Vadera 54,50,000 30,00,000
Directors  and 
the  Chairman 
receive  sitting fees  and   
  Dr. (Mr.) Harsh Kumar 60,00,000 30,00,000
reimbursement of out of pocket expenses for attending each    
  Bhanwala  
meeting of the Board and its various Committees. No stock    
  Mr. Santhosh Keshavan1 12,00,000 11,11,644
options are granted to any of the non- executive directors.    
  Mr. Keki Mistry 30,50,000 30,00,000
The sitting fees paid for attending the committee meetings  Mrs. Renu Karnad 60,00,000 30,00,000
    
held during the FY 2024-25 is as follows:  Total 4,90,50,000 2,69,70,515
    1 Mr. Santhosh Keshavan was appointed as an Independent
List of Committees wherein   List of Committees wherein 
 sitting fees of ` 1,00,000 is paid  sitting fees of ` 50,000 is paid Director of the Bank with effect from November 18, 2024.
per meeting  per meeting  
i. Audit Committee i. Stakeholders’ Relationship 
    Pursuant to the circular issued by the RBI on “Review of Fixed
   Committee 
    Remuneration  Granted  to  Non-Executive  Directors”  dated
ii. Nomination & Remuneration ii. CSR & ESG Committee 
    February 09, 2024 read with the RBI circular on “Corporate
 Committee   
    Governance  in  Banks  -  Appointment  of    Directors  and
iii. Risk Policy & Monitoring iii. Fraud Monitoring 
    Constitution of Committees of the Board” dated April 26, 2021
 Committee  Committee 
    and  subsequent  resolution  passed  by  the  shareholders  of
iv. Customer Service iv. Premises Committee 
    the Bank through Postal ballot on March 29, 2024, the Non-
 Committee   
    Executive Directors (NEDs) of the Bank, other than the Part-
v. Credit Approval Committee v. Review Committee 
    time Chairman, were paid compensation in the form of fixed
   for Non-Cooperative 
    remuneration of ` 30,00,000 (Rupees Thirty Lakhs Only) each
   Borrowers 
    for financial year 2024-25. This is in addition to payment of
vi. IT Strategy Committee vi. Review Committee 
   for Wilful Defaulter’s sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses for attending the
   Identification Board and Committee meetings.
vii. Investments Strategy vii. Committee for Resolution 
 Committee  of NCLT Matters Further, pursuant to approval of the Shareholders of the Bank
    through postal ballot on May 03, 2024 and RBI, Mr. Atanu
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Accordingly, Mr. Chakraborty was paid remuneration for the Employee name
Designation
financial year 2024-25 as follows: 
 Mr. Rakesh Kumar Rajput3 Group Head- Compliance and Chief
 Compliance Officer
i. 
From  April  1,  2024  to  May  4,  2024-  `  35,00,000 
 Mr. Rakesh Singh
Group Head - Financial Institutions,
(Rupees  Thirty  Five  Lakhs  Only)  per  annum,  on  a International Banking, Private Banking
 & BaaS
proportionate basis. 
 Mr. Sanmoy Chakrabarti
Group Head – Risk Management and
 Chief Risk Officer
ii. 
From May 5, 2024 to March 31, 2025- ` 50,00,000 (Rupees 
Fifty Lakhs Only) per annum, on a proportionate basis. Mr. Srinivasan 
Chief Financial Officer
 Vaidyanathan
In addition to the above, Mr. Chakraborty was also paid sitting Mr. Suketu Kapadia4 
Group Head- Internal Audit
fees,  reimbursement  of  expenses  for  attending  the  Board Mr. Sudhir Kumar Jha
Group Head - Legal and Group General
 Counsel
and Committee meetings and provision of car for official and 
personal use, during the financial year 2024-25. Mr. Sumant Rampal
Group Head - Mortgage Business
 Mr. Vinayak Ravindra 
Group Head - Realty Business Finance
There were no other pecuniary relationships or transactions Mavinkurve
of Non-Executive Directors vis-a-vis the Bank (except banking Group Head – Human Resources and 
Mr. Vinay Razdan5
 Chief Human Resources Officer
transactions in the ordinary course of business and on arm’s 
length basis) during financial year 2024-25. Mr. Ajay Agarwal6
Company Secretary and Group Head-
 Secretarial and Group Oversight
EVALUATION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
 1Mr. Gourab Roy was elevated as Group Head- Transactional Banking
 Operations with effect from June 1, 2024.
The  Bank  has  put  in  place  a  mechanism  for  performance 
 2Mr. N. Srinivasan was elevated as Group Head- Retail Asset Operations
evaluation of the Board, Committees of the Board and the 
 with effect from June 1, 2024.
individual members of the Board (including the Chairman). The 
 3Mr.  Rakesh  Kumar  Rajput,  Chief  Compliance  Ofﬁcer  in  terms  of  RBI
details of the same have been included in the Directors’ Report. 
 regulations was elevated as Group Head - Compliance with effect from
 June 1, 2024.
PARTICULARS OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT 
 4Mr. Suketu Kapadia was appointed as Group Head - Internal Audit with
 effect from April 1, 2024.
The details of Senior Management of the Bank as on March 
 5Mr. Vinay Razdan, Group Head – Human Resources and Chief Human
31, 2025 is as follows: 
 Resources Ofﬁcer  resigned from the services of the Bank with effect from
 close of business hours on June 18, 2025.
Employee name
Designation 
 6Mr. Ajay Agarwal was appointed as Company Secretary and Head-Group
 Oversight with effect from July 21, 2024. He was further elevated as Group
Mr. Ashish Parthasarthy
Group 
Head 
- 
Branch 
Banking, 
 Head-Secretarial and Group Oversight with effect from April 1, 2025.
Infrastructure, 
Treasury 
and 
Virtual 
Channels Mr.  Arvind  Kapil,  Group  Head-  Mortgage  Business  resigned  from  the
 services of the Bank with effect from April 26, 2024.
Mr. Arvind Vohra
Group Head - Retail Assets, RBG & SLI 
 Mr. Santosh Haldankar, Company Secretary, resigned from the services
Mr. Gourab Roy1
Group 
Head-Transactional 
Banking 
 of the Bank with effect from July 20, 2024.
Operations 
Mr. Jimmy M Tata
Group  Head  –  Credit  and  Chief  Credit Mr. Chakrapani Venkatachari, Group Head - Change Agent, superannuated
 from the services of the Bank with effect from January 31, 2025.
Officer 
Group Head-Retail Asset Operations
Mr. N. Srinivasan2 Mr.  Sanjay  John  D’Souza,  Group  Head-  Business  Banking,  Emerging
 &  Micro  Enterprises  Group  has  been  included  as  a  part  of  the  senior
Mr. Nirav Vimal Shah
Group  Head 
-  Corporate  Banking, 
 management with effect from April 8, 2025.
Emerging 
Corporate 
Group 
and 
Healthcare Finance Mr. Prasun Singh has been elevated as Group Head- Ethics with effect
 from June 1, 2025.
Mr. Parag Rao
Group  Head 
-  Payments  Business, 
Liability Products, Consumer Finance & 
Marketing 
Mr. Rahul Shukla
Group  Head  -  Commercial  and  Rural 
Banking 
Mr. Ramesh 
Group Head – Tech & Digital and Chief 
Lakshminarayanan
Information Officer 
Following are the details of general body meetings for the previous three (3) financial years:     
Sr. Particulars Venue Day, Date and Number Nature of Special Resolution(s)
No. of Meeting  Time of Special 
    Resolutions 
    passed, if any* 
1 28th Annual Held through Video- Saturday, July 1 (one) Issue  Unsecured  Perpetual  Debt  Instruments  (part  of  Additional  Tier
 General Conferencing 16, 2022 at  I  capital),  Tier  II  Capital  Bonds  and  Long-Term  Bonds  (financing  of
 Meeting  2.30 P.M.  infrastructure and affordable housing) on a private placement basis.
2 Meeting Held through Video- Friday, 1 (one) Approval of the Composite Scheme of Amalgamation of:
 Convened Conferencing November 25,  (i) 
HDFC Investments Limited and HDFC Holdings Limited, wholly-
 by National  2022 at 2.30  owned subsidiaries of Housing Development Finance Corporation
 Company  P
.M.  Limited (“HDFC Limited”), with and into HDFC Limited and
 Law Tribunal    
     (ii) 
HDFC  Limited  with  and 
into  HDFC  Bank  Limited  and 
their
     respective shareholders and Creditors.
3 29th Annual Held through Video- Friday, August 1 (one) Issue  Unsecured  Perpetual  Debt 
Instruments 
(part  of  Additional
 General Conferencing 11, 2023 at  Tier  I  capital),  Tier  II  Capital  Bonds  and  Long-Term  Bonds  (financing
 Meeting  01.30 P.M.  of infrastructure and affordable housing) on a private placement basis.
4 30th Annual Held through Video- Friday, August 2 (two) 1.  
Issue Long-Term Bonds (financing of infrastructure and affordable
 General Conferencing 09, 2024 at  housing),  Perpetual  Debt  Instruments  (part  of  additional  Tier  I
 Meeting  02.30 P.M.  capital) and Tier II capital bonds through private placement mode
     2.  
Grant equity stock options under Employees Stock Option Master
     Scheme - 2024
the Members of the Bank for below mentioned resolutions were obtained through Postal Ballot Notices dated November 27,   
2024 and February 20, 2025 via remote e-voting.   
Particulars Postal Ballot Notice Dated November 27, 2024  Postal Ballot Notice Dated February 20, 2025
Resolution(s) Appointment of Mr. Santhosh Keshavan (DIN: 08466631) 1) To  approve  Material  Related  Party  Transactions
 as  an  Independent  Director  of  the  Bank  for  a  period  of  with  HDB  Financial  Services  Limited-  Ordinary
 three 
(3)  years  with  effect 
from  November  18,  2024  Resolution
 to  November  17,  2027  (both  days  inclusive)-  Special 2) To approve Material Related Party Transactions with
 Resolution  HDFC Securities Limited- Ordinary Resolution
  3) To approve Material Related Party Transactions with
   HDFC  Life  Insurance  Company  Limited-  Ordinary
   Resolution
  4) To approve Material Related Party Transactions with
   HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited-
   Ordinary Resolution
  5) To  approve  Material  Related  Party  Transactions
   with  PayU  Payments  Private  Limited-  Ordinary
   Resolution
  6) To approve Material Related Party Transactions with
   HCL Technologies Limited- Ordinary Resolution
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Particulars Postal Ballot Notice Dated November 27, 2024 Postal Ballot Notice Dated February 20, 2025
Remote e-voting  National Securities Depository Limited (the “NSDL”)
Scrutinizer Ms. Manisha Maheshwari, Partner of M/s. Bhandari & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries 
Cut-off Date for Friday, December 6, 2024 Friday, February 14, 2025
determining the members  
eligible to vote  
Dispatch Date of notice Tuesday, December 10, 2024 Monday, February 24, 2025
Remote e-voting period Commenced  on  Friday,  December  13,  2024  at  10:00 Commenced  on  Tuesday,  February  25,  2025  at  10:00
 A.M. (IST) and ended on Saturday, January 11, 2025 at A.M. (IST) and ended on Wednesday, March 26, 2025 at
Remote e-voting period
Commenced  on  Friday,  December  13,  2024  at  10:00  Commenced  on  Tuesday,  February  25,  2025  at  10:00 
A.M. (IST) and ended on Saturday, January 11, 2025 at  A.M. (IST) and ended on Wednesday, March 26, 2025 at 
5:00 P.M. (IST) 5:00 P.M. (IST)  
The procedure undertaken for aforesaid postal ballots was in Resolutions
% of votes % of votes in % of votes
 polled on favour on votes against on votes
accordance with the applicable laws and regulations.   
 outstanding polled polled
 shares  
A  Scrutinizer  report  was  submitted  to  the  Authorized   
 Resolution No. 1
66.834 99.965 0.035
Officer, Mr. Ajay Agarwal, Company Secretary, Group Head-   
 Resolution No. 2
66.834 99.965 0.035
Secretarial and Group Oversight of the Bank with respect to   
 Resolution No. 3
66.833 99.965 0.035
the Postal Ballots conducted by the Bank. The results of the   
 Resolution No. 4
66.832 99.965 0.035
voting conducted through Postal Ballots were as under:   
 Resolution No. 5
66.834 99.964 0.036
For 
resolution(s)  as  specified 
in 
the  Postal  Ballot Resolution No. 6
66.834 99.964 0.036
Notice dated November 27, 2024:   
  Accordingly, the Resolutions as set out in the Postal Ballot 
There were total of 39,62,399 shareholders of the Bank as  Notice dated February 20, 2025 were passed with requisite 
on  the  cut-off  date  i.e.  Friday,  December  6,  2024,  out  of majority on March 26, 2025.  
which 12,237 Members holding 5,17,53,39,470 equity shares   
representing 67.70% of the share capital participated in the  The Bank may consider passing resolutions including special 
e-voting process. A snapshot of the voting results of the postal  resolutions through Postal Ballot as and when required. 
ballot is as follows:   
 DISCLOSURES  
% of votes 
% of votes in 
Resolution
% of votes   
against on votes 
favour on votes 
polled on Material Subsidiary  
polled
polled
outstanding   
shares   
  HDFC  Life  Insurance  Company  Limited  (“HDFC  Life”)  is 
Resolution No. 1
67.697
99.652
0.348   
  a  material  subsidiary  of  the  Bank  as  per  the  SEBI  Listing 
  Regulations.  HDFC  Life  was  incorporated  on  August  14, 
Accordingly,  the  Resolution  as  set  out  in  the  Postal  Ballot   
  2000 in Mumbai. M/s. G M Kapadia & Co. and M/s BSR & 
Notice dated November 27, 2024 was passed with requisite   
  Co LLP, Chartered Accountants are the Statutory Auditors of 
majority on January 11, 2025.   
  HDFC Life. M/s. G.M. Kapadia & Co. was appointed on July 
  14, 2016 (re-appointed on July 19, 2021) and M/s BSR & Co 
For 
resolution(s)  as  specified 
in 
the  Postal  Ballot   
  LLP, Chartered Accountants was appointed on July 15, 2024 
Notice dated February 20, 2025:   
 as Statutory Auditors of HDFC Life.  
There  were  39,23,592  shareholders  of  the  Bank  as  on  the   
  Further,  the  Bank  has  formulated  a  policy  for  determining 
cut-off date i.e., Friday, February 14, 2025, out of which 12,322   
  material subsidiary and the same is available on the Bank’s 
Members holding 5,13,31,83,464 equity shares representing   
  website  at  https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/ 
67.10  %  of  the  paid-  up  share  capital  participated  in  the   
 corporate-governance/codes-and-policies  
e-voting process. A snapshot of the voting results of the postal   
ballot is as follows:   
  During the year, the Policy for determining material subsidiary 
  was amended to align the same with the amendments made 
 to the SEBI Listing Regulations.  
R E P O R T   O N   C O R P O R A T E   G O V E R N A N C E 
Related Party Transactions Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism
The  Bank  has  a  Board  approved  policy  on  Related  Party The details  of establishment of  whistle  blower  policy  /  vigil
Transactions.  The  policy  intends  to  ensure  that  proper mechanism  are  included  in  the  Directors’  Report.  No  one
reporting, approval and disclosure processes are in place for has been denied access to the Audit Committee to express
all related party transactions. All the related party transactions concerns or report grievances under the Whistle Blower Policy
entered into by the Bank have been in its ordinary course of and / or vigil mechanism.
business and at arm’s length basis. 
 Familiarization of Directors
Loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/companies 
 The  Bank  conducts  familiarisation  programmes  for  its
in  which  Directors  are  interested,  are  disclosed  along  with 
 Directors from  time to  time. The familiarisation programme
other related party transactions, in the notes forming part of 
 ensures that the directors are updated on the business and
financial statements. 
 regulatory environment and the overall operations of the Bank.
 This enables the Directors to make better informed decisions
During the year, the Bank has not entered into any materially 
 in the interest of the Bank and its stakeholders.
significant transactions with the related parties, which could 
lead to a potential conflict of interest between the Bank and 
 During  the  year,  at  the  Board  /  Committee  meetings,
these parties. Transactions with related parties were placed 
 presentations and deep dive sessions were made covering
before the Audit Committee for approval. 
 important areas such as annual plans and strategies, artificial
 intelligence, global economic crisis, climate risks impact of
The Shareholders of the Bank have approved all the material 
 inflation, risk management,  priority sector lending, liquidity,
related party transactions to be entered into by the Bank as 
 stress testing, movement in Foreign Exchange (FX) etc.
per SEBI Listing Regulations. 
 The Directors are encouraged to participate in external training,
Details of related party transactions entered into during the year 
 learning and development programmes, and during financial
ended March 31, 2025 are given in Note No. 29 in Schedule 
 year 2024-25, the Directors have attended programmes on
18, forming part of 'Notes to Accounts' to standalone financial 
 cyber security, Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti Money
statements in accordance with Accounting Standard (AS) – 18. 
 Laundering  (AML)  etc.  organized  by  various  organizations
 such as Data Security Council of India, Centre for Advanced
During the year, the Bank has amended its policy on related 
 Financial Research and Learning by RBI etc.
party  transactions  which  was  approved  by  the  Board  on 
January 22, 2025 to align the same with various amendments A monthly compendium containing updates about the Bank
in  the  applicable  laws  and  regulations,  and  the  same  is and its subsidiary companies, synopsis of relevant regulatory
available  on  the  Bank’s  web-site  at https://www.hdfcbank. changes, gist of circulars issued by various regulators and case
com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and- laws is circulated to all the Directors for their ready reference.
policies. 
 Orientation  programmes  are  being  conducted  for  the  new
 Directors  in  order  to  familiarise  them  with  the  Bank,  its
ACCOUNTING TREATMENT 
 subsidiary  companies,  the  management,  key  areas  of
The financial statements have been prepared and presented business and regulations.
under  the  historical  cost  convention  and  accrual  basis  of 
accounting, unless otherwise stated and are in accordance The details of familiarization programmes imparted to Directors
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (‘Indian are  available  on  the  website  of  the  Bank  at    https://www.
GAAP’), statutory requirements prescribed under the Third hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
Schedule  of  the  Banking  Regulation  Act,  1949,  directions, familiarization-of-independent-directors
circulars, notifications and guidelines issued by the RBI from 
time  to  time  (RBI  guidelines),  Accounting  Standards  (‘AS’) Strictures and Penalties for last three financial years:
specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
 During  the  last  three  financial  years,  the  RBI  and  other
together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the 
 regulatory / statutory authorities have imposed the following
Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, in so far as 
 penalties / strictures / prohibitions / restrictions on the Bank:
they apply to banks. 
HDFC Bank Limited
302 
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
FY 2024-25 Administrative warning was issued by SEBI vide letter dated
 March  18,  2025  pursuant  to  inspection  of  DDP  activities.
During the year ended March 31, 2025, RBI vide its letter dated 
 Administrative  warning  was  issued  for  (i)  not  periodically
September 10, 2024 levied a penalty of `1,00,00,000 (Rupees 
 incorporating changes in the checklist/manual in response to
One crore only) on the Bank for soliciting gifts  to the depositors 
 regulatory changes notified by SEBI to assess the FPI eligibility
at the time of accepting deposits; for opening certain savings 
 before  granting  the  FPI  registration  (ii)  failure  to  determine
accounts in the names of ineligible entities and for failure to 
 that  there  is  a  delay  in  intimation  of  change  of  Investment
ensure  that  customers  are  not  contacted  after  7  p.m.  and 
 manager  of  FPI  as  the  effective  date  of  change  was  not
before 7 a.m.; in contravention to the Reserve Bank Directions 
 obtained and failure to report the said case to SEBI for further
on ‘lnterest Rate on Deposits’ and ‘Recovery Agents engaged 
 action (iii) granting an exemption to FPI without independently
by Banks’. The penalty was paid by the Bank on September 
 validating the accuracy of documents/disclosures and without
17, 2024.  The Bank has already taken corrective measures, 
 conducting necessary due diligence (iv) informing the details
as necessary, to align the operations / procedures in line with 
 of invalid FPI to NSDL with a delay of more than 4 months.
the applicable regulations. 
 Administrative warning was issued by SEBI vide its letter dated
RBI vide its letter dated March 26, 2025, levied a penalty of December 9, 2024, for alleged violation of (i) (a) Clause 8(I) of
` 75,00,000 (Rupees Seventy Five  Lakh only) on  the Bank Part A of Schedule VI read with Regulation 24(2)(b) of the SEBI
for  not  categorising  certain  customers  into  low,  medium (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
and  high  risk  category  based  on  its  assessment  and  risk 2018 ("ICDR") (b) Regulation 24(3) of the ICDR (c) Clause 4 of
perception and for allotting multiple customer identification Schedule III Code of Conduct read with Regulation 13 of SEBI
code  to  certain  customers  instead  of  a  Unique  Customer (Merchant Banking) Regulations, 1992 (ii) Violation of Regulation
ldentification  Code  (UCIC)  for  each  customer,  which  were 9A(1)(f) of the SEBI (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992 read
in contravention to Reserve Bank directions on ‘Know Your with Clause 1 of Chapter I of the SEBI Master Circular SEBI/
Customer (KYC)’. The penalty was paid by the Bank on March HO/CFD/PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/157 dated September 26, 2023
28, 2025. The Bank has already taken corrective measures, (iii) Violation of Regulation 9(1) read with Schedules B and C
as necessary, to align the operations / procedures in line with of the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.
the applicable regulations. Action taken report was placed before Board and update was
 submitted to SEBI on December 26, 2024.
Administrative  warning  letter  dated  August  30,  2024  was 
 Administrative warning was issued by SEBI vide its letter dated
issued by SEBI pursuant to thematic inspection of depository 
 December 10, 2024 with reference to alleged violation of para
operations  undertaken  in  July  2024.  Warning  letter  was 
 7 of Part A of Annexure I to SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/
issued for discrepancies observed with respect to (i) State 
 CFD1-PoD/P/Cir/2023/123  dated  July  13,  2023  read  with
not mentioned in KRA form in one instance (ii) name mismatch 
 clause 7 of Para A of Part A of Schedule III and Regulation 30(2)
observed  in  KRA  system  in  one  instance  (iii)  documents 
 of SEBI Listing Regulations and alleged violation of second
uploaded in KRA system were not clear in four instances (iv) 
 proviso to Regulation 30 (6) of SEBI Listing Regulations.
address  proof  not  submitted  to  KRA  in  one  instance.  ATR 
was submitted to SEBI vide letter dated September 26, 2024. 
 NCL  issued  warning  vide  letter  dated  February  14,  2025
No further communication in the matter is received. 
 pursuant  to  inspection  conducted  in  Futures  &  Options
 segment for the period October 01, 2022 to September 30,
Central  Depository  Services  (India)  Limited,  vide  its  letter 
 2024. Warning letter stated that (i) the Bank has accepted that
dated October 30, 2024 intimated about levy of penalty of 
 inadvertently it has missed uploading the G-sec de-allocation
` 5000 (Rupees Five Thousand Only) due to non-submission 
 file which resulted in excess allocation (ii) excess allocation
of  complete  compliance  report  within  stipulated  time  from 
 funds  were  not  utilized  by  the  client  and  after  subtracting
the  first  intimation  of  non-compliance  letter.  Necessary 
 this  allocation,  the  allocated  collateral  of  the  said  client
clarification  along  with  request  for  waiver  of  penalty  was 
 was sufficient against the margin requirement of the client.
submitted  to  CDSL  vide  letter  dated  November  4,  2024. 
 Sufficient collaterals were always available with the member
CDSL, vide email dated March 28, 2025 informed that Bank’s 
 and there was no margin shortfall. The Bank has already taken
request for the waiver of penalty was considered favorably by 
 corrective action by updating its process.
the committee. Accordingly, no penalty was concluded.  The 
matter stands closed. 
R E P O R T   O N   C O R P O R A T E   G O V E R N A N C E 
FY 2023-24 disablement request was processed by NSE. A request for
 waiver of imposed penalty was also submitted to NSE. The
RBI vide its letter dated November 30, 2023 levied a penalty 
 NSE has apprised that the Bank’s response shall be placed
of ` 10,000 (Rupees Ten Thousand only) on the Bank under 
 before relevant authority for further action. NSE vide its email
Section 11(3) of FEMA, 1999 for violation of Regulation 3 of 
 dated May 27, 2024 informed, that the Bank’s request for the
FEMA 5(R) – FEMA Deposit Regulation 2016. The Bank was 
 penalty waiver was considered favorably and credit note will
required  to  open  a  Special  Non-Resident  Rupee  Account 
 be issued to the Bank shortly. The matter stands closed.
(SNRR) whereas it continued with Resident Current Account of 
a non-resident bank, even after it ceased its operation in India During  FY  2023-24,  pursuant  to  various  tax  demands,
in June 2016. Considering the facts of the case, steps were penalties aggregating to the tune of ` 1.17 crores imposed
taken by the bank in ensuring that no interest was paid on on the Bank have been disclosed to the Stock Exchanges
the balances in the account, clear explanation was provided as required under the SEBI Listing Regulations. The Bank is
by the Bank in the personal hearing with RBI and certification taking appropriate legal remedies including, but not limited to,
from statutory auditors that transactions in the account post pursuing appeals, as per law.
June 2016 were related to winding up activities of the bank. 
 FY 2022-23
The penalty was paid by the Bank. 
 No penalties and strictures were imposed by any regulatory
SEBI  had  a  issued  Show  Cause  Notice  in  the  matter  of  a 
 authority during the FY2022-23 on the Bank.
Foreign Portfolio Investor not meeting eligibility criteria under 
SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations. The Bank had 
 Details of utilization of funds
submitted  Settlement  Application  which  was  accepted  by 
SEBI and settlement amount of ` 9,18,750 (Rupees Nine Lakhs 
 During the year under review, the Bank has not raised any
Eighteen Thousand Seven Hundred and Fifty only) was paid 
 funds through Preferential Allotment or Qualified Institutions
by the Bank. SEBI issued settlement order dated February 
 Placement and through issuance of non-convertible securities.
29, 2024. In terms of the Settlement Order, the proceedings 
initiated  in  terms  of  the  SCN  against  the  Bank  have  been Disclosure of certain types of agreements binding
disposed of without admitting or denying the findings of fact listed entities
and conclusions of law contained in the SCN. 
 The Bank has not entered into any agreements as required
NSE vide email dated November 15, 2023 levied penalty of to be disclosed under clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of
` 7,500 (Rupees Seven Thousand Five Hundred only) for delay Schedule III of SEBI Listing Regulations.
in submission of Action Taken report (ATR) for non-compliance 
 Disclosures  for  complaints/requests  received  from
observed in Cyber Security audit report for FY 2022-23. The 
 shareholders
Bank submitted its detailed response to the NSE wherein inter- 
alia, it was requested that as ATR was immediately submitted 
 The  Bank  is  committed  to  providing  effective  and  prompt
to  NSE  upon  receipt  of  clarification  from  NSE  regarding 
 service to its shareholders. The shareholders can also escalate
submission of ATR, the penalty imposed may be waived. NSE 
 their grievance in case of non-redressal of the same in the
has apprised that the Bank’s response and request for waiver 
 manner as made available on the Bank’s website.
of penalty shall be placed before its committee for approval. 
NSE vide its mail dated July 22, 2024 informed that the waiver 
 The details of investor complaints received and redressed by
request has been approved. The matter stands closed. 
 the Bank during the last three financial years are as under:
NSE vide letter dated November 17, 2023 levied penalty of 
 Financial Year
Number of complaints 
Number of complaints
` 5,000 (Rupees Five Thousand only) for operation of trading received during the 
pending as at the end of
 Financial Year
the Financial Year
terminals  without  having  valid  certification.  The  Bank  has 
 2022-23
123
0
submitted its detailed response to NSE wherein inter-alia, it 
had stated that the Bank’s membership does not have any 2023-24
183
5*
trading rights. The ID was created for usage of member portal 2024-25
155
3*
for downloading of daily reports for clearing and settlement 
 * All complaints were duly attended and closed to the satisfaction of the
related  activities  and  submission  of  compliance  related shareholders as on the date of the Reports of the respective ﬁnancial years
matters to the Clearing Corporation. Further, the Bank had 
submitted its request for disablement of ID and subsequently 
HDFC Bank Limited
304 
The  Bank  has  established  an  accessible  and  responsive Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
means for its investors to raise concerns through shareholder. and Redressal) Act, 2013, the Bank has constituted an Internal
grievances@hdfcbank.com,  which  is  monitored  by  the Committee to deal with the cases of sexual harassment of
company secretary. women  at  the  workplace  and  the  same  is  placed  on  the
 Bank’s website.
Besides,  3,537    letters  &  requests  were  received  from  the 
shareholders relating to change of address, updation of bank 
 The Bank regularly communicates about the mechanism of
details, correction of name / bank details on the warrants, 
 raising complaints to all employees. The Bank also reinforces
transmission  of  shares,  death  claim  letters,  documents  for 
 the awareness of the Act and the understanding of the same
deletion of name, letters related to issues on demat, electronic 
 through its mandatory e- learning module that is available in
clearing  service,  email  for  address  updation,  exchange  of 
 both English and Hindi.
certificate(s),  letter  on  exchange  of  certificates,  indemnity 
bond for duplicate certificate, indemnity bond for duplicate Details of the number of complaints received, disposed and
warrants, KYC updation, loss of share certificate /non receipt pending during the last three financial years pertaining to the
of certificate, permanent account / GIR number of income tax, sexual harassment of women at workplace are as under:
reminders on any subject, stop mark, transmission documents 
 Number of cases 
Number of 
Financial Year
Number of
and various other investor related matters. These letters have 
 pending as on 
complaints 
complaints
also been responded to within the prescribed timelines. the end of the 
disposed
received
 Financial Year
Disclosures  for  complaints  received  by  the  Bank 2022-23
68
61
7
in  relation  to  the  Sexual  Harassment  of  Women  at 2023-24
77
65
12
Workplace  (Prevention,  Prohibition  and  Redressal) 
 2024-25
75
65
10*
Act, 2013 
 *The Ten (10) pending cases were disposed by the Internal Committee as
The  Bank  has  a  policy  on  prevention,  prohibition  and 
 on the date of this Report.
redressal of sexual harassment of women at the workplace. 
 Further, two (2) complaints were pending for more than 90 days during
In  consonance  with  the  statutory  provisions  of  the  Sexual the ﬁnancial year 2024-25.
Our Policies and Frameworks 
Within the Bank’s broader governance architecture, structured policies serve as the operating framework that translates intent 
into action—guiding the conduct of its operations and decision-making processes. 
Code of Conduct & Ethics Manual    Anti-corruption, Anti-bribery, and Anti-
   Whistleblower Policy / Vigil Mechanism 
    money Laundering (AML)
Our  standards  of  integrity  are  articulated    
   Our  Whistleblower  Policy  establishes  a 
    To  demonstrate  our  commitment 
to
through  the  Code  of  Ethics  and  Conduct,    
   comprehensive framework for receiving and 
    combating 
corruption,  briber y, 
and
which  applies  across  all 
levels  of the   
   resolving  complaints  or  grievances  from 
    money  laundering,  we  have  implemented
organisation. These principles are reinforced    
   stakeholders. These complaints encompass 
    targeted  initiatives  across  critical  domains
by  our  Whistle-blower  Policy  and  My    
   various  concerns,  including  instances  of 
    such  as  the  Prevention  of  Corruption  Act,
Concern portal, providing a platform for staff    
   corruption, improper business practices. 
    Code  of  Conduct  &  Ethics  Policy,  Trade-
to report their concerns.    
    based Money Laundering, and Know Your
   During  the  FY  2024-25,  we  addressed  a 
    Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering
The  Bank’s  Code  of  Conduct  and  Ethics    
   total  of  97  (Ninety-Seven)  whistleblower 
    (AML) regulations. These initiatives include
manual directs employees, including senior    
  complaints from  a  diverse  array  of 
    comprehensive  training  for  our  employees
management, 
in  upholding the  values   
   stakeholders,  such  as  shareholders, 
    on  anti-corruption,  anti-bribery,  and  anti-
and  conducting  business  with  ethical    
  e m p l oye e s, c u s to m e r s, 
a n d 
va l u e 
    money laundering practices.
standards. At the core of this commitment    
  chain partners.  
is adherence to the Code of Conduct, which    
explicitly prohibits any involvement in child/    
  For fur ther  details,  please 
refer 
the 
forced labour within our operations. It also    
  Directors’ Report.  
addresses  issues  related  to  verbal  abuse,    
sexual abuse or harassment of employees.    
For breaches related to Conflict of Interest,    
kindly refer to Principle 1 of BRSR report.    
Policy on Related Party Transactions Policy for Determining Material Human Rights
 Subsidiary 
This  Policy,  framed  under  SEBI  Listing  The  Bank  places  strong  emphasis  on
Regulations and the Companies Act, governs  respecting  and  protecting  human  rights.
 This  Policy,  formulated  in  line  with  SEBI 
the 
identification,  review,  and  approval  The  Human  Rights  Statement  adopted
 Listing  Regulations,  sets  out  the  criteria 
of  Related  Party  Transactions  (RPTs)  at  by  the  Bank  is  guided  by  the  Universal
 and governance framework for determining 
the  Bank.  It  ensures  RPTs  are  conducted  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  reflects
 material  subsidiaries  of 
the  Bank.  A 
transparently,  at  arm’s  length,  and  in  the  our  commitment  to  conducting  business
 subsidiary  is  classified  as  material  if  its 
Bank’s best interest. All  RPTs and significant  ensuring that all the stakeholders are treated
 turnover  or  net  worth  exceeds  10%  of  the 
modifications require prior approval from the  with utmost respect and dignity.
 Bank’s consolidated turnover or net worth, 
Audit Committee, and where material, from  
 based  on  audited  financials.  All  KMPs  are 
the  Board  and  shareholders.  The  Policy  The human rights principles are embedded
 severally  authorised  to  assess  materiality 
provides  for  defined  thresholds,  permitted  in the Bank's Model Code of Conduct, which
 and  under take  necessar y  actions 
in 
exclusions, and approvals of Related Party  applies to all employees and stakeholders, it
 line  with  applicable  regulations.  Once  a 
Transactions.  It  also  mandates  quarterly  engages with.
 subsidiary is identified as material, the Bank 
review,  public  disclosure,  and  periodic  
 ensures  compliance  with  SEBI-mandated 
reporting to stock exchanges.  The  Bank  strives  to  strengthen  internal
 requirements,  with  oversight 
from 
the 
  processes  and  awareness  to  prevent  and
 Company Secretary. 
During  the  year,  the  Bank  has  amended  address  human  rights  violation  across  its
its  policy  on  related  party  transactions  value chain.
 During 
the  F Y  2024-25, 
the  Policy 
which  was  approved  by  the  Board  on  
 for 
determining  material 
subsidiar y 
January  22,  2025  to  align  the  same  with  During  FY  2024-25,  4,00,082  hours  of
 was  amended 
to  align 
the  same  with 
various amendments in the applicable laws  training  on  human  rights  awareness  was
 the  amendments  made 
to 
the  SEBI 
and regulations.  imparted to Bank's employees.
 Listing Regulations. 
Among  other  critical  policies 
that  shape 
the  Bank's 
 COMPLIANCE WITH NON-MANDATORY
organisational ethos, the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) 
 REQUIREMENTS
Policy further advances a culture of representation, openness, 
and  belonging  within  the  workplace  (for  more  details  refer The Bank has complied with the applicable non-mandatory
Social-People section). requirements  of  the  Code  of  Corporate  Governance  as
 prescribed  under  the  SEBI  Listing  Regulations  and  as
In addition, the Bank adheres to a formally adopted Tax Policy, given below:
which outlines a transparent and responsible approach to tax 
strategy and compliance. a) 
The Board
 The Bank maintains an office for its Part-time Chairman,
A complete list of our publicly disclosed policies is available 
 expense whereof is borne by the Bank.
at: https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate- 
governance/codes-and-policies. 
 b) 
Shareholder’s Rights
COMPLIANCE WITH MANDATORY 
 The Bank publishes its results on its website at www.
REQUIREMENTS 
 hdfcbank.com which is accessible to the public at large.
 The same are also available on the websites of the Stock
The  Bank  has  complied  with  the  applicable  mandatory 
 Exchanges on which the Bank’s shares are listed.
requirements  of  the  Code  of  Corporate  Governance  as 
prescribed under the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
 The  financial  performance  including  summary  of  the
 significant  events  is  being  sent  separately  to  such
M/s. BNP & Associates, company secretaries, have certified 
 shareholders who have registered their e-email address
that the Bank has complied with the mandatory requirements 
 with Datamatics Business Solutions Limited (Registrar
as stipulated under the SEBI Listing Regulations. and the said 
 and Share Transfer Agent of the Bank) or their respective
certificate forms a part of this Report. 
 Depository Participant, on a quarterly basis. The Bank’s
 results  for  each  quarter  are  published  in  an  English
Mr.  Ajay  Agarwal,  Company  Secretary,  Group  Head- 
 newspaper  having  a  nation-wide  circulation  and  in  a
Secretarial and Group Oversight is the compliance officer of 
 Marathi newspaper having circulation in Maharashtra.
the Bank in accordance with the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
HDFC Bank Limited
306 
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 The Shareholder’s rights are more particularly mentioned Further, the Bank also maintains a restricted list of securities
 in  the  Shareholders’  Information  Section  annexed  to of  certain  listed  entities  for  those  employees  who  are  in
 this Report. possession  of  or  have  access  to  UPSI  in  relation  to  those
  entities and such employees are prohibited from trading in
c) Audit Qualifications listed securities of those entities.
 During  the  period  under  review,  there  is  no  audit 
  During  the  year  under  review,  the  Share  Dealing  Code  of
 qualification in the Bank’s financial statements. The Bank 
  the  Bank  was  amended  to  align  the  same  with  various
 continues to adopt best practices to ensure regime of 
  amendments in the applicable laws and regulations.
 unmodified audit opinion. 
  CODE  OF  ETHICS  /  CONDUCT  FOR  DIRECTORS
d) Separate  posts  of  Chairperson  and  Managing 
  AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
 Director/ Chief Executive Officer 
  The Bank has framed and adopted a Code of Ethics/ Conduct
 Mr.  Atanu Chakraborty is the Part-time Chairman and 
  for Directors and Senior Management which is approved by
 Independent  Director  of  the  Bank  and  Mr.  Sashidhar 
  the Board. The Code is applicable to all Directors and Senior
 Jagdishan is the Managing Director & Chief Executive 
  Management Personnel of the Bank.
 Officer of the Bank. 
  On April 19, 2025, the Code was amended so as to align it with
e) Reporting of Internal Auditor 
  the changes in the applicable laws and the Bank’s practices.
 The  Internal  Auditor  of  the  Bank  reports  to  the  Audit 
  This Code is available on the Bank’s website at https://www.
 Committee of the Bank. 
  hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
  codes-and-policies. All the Directors and Senior Management
f) Independent Directors 
  Personnel have affirmed compliance with the said Code.
 The  Independent  Directors  of  the  Bank  held  nine 
  FEES FOR STATUTORY AUDITORS
 meetings during the financial year 2024-25. 
  For the details of total fees for all services paid by the Bank and
CODE FOR PREVENTION OF INSIDER TRADING  
  its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the Joint Statutory
  Auditors and all entities in the network firm / network entity of
The Bank has adopted a Share Dealing Code (Code) for the  
  which the Joint Statutory Auditors is a part, kindly refer to the
prevention of insider trading in the securities of the Bank as  
  Directors’ Report.
well as in other listed and proposed to be listed companies.  
The Code is divided into 3 parts viz. Part A, Part B and Part C.  
  MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
Part A of the Code deals with trading in HDFC Bank securities,  
Part B deals with transactions in other listed and proposed to  
  The  Board  acknowledges  its  responsibility  towards  its
be listed companies and Part C deals with trading in the units  
  shareholders  and  therefore  encourages  open  and  active
of mutual funds.  
  dialogue with all its shareholders – be it individuals, domestic
  institutional investors or foreign investors. The Bank believes
The share dealing code, inter alia, prohibits dealing in securities  
  that the Annual General Meeting is a principal forum which
of the Bank as well as in other listed and proposed to be listed  
  provides  shareholders  an  opportunity  to  interact  with  the
companies by insiders while in possession of Unpublished  
  Board, auditors and senior management of the Bank.
Price Sensitive Information (UPSI). The persons designated  
under Part A of the Code are prohibited from trading in the  
  During the year, in accordance with the circulars issued by
securities of the Bank during the Restricted Trading Period  
  the  Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs,  the  shareholder  meeting
(Ban Period) notified by the Bank, from time to time and whilst  
  was held through a two-way video conference, which enabled
in possession of any UPSI relating to the Bank. The Ban Period  
  shareholders  of  the  Bank  to  participate  at  the  meeting,
of the Bank starts 7 calendar days prior to the end of a financial  
  irrespective of their location and interact with the Board.
quarter or year and ends on expiry of two calendar days from  
R E P O R T   O N   C O R P O R A T E   G O V E R N A N C E 
The quarterly  and half-yearly un-audited / audited financial A section on ‘Shareholders’ Information’ is provided elsewhere
results  are  normally  published  in  the  newspapers,  viz.,  the in the Integrated Annual Report.
Business  Standard  in  English  and  Navshakti  in  Marathi 
(regional  language).  The  results  are  also  displayed  on  the On behalf of the Board of Directors
Bank’s website at www.hdfcbank.com and the same is also 
sent via email on a quarterly basis to those shareholders who 
 Atanu Chakraborty
have registered their email address with Datamatics Business 
 Part-time Chairman and Independent Director
Solutions Limited (Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the 
Bank) or their respective Depository Participant. 
 June 20, 2025
The  Bank  communicates  with  its  institutional  shareholders 
through meetings with analysts and discussions between fund 
 DECLARATION
managers and management. The Bank also participates at 
investor  conferences  and  non-deal  roadshows,  from  time I  confirm  that  for  the  year  under  review,  all  Directors  and
to time. All interactions with institutional shareholders, fund Members of Senior Management have affirmed their adherence
managers  and  analysts  are  based  on  generally  available to  the  provisions  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  of  Directors  and
information  that  is  accessible  to  the  public  on  a  non- Senior Management Personnel.
discriminatory  basis.  The  presentations  made  to  analysts 
and fund managers are placed on the Bank’s website. The Sashidhar Jagdishan
transcripts of such meetings as well as the audio recordings Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
are also uploaded on the website. 
The  shareholders  can  visit  the  Bank’s  website  for  financial 
information,  shareholding 
information,  dividend  policy, 
Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Bank, etc. The 
 June 20, 2025
website also redirects  to www.sec.gov where the investors 
can view statutory filings of the Bank with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission, USA. The information relating to the 
Bank’s  financial  results  and  shareholding  pattern  are  also 
displayed on the websites of the Stock Exchanges on which 
the Bank’s shares are listed. Other information such as official 
news/press releases, stock exchange disclosures, etc. are 
regularly displayed on the Bank’s website. 
Audited Standalone & 
Consolidated Financial Statements ........................... 310
Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report .......................................... 528
Shareholder Information  ........................................... 584
 I N D E P E N D E N T   A U D I T O R ’ S   R E P O R T
To the Members of HDFC Bank Limited 
Report on Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
Opinion 
1. We have jointly audited the accompanying Standalone Financial Statements of HDFC Bank Limited (“the Bank”), which
 comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, and the Standalone Profit and Loss Account and the
 Standalone Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements including a
 summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (together known as the “Standalone Financial
 Statements”).
2. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Standalone
 Financial Statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013
 (“the Act”) in the manner so required for banking companies and are in conformity with accounting principles generally
 accepted in India and give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Bank as at March 31, 2025, and its profit and its
 cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion 
3. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act
 and other applicable authoritative pronouncements issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). Our
 responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of Standalone
 Financial Statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Bank in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued
 by the ICAI together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements under
 the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance
 with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
 appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters 
4. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the
 Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025. These matters were addressed in the context of
 our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide
 a separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be
 communicated in our report.
and  Provisioning  pertaining 
to  Advances” 
(the 
“IRAC  norms”) design and operating effectiveness of key controls, including
and  amendments 
thereto,  which  prescribe 
the  guidelines 
for Information Technology based controls, and focused on the
identification  and  classification  of  Non-performing  Advances  and following:
the minimum provision required for such assets. 
 • 
Monitoring  of  credit  quality  which  amongst  other  things
The  Bank  is  also  required  to  apply  its  judgement  to  determine 
 includes  the  monitoring  of  overdue  loan  accounts  and
the  identification  and  provision  required  against  Non-performing 
 drawing power, pending security creation;
Advances  considering  various  quantitative  as  well  as  qualitative 
factors.  The 
identification  of  Non-performing  Advances 
is  also 
 • 
Identification 
and 
classification 
of 
Non-performing
affected  by  factors  like  stress  and  liquidity  concerns  in  certain 
 Advances 
in 
accordance  with 
IRAC 
norms 
and
sectors. 
 consideration of qualitative factors; and
The provision for identified Non-performing Advances is estimated 
 • 
Testing 
of 
application 
controls 
including 
testing 
of
based  on  ageing  and  classification  of  Non-performing  Advances, 
 automated controls, reports and system reconciliations.
nature  of  product,  value  of  security  etc.,  and  is  also  subject  to 
the  minimum  provisioning  norms  specified  by  RBI.  Since 
the 
Identification and Provisioning of Non-performing Advances (NPA): 
Total NPA as at March 31, 2025: ` 35,194.95 crores 
Provision for NPA as at March 31, 2025: ` 23,874.52 crores 
(Refer Schedule 17 (C)(3), Schedule 18 note 10) 
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The  Bank  is  required  to  comply  with  the  Master  Circular  dated Our audit procedures included the following:
April  02,  2024  issued  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  (“RBI”)  on 
“Prudential  Norms  on 
Income  Recognition,  Asset  Classification Understood 
the  process  and  controls,  and 
tested 
the 
 ¾
and  Provisioning  pertaining 
to  Advances” 
(the 
“IRAC  norms”) design and operating effectiveness of key controls, including
and  amendments 
thereto,  which  prescribe 
the  guidelines 
for Information Technology based controls, and focused on the
identification  and  classification  of  Non-performing  Advances  and following:
the minimum provision required for such assets. 
 • 
Monitoring  of  credit  quality  which  amongst  other  things
The  Bank  is  also  required  to  apply  its  judgement  to  determine 
 includes  the  monitoring  of  overdue  loan  accounts  and
the  identification  and  provision  required  against  Non-performing 
 drawing power, pending security creation;
Advances  considering  various  quantitative  as  well  as  qualitative 
factors.  The 
identification  of  Non-performing  Advances 
is  also 
 • 
Identification 
and 
classification 
of 
Non-performing
affected  by  factors  like  stress  and  liquidity  concerns  in  certain 
 Advances 
in 
accordance  with 
IRAC 
norms 
and
sectors. 
 consideration of qualitative factors; and
The provision for identified Non-performing Advances is estimated 
 • 
Testing 
of 
application 
controls 
including 
testing 
of
based  on  ageing  and  classification  of  Non-performing  Advances, 
 automated controls, reports and system reconciliations.
nature  of  product,  value  of  security  etc.,  and  is  also  subject  to 
the  minimum  provisioning  norms  specified  by  RBI.  Since 
the 
identification of Non-performing Advances and provisioning for Non- Evaluated 
the 
governance 
process 
and 
controls 
over 
 ¾
performing  Advances  requires  considerable  level  of  management calculations  of  provision  for  Non-performing  Advances  and
estimation,  application  of  various  regulatory  requirements  and  in tested that the basis of provisioning is in accordance with the
view of its significance to the overall audit, we have identified this as Board of Directors approved policy and IRAC norms.
a key audit matter. 
 On a sample basis, recomputed the Days Past Due, verified 
 ¾
Information Technology (“IT”) Systems and Controls impacting Financial Reporting 
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The  IT  environment  of  the  Bank  is  complex  and  involves  a  large Our procedures with respect to this matter included the following:
number of independent and interdependent IT systems used in the 
operations of the Bank for processing and recording a large volume In assessing the controls over the IT systems of the Bank, we 
 ¾
of transactions. involved our technology specialists to obtain an understanding
 of  the  IT  environment,  IT  infrastructure  and  IT  systems.  We
As a result, there is a high degree of reliance and dependency on evaluated and tested relevant IT general controls over the “in-
such IT systems for the financial reporting process of the Bank. scope” IT systems and IT dependencies identified as relevant
 for  our  audit  of  the  Standalone  Financial  Statements  and
Appropriate 
IT  general  controls  and 
IT  application  controls  are financial reporting process of the Bank. On such “in-scope”
required to ensure that such IT systems are able to process the data IT systems, we tested key IT general controls with respect to
as  required,  completely,  accurately,  and  consistently  for  reliable the following domains:
financial reporting. 
 • 
Program  change  management,  which 
includes 
that
We have identified certain key IT systems (“in-scope” IT systems) program 
changes 
are  moved 
to 
the 
production
which  have  an  impact  on  the  financial  reporting  process  and  the environment  as  per  defined  procedures  and 
relevant
related controls testing as a key audit matter because of the high segregation of environment is ensured.
level  of  automation,  significant  number  of  systems  being  used  by 
the Bank for processing financial transactions, the complexity of the • 
User  access  management,  which  includes  user  access
IT architecture and its impact on the financial records and financial provisioning,  de-provisioning,  access  review,  password
reporting process of the Bank. management,  sensitive  access  rights  and  segregation
 of duties to ensure that privilege access to applications,
 operating  systems  and  databases 
in 
the  production
 environment were granted only to authorized personnel.
 • 
Program  development,  which  includes  controls  over  IT
 application  development  or  implementation  and  related
 infrastructure, which are relied upon for financial reporting.
 • 
IT operations, which includes job scheduling, monitoring
 and backup and recovery.
Other Information 
5. The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
 included in the Annual report, but does not include the Standalone Financial Statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
 The Annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor's report.
 Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form
 of assurance conclusion thereon.
 In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified
 above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the
 Standalone Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
 When  we  read  the  Annual  report,  if  we  conclude  that  there  is  a  material  misstatement  therein,  we  are  required  to
 communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the relevant
 laws and regulations.
 I N D E P E N D E N T   A U D I T O R ’ S   R E P O R T
• Identify  and  assess  the  risks  of  material  misstatement  of  the  Standalone  Financial  Statements,  whether  due  to
 fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is
 sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting
 from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
 misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate
 in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether
 the Bank has adequate internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements in place and the
 operating effectiveness of such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
 disclosures made by management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the
 audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant
 doubt on the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are
 required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Standalone Financial Statements or,
 if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained
 up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Bank to cease to continue
 as a going concern.
• Evaluate  the  overall  presentation,  structure  and  content  of  the  Standalone  Financial  Statements,  including  the
 disclosures, and whether the Standalone Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a
 manner that achieves fair presentation.
 • 
Evaluate  the  overall  presentation,  structure  and  content  of  the  Standalone  Financial  Statements,  including  the
 disclosures, and whether the Standalone Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a
 manner that achieves fair presentation.
11. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing
 of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during
 our audit.
12. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
 regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought
 to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
13. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most
 significance  in  the  audit  of  the  Standalone  Financial  Statements  of  the  current  year  and  are  therefore  the  key  audit
 matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
 matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report
 because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of
 such communication.
Other Matters 
14. The Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank for the year ended March 31, 2024, were jointly audited by M M Nissim &
 Co LLP and Price Waterhouse LLP under the Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, who, vide their report dated April
 20, 2024, expressed an unmodified opinion on those Standalone Financial Statements. Accordingly, Batliboi & Purohit do
 not express any opinion on the figures reported in the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2024.
 Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
15. In  our  opinion,  the  Standalone  Balance  Sheet  and  the  Standalone  Profit  and  Loss  Account  have  been  drawn  up  in
 accordance with the provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Section 133 of the Act.
16.  As required by sub-section (3) of Section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that: 
 (a) 
We have obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were necessary
 for the purpose of our audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
 (b) 
The transactions of the Bank, which have come to our notice, have been within the powers of the Bank, other than
 those relating to leasing of immovable properties acquired on amalgamation of the erstwhile HDFC Limited with the
 Bank, as disclosed in Schedule 18 note 1 to the Standalone Financial Statements; and
 (c) 
During the course of our audit, we have visited 73 branches to examine the books of account and other records
 maintained at the branch and performed other relevant audit procedures. Since the key operations of the Bank are
 automated with the key applications integrated to the core banking system, the audit is carried out centrally at Bank’s
 Head office located in Mumbai, as all the necessary records and data required for the purposes of our audit are
 available there.
17. Further, as required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
 (a) 
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were
 necessary for the purposes of our audit.
 (b) 
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Bank so far as it appears from our
 examination of those books, except for the matters stated in paragraph 17(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g)
 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended).
 (c) 
The Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone Profit and Loss Account and the Standalone Cash Flow Statement
 dealt with by this report are in agreement with the books of account.
 (d) 
In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under
 Section 133 of the Act, to the extent they are not inconsistent with the accounting policies prescribed by RBI.
 (e) 
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as at March 31, 2025 taken on record by the
 Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as at March 31, 2025 from being appointed as a director in
 terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
 (f) 
With respect to the maintenance of accounts  and other  matters  connected therewith,  reference is  made  to  our
 comment in paragraph 17(b) above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 17(h)(vi) below on reporting
 under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended).
 (g) 
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements of
 the Bank and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure A”.
 (h) 
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
 (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the
 explanations given to us:
 I N D E P E N D E N T   A U D I T O R ’ S   R E P O R T
i. The Bank has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its financial statements –
 Refer Schedule 12(I) and (II), Schedule 17(C)(18) and Schedule 18 note 19.5 and 32(b) to the Standalone Financial
 Statements.
ii. The  Bank  has  made  provision,  as  required  under  the  applicable  law  or  accounting  standards,  for  material
 foreseeable  losses  on  long-term  contracts  including  derivative  contracts  –  Schedule  17(C)(9)  and  17(C)(18),
 Schedule 18 Note 19.5 and 32(b) to the Standalone Financial Statements;
iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and
 Protection Fund by the Bank, during the year ended March 31, 2025.
iv. (a)    The management has  represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in
 the Schedule 18 note 36, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and
Protection Fund by the Bank, during the year ended March 31, 2025.
(a)    The management has  represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in
the Schedule 18 note 36, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds
or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies),
including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise,
that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee,
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee,
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
(b)    The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in the
Schedule 18 note 36, no funds have been received by the Bank from any person(s) or entity(ies), including
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the
Bank shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security
or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
18. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the provisions of Section
 197 of the Act are not applicable to the Bank by virtue of Section 35B(2A) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Accordingly,
 the reporting under Section 197(16) of the Act regarding payment / provision for managerial remuneration in accordance
 with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act, is not applicable.
 For Price Waterhouse LLP
For Batliboi & Purohit
 Chartered Accountants 
Chartered Accountants
 Firm Registration Number:
Firm Registration Number:
 301112E/E300264
101048W
 Sharad Vasant
Janak Mehta
 Partner
Partner
 Membership Number: 101119
Membership Number: 116976
 UDIN: 25101119BMIFBA5214
UDIN: 25116976BMOKOV9481
 Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
 Date: April 19, 2025
Date: April 19, 2025
 I N D E P E N D E N T   A U D I T O R ’ S   R E P O R T
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report 
Referred to in paragraph 17(g) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of HDFC Bank Limited on the 
Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements under 
clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act 
1. We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements of HDFC Bank Limited
 (“the Bank”) as of March 31, 2025 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank for the
 year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls 
2. The Bank’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal
 control over financial reporting criteria established by the Bank considering the essential components of internal control
 stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (“the Guidance Note”) issued
 by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and
 maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient
 conduct of its business, including adherence to Bank’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection
 of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable
 financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility 
3. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank's internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial
 Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on
 Auditing deemed to be prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial
 controls, both applicable to an audit of internal financial controls and both issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the
 Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
 assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements was
 established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
4. Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls
 system with reference to Standalone Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial
 controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls
 with reference to Standalone Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
 evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected
 depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone
 Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion
 on the Bank’s internal financial controls system with reference to Standalone Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements 
6. A Bank's internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements is a process designed to provide
 reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Standalone Financial Statements
 for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A Bank's internal financial controls with
 reference to Standalone Financial Statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
 of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
 Bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of Standalone
 Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 the Bank are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the Bank; and (3) provide
 reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the Bank's
 assets that could have a material effect on the Standalone Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements 
7. Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements, including
 the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may
 occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone
 Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone
 Financial Statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with
 the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion 
8. In our opinion, the Bank has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system with reference to
 Standalone Financial Statements and such internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements
 were operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established
 by the Bank considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by ICAI.
 For Price Waterhouse LLP
For Batliboi & Purohit
 Chartered Accountants 
Chartered Accountants
 Firm Registration Number:
Firm Registration Number:
 301112E/E300264
101048W
 Sharad Vasant
Janak Mehta
 Partner
Partner
 Membership Number: 101119
Membership Number: 116976
 UDIN: 25101119BMIFBA5214
UDIN: 25116976BMOKOV9481
 Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
 Date: April 19, 2025
Date: April 19, 2025
   (` in ‘000)
  As at As at
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES   
Capital 1 7,652,222 7,596,911
Employees stock options outstanding 18 (5) 38,051,944 26,527,161
Reserves and surplus 2 4,968,542,229 4,368,333,979
Deposits 3 27,147,148,959 23,797,862,764
Borrowings 4 5,479,308,926 6,621,530,751
Other liabilities and provisions 5 1,461,285,166 1,354,379,303
Total  39,101,989,446 36,176,230,869
ASSETS   
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India 6 1,443,550,296 1,786,832,228
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 7 952,156,416 404,641,953
Investments 8 8,363,596,736 7,024,149,587
Advances 9 26,196,086,171 24,848,615,188
Fixed assets 10 136,553,987 113,989,878
Other assets 11 2,010,045,840 1,998,002,035
Total  39,101,989,446 36,176,230,869
Contingent liabilities 12 26,474,170,018 22,967,583,363
Bills for collection  706,795,544 653,328,740
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 17 & 18  
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Balance Sheet.   
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
17 & 18 
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Balance Sheet. 
As per our report of even date.
For and on behalf of the Board 
For Price Waterhouse LLP
For Batliboi & Purohit
Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 
ICAI Firm Registration No.: 
M. D. Ranganath
301112E/E300264   
101048W Sunita Maheshwari
Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant
Janak Mehta 
Lily Vadera
Partner
Partner Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Membership No.: 101119
Membership No.: 116976
Independent Director Independent Director
Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
Executive Director Executive Director
Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025
Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
   (` in ‘000)
  Year ended Year ended
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. INCOME   
Interest earned 13 3,005,170,417 2,583,405,755
Other income 14 456,322,818 492,409,994
Total  3,461,493,235 3,075,815,749
II. EXPENDITURE   
Interest expended 15 1,778,469,527 1,498,081,008
Operating expenses 16 681,748,820 633,860,240
Provisions and contingencies 18 (19.5) 327,801,307 335,751,716
Total  2,788,019,654 2,467,692,964
III. PROFIT   
Net profit for the year  673,473,581 608,122,785
Balance in the Profit and Loss account brought forward  1,395,798,306 1,129,599,963
Additions on Amalgamation (net) 18 (1) - 35,701,097
Total  2,069,271,887 1,773,423,845
IV. APPROPRIATIONS   
Transfer to Statutory Reserve  168,368,395 152,030,697
Transfer to General Reserve  67,347,358 60,812,279
Transfer to Special Reserve  32,000,000 30,000,000
Transfer to Capital Reserve  5,069,983 41,664,119
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve Account (net)  - 5,294,222
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve  - 3,780,000
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year  148,261,930 84,044,222
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet  1,648,224,221 1,395,798,306
Total  2,069,271,887 1,773,423,845
V. EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE (Face value ` 1/- per share) 18 (31) ` `
Basic  88.29 85.83
Diluted  87.90 85.44
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements   
 17 & 18  
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Profit and Loss   
Account.   
 Significant accounting policies and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements  
  17 & 18 
 The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Profit and Loss  
Account.   
As per our report of even date.  For and on behalf of the Board 
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:  
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
  Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta  
Partner Partner Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976 Independent Director Independent Director
  Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
  Executive Director Executive Director
  Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
  Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
  Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025  Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
For the year ended March 31, 2025  
  (` in ‘000)
 Year ended Year ended
 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Cash flows from operating activities:  
Profit before income tax 884,780,560 708,953,051
Adjustments for:  
Depreciation on fixed assets 33,794,728 28,100,988
(Profit) / loss on revaluation of investments 2,683,978 (9,434,922)
Amortisation of premium / (discount) on investments (278,677) 8,449,479
Profit on sale of fixed assets (226,517) (738,174)
(Profit) / loss on sale of investment in subsidiary 80,000 (73,414,237)
Provision / charge for non performing assets 127,153,073 107,748,189
Floating provisions - 109,000,000
Provision / (write-back) for standard assets and contingencies (10,658,745) 18,173,261
Dividend from subsidiaries (21,870,101) (13,323,911)
Employee stock options / units expense 18,907,034 15,474,040
 1,034,365,333 898,987,764
Adjustments for:  
Increase in investments (1,302,003,741) (548,336,186)
Increase in advances (1,489,033,797) (2,894,442,171)
Increase in deposits 3,349,286,195 3,391,324,138
Increase in other assets (73,424,525) (292,254,127)
Increase / (decrease) in other liabilities and provisions 106,340,648 (6,692,396)
 1,625,530,113 548,587,022
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds) (173,757,076) (198,437,376)
Net cash flows from operating activities 1,451,773,037 350,149,646
Cash flows from investing activities:  
Purchase of fixed assets (31,986,944) (38,348,940)
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 904,484 960,042
Investment in subsidiaries (13,097,695) -
Proceeds from sale of investment in subsidiary (net) 1,920,000 95,006,717
Dividend from subsidiaries 21,870,101 13,323,911
Net cash flow (used in) / from  investing activities (20,390,054) 70,941,730
  (` in ‘000)
 Year ended Year ended
 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend paid during the year (148,261,930) (84,044,222)
Net cash flow used in financing activities (1,229,088,782) (222,369,351)
Effect of fluctuation in foreign currency translation reserve 1,938,330 1,012,629
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 204,232,531 199,734,654
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 2,191,474,181 1,937,650,831
Cash and cash equivalents acquired on amalgamation - 54,088,696
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 2,395,706,712 2,191,474,181
Cash and cash equivalents acquired on amalgamation   -   
 54,088,696
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year   2,395,706,712 
 2,191,474,181
Cash and cash equivalents include Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India and Balances with banks and money at call and short notice   
(Refer Schedule 6 and Schedule 7).   
As per our report of even date.  For and on behalf of the Board 
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:  
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
  Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta  
Partner Partner Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976 Independent Director Independent Director
  Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
  Executive Director Executive Director
  Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
  Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
  Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025  Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
   (` in ‘000)
  As at As at
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Authorised capital   
11,90,61,00,000 (31 March, 2024: 11,90,61,00,000) Equity Shares of ` 1/- each  11,906,100 11,906,100
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital   
7,65,22,21,674 (31 March, 2024: 7,59,69,10,662) Equity Shares of ` 1/- each  7,652,222 7,596,911
Total  7,652,222 7,596,911
   As at As at
  Schedule  
   March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Statutory Reserve   
 Opening balance  858,868,812 626,280,835
 Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 80,557,280
 Additions during the year 18 (6) 168,368,395 152,030,697
 Closing balance  1,027,237,207 858,868,812
II.   General Reserve    
 Opening balance  538,526,919 248,677,940
 Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 229,023,281
 Additions during the year 18 (6) 72,327,207 60,825,698
 Closing balance  610,854,126 538,526,919
III.   Share Premium    
 Opening balance  1,270,532,922 665,394,291
 Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 517,288,313
 Additions during the year  70,640,779 87,850,318
 Closing balance  1,341,173,701 1,270,532,922
IV.   Special Reserve    
 Opening balance  262,681,815 5,000,000
 Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 227,681,815
 Additions during the year 18 (6) 32,000,000 30,000,000
 Closing balance  294,681,815 262,681,815
V. Amalgamation Reserve - I   
 Opening balance  10,635,564 10,635,564
 Additions / (deductions) during the year  - -
 Closing balance 18 (6) 10,635,564 10,635,564
VIII. Investment Reserve Account    
 Opening balance  5,294,222 -
 Additions during the year  - 5,294,222
 Deductions during the year 18 (6) (5,294,222) -
 Closing balance  - 5,294,222
IX. Investment Fluctuation Reserve   
 Opening balance  50,320,000 37,010,000
 Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 9,530,000
 Additions during the year 18 (6) 5,294,222 3,780,000
   55,614,222 50,320,000
  As at As at
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
VI.   Amalgamation Reserve - II   
Opening balance  (139,470,590) -
Additions / (deductions) on amalgamation 18 (1) - (139,470,590)
Closing balance 18 (6) (139,470,590) (139,470,590)
VII.  Capital Reserve   
Opening balance  97,941,784 56,275,415
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 414
Additions during the year 18 (6) 5,069,983 41,665,955
Closing balance  103,011,767 97,941,784
VIII. Investment Reserve Account   
Opening balance  5,294,222 -
Additions during the year  - 5,294,222
Deductions during the year 18 (6) (5,294,222) -
Closing balance  - 5,294,222
IX.  
Investment Fluctuation Reserve   
Opening balance  50,320,000 37,010,000
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 9,530,000
Additions during the year 18 (6) 5,294,222 3,780,000
Closing balance  55,614,222 50,320,000
X.  
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve   
Opening balance  8,801,080 7,788,451
Additions during the year  1,938,330 1,012,629
Closing balance 18 (6) 10,739,410 8,801,080
XI.   Cash Flow Hedge Reserve   
Opening balance  8,403,145 (922,314)
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 9,370,530
Deductions during the year  (8,730,454) (45,071)
Closing balance 18 (6) (327,309) 8,403,145
XII.  AFS Reserve   
Opening balance  - -
Additions during the year  6,168,095 -
Closing balance 18(6) 6,168,095 -
XIII. Balance in Profit and Loss Account  1,648,224,221 1,395,798,306
Total  4,968,542,229 4,368,333,979
SCHEDULE 3 - DEPOSITS    
    (` in ‘000)
   As at As at
  Schedule  
   March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
A. Demand deposits
I.   
 (i) 
From banks  41,498,542 37,047,391
 (ii) 
From others  3,099,437,830 3,063,109,564
 Total  3,140,936,372 3,100,156,955
 II.     Savings bank deposits  6,304,666,061 5,987,472,923
 III.    Term deposits   
 (i)   
From banks  325,992,858 177,670,784
 (ii)  
From others  17,375,553,668 14,532,562,102
 Total  17,701,546,526 14,710,232,886
 Total  27,147,148,959 23,797,862,764
B. I.    Deposits of branches in India  26,906,095,755 23,575,937,441
 II.   Deposits of branches outside India  241,053,204 221,925,323
 Total  27,147,148,959 23,797,862,764
SCHEDULE  5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS    
    (` in ‘000)
   As at As at
  Schedule  
   March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I.      Bills payable   136,557,423 141,013,564
II. Interest accrued  235,192,453 222,810,099
III.   Contingent provisions against standard assets   108,629,049 106,637,109
IV.   Others (including provisions)   980,906,241 883,918,531
 Total  1,461,285,166 1,354,379,303
 SCHEDULE 6  -  CASH AND BALANCES WITH  RESERVE BANK OF INDIA   
    (` in ‘000)
   As at As at
  Schedule  
   March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)  121,276,593 130,246,313
II. Balances with Reserve Bank of India   
(a) In current accounts  1,320,273,703 1,318,925,915
 (b)  
In other accounts  2,000,000 337,660,000
 Total  1,322,273,703 1,656,585,915
 Total  1,443,550,296 1,786,832,228
 SCHEDULE  7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE   
    (` in ‘000)
   As at As at
  Schedule  
   March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. In India   
 (i)  
Balances with banks   
 (a)  
In current accounts  1,769,908 2,448,844
 (b)  
In other deposit accounts  172,289 3,020,199
 Total  1,942,197 5,469,043
 (ii)   Money at call and short notice   
  As at March 31, 2025  
SCHEDULE  8  - INVESTMENTS    
    (` in ‘000)
   As at As at
  Schedule  
   March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Investments in India in   
 (i)    Government securities  7,652,301,388 6,448,063,974
 (ii)    Other approved securities  - -
 (iii)    Shares  36,447,757 19,729,997
 (iv)    Debentures and bonds  287,230,834 200,747,321
 (v)    Subsidiaries / joint ventures  138,939,093 126,342,133
 (vi)  
Others (Units of Mutual funds / AIFs / REITs, Certificate of deposits, PTCs and  224,660,233 210,241,598
 security receipts)   
 Total  8,339,579,305 7,005,125,023
II.     Investments outside India in    
 (i)     Government securities (including local authorities)  9,180,892 2,480,394
 (ii)     Subsidiaries / joint ventures abroad  54,061 54,061
 (iii)    Other investments:   
 (a)    Shares  964,701 215,336
 (b)    Debentures and bonds  13,817,777 16,274,773
 Total  24,017,431 19,024,564
 Total  8,363,596,736 7,024,149,587
   (` in ‘000)
  As at As at
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
C.  
II.  
Advances outside India   
(i)  
Due from banks  27,698,862 27,561,578
(ii)  
Due from others:   
(a)   Bills purchased and discounted  5,441,025 7,148,584
(b)   Syndicated loans  5,817,254 11,804,945
(c)   Others  422,628,768 339,976,244
Total  461,585,909 386,491,351
Total  26,196,086,171 24,848,615,188
SCHEDULE 10  - FIXED ASSETS   
   (` in ‘000)
  As at As at
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I.  
Premises (including land)   
Gross block   
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year  45,179,729 24,353,113
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 17,158,133
Additions during the year  5,843,490 3,914,363
Deductions during the year  (560,881) (245,880)
Total  50,462,338 45,179,729
Depreciation   
As at 31st March of the preceding year  13,897,188 8,155,263
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 5,053,311
Charge for the year  1,831,059 886,959
On deductions during the year  (414,754) (198,345)
Total  15,313,493 13,897,188
Net block  35,148,845 31,282,541
II.   Other fixed assets (including furniture and ﬁxtures)   
Gross block   
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year  224,005,298 179,030,451
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 5,868,936
Additions during the year  51,196,574 43,904,034
Deductions during the year  (13,711,393) (4,798,123)
Total  261,490,479 224,005,298
Depreciation   
As at 31st March of the preceding year  141,297,961 115,062,891
Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 3,547,773
Charge for the year  31,966,929 27,216,269
   (` in ‘000)
  As at As at
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
On deductions during the year  (13,179,553) (4,528,972)
Total  160,085,337 141,297,961
Net block  101,405,142 82,707,337
III.   Assets on lease (plant and machinery)   
Gross block   
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year  - 4,546,923
Additions during the year  - -
Deductions during the year  - (4,546,923)
Total  - -
Depreciation   
As at 31st March of the preceding year  - 4,104,467
Charge for the year  - -
On deductions during the year  - (4,104,467)
Total  - -
Lease adjustment account   
As at 31st March of the preceding year  - 442,456
Charge for the year  - -
On deductions during the year  - (442,456)
Total  - -
Unamortised cost of assets on lease  - -
Total  136,553,987 113,989,878
SCHEDULE  12 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES   
   (` in ‘000)
  As at As at
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I.   
Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts  - taxation  37,327,236 40,608,619
II.    Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts - others  1,214,910 1,509,529
III.  
Liability for partly paid investments  - -
IV.  
Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts  12,934,924,742 12,125,527,858
V.  
Liability on account of outstanding derivative contracts  10,986,775,591 8,700,000,919
VI.    Guarantees given on behalf of constituents - in India  1,492,273,572 1,260,307,896
- outside India  2,505,328 2,874,204
VII.   Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations  966,848,695 710,083,810
VIII.  Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable  52,299,944 126,670,528
Total  26,474,170,018 22,967,583,363
SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED   
   (` in ‘000)
  Year ended Year ended
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I.    
Interest / discount on advances / bills  2,384,444,278 2,072,200,137
II. 
Income on investments  533,196,899 443,642,848
III. 
Interest on balance with RBI and other inter-bank funds  25,063,136 20,404,735
IV. 
Others  62,466,104 47,158,035
Total  3,005,170,417 2,583,405,755
SCHEDULE 14 - OTHER INCOME   
   (` in ‘000)
  Year ended Year ended
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I.     Commission, exchange and brokerage  318,985,521 281,606,512
II. 
Profit / (loss) on sale of investments (net)  20,227,183 105,826,427
III.   Profit / (loss) on revaluation of investments (net)  (2,683,978) 9,434,922
IV.   Profit / (loss) on sale of building and other assets (net)  1,568,130 1,983,223
V.    Profit / (loss) on exchange / derivative transactions (net)  49,190,377 40,011,265
VI.  
Income earned by way of dividends from subsidiaries and / or joint ventures abroad /  21,870,101 13,323,911
in India   
VII.  Miscellaneous income  47,165,484 40,223,734
Total  456,322,818 492,409,994
SCHEDULE 15 - INTEREST EXPENDED   
   (` in ‘000)
  Year ended Year ended
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I.    
Interest on deposits  1,252,706,143 994,329,551
II.   
Interest on RBI / inter-bank borrowings  524,697,574 502,603,949
III. 
Other interest  1,065,810 1,147,508
Total  1,778,469,527 1,498,081,008
SCHEDULE  16 - OPERATING EXPENSES   
   (` in ‘000)
  Year ended Year ended
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I.      Payments to and provisions for employees  239,005,294 222,402,099
II.     Rent, taxes and lighting  31,313,950 26,790,093
III.    Printing and stationery  8,414,626 9,405,133
IV.    Advertisement and publicity  5,917,829 3,456,411
V.     Depreciation on bank's property  33,794,728 28,100,988
VI.    Directors' fees / remuneration, allowances and expenses  101,367 78,014
   (` in ‘000)
  Year ended Year ended
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
VII.   Auditors' fees and expenses  129,379 177,927
VIII.  Law charges  3,474,462 3,571,829
IX.    Postage, telegram, telephone etc.  9,018,281 8,678,881
X.     Repairs and maintenance  38,204,289 31,626,821
XI.    Insurance  32,667,788 28,135,719
XII.   Other expenditure*  279,706,827 271,436,325
Total  681,748,820 633,860,240
 SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 As at March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE  17  –  Significant  accounting  policies at the date of the financial statements and the reported
appended to and forming part of the standalone income and expenses for the reporting year. Management
financial statements for the year ended March 31, believes that the estimates used in the preparation of the
2025 financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual
 results could differ from these estimates. The impact of
A     BACKGROUND 
 any revision in the accounting estimates is recognised
 prospectively from the period of change.
HDFC  BANK  Limited  (‘HDFC  Bank’  or  the  ‘Bank’), 
incorporated 
in  Mumbai, 
India 
is  a  publicly  held 
 C 
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
banking  company  engaged  in  providing  a  range  of 
banking and financial services including retail banking, 
 1. 
Investments
wholesale banking and treasury operations. The Bank is 
 The RBI, vide its master direction dated September 12,
governed by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the 
 2023, issued revised norms for the classification, valuation
Companies Act, 2013. During FY 2024, basis scheme for 
 and  operation  of  investment  portfolio  of  banks,  which
amalgamation of (i) erstwhile HDFC Investments Limited 
 became  applicable  from  April  01,  2024  (herein  after
(“eHDFC  Investments”)  and  erstwhile  HDFC  Holdings 
 referred as ‘revised norms on investments’).
Limited  (“eHDFC  Holdings”)  with  and  into  erstwhile 
Housing  Development  Finance  Corporation  Limited 
 Classification:
(“eHDFC Limited”); and thereafter (ii) eHDFC Limited into 
the  Bank  became  effective  from  July  01,  2023,  upon 
 In accordance with the revised norms on investments,
receipt of all requisite approvals.  Accordingly, the financial 
 investments are classified on the date of purchase into
statements of the Bank included operations of eHDFC 
 “Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’), “Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) and
Limited, eHDFC Investments and eHDFC Holdings from 
 “Fair value through Profit and Loss” (‘FVTPL’) categories
July 01, 2023 onwards. The Bank has overseas branch 
 (hereinafter called “categories”). “Held for Trading” (‘HFT’)
operations in Bahrain, Hong Kong, Dubai, Singapore and 
 is a separate investment sub-category within FVTPL. All
an Offshore Banking Unit at International Financial Service 
 investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
Centre (IFSC) in GIFT City, India. The financial accounting 
 are categorised in a distinct category Group companies
systems  of  the  Bank  are  centralised  and,  therefore, 
 (“Group cos”). Under each of these categories, investments
accounting returns are not required to be submitted by 
 are further classified under six groups (hereinafter called
branches of the Bank. 
 “groups”)  -  Government  Securities,  Other  Approved
 Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, Investments
B 
BASIS OF PREPARATION 
 in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and Other Investments.
The standalone financial statements have been prepared 
and presented under the historical cost convention and Hitherto,  investments  were  classified  on  the  date  of
accrual basis of accounting, unless otherwise stated and purchase  into  “Held  for  Trading”  (‘HFT’),  “Available  for
are in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’) categories.
Principles in India (‘Indian GAAP’), statutory requirements (hereinafter  called  “categories”).  Subsequent  shifting
prescribed  under  the  Third  Schedule  of  the  Banking amongst  the  categories  was  done  in  accordance  with
Regulation Act, 1949, directions, circulars, notifications the  RBI  guidelines.  Under  each  of  these  categories,
and guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) investments  were  further  classified  into  six  groups
from time to time (RBI guidelines), Accounting Standards (hereinafter  called  “groups”),  Government  securities,
(‘AS’) specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, Other  approved  securities,  Shares,  Debentures  and
2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, Bonds, Investments in subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and
2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, Other Investments.
2021, in so far as they apply to banks. 
 Purchase and sale transactions in securities are accounted
Use of estimates on settlement date except in the case of equity shares
 which are accounted on trade date.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
Indian GAAP requires the management to make estimates 
and necessary assumptions in the reported amounts of 
assets  and  liabilities  (including  contingent  liabilities)  as 
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Basis of classification:  appreciation,  if  any,  in  any  of  the  six  groups  was
  not recognised except to the extent of depreciation
Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity  
  provided earlier.
and contractual terms there of gives rise to cash flows that  
are solely payment of principal and interest on principal  
 • Quoted investments are valued based on the trades /
outstanding (SPPI) are classified under HTM category. All  
  quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or prices
investments in subsidiaries / associates / joint ventures  
  published by Financial Benchmarks India Pvt Ltd.
are classified under the category of Group Companies  
  (FBIL) or Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives
(Group Cos.). Investments which the Bank acquires with  
  Association (FIMMDA). Investments denominated in
an objective that is achieved by both collecting contractual  
  foreign currencies are valued based on the prices
cashflows and selling securities and where the contractual  
  provided by market information providers such as
terms  of  the  investment  meet  the  SPPI  criterion  are  
  Bloomberg, Refinitiv, etc.
classified under AFS category. Investments not classified  
in any of the above categories are classified under FVTPL  
 • Unquoted  Government  of  India  securities,  state
category. HFT, which is a sub-category of FVTPL consists  
  government securities and special bonds such as oil
of  all  instruments  that  meet  the  specifications  for  HFT  
  bonds, fertilizer bonds etc. issued by the Government
instruments prescribed by the RBI.  
  of India are valued as per the prices published by
  FBIL. The valuation of other unquoted fixed income
Hitherto, investments which the Bank intended to hold  
  securities (viz. other approved securities and bonds
till  maturity  were  classified  under  HTM  category  and  
  and  debentures)  and  preference  shares  is  done
investments  that  were  held  for  resale  within  90  days  
  with appropriate mark-up, i.e. applicable FIMMDA
from  the  date  of  purchase  were  classified  under  HFT.  
  published credit spreads over the Yield to Maturity
Investments  which  were  not  classified  in  either  of  the  
  (YTM) rates for Government of India securities as
above categories were classified under AFS category.  
  published by FBIL.
Acquisition cost:  
 • Unquoted  equity  shares  are  valued  at  the  break-
  up  value,  ascertained  from  the  company’s  latest
Costs, including brokerage and commission paid at the  
  balance  sheet.  The  date  as  on  which  the  latest
time  of  acquisition  of  investments  and  broken  period  
  balance  sheet  is  drawn  up  does  not  precede  the
interest on debt instruments, are recognised in the Profit  
  date of valuation by more than 18 months. In case
and  Loss  Account  and  are  not  included  in  the  cost  
  the latest audited balance sheet is not available or is
of acquisition.  
  more than 18 months old, the shares are valued at
  ` 1 per company.
Valuation:  
 • Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest Net
In accordance with the revised norms on investments:  
  Asset Value (NAV) declared by the mutual fund.
• 
Investments  classified  under  FVTPL  and  AFS  
 • Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of
categories are fair valued individually. Net gain or  
  deposits being discounted instruments are valued at
loss arising on such valuation of FVTPL category is  
  carrying cost.
directly taken to the Profit and Loss Account. The  
net  appreciation  or  depreciation  (adjusted  for  the  
 • Investments in Security Receipts (SRs) and unquoted
effect of applicable taxes, if any) in AFS Category is  
  units  of  Infrastructure  Investment  Trust  (InvIT)  are
directly taken to AFS reserve without routing through  
  valued as per the net asset value provided by the
the Profit & Loss Account.  
  issuing Asset Reconstruction Company  and InvIT
  respectively.
Hitherto, investments classified under AFS and HFT  
categories were marked to market individually, and  
 • Investments 
in  unquoted  units  of  Alternative
depreciation  /  appreciation  was  aggregated  for  
  Investment Fund (AIF) are valued at NAV provided
each group. Net depreciation, if any, compared to  
  by the AIF based on its financial statements. Where
the acquisition cost, in any of the six groups, was  
  an AIF fails to carry out and disclose the valuation of
charged  to  the  Profit  and  Loss  Account  and  net  
   Account.  Cost  of  investments  is  determined  based  on
   the weighted average cost method. The profit from sale of
 • The investment portfolio is categorised into three fair 
   investment under HTM and Group Cos. categories, net-
  value hierarchies viz. Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3: 
   off taxes and transfer to statutory reserve is appropriated
   from the Profit and Loss Account to “Capital Reserve”, in
  Level 1 Financial Instruments are valued with 
¾ 
   accordance with RBI guidelines.
  inputs such as quoted prices in active markets 
  for identical instruments. 
   Short sale:
  Level 2 Financial Instruments are valued with 
¾ 
   The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central
  inputs  other  than  quoted  prices,  that  are 
   Government dated securities in accordance with the RBI
  observable for asset or liability either directly 
   guidelines. The short position is categorised under HFT
  or indirectly. 
   and netted off from investments in government securities.
   The short position along with other government securities
  Level 3 Financial Instruments are valued using 
¾ 
   under HFT portfolio is marked to market and the resultant
  unobservable inputs. 
   MTM profit or loss, is taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
  SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  As at March 31, 2025 
  its investments by an independent valuer as per the that  the  fair  value  is  materially  different  from  the
  frequency mandated by SEBI, the value of its units acquisition cost, it is presumed that the acquisition
  is treated as ` 1. In case AIF is not registered under cost is the fair value. In case of Level 1 and Level 2
  SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulation, 2012, instruments, when acquisition cost is not equal to fair
  and the latest disclosed valuation of its investments value, any Day 1 gain / loss is recognised in the Profit
  by  an  independent  valuer  precedes  the  date  of and Loss Account. In case of Level 3 instruments,
  valuation by more than 18 months the value of its any  Day  1  loss  is  recognized  immediately  in  the
  units is treated as ` 1. Profit and  Loss Account  whereas any Day 1  gain
   is deferred. In case of Level 3 debt instruments, the
 • Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) including Priority Day 1 gain is amortized on a straight-line basis up to
  Sector-PTCs  are  valued  by  using  FIMMDA  credit the maturity date (or earliest call date for perpetual
  spreads  as  applicable  for  the  NBFC  category, instruments),  while  for  unquoted  Level  3  equity
  based on the credit rating of the respective PTC over instruments, the gain is set aside as a liability until
  the  YTM  rates  for  Government  of  India  securities the security is listed or derecognised.
  published by FBIL. 
   • 
Non-performing  investments  (NPIs)  are  identified,
 • Investments classified under HTM and Group Cos. and  provision  is  made  thereon  based  on  the  RBI
  category  are  carried  at  their  acquisition  cost  and guidelines. Provision for NPIs is not set-off against
  not marked to market. Any diminution, other than appreciation in respect of performing investments.
  temporary,  in  the  value  of  investments  in  HTM Appreciation,  if  any,  in  the  value  of  a  NPI  is  not
  and Group Cos. category is provided for. Hitherto, recognised.  Income  on  NPIs  is  not  recognised
  any  premium  on  investments  classified  under until received.
  HTM category, was amortised over the remaining 
  maturity period of the security on a constant yield- Disposal of investments:
  to-maturity basis. 
   In accordance with the revised norms on investments,
   Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid
 • For all debt securities meeting SPPI criteria (except 
   categories is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account
  short  sale  securities),  any  discount  or  premium 
   except for equity instruments designated under AFS at
  on  acquisition  is  accreted  or  amortised  over  the 
   the  time  of  initial  recognition,  in  respect  of  which  the
  remaining  maturity  period  of  the  security  on  a 
   gains  and  losses  are  transferred  from  AFS  Reserve  to
  constant yield-to-maturity basis. Such accretion or 
   the Capital Reserve. Hitherto entire Profit / Loss on sale
  amortisation  of  discount  or  premium  is  classified 
   of investments, were recognised in the Profit and Loss
  under interest income from investments. 
   Account.  Cost  of  investments  is  determined  based  on
   the weighted average cost method. The profit from sale of
 • The investment portfolio is categorised into three fair 
   investment under HTM and Group Cos. categories, net-
  value hierarchies viz. Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3: 
   off taxes and transfer to statutory reserve is appropriated
   from the Profit and Loss Account to “Capital Reserve”, in
  Level 1 Financial Instruments are valued with 
¾ 
   accordance with RBI guidelines.
  inputs such as quoted prices in active markets 
  for identical instruments. 
   Short sale:
  Level 2 Financial Instruments are valued with 
¾ 
   The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central
  inputs  other  than  quoted  prices,  that  are 
   Government dated securities in accordance with the RBI
  observable for asset or liability either directly 
   guidelines. The short position is categorised under HFT
  or indirectly. 
   and netted off from investments in government securities.
   The short position along with other government securities
  Level 3 Financial Instruments are valued using 
¾ 
   under HFT portfolio is marked to market and the resultant
  unobservable inputs. 
   MTM profit or loss, is taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
   Profit / Loss on short sale is recognised on settlement
 • All investments are measured at fair value on initial 
   date.
  recognition. Unless facts and circumstances suggest 
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
2.    Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions: The Bank maintains general provision for standard assets
 including credit exposures computed as per the current
Repurchase  (Repo)  and  reverse  repurchase  (Reverse 
 marked  to  market  values  of  interest  rate  and  foreign
Repo)  transactions  are  reported  as  borrowing  and 
 exchange derivative contracts and gold. The Bank also
lending  (lending  above  14  days  tenor  reported  as 
 maintains general provision for unhedged foreign currency
advances) respectively. 
 exposures of borrowers, provision on loans to specific
 borrowers  in  specific  stressed  sectors,  provision  on
Borrowing  cost  on  repo  transactions  is  accounted  as 
 exposures to step-down subsidiaries of Indian companies
interest expense and revenue on reverse repo transactions 
 and provision on specified borrowers as prescribed by
is accounted as interest income. 
 RBI. In the case of overseas branches, general provision
 on  standard  assets  is  maintained  at  the  higher  of  the
3.    Advances 
 levels stipulated by the respective overseas regulator or
Classification: RBI. The provision for standard assets is included under
 other liabilities.
Advances are classified as performing and non-performing 
based on the RBI guidelines and are stated net of bills 
 In  addition  to  the  above,  the  Bank  on  a  prudent  basis
rediscounted, inter-bank participation with risk, specific 
 makes provision on advances or exposures which are not
loan loss provision, interest suspense for non-performing 
 NPAs, but has reasons to believe on the basis of the extant
advances,  claims  received  from  Credit  Guarantors, 
 environment or specific information or basis regulatory
provision for funded interest term loan and provision for 
 guidance / instructions, of a possible slippage of a specific
diminution in the fair value of restructured assets. 
 advance or a group of advances or exposures or potential
 exposures. These are classified as contingent provisions
The Bank classifies its loans and investments, including 
 and included under other liabilities.
overseas  branches  and  overdues  from  crystallised 
derivative  contracts,  into  performing  assets  and  non- 
 Provision made in addition to the Bank’s policy for specific
performing  assets  (NPAs)  in  accordance  with  RBI 
 loan loss provision for non-performing assets, possible
guidelines.  Further  the  NPAs  are  classified  into  sub- 
 slippage  of  specific  exposures  and  regulatory  general
standard, doubtful and loss assets based on the criteria 
 provision is categorised as floating provision. Creation of
stipulated by RBI. Non-performing assets are upgraded 
 floating provision is considered by the Bank up to a level
into standard as per the extant RBI guidelines. 
 approved by the Board of Directors. Floating provisions
 are  used  only  for  contingencies  under  extraordinary
Provisioning: 
 circumstances and for making specific provisions for non-
 performing  accounts.  Floating  provisions  are  included
Specific loan loss provision in respect of non-performing 
 under other liabilities.
advances is made based on management’s assessment 
of the degree of impairment of advances, subject to the 
 Further to the provisions required to be held according
minimum provisioning prescribed by the RBI. 
 to  the  asset  classification  status,  provision  is  held  for
 individual country exposures (other than for home country
The specific loan loss provision for retail non-performing 
 exposure). Countries are categorised into risk categories
advances is also made based on the nature of product 
 as per Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd.
and delinquency levels. 
 (‘ECGC’) guidelines and provisioning is made in respect
 of  that  country  where  the  net  funded  exposure  is  one
Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance 
 percent or more of the Bank’s total assets. Provision for
with the Bank’s policy. Recoveries from bad debts written- 
 country risk is included under other liabilities.
off are included under other income. 
 In accordance with the RBI guidelines on the prudential
Loans reported as frauds are classified as  loss  assets 
 framework  for  resolution  of  stressed  assets  and  the
and fully provided for immediately without considering the 
 resolution frameworks for COVID-19 related stress and
value of security. 
 its  Board  approved  policy,  the  Bank  has  implemented
 resolution  plans 
for  eligible  borrowers.  The  asset
 classification and necessary provision thereon is made
  SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  As at March 31, 2025 
 in accordance with the said RBI guidelines. Restructured  the  corresponding  stressed  loans  assuming  the  loans
 assets  involving  compromise  settlements,  where  the  remained in the books of the Bank.
 time  for  payment  of  the  agreed  settlement  amount  
 exceeds three months are classified and provided for in  The  Bank  invests  in  PTCs  issued  by  Special  Purpose
 accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI from  Vehicles (SPVs). These are accounted at acquisition cost
 time to time.  and are classified as investments. The Bank also buys
   loans  through  the  direct  assignment  route  which  are
 The  restructured  loans  are  upgraded  into  standard  classified as advances. PTCs are carried at acquisition
 category  as  per  the  extant  RBI  guidelines.  Further,  in  cost unless it is more than the face value, in which case
 respect  of  restructuring of loans pertaining to projects  the  premium  is  amortised  based  on  effective  interest
 under  implementation,  the  asset  classification  and  rate method.
 necessary provision thereon is made in accordance with  
 the said RBI guidelines.  The  Bank 
transfers  advances 
through 
inter-bank
   participation  with  and  without  risk.  In  the  case  of
4. Securitisation and transfer of assets  participation  with  risk,  the  aggregate  amount  of  the
   participation  issued  by  the  Bank  is  reduced  from
 Assets  transferred  through  securitisation  and  direct  
   advances. In case where the Bank is assuming risk by
 assignment  of  cash  flows  are  de-recognised  in  the  
   participation, the aggregate amount of the participation
 Balance  Sheet  when  they  are  sold  (true  sale  criteria  
   is  classified  under  advances.  In  the  case  of  issue  of
 being  fully  met  with)  and  consideration  is  received.  
   participation certificate without risk, the aggregate amount
 Sales / transfers that do not meet true sale criteria are  
   of  participation  issued  by  the  Bank  is  classified  under
 accounted for as borrowings. For a securitisation or direct  
   borrowings and where the Bank is acquiring participation
 assignment transaction, the Bank recognises profit upon  
   certificate, the aggregate amount of participation acquired
 receipt of the funds and loss is recognised at the time of  
   is shown as due from banks under advances.
 sale. Unrealised gains associated with expected future  
 margin income is recognised in profit and loss account  
  5. Fixed assets and depreciation
 on receipt, after absorbing losses, if any.  
   Fixed  assets  are  stated  at  cost  less  accumulated
 On sale of stressed assets, if the sale is at a price below  depreciation  as  adjusted  for  impairment,  if  any.  Cost
 the net book value (i.e., funded outstanding less specific  includes  cost  of  purchase  and  all  expenditure  like  site
 provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the Profit and  preparation,  installation  costs  and  professional  fees
 Loss Account and if the sale is for a value higher than  incurred on the asset before it is ready to use. Subsequent
 the net book value, the excess provision is credited to  expenditure incurred on assets put to use is capitalised
 the Profit and Loss Account in the year when the sum  only  when  it  increases  the  future  benefit  /  functioning
 of  cash  received  by  way  of  initial  consideration  and  /  capability from / of such assets.
 or redemption or transfer of security receipts issued by  
 Securitisation Company (‘SC’) / Reconstruction Company  Depreciation  is  charged  over  the  estimated  useful  life
 (‘RC’) exceeds the net book value of the loan at the time  of  the  fixed  asset  on  a  straight-line  basis  except  for
 of transfer. Where the sale consideration is comprised  freehold land. The management believes that the useful
 of only cash and SRs guaranteed by the Government of  life of assets assessed by the Bank, pursuant to Part C
 India, the excess provision is credited to the Profit and  of Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013, taking into
 Loss Account in the year of transfer.  account changes in environment, changes in technology,
   the utility and efficacy of the asset in use, fairly reflects its
 In  respect  of  stressed  assets  sold  under  an  asset  estimate of useful lives of the fixed assets. The estimated
 securitisation, where the investment by the bank in SRs  useful lives of key fixed assets are given below:
 issued against the assets transferred by it is more than 10  
 percent of such SRs, provisions held against outstanding  
 SRs are higher of the provisions required in terms of net  
 asset  value  declared  by  the  SC  /  RC  and  provisions  
 as  per  the  extant  norms  applicable  to  the  underlying  
 loans, notionally treating the book value of these SRs as  
Motor cars
4 years  
  average  closing  rates  and  of  non-integral 
foreign
Safe deposit lockers 
21 years  
  operations (foreign branches and offshore banking units)
Furniture and fittings
10 to 16 years  
  at the monthly average closing rates.
•    
Leasehold  land  is  depreciated  over  the  period  
  Outstanding foreign currency monetary items of domestic
of lease.  
  and  integral  foreign  operations  are  translated  at  the
  closing  exchange  rates  notified  by  Foreign  Exchange
• 
Improvements to leasehold premises are amortised  
  Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) as at the Balance
over the remaining period of lease.  
  Sheet date and the resulting net revaluation profit or loss
  is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
• 
  Software and system development expenditure is  
amortised over a period upto 5 years.  
  Both  monetary  and  non-monetary  foreign  currency
  assets  and  liabilities  of  non-integral  foreign  operations
• 
  Point of Sales (PoS) terminals (including sound box)  
  are translated at closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI
are depreciated over a period of 4 years.  
  at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss
  arising from exchange differences are accumulated in the
• 
For  assets  purchased  and  sold  during  the  year,  
  Foreign Currency Translation Reserve until disposal of the
depreciation is provided on pro-rata basis.  
  non-integral foreign operations in accordance with AS -
  11, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
• 
Whenever there is a revision of the estimated useful  
  and the extant RBI guidelines.
life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable amount  
is charged over the revised remaining useful life of  
  Foreign  currency  denominated  contingent  liabilities  on
the said asset.  
  account  of  foreign  exchange  and  derivative  contracts,
  guarantees, 
letters  of  credit,  acceptances  and
• 
Profit  on  sale  of  immovable  property  net  of  taxes  
  endorsements are translated at closing rates of exchange
and transfer to statutory reserve, are transferred to  
  notified by FEDAI as at the Balance Sheet date.
capital reserve.  
 9. Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
• 
Assets (other than PoS terminals) costing less than  
` 5,000 individually, are fully depreciated in the year  Foreign  exchange  spot  and 
forward  contracts,
of purchase.  outstanding as at the Balance Sheet date and held for
  trading,  are  revalued  at  the  closing  spot  and  forward
   Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 Estimated useful life as  Impairment  loss,  if  any,  is  provided  to  the  extent  the
 Asset  
 assessed by the Bank  
   carrying  amount  of  assets  exceeds  their  estimated
 Owned Premises
60 years  
   recoverable amount.
 Automated Teller Machines (ATMs)
10 years  
 Electrical equipments and 
6 to 8 years  
  8. Translation of foreign currency items
 installations  
 Office equipments
3 to 6 years  Foreign  currency  income  and  expenditure  items  of
 Computers
3 years  domestic  operations  are  translated  at  the  exchange
 Modems, routers, switches, 
3 to 6 years  rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. Income
 servers, network and related IT  
   and  expenditure  items  of  integral  foreign  operations
 equipments  
   (representative  offices)  are  translated  at  the  weekly
 Motor cars
4 years  
   average  closing  rates  and  of  non-integral 
foreign
 Safe deposit lockers 
21 years  
   operations (foreign branches and offshore banking units)
 Furniture and fittings
10 to 16 years  
   at the monthly average closing rates.
 •    
Leasehold  land  is  depreciated  over  the  period  
   Outstanding foreign currency monetary items of domestic
 of lease.  
   and  integral  foreign  operations  are  translated  at  the
   closing  exchange  rates  notified  by  Foreign  Exchange
 • 
Improvements to leasehold premises are amortised  
   Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) as at the Balance
 over the remaining period of lease.  
   Sheet date and the resulting net revaluation profit or loss
   is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
 • 
  Software and system development expenditure is  
 amortised over a period upto 5 years.  
   Both  monetary  and  non-monetary  foreign  currency
   assets  and  liabilities  of  non-integral  foreign  operations
 • 
  Point of Sales (PoS) terminals (including sound box)  
   are translated at closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI
 are depreciated over a period of 4 years.  
   at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss
   arising from exchange differences are accumulated in the
 • 
For  assets  purchased  and  sold  during  the  year,  
   Foreign Currency Translation Reserve until disposal of the
 depreciation is provided on pro-rata basis.  
   non-integral foreign operations in accordance with AS -
   11, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
 • 
Whenever there is a revision of the estimated useful  
   and the extant RBI guidelines.
 life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable amount  
 is charged over the revised remaining useful life of  
   Foreign  currency  denominated  contingent  liabilities  on
 the said asset.  
   account  of  foreign  exchange  and  derivative  contracts,
   guarantees, 
letters  of  credit,  acceptances  and
 • 
Profit  on  sale  of  immovable  property  net  of  taxes  
   endorsements are translated at closing rates of exchange
 and transfer to statutory reserve, are transferred to  
   notified by FEDAI as at the Balance Sheet date.
 capital reserve.  
  9. Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
 • 
Assets (other than PoS terminals) costing less than  
 ` 5,000 individually, are fully depreciated in the year  Foreign  exchange  spot  and 
forward  contracts,
 of purchase.  outstanding as at the Balance Sheet date and held for
   trading,  are  revalued  at  the  closing  spot  and  forward
6. Non-Banking Assets  rates respectively as notified by FEDAI and at interpolated
   rates  for  contracts  of  interim  maturities.  The  USD-INR
 Non-Banking  Assets  (NBAs)  acquired  in  satisfaction  
   exchange  rate  for  valuation  of  contracts  having  longer
 of claims are carried at lower of net book value or net  
   maturities i.e. greater than one year, is derived using the
 realizable value.  
   USD-INR  spot  rate  as  well  as  relevant  INR  yield  curve
   and USD yield curve. For other currency pairs, and non-
7. Impairment of assets  
   deliverable contracts, the forward points (for rates / tenors
 The Bank assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether  not  published  by  FEDAI)  are  obtained  /  derived  basis
 there  is  any  indication  that  an  asset  may  be  impaired.  data published by Refinitiv or Bloomberg for valuation of
 SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 As at March 31, 2025
the contracts. Valuation is considered on present value In  relation  to  derivative  contracts  with  non-performing
basis. For this purpose, the forward profit or loss on the borrowers, the Bank makes provision for the entire amount
contracts are discounted to the valuation date using the of  overdue  and  future  receivables  relating  to  positive
discounting yields. The resulting profit or loss on valuation marked to market value of the said derivative contracts.
is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. Marked to 
market value of foreign exchange contracts are classified 10.  Revenue recognition
as assets when the fair value is positive or as liabilities 
 Interest  income  is  recognised  in  the  Profit  and  Loss
when the fair value is negative. 
 Account on an accrual basis, except in the case of non-
 performing assets which is recognised when realised.
The Bank recognises all derivative contracts at fair value, 
on the date on which such derivative contracts are entered 
 Interest income on investments in PTCs and loans bought
into and are re-measured at fair value as at the Balance 
 out through the direct assignment route is recognised at
Sheet date. Marked to market values of such derivatives 
 their effective interest rate.
are classified as assets when the fair value is positive or 
as liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
 Income on non-coupon bearing discounted instruments is
 recognised over the tenor of the instrument on a constant
The Bank as part of its risk management strategy, makes 
 yield basis.
use of derivative instruments, including foreign exchange 
forward  contracts,  for  hedging  the  risk  embedded  in 
 Dividend  on  equity  shares  and  preference  shares  is
some of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the 
 recognised  as  income  when  the  right  to  receive  the
balance sheet. The Bank identifies the hedged item (asset 
 dividend is established.
or liability) at the inception of the transaction itself. Hedge 
effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception 
 Income from units of mutual funds / AIF is recognised on
of the hedge and at the reporting date thereafter. 
 cash basis.
Foreign exchange forward contracts and Principal only 
 Loan processing fee is recognised as income when due.
swaps (POS) not intended for trading, that are entered into 
 Syndication / Arranger fee is recognised as income when
to establish the amount of reporting currency required or 
 a significant act / milestone is completed.
available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are 
outstanding at the Balance Sheet date, are accounted in 
 Gain / loss on sell down of loans is recognised in line with
accordance with AS-11. Accordingly, such contracts are 
 the extant RBI guidelines.
not marked to market and only translated at spot rate. 
The premium or discount arising at the inception of such 
 Guarantee commission, commission on letter of credit,
forward exchange contract is amortised on a straight line 
 annual locker rent fees and annual fees for credit cards
basis as expense or income over the life of the contract. 
 are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period
The interest income / expense on such POS transaction 
 of  contract.  Other  fees  and  commission  income  are
is accounted on accrual basis. 
 recognised  when  due,  where  the  Bank  is  reasonably
 certain of ultimate collection.
In  case  of  a  fair  value  hedge,  the  changes  in  the  fair 
value of the hedging instruments and hedged items are 
 Fees paid / received for priority sector lending certificates
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of 
 (PSLC) is recognised on straight-line basis over the period
cash flow hedges, the changes in fair value of effective 
 of the certificate.
portion are recognised in Reserves and Surplus under 
‘Cash flow hedge reserve’ and ineffective portion of an 
 11.  Employee benefits
effective  hedging  relationship,  if  any,  is  recognised  in 
the Profit and Loss Account. The accumulated balance Stock based Employee Compensation:
in the cash flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging 
 The  Employee  Stock  Option  Scheme  (‘the  Scheme’)
relationship, is recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at 
 provides for the grant of options to acquire equity shares
the same time that the impact from the hedged item is 
 of the Bank to its employees and whole time directors.
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. 
 The  Employee  Stock  Incentive  Master  Scheme-2022
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(ESIS-2022)  provides  for  the  grant  of  Restricted  Stock month’s basic salary for each completed year of service
Units (units) to acquire equity shares of the Bank to its till the effective date of amalgamation. The Bank makes
employees and whole time directors. The options / units contributions to a recognised Gratuity Trust administered
granted shall vest as per their vesting schedule and these by trustees and whose funds are managed by insurance
may be exercised within a specified period. companies.  In  respect  of  erstwhile  Lord  Krishna  Bank
 (eLKB)  employees,  the  Bank  makes  contribution  to  a
The Bank followed the intrinsic value method to account for fund set up by eLKB and administered by the Board of
its stock-based employee compensation plans in respect Trustees. The defined gratuity benefit plans are valued
of options granted up to March 31, 2021. Compensation by  an  independent  actuary  as  at  the  Balance  Sheet
cost was measured by the excess, if any, of the market date using the projected unit credit method as per the
price of the underlying stock over the exercise price as requirement of AS-15, Employee Benefits, to determine
determined under the option plan. The market price is the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the
the closing price on the stock exchange where there is related service costs. The actuarial calculations entails
highest trading volume on the working day immediately assumptions  about  demographics,  early  retirement,
preceding the date of grant. salary increases and interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss
 is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Effective  April  01,  2021,  the  fair  value  of  share-linked 
instruments on the date of grant for all instruments granted Superannuation:
after  March  31,  2021  is  recognised  as  an  expense  in 
 The  Bank  has  a  Superannuation  Plan  under  which
accordance with the RBI guidelines on Compensation of 
 employees of the Bank, above a prescribed grade, are
Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material 
 entitled to receive retirement benefits either through salary
Risk Takers and Control Function staff. 
 or under a defined contribution plan. For those opting for
 a defined contribution plan, the Bank contributes a sum
The fair value of the stock-based employee compensation 
 equivalent to 13% of the employee’s eligible annual basic
is  estimated  on 
the  date  of  grant  using  Black- 
 salary (15% for the whole time directors and for certain
Scholes model. 
 eligible  employees  of  the  erstwhile  Centurion  Bank  of
 Punjab (eCBoP staff)) to a Trust administered by trustees
The compensation cost is amortised on a straight-line 
 and whose funds are managed by insurance companies.
basis over the vesting period after adjusting estimated 
 The Bank has no liability towards future superannuation
forfeiture. Ultimately, the cost for all instruments that vest is 
 fund benefits other than its contribution and recognises
recognised. The compensation expense is recognised in 
 such contribution as an expense in the year incurred.
the Profit and Loss Account with a corresponding credit to 
Employee Stock Options Outstanding. On exercise of the 
 Provident fund:
stock options, corresponding balance in Employee Stock 
Options  Outstanding  is  transferred  to  Share  Premium. 
 The Bank is covered under the Employees Provident Fund
In respect of the options which expire unexercised, the 
 and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and accordingly
balance standing to the credit of Employee Stock Options 
 all employees of the Bank are entitled to receive benefits
Outstanding is transferred to General Reserve. 
 under the provident fund. The Bank contributes an amount,
 on a monthly basis, at a determined rate (currently 12%
Gratuity: 
 of employee’s basic salary). Of this, the Bank contributes
 an  amount  equal  to  8.33%  of  employee’s  basic  salary
The Bank has an obligation towards gratuity, a defined 
 up to a maximum salary level of ` 15,000/- per month,
benefit retirement plan covering  all  eligible  employees. 
 to  the  Pension  Scheme  administered  by  the  Regional
The  plan  benefit  vests  upon  completion  of  minimum 
 Provident Fund Office. The balance amount out of the
prescribed  period  of  continuous  years  of  service  and 
 12% employer’s share is contributed to an exempted Trust
is  in  the  form  of  lump  sum  amount,  without  an  upper 
 set  up  by  the  Bank  and  administered  by  the  Board  of
limit, equivalent to 15 days’ basic salary payable for each 
 Trustees. The Bank recognises such contributions as an
completed  year  of  service  to  all  eligible  employees  on 
 expense in the year in which it is incurred.
resignation, retirement or death while in employment or on 
termination of employment, except in respect of employees 
of eHDFC Limited, where the vesting is equivalent to one 
 SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 As at March 31, 2025
Interest payable to the members of the exempted trust an  independent  actuarial  valuation  as  at  the  Balance
shall  not  be  lower  than  the  statutory  rate  of  interest Sheet date.
declared by the Central Government under the Employees 
Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 National Pension System (NPS):
and shortfall, if any, shall be made good by the Bank. 
 In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the
 NPS, the Bank contributes certain percentage of the basic
The  guidance  note  on  implementing  AS-15,  Employee 
 salary of employees to the aforesaid scheme, a defined
Benefits,  states 
that  benefits 
involving  employer 
 contribution plan, which is managed and administered
established  provident  funds,  which  require  interest 
 by pension fund management companies. The Bank has
shortfalls to be provided, are to be considered as defined 
 no liability other than its contribution and recognises such
benefit  plan.  Actuarial  valuation  of  this  Provident  Fund 
 contributions as an expense in the year incurred.
interest shortfall is done as per the guidance note issued 
in this respect by The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI) 
 12.  Debit and credit cards reward points
and provision towards this liability is made. 
 The  Bank  estimates  the  probable  redemption  of  debit
The overseas branches of the Bank make contribution 
 and credit card reward points and cost per point using an
to the respective applicable government social security 
 actuarial method by employing an independent actuary,
scheme calculated as a percentage of the employees’ 
 which includes assumptions such as discount rate, block,
salaries.  The  Bank’s  obligations  are  limited  to  these 
 withdrawal, cost per reward point, mortality, redemption
contributions, which are expensed when due, as such 
 and spends. Provisions for liabilities on the outstanding
contribution is in the nature of defined contribution. 
 reward  points  are  made  based  on  an  independent
 actuarial  valuation  as  at  the  Balance  Sheet  date  and
Pension: 
 included in other liabilities and provisions.
In respect of pension payable to certain eLKB employees 
 13.  Bullion
under  the  Lord  Krishna  Bank  (Employees)  Pension 
Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme, the Bank The Bank imports bullion including precious metal bars
contributes 10% of basic salary to a pension trust set up on  a  consignment  basis  or  through  exchange  (India
by the Bank and administered by the Board of Trustees International Bullion Exchange – Gift City). The imports
and an additional amount towards the liability shortfall are typically on a back-to-back basis and are priced to the
based on an  independent actuarial valuation as at  the customer based on the price quoted by the supplier. The
Balance Sheet date, which includes assumptions about difference between the price recovered from customers
demographics,  early  retirement,  salary  increases  and and cost of bullion is accounted at the time of sale to the
interest rates. customers and reported as ‘‘Other Income’’.
In respect of certain eLKB employees who had moved to The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending
a Cost to Company (CTC) based compensation structure basis and the interest thereon is accounted as interest
and  had  completed  less  than  15  years  of  service,  the expense / income respectively.
contribution which was made until then, is maintained as 
a fund and will be converted into annuity on separation 14.  Segment information
after  a  lock-in-period  of  two  years.  For  this  category 
 The  disclosure  relating  to  segment  information  is  in
of  employees,  liability  stands  frozen  and  no  additional 
 accordance with AS-17, Segment Reporting and as per
provision is required except for interest as applicable to 
 guidelines issued by RBI.
Provident Fund, which is provided for. 
 15.  Lease accounting
In  respect  of  certain  eLKB  employees  who  moved  to 
a  CTC  structure  and  had  completed  service  of  more Lease  payments  including  cost  escalation  for  assets
than  15  years,  pension  would  be  paid  on  separation taken on operating lease are recognised as expense in
based on salary applicable as on the date of movement the  Profit  and  Loss  Account  over  the  lease  term  on  a
to  CTC  structure.  Provision  thereto  is  made  based  on straight-line basis in accordance with the AS-19, Leases.
   adjusted to reflect the current management estimates.
 equity share are computed using the weighted average  
 number of equity shares and the dilutive potential equity  
   A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
 shares  outstanding  during  the  year  except  where  the  
 results are anti-dilutive.  
  • a  possible  obligation  arising  from  a  past  event,
   the  existence  of  which  will  be  confirmed  by  the
17. Income tax  
   occurrence  or  non-occurrence  of  one  or  more
 Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current tax  
   uncertain future events not within the control of the
 and deferred tax expense incurred by the Bank. Current  
   Bank; or
 tax expense is determined in accordance with the relevant  
 provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and rules framed  
  • a present obligation arising from a past event which
 thereunder and considering the material principles set out  
   is not recognised as it is not probable that an outflow
 in the Income Computation and Disclosure Standards to  
   of resources will be required to settle the obligation
 the extent applicable. Deferred tax expense is determined  
   or a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation
 as per AS-22, Accounting for Taxes on Income. Deferred  
   cannot be made.
 tax assets and liabilities are recognised for the future tax  
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
16.  Earnings per share provisions when it has a present obligation as a result of
 a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources
The Bank reports basic and diluted earnings per equity 
 embodying economic benefits will be required to settle
share  in  accordance  with  AS-20,  Earnings  per  Share. 
 the obligation and when a reliable estimate of the amount
Basic  earnings  per  equity  share  has  been  computed 
 of the obligation can be made.
by dividing net profit for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity 
 Provisions are determined based on management estimate
shares outstanding for the year. Diluted earnings per share 
 required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date,
reflect the potential dilution that could occur if securities or 
 supplemented  by  experience  of  similar  transactions.
other contracts to issue equity shares were exercised or 
 These  are  reviewed  at  each  Balance  Sheet  date  and
converted to equity during the year. Diluted earnings per 
 adjusted to reflect the current management estimates.
equity share are computed using the weighted average 
number of equity shares and the dilutive potential equity 
 A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
shares  outstanding  during  the  year  except  where  the 
results are anti-dilutive. 
 • 
a  possible  obligation  arising  from  a  past  event,
 the  existence  of  which  will  be  confirmed  by  the
17. 
Income tax 
 occurrence  or  non-occurrence  of  one  or  more
Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current tax 
 uncertain future events not within the control of the
and deferred tax expense incurred by the Bank. Current 
 Bank; or
tax expense is determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and rules framed 
 • 
a present obligation arising from a past event which
thereunder and considering the material principles set out 
 is not recognised as it is not probable that an outflow
in the Income Computation and Disclosure Standards to 
 of resources will be required to settle the obligation
the extent applicable. Deferred tax expense is determined 
 or a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation
as per AS-22, Accounting for Taxes on Income. Deferred 
 cannot be made.
tax assets and liabilities are recognised for the future tax 
consequences of timing differences between the carrying 
 When there is a possible obligation or a present obligation
values  of  assets  and  liabilities  and  their  respective  tax 
 in respect of which the likelihood of outflow of resources
bases, and operating loss carried forward, if any. Deferred 
 is remote, no provision or disclosure is made.
tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted 
or  substantively  enacted  tax  rates  as  at  the  Balance 
 Contingent  assets,  if  any,  are  not  recognised  in  the
Sheet date. 
 financial statements since this may result in the recognition
 of income that may never be realised.
Current tax assets and liabilities and deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are off-set when they relate to income taxes 
 19.  Cash and cash equivalents
levied by the same taxation authority, when the Bank has 
a legal right to off-set and when the Bank intends to settle Cash  and  cash  equivalents 
include  cash,  gold 
in
on a net basis. hand,  rupee  digital  currency  with  RBI,  balances  with
 RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent there 
 short notice.
is reasonable certainty that the assets can be realised 
in future. In case of unabsorbed depreciation or carried 
 20.  Share issue expenses
forward loss under taxation laws, deferred tax assets are 
 Share  issue  expenses  are  adjusted  against  Share
recognised only if there is virtual certainty of realisation 
 Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies
of  such  assets.  Deferred  tax  assets  are  reviewed  at 
 Act, 2013.
each Balance Sheet date and appropriately adjusted to 
reflect the amount that is reasonably / virtually certain to 
 21.  Corporate social responsibility
be realised. 
 Expenditure  towards  corporate  social  responsibility,  in
18. 
Accounting for provisions, contingent liabilities and 
 accordance with Companies Act, 2013, is recognised in
contingent assets 
 the Profit and Loss Account.
In  accordance  with  AS-29,  “Provisions,  Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, the Bank recognises 
  SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  For the year ended March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE  18  -  Schedules  forming  part  of  the  standalone  financial  statements  for  the  year  ended  
March 31, 2025  
Amounts in notes forming part of the standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 are denominated in  
rupee crore to conform to extant RBI guidelines, except where stated otherwise.  
1. Amalgamation of HDFC Limited 
  The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 04, 2022, approved a composite Scheme of amalgamation (“Scheme”),
  for the amalgamation of: (i) erstwhile HDFC Investments Limited (“eHDFC Investments”) and erstwhile HDFC Holdings
  Limited (“eHDFC Holdings”), with and into erstwhile Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (“eHDFC Limited”);
  and thereafter (ii) eHDFC Limited into HDFC Bank Limited (“Bank”), and their respective shareholders and creditors, under
  Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws including the rules and regulations. The Scheme
  was approved by the shareholders at the National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”) convened meeting of the shareholders
  of the Bank held on November 25, 2022. The NCLT, in accordance with Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013
  and rules thereunder, vide its order dated March 17, 2023 sanctioned the Scheme. Upon receipt of all requisite approvals,
  the Bank filed form INC 28 with Registrar of Companies on July 01, 2023 and accordingly, the Scheme became effective
  on July 01, 2023. As per the Scheme, the appointed date for the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into the Bank
  is the same as effective date of the Scheme i.e. July 01, 2023. The Profit and Loss Account for the year ended March 31,
  2025 include the operations of eHDFC Limited which amalgamated with and into HDFC Bank on July 01, 2023 and hence
 are not comparable with the Profit and Loss Account for the year ended March 31, 2024. 
  The  amalgamation  was  accounted  under  the  ‘pooling  of  interest’  method  as  prescribed  in  Accounting  Standard-14
  “Accounting for amalgamation” (“AS-14”). Outstanding balances between eHDFC Limited and the Bank were eliminated as
  on July 01, 2023. All assets and liabilities of eHDFC Limited were recognised by the Bank at their carrying amounts as on
  that date except for adjustments to bring about uniformity of accounting policies as required under AS-14. The share capital
  of ` 311.04 crore issued by the Bank as consideration pursuant to the Scheme was adjusted against the corresponding
  share capital of eHDFC Limited of ` 370.29 crore and the difference was adjusted to Amalgamation Reserve. Further,
  excess of cost over face value of Investment in shares of the Bank by eHDFC Limited of ` 14,006.31 crore was adjusted
  to Amalgamation Reserve. Consequently, the Bank recognised a debit balance of ` 13,947.06 crore in the Amalgamation
 Reserve as a result of these adjustments. 
  Summarized values of assets and liabilities taken over as at July 01, 2023 in accordance with the terms of the Scheme is
 as detailed below: 
Summarized values of assets and liabilities taken over as at July 01, 2023 in accordance with the terms of the Scheme is 
as detailed below: 
Particulars (` crore)
Assets taken over 
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 5,408.87
Investments 146,773.54
Advances 605,664.86
Fixed assets 1,442.60
Other assets 14,338.34
Total Assets (A) 773,628.21
Liabilities, reserves and surplus taken over 
Equity share warrants 265.64
Employees stock options outstanding 123.81
Reserves and surplus 111,005.85
Deposits 157,259.22
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Particulars (` crore)
Borrowings 477,539.07
Other liabilities and provisions 27,064.33
Total Liabilities, reserves and surplus (B) 773,257.92
Net Assets C = (A-B) 370.29
 Total Liabilities, reserves and surplus (B) 773,257.92
 Net Assets C = (A-B) 370.29
  Consequent upon amalgamation becoming effective, the authorised share capital of the Bank stood increased to ` 1,190.61
  crore (11,90,61,00,000 shares of ` 1/- each) on account of transfer to and amalgamation / combination of authorised capital
  of eHDFC Limited with the authorised share capital of the Bank. In terms of the Scheme, the Bank issued and allotted
  3,11,03,96,492 equity shares to the shareholders of eHDFC Limited as on July 13, 2023, being the record date fixed by the
  Board of Directors as per the Scheme, in accordance with the share exchange ratio i.e. 42 equity shares of face value of
  ` 1/- each of the Bank for every 25 equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each of eHDFC Limited. Accordingly, the paid-up
  share capital of the Bank increased from ` 559.18 crore consisting of 5,59,17,98,806 equity shares of ` 1/- each to ` 753.76
  crore consisting of 7,53,75,69,464 equity shares of ` 1/- each, post cancellation of 1,16,46,25,834 equity shares held by
 eHDFC Limited in the Bank on that date in accordance with the provisions of the Scheme. 
  As part of the Scheme, certain leased out immovable properties of eHDFC Limited were transferred to the Bank on
 amalgamation. The Bank has initiated necessary steps to foreclose these leases. 
2. Proposed dividend 
  The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 19, 2025 proposed a dividend of ` 22.00 per equity share (previous year:
  ` 19.50 per equity share) aggregating to ` 16,834.89 crore subject to the approval of shareholders at the ensuing Annual
  General Meeting. During the year ended March 31, 2025, the dividend paid by the Bank in respect of the previous year
  ended March 31, 2024 was ` 14,826.19 crore. In terms of the AS-4 “Contingencies and events occurring after the balance
  sheet date”, the Bank has not appropriated the proposed dividend from the Profit and Loss Account and the same will
  be recognised in the year of actual payout post approval. However, effect of the proposed dividend has been reckoned in
 determining capital funds in computation of the capital adequacy ratio. 
3. Change in accounting policy 
  The RBI, vide its master direction dated September 12, 2023, issued revised norms (herein after referred as ‘revised norms
  on investments’) for the classification, valuation and operation of investment portfolio of banks, which became applicable
  from April 01, 2024. While hitherto, the investment portfolio was classified under the Held to Maturity (HTM), Available for
  Sale (AFS) and Held for Trading (HFT) categories, the revised norms bring in a principle-based classification of investment
  portfolio and a symmetric treatment of fair value gains and losses. In accordance with the revised norms and the Bank’s
  board approved policy, the Bank has classified its investment portfolio as on April 01, 2024 under the categories of Held to
  Maturity (HTM), Available for Sale (AFS), subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and Fair Value Through Profit and Loss
  (FVTPL) with Held for Trading (HFT) as a sub-category of FVTPL, and from that date, measures and values the investment
  portfolio under the revised framework. On transition to the framework on April 01, 2024, the Bank has recognised a net
  gain of ` 482.87 crore (net of tax of ` 127.00 crore) which has been credited to general reserve, in accordance with the said
  norms. The impact of the revised framework subsequent to the transition is not ascertainable and as such the income /
 profit or loss from investments for the year ended March 31, 2025, is not comparable with that of the previous year. 
4. Capital adequacy 
  The Bank’s capital to risk-weighted assets ratio (‘Capital Adequacy Ratio’) is calculated in accordance with the RBI guidelines
  on Basel III capital regulations (‘Basel III’). The minimum capital ratio requirement under Basel III as at March 31, 2025 and
 March 31, 2024 is as follows: 
For the year ended March 31, 2025 
Minimum ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets (RWAs) % of RWAs
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) 8.2
Tier 1 capital 9.7
Total capital 11.7
  (` crore)
  As at March 31,
Particulars  
 2025 2024
CET 1 capital 458,210.41 402,231.82
Additional Tier 1 capital 12,256.50 12,049.50
Tier 1 capital 470,466.91 414,281.32
Tier 2 capital 49,575.61 49,721.50
Total capital 520,042.52 464,002.82
Total risk weighted assets 2,660,003.89 2,468,028.06
Capital adequacy ratios under Basel III  
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
During the previous year, the Bank issued and allotted 3,11,03,96,492 equity shares to the shareholders of eHDFC Limited
in terms of the Scheme. Accordingly, the paid-up share capital of the Bank increased from ` 559.18 crore consisting of
5,59,17,98,806 equity shares of ` 1/- each to ` 753.76 crore consisting of 7,53,75,69,464 equity shares of ` 1/- each,
post cancellation of 1,16,46,25,834 equity shares held by eHDFC Limited in the Bank on that date in accordance with the
provisions of the Scheme. Further, share premium increased by ` 51,728.83 crore on amalgamation of eHDFC Limited.
During the previous year, the Bank allotted 2,47,75,632 equity shares pursuant to exercise of convertible share warrants
issued by eHDFC Limited. Accordingly, the share capital and share premium of the Bank increased by ` 2.48 crore and
` 3,455.79 crore respectively, including money received by eHDFC Limited at the time of allotment of share warrants.
` 3,455.79 crore respectively, including money received by eHDFC Limited at the time of allotment of share warrants.  
The details of the movement in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank are given below:  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening balance 759.69 557.97
Addition pursuant to stock options / units / warrants exercised 5.53 7.14
Addition pursuant to amalgamation (net of cancellation) (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 194.58
Closing balance 765.22 759.69
31, 2024:    
 Number Weighted average  
   Number Weighted average
 of options exercise price (`)  
Particulars   of options exercise price (`)
   March 31, 2024 March 31, 2024
 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2025  
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year 17,56,59,424 1,307.93 15,16,82,461 1,264.86
Addition on amalgamation - - 4,85,59,681 1,124.77
(Refer Schedule 18(1))    
Granted during the year 2,31,46,660 1,729.84 2,43,84,690 1,611.84
Exercised during the year 5,29,55,047 1,198.42 4,63,04,966 1,133.72
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year 44,76,527 1,458.89 26,62,442 1,096.34
Options outstanding at the end of the year 14,13,74,510 1,413.25 17,56,59,424 1,307.93
Options exercisable 8,13,35,537 1,279.91 9,88,29,856 1,201.65
   Weighted  
 Number of    Weighted
  Range of exercise average life of  
Plan shares arising    average exercise
  price (`) options  
 out of options    price (`)
   (in years)  
Plan E 47,93,680 1,636.90  4.96 1,636.90
Plan F 1,14,90,680 1,636.90  4.94 1,636.90
Plan G 7,49,81,293 882.85 to 1,673.10  2.48 1,368.83
Plan H 2,25,72,860 1,677.30 to 1,734.20  6.06 1,733.15
e-HDFC 2007 44,411 255.83  - 255.83
e-HDFC 2008 40,942 160.79  - 160.79
e-HDFC 2014 12,483 603.95  - 603.95
e-HDFC 2017 2,34,032 934.44 to 1,242.15  1.48 1,151.06
e-HDFC 2020 2,72,04,129 1,076.64 to 1,535.27  2.58 1,142.74
The following table summarizes the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:     
 Number of shares  Weighted average  
  Range of exercise   Weighted average
Plan arising out of  life of options  
  price (`)   exercise price (`)
 options  (in years)  
Plan E 50,75,360 1,636.90  5.92 1,636.90
Plan F 1,55,51,708 716.60 to 1,636.90  4.84 1,458.30
Plan G 11,54,13,810 882.85 to 1,673.10  2.66 1,333.78
e-HDFC 2007 44,411 255.83  - 255.83
e-HDFC 2008 40,942 160.79  - 160.79
e-HDFC 2014 12,483 603.95  - 603.95
e-HDFC 2017 6,13,926 934.44 to 1,242.15  1.84 1,070.72
e-HDFC 2020 3,89,06,784 1,076.64 to 1,535.27  3.51 1,134.61
 The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024 are given below:  
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend yield 0.77% to 1.36% 0.65% to 0.91%
Expected volatility  21.64% to 27.7% 22.01% to 29.45%
Risk-free interest rate 6.73% to 7.19% 7.17% to 7.54%
Expected life of the options 1 to 8 Years 1 to 8 Years
  SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  For the year ended March 31, 2025
6. Reserves and Surplus 
 Statutory Reserve 
  During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 16,836.84 crore (previous year: ` 15,203.07
  crore) out of profits for the year to the Statutory Reserve pursuant to the requirements of Section 17  of the Banking
 Regulation Act, 1949 read with RBI guidelines. 
 General Reserve 
  During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 6,734.74 crore (previous year: ` 6,081.23
  crore) out of profits for the year to the General Reserve. Further, the Bank has transferred ` 15.11 crore (previous year:
 ` 1.34 crore) from Employee Stock Options Outstanding to General Reserve on lapses of share-linked instruments. 
  On transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has recognised a net gain of ` 482.87 crore (net of tax ` 127.00
 crore) which has been credited to General Reserve. 
 Special Reserve 
  During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 3,200.00 crore (previous year: ` 3,000.00
 crore) to the Special Reserve as per Section 36(1) (viii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961. 
 Amalgamation Reserve I 
  The balance of ` 1,063.56 crore represents excess of net assets taken over the paid-up value of equity shares issued as
  consideration with respect to amalgamation of Times Bank Limited during FY 2000 and Centurion Bank of Punjab Limited
 during FY 2009 with the Bank. 
 Amalgamation Reserve II 
  During the previous year, the share capital of ` 311.04 crore issued by the Bank as consideration pursuant to the scheme
  was adjusted against the corresponding share capital of eHDFC Limited of ` 370.29 crore and the difference was adjusted
  to Amalgamation Reserve. Further, excess of cost over face value of Investment in shares of the Bank by eHDFC Limited
  of ` 14,006.31 crore was adjusted to Amalgamation Reserve. Consequently, the Bank recognised a debit balance of
 ` 13,947.06 crore in the Amalgamation Reserve as a result of these adjustments. 
 Capital Reserve 
  During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation ` 507.00 crore (previous year: ` 4,166.42
  crore), being the profit on sale of investments under HTM category and profit on sale of immovable properties, net of taxes
 and transfer to statutory reserve, from the Profit and Loss Account to the Capital Reserve. 
 Investment Reserve Account 
  On transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has transferred ` 529.42 crore from the Investment Reserve
 Account (IRA) to Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR). 
  In the previous year, the Bank had transferred ` 529.42 crore (net) from the Profit and Loss Account to the IRA as per the
 RBI guidelines. 
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
On transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has transferred ` 529.42 crore from the IRA to IFR.
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of Nil (previous year: ` 378.00 crore) to IFR.
As per RBI guidelines, banks are required to maintain an IFR equivalent to 2.00% of their AFS and FVTPL investment
portfolios. The balance in the IFR as at March 31, 2025 is 2.55% (previous year: 3.48%^) of the Bank’s AFS and FVTPL
investment portfolios.
^ For the year ended March 31, 2024 the ratio represents closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments in AFS and
HFT categories.
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
As at March 31, 2025, the Bank has recognised ` 1,073.94 crore (previous year: ` 880.11 crore) as Foreign Currency
Translation Reserve on account of translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations.
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
As at March 31, 2025, the Bank has recognised debit of ` 32.73 crore (previous year: credit of ` 840.31 crore) as Cash
Flow Hedge Reserve on derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedge.
AFS Reserve
Pursuant to the revised norms on investments, the net appreciation or depreciation on all performing investments held under
AFS category is directly credited or debited to AFS Reserve. Accordingly, as at March 31, 2025 the Bank has recognised
` 616.81 crore, net of taxes as AFS Reserve.
Draw down from Reserves
The Bank has not undertaken any drawdown from reserves during the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
Assets and liabilities are classified in the maturity buckets as per the guidelines issued by the RBI.            
            (` crore)
As at 1 day 2 to 7 8 to 14 15 to 30 31 days Over 2 Over 3 Over 6 Over 1 Over 3 Over Total
March 31,  days days days to 2 months months months year to years to 5 years 
2025     months to 3 to 6 to 1 year 3 years 5 years  
      months months     
Loans & 2,875.76 27,392.10 12,897.20 40,050.13 71,181.92 60,523.42 151,419.62 236,048.05 1,086,198.06 298,935.62 632,086.74 2,619,608.62
advances*            
Investments* 275,028.14 19,401.13 8,858.93 30,964.97 16,949.78 24,167.63 33,222.16 56,577.62 163,813.34 21,387.18 185,988.79 836,359.67
Deposits* 38,243.66 97,906.88 49,473.38 61,456.35 87,900.67 91,825.50 169,313.13 359,512.02 899,764.63 16,490.93 842,827.75 2,714,714.90
Borrowings* 6,998.96 10,136.22 2,390.22 14,298.79 15,271.05 29,326.76 39,529.04 57,770.24 133,233.08 80,745.37 158,231.16 547,930.89
Foreign 22,356.45 35,522.70 5,274.27 13,654.68 15,776.53 10,202.81 15,872.60 11,357.27 7,396.60 2,085.55 664.86 140,164.32
currency            
assets            
Foreign 4,064.30 8,839.29 3,912.23 9,736.13 13,031.27 7,977.11 25,911.17 51,491.68 73,441.79 15,044.79 7,679.98 221,129.74
currency            
  Unweighted Weighted Unweighted Weighted Unweighted Weighted Unweighted Weighted
  Value Value Value Value Value Value Value Value
  (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)*
 High Quality Liquid Assets        
1 Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)  725,568.81  711,888.62  669,069.46  632,856.73
 Cash Outflows        
2 Retail deposits and deposits from small 1,538,922.43 135,048.82 1,508,468.62 131,786.49 1,465,366.57 127,182.21 1,433,709.30 123,940.54
 business customers, of which:        
(i) Stable deposits 376,868.51 18,843.43 381,207.34 19,060.37 387,088.87 19,354.44 388,607.71 19,430.38
(ii) Less stable deposits 1,162,053.92 116,205.39 1,127,261.28 112,726.12 1,078,277.70 107,827.77 1,045,101.59 104,510.16
3 Unsecured wholesale funding, of which: 695,060.14 434,832.48 648,513.37 409,702.53 604,113.91 381,000.91 599,824.13 377,924.65
(i) Operational deposits (all counterparties) - - - - - - - -
(ii) Non-operational deposits (all counterparties) 678,417.33 418,189.67 633,898.22 395,087.38 591,898.71 368,785.71 580,969.92 359,070.44
(iii) Unsecured debt 16,642.81 16,642.81 14,615.15 14,615.15 12,215.20 12,215.20 18,854.21 18,854.21
4 Secured wholesale funding  3,862.43  2,032.99  1,739.31  1,928.80
5 Additional requirements, of which: 241,954.97 141,817.65 220,885.80 122,906.35 226,676.11 129,194.43 221,188.15 127,861.16
(i) Outflows related to derivative exposures and 131,335.93 131,335.93 112,818.95 112,818.95 119,195.63 119,195.63 118,732.82 118,732.82
 other collateral requirement        
(ii) Outflows related to loss of funding on debt - - - - - - - -
 products        
(iii) Credit and liquidity facilities 110,619.04 10,481.72 108,066.85 10,087.40 107,480.48 9,998.80 102,455.33 9,128.34
6 Other contractual funding obligation 45,609.68 45,609.68 43,425.24 43,425.24 32,242.97 32,242.97 32,195.84 32,195.84
7 Other contingent funding obligations 1,217,975.13 55,645.11 1,160,737.75 53,101.27 1,107,741.66 50,823.31 1,053,406.03 48,395.75
8 Total Cash Outflows  816,816.17  762,954.87  722,183.14  712,246.74
 Cash Inflows        
9 Secured lending (e.g. reverse repo) - - - - - - - -
10 Inflows from fully performing exposures 107,691.97 59,904.65 103,940.19 59,950.57 105,839.37 60,753.81 116,481.82 66,508.01
11 Other cash inflows 151,569.88 146,962.87 137,763.63 134,323.06 138,885.27 134,809.97 134,976.09 131,880.08
12 Total Cash Inflows 259,261.85 206,867.52 241,703.82 194,273.63 244,724.64 195,563.78 251,457.91 198,388.09
   Total  Total  Total  Total
   Adjusted  Adjusted  Adjusted  Adjusted
   Value  Value  Value  Value
13 TOTAL HQLA  725,568.81  711,888.62  669,069.46  632,856.73
14 Total Net Cash Outflows  609,948.65  568,681.24  526,619.36  513,858.65
15 Liquidity Coverage Ratio(%)  118.96%  125.18%  127.05%  123.16%
  Unweighted Weighted Unweighted Weighted Unweighted Weighted Unweighted Weighted
  Value Value Value Value Value Value Value Value
  (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)* (average)*
 High Quality Liquid Assets        
1 Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)  725,568.81  711,888.62  669,069.46  632,856.73
 Cash Outflows        
2 Retail deposits and deposits from small 1,538,922.43 135,048.82 1,508,468.62 131,786.49 1,465,366.57 127,182.21 1,433,709.30 123,940.54
 business customers, of which:        
(i) Stable deposits 376,868.51 18,843.43 381,207.34 19,060.37 387,088.87 19,354.44 388,607.71 19,430.38
(ii) Less stable deposits 1,162,053.92 116,205.39 1,127,261.28 112,726.12 1,078,277.70 107,827.77 1,045,101.59 104,510.16
3 Unsecured wholesale funding, of which: 695,060.14 434,832.48 648,513.37 409,702.53 604,113.91 381,000.91 599,824.13 377,924.65
(i) Operational deposits (all counterparties) - - - - - - - -
(ii) Non-operational deposits (all counterparties) 678,417.33 418,189.67 633,898.22 395,087.38 591,898.71 368,785.71 580,969.92 359,070.44
(iii) Unsecured debt 16,642.81 16,642.81 14,615.15 14,615.15 12,215.20 12,215.20 18,854.21 18,854.21
4 Secured wholesale funding  3,862.43  2,032.99  1,739.31  1,928.80
5 Additional requirements, of which: 241,954.97 141,817.65 220,885.80 122,906.35 226,676.11 129,194.43 221,188.15 127,861.16
(i) Outflows related to derivative exposures and 131,335.93 131,335.93 112,818.95 112,818.95 119,195.63 119,195.63 118,732.82 118,732.82
 other collateral requirement        
(ii) Outflows related to loss of funding on debt - - - - - - - -
 products        
(iii) Credit and liquidity facilities 110,619.04 10,481.72 108,066.85 10,087.40 107,480.48 9,998.80 102,455.33 9,128.34
6 Other contractual funding obligation 45,609.68 45,609.68 43,425.24 43,425.24 32,242.97 32,242.97 32,195.84 32,195.84
7 Other contingent funding obligations 1,217,975.13 55,645.11 1,160,737.75 53,101.27 1,107,741.66 50,823.31 1,053,406.03 48,395.75
8 Total Cash Outflows  816,816.17  762,954.87  722,183.14  712,246.74
 Cash Inflows        
9 Secured lending (e.g. reverse repo) - - - - - - - -
10 Inflows from fully performing exposures 107,691.97 59,904.65 103,940.19 59,950.57 105,839.37 60,753.81 116,481.82 66,508.01
11 Other cash inflows 151,569.88 146,962.87 137,763.63 134,323.06 138,885.27 134,809.97 134,976.09 131,880.08
12 Total Cash Inflows 259,261.85 206,867.52 241,703.82 194,273.63 244,724.64 195,563.78 251,457.91 198,388.09
   Total  Total  Total  Total
   Adjusted  Adjusted  Adjusted  Adjusted
   Value  Value  Value  Value
13 TOTAL HQLA  725,568.81  711,888.62  669,069.46  632,856.73
14 Total Net Cash Outflows  609,948.65  568,681.24  526,619.36  513,858.65
15 Liquidity Coverage Ratio(%)  118.96%  125.18%  127.05%  123.16%
 High Quality Liquid Assets        
1 Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)  558,424.94  541,719.24  575,640.30  499,351.68
 Cash Outflows        
2 Retail deposits and deposits from small 1,389,203.92 118,703.67 1,348,821.05 114,782.06 1,298,493.38 110,606.05 1,166,141.18 98,075.14
 business customers, of which:        
(i) Stable deposits 404,334.39 20,216.72 402,000.92 20,100.05 384,865.68 19,243.28 370,779.51 18,538.97
(ii) Less stable deposits 984,869.53 98,486.95 946,820.13 94,682.01 913,627.70 91,362.77 795,361.67 79,536.17
3 Unsecured wholesale funding, of which: 560,983.51 355,303.23 561,771.39 359,317.05 541,609.54 347,725.89 464,748.70 283,465.87
(i) Operational deposits (all counterparties) - - - - - - - -
(ii) Non-operational deposits (all counterparties) 543,681.17 338,000.89 542,284.12 339,829.78 522,112.93 328,229.28 456,595.78 275,312.95
(iii) Unsecured debt 17,302.34 17,302.34 19,487.27 19,487.27 19,496.61 19,496.61 8,152.92 8,152.92
4 Secured wholesale funding  2,277.94  2,971.97  5,101.94  6,062.10
5 Additional requirements, of which: 236,107.76 140,465.49 266,213.81 146,490.41 251,335.01 125,020.27 162,336.10 111,953.16
(i) Outflows related to derivative exposures and 129,736.77 129,736.77 134,555.64 134,555.64 111,298.99 111,298.99 103,422.79 103,422.79
 other collateral requirement        
(ii) Outflows related to loss of funding on debt - - - - - - - -
 products        
(iii) Credit and liquidity facilities 106,370.99 10,728.72 131,658.17 11,934.77 140,036.02 13,721.28 58,913.31 8,530.37
6 Other contractual funding obligations 33,471.03 33,471.03 35,686.06 35,686.06 45,409.88 45,409.88 33,089.66 33,089.66
7 Other contingent funding obligations 1,034,507.09 47,611.76 977,735.54 44,891.81 849,851.16 39,267.86 808,158.17 37,549.89
8 Total Cash Outflows  697,833.12  704,139.36  673,131.89  570,195.82
 Cash Inflows        
9 Secured lending (e.g. reverse repo) - - - - - - - -
10 Inflows from fully performing exposures 118,860.92 66,988.99 110,959.10 60,938.55 101,047.03 54,850.27 102,728.53 56,125.65
11 Other cash inflows 147,654.01 144,129.42 152,187.17 148,653.92 146,308.02 139,050.96 121,139.75 115,532.96
12 Total Cash Inflows 266,514.93 211,118.41 263,146.27 209,592.47 247,355.05 193,901.23 223,868.28 171,658.61
   Total  Total  Total  Total
   Adjusted  Adjusted  Adjusted  Adjusted
   Value  Value  Value  Value
13 TOTAL HQLA  558,424.94  541,719.24  575,640.30  499,351.68
14 Total Net Cash Outflows  486,714.71  494,546.89  479,230.66  398,537.21
15 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%)  114.73%  109.54%  120.12%  125.30%
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Qualitative disclosure on LCR
The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) is one of the Basel Committee’s key reforms to develop a more resilient banking sector.
The objective of the LCR is to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of banks. It does this by ensuring
that banks have an adequate stock of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) that can be converted easily and
immediately into cash to meet their liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day liquidity stress scenario. The LCR is expected to
improve the banking sector’s ability to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stress, whatever the source,
thus reducing the risk of spillovers from the financial sector to the real economy.
The Liquidity Risk Management of the Bank is governed by the Asset Liability Management (ALM) Policy approved by the
Board. The Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) is a decision-making unit responsible for implementing the liquidity and interest
rate risk management strategy of the Bank in line with its risk management objectives and ensures adherence to the risk
tolerance / limits set by the Board. The Bank has also set up a senior level management committee, viz., the Group Risk
Management Committee (GRMC) under the ICAAP framework of the Bank, to establish a formal and dedicated structure
to periodically assess the nature / quantum of material risks of the subsidiaries and adequacy of its risk management
processes, including providing oversight for managing liquidity risk. Liquidity for the Bank’s domestic banking operations
is directly managed at the Head Office. The overseas branches and offshore unit of the Bank independently manage their
liquidity requirements with support from the Head Office. Similarly, the Bank’s subsidiaries independently manage their
liquidity requirements under guidance of the GRMC, which, along with senior management of the subsidiaries, reviews
the risk assessment of material risks at the subsidiaries. Further, the Bank maintains suitable systems and processes to
monitor liquidity requirements in other currencies as appropriate.
In order to determine cash outflows, the Bank segregates its deposits into various customer segments, viz., Retail (which
include deposits from individuals), Small Business Customers (those with deposits upto ` 7.5 crore), and Wholesale (which
would cover all residual deposits). Other contractual funding, including a portion of other liabilities which are expected
to run down in a 30-day time frame are included in the cash outflows. These classifications, based on extant regulatory
guidelines, are part of the Bank’s LCR framework, and are also submitted to the RBI.
The LCR is calculated by dividing a Bank’s stock of HQLA by its total net cash outflows over a 30-day stress period. The
present minimum requirement, as on March 31, 2025, is 100%.
In the Indian context, the run-off factors for the stressed scenarios are prescribed by the RBI, for various categories
of  liabilities  (viz.,  deposits,  unsecured  and  secured  wholesale  borrowings),  undrawn  commitments,  derivative-related
exposures, and offset with inflows emanating from assets maturing within the same time period. Given below is a table of
run-off factors and the average LCR maintained by the Bank quarter-wise over the past two years:
exposures, and offset with inflows emanating from assets maturing within the same time period. Given below is a table of 
run-off factors and the average LCR maintained by the Bank quarter-wise over the past two years: 
Particulars Run-off factors
Retail deposits 5% - 10%
Small business customers 5% - 10%
Operational deposits 5% - 25%
Non-financial corporates, sovereigns, central banks, multilateral development banks, and PSEs 40%
Other legal entities 100%
 For the year ended March 31, 2025  
  LCR Maintained LCR Required
Quarter ended  (average) 
March 31, 2025  118.96% 100.00%
December 31, 2024  125.18% 100.00%
September 30, 2024  127.05% 100.00%
June 30, 2024  123.16% 100.00%
March 31, 2024  114.73% 100.00%
December 31, 2023  109.54% 100.00%
September 30, 2023  120.12% 100.00%
June 30, 2023  125.30% 100.00%
September 30, 2023 120.12% 100.00%
June 30, 2023 125.30% 100.00%
 The average LCR for the quarter ended March 31, 2025, was at 118.96% as against 114.73% for the quarter ended March 
 31, 2024, and above the present prescribed minimum requirement of 100%. The average HQLA for the quarter ended March 
 31, 2025, was ` 725,568.81 crore, as against ` 558,424.94 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2024. During the same 
 period the composition of government securities and treasury bills in the HQLA was at 96.55% as compared to 95.74% in 
the previous year.  
 For the quarter ended March 31, 2025, derivative exposures (net of cash inflows) / collateral requirements and undrawn 
 commitments constituted around 0.47% and 1.28% respectively of average cash outflow as against 0.59% and 1.54% 
 respectively for quarter ended March 31, 2024. The Bank has a significant portion of funding through deposits. As of March 
 31, 2025, the top 20 depositors comprised of 4.32% of total deposits indicating a healthy and stable deposit profile. 
       (` crore)
    Revised Framework as on April 01, 2024   
Previous Framework    Fair Value   Transitional
 Net Book Value    Subsidiaries,  
  Held to Maturity Available for Through Profit   adjustment
 as on March 31,    Associates & Total 
  (HTM) Sale (AFS) and Loss   
 2024    JVs  
    (FVTPL)   
Held to Maturity (HTM) 558,458.55 398,025.22 144,433.99 1,484.75 12,639.62 556,583.58 (1,874.97)
Available for Sale (AFS) 128,786.09 8,848.55 87,608.32 33,984.44 824.73 131,266.04 2,479.95
Held for Trading (HFT) 15,170.32 - - 15,175.21 - 15,175.21 4.89
Net 702,414.96 406,873.77 232,042.31 50,644.40 13,464.35 703,024.83 609.87
       (` crore)
  Investments in India    Investments outside India 
Government Other Shares Debentures Subsidiaries Others Total 
Government Subsidiaries 
Others Total
       Total
Securities Approved and Bonds and / or  Investments Securities 
and / or Investments
       Investments
 Securities  joint  in India (including 
joint outside
   ventures   local 
ventures India
     authorities)  
  Securities   joint  in India (including joint  outside 
     ventures   local ventures  India 
        authorities)    
Held to Maturity*            
Gross            
 596,551.53 - - - 13,893.91 7,781.69 618,227.13 - 5.41 - 5.41 618,232.54
(Less): Provision            
 - - - - - - - - - - - -
for non-performing            
investments (NPI)            
Net            
 596,551.53 - - - 13,893.91 7,781.69 618,227.13 - 5.41 - 5.41 618,232.54
Available for Sale            
Gross            
 135,807.35 - - 12,909.21 - 5,261.87 153,978.43 910.87 - 530.61 1,441.48 155,419.91
Add / (less): MTM 710.31 - - 51.98 - 58.07 820.36 7.22 - 0.96 8.18 828.54
-appreciation /            
depreciation and            
provision for NPI            
Net 136,517.66 - - 12,961.19 - 5,319.94 154,798.79 918.09 - 531.57 1,449.66 156,248.45
FVTPL^            
Gross 31,762.43 - 3,893.08 15,678.18 - 9,912.65 61,246.34 - - 928.05 928.05 62,174.39
Add / (less): MTM 398.52 - (248.30) 83.71 - (548.26) (314.33) - - 18.63 18.63 (295.70)
-appreciation /            
depreciation and            
provision for NPI            
Net 32,160.95 - 3,644.78 15,761.89 - 9,364.39 60,932.01 - - 946.68 946.68 61,878.69
Total 764,121.31 - 3,893.08 28,587.39 13,893.91 22,956.21 833,451.90 910.87 5.41 1,458.66 2,374.94 835,826.84
Investments            
    Investments in India     Investments outside India   
        Government    
            Total
  Other   Subsidiaries  Total Securities Subsidiaries  Total 
 Government   Debentures        Investments
  Approved Shares  and / or joint Others Investments (including and / or joint Others Investments 
 Securities   and Bonds        
  Securities   ventures  in India local ventures  outside India 
        authorities)    
Held to Maturity            
Gross 541,803.48 - - 3,179.39 12,634.21 836.06 558,453.14 - 5.41 - 5.41 558,458.55
Less: Provision for - - - - - - - - - - - -
non-performing            
investments (NPI)            
Net 541,803.48 - - 3,179.39 12,634.21 836.06 558,453.14 - 5.41 - 5.41 558,458.55
Available for Sale            
Gross 95,729.94 - 2,070.77 13,782.68 - 15,524.66 127,108.05 248.04 - 1,656.19 1,904.23 129,012.28
Less: Provision - - 97.93 121.08 - - 219.01 - - 7.18 7.18 226.19
for depreciation            
and NPI            
Net 95,729.94 - 1,972.84 13,661.60 - 15,524.66 126,889.04 248.04 - 1,649.01 1,897.05 128,786.09
Held for            
Trading            
Gross 7,272.98 - 0.16 3,233.74 - 4,999.75 15,506.63 - - - - 15,506.63
Less: Provision - - - - - 336.31 336.31 - - - - 336.31
for depreciation            
and NPI            
Net 7,272.98 - 0.16 3,233.74 - 4,663.44 15,170.32 - - - - 15,170.32
Total 644,806.40 - 2,070.93 20,195.81 12,634.21 21,360.47 701,067.82 248.04 5.41 1,656.19 1,909.64 702,977.46
Investments            
Movement in provisions held towards depreciation on investments & Investment Fluctuation Reserve:   
   (` crore)
Particulars  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
i) Movement in provisions held towards depreciation on investments   
a) Opening balance 562.49 1,392.27
b) Add: Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 103.37
c) Less: Transition adjustment* 447.00 -
d) Add: Provision made during the year$ 0.73 364.66
e) Less: Write-off, write back of excess provision during the year$ 88.53 1,297.81
f) Closing balance$ 27.69 562.49
ii) Movement of Investment Fluctuation Reserve   
a) Opening balance 5,032.00 3,701.00
b) Add: Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 953.00
c) Add: Amount transferred during the year# 529.42 378.00
d) Less: Drawdown - -
e) Closing balance 5,561.42 5,032.00
 iii) Closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments in 2.55% 3.48%
AFS and FVTPL category^   
Non-performing non-SLR investments:  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening balance 116.67 6.65
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 99.76
Additions during the year 26.17 65.08
Reductions during the year 115.15 54.82
Closing balance 27.69 116.67
Total provisions held 27.69 115.49
    Extent of “below Extent of Extent of
Sr.   Extent of private   
 Issuer Amount  investment grade” “unrated” “unlisted”
No.   placement#   
    securities#(1) securities#(2) securities#(2)
1 Public sector undertakings 889.34 404.63 - - -
2 Financial institutions 7,729.90 2,972.28 - - -
3 Banks 8,283.77 6,536.28 611.50 - -
4 Private corporate 17,631.89 14,893.10 - 58.51 1,275.97
5 Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures(3) 13,899.32 13,705.21 - - -
6 Others 23,271.30 15,646.13 - - -
7 MTM - appreciation / (575.99)    
 depreciation and provision for     
 NPI     
 Total 71,129.53 54,157.63 611.50 58.51 1,275.97
Total 71,129.53 54,157.63 611.50 58.51 1,275.97
 #   Amounts reported under these columns are not mutually exclusive.    
 (1)  Represents overseas investment of ` 611.50 crore in bond and debentures issued by entities having domicile in India, where the    
 issuer rating given by domestic rating agencies is above investment grade.    
(2)  Excludes investments in securities issued by foreign sovereigns, equity shares, units of equity oriented mutual fund schemes,     
 equity / debt instruments / units issued by Category I and II Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs), commercial paper, certiﬁcate of    
 deposits, securities acquired by way of conversion of debt, security receipts, pass through certiﬁcates and unlisted convertible    
debentures.     
      (` crore)
    Extent of “below  
   Extent of  Extent of Extent of
Sr.    investment  
 Issuer Amount private  “unrated” “unlisted”
No.    grade”  
   placement#  securities#(2) securities#(2)
    securities#(1)  
1 Public sector undertakings 1,871.55 1,682.03 - - -
2 Financial institutions 2,145.00 861.71 - - -
3 Banks 5,272.25 4,036.97 359.04 - -
4 Private corporate 14,634.12 12,040.96 - 100.91 2,035.82
5 Subsidiaries / Joint ventures(3) 12,639.62 12,445.52 - - -
6 Others 21,608.51 16,092.11 - - -
7 Provision held towards depreciation (562.49)    
 Total 57,608.56 47,159.30 359.04 100.91 2,035.82
#   Amounts reported under these columns are not mutually exclusive.
(1)  Represents overseas investment of ` 359.04 crore in bond and debentures issued by entities having domicile in India, where the
issuer rating given by domestic rating agencies is above investment grade.
(2)  Excludes investments in securities issued by foreign sovereigns, equity shares, units of equity oriented mutual fund schemes,
equity / debt instruments / units issued by Category I and II Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs), commercial paper, certiﬁcate of
deposits, securities acquired by way of conversion of debt, security receipts, pass through certiﬁcates and unlisted convertible
debentures.
(3)  Investments in debt securities issued by Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures have been classiﬁed under Private Corporates.
31, 2024:          
          (` crore)
  Minimum    Maximum  Daily average  Outstanding
Particulars  outstanding    outstanding  outstanding  as at March
  during the year   during the year  during the year  31, 2024 
 FV1  MV2  FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2
Securities sold under repo          
1. Government securities  -  - 121,168.11 119,495.43 22,036.86 22,016.52 5,567.14 5,654.30
2. Corporate debt securities  -  - - - - - - -
3. Any other securities  -  - - - - - - -
Securities purchased          
under reverse repo          
1. Government securities  -  - 49,785.56 51,006.65 6,426.30 6,447.30 - -
2. Corporate debt securities  -  - - - - - - -
3. Any other securities  -  - - - - - - -
Details of tri-party repo / reverse repo deals done during the year ended March 31, 2024*:            
           (` crore) 
  Minimum   Maximum  Daily average   Outstanding  
Particulars  outstanding   outstanding   outstanding  as at March  
  during the year   during the year  during the year   31, 2024  
 FV1  MV2  FV1 MV2 FV1 MV2 FV1  MV2 
Securities sold under repo            
1. Government securities  -  - 95,823.40 95,823.40 33,986.83 33,986.83  -  -
2. Corporate debt securities  -  - - - - -  -  -
3. Any other securities  -  - - - - -  -  -
Securities purchased            
under reverse repo            
1. Government securities  -  - 22,587.55 22,587.55 431.30 431.30  -  -
2. Corporate debt securities  -  - - - - -  -  -
3. Any other securities  -  - - - - -  -  -
The details of securities that are kept as margin are as under:   
   (` crore)
  Face value as at March 31, 
Sr.   
 Particulars  
No.   
  2025 2024
I. Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards:  
 a) 
Collateral and funds management – Securities segment 9,100.00 9,100.00
 b) 
Collateral and funds management –Tri-party Repo 116,250.00 39,000.00
 c) 
Default fund – Forex Forward segment 362.10 247.10
 d) 
Default fund – Forex Settlement segment 86.05 51.05
 e) 
Default fund – Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) segment 199.15 199.15
 f) 
Default fund – Securities segment 255.00 255.00
 g) 
Default fund –Tri-party repo segment 55.00 55.00
II. Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards:  
 a) 
Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) 91,562.48 64,687.48
 b) 
Repo transactions 174,419.38 65,172.27
III. Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India - -
 (NSCCIL) towards NSE Currency Derivatives segment.  
IV. Securities kept as margin with Indian Clearing Corporation Limited towards BSE 458.72 358.72
 Currency Derivatives segment.  
V. Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 1,900.00 1,400.00
 (NSCCIL) towards Capital market.  
 Standard  Non-Performing   
 Total    Total Non- 
      Total
 Standard Substandard Doubtful
Loss  Performing 
 Advances    Assets 
Gross Standard Advances and      
NPAs^      
Opening Balance 2,476,770.96 11,508.47 17,063.72 2,601.13 31,173.32 2,507,944.28
Add: Addition on     - 
amalgamation      
(Refer Schedule 18(1))      
Add: Additions during the     31,977.43 
year      
Less: Reductions during the     27,928.11 
year      
Closing balance 2,608,288.19 14,452.42 17,643.58 3,126.64 35,222.64 2,643,510.83
Reductions in Gross NPAs      
due to:      
i) Upgradation*     11,536.99 
ii) Recoveries (excluding     4,545.32 
recoveries from upgraded      
accounts)      
iii) Technical / Prudential     10,054.32 
Write-offs      
iv) Write-offs other than those     1,791.48 
under (iii) above      
Provisions (excluding      
Floating Provisions)^^      
Opening balance of 10,663.71 5,001.84 15,479.47 2,600.27 23,081.58 33,745.29
provisions held      
Add: Addition on     - 
amalgamation (Refer      
Schedule 18(1))      
Add: Fresh provisions made     21,175.51 
during the year      
Less: Excess provision     20,354.88 
reversed / Write-off loans      
Closing balance of provisions 10,862.90 5,506.83 15,268.74 3,126.64 23,902.21 34,765.11
held      
Net NPAs      
Opening Balance  6,506.63 1,584.25 0.86 8,091.74 
Add: Addition on     - 
amalgamation (Refer      
Schedule 18(1))      
Add: Fresh additions during     10,801.92 
the year      
Less: Reductions during the     7,573.23 
year      
Closing Balance  8,945.59 2,374.84 - 11,320.43 11,320.43
 SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 For the year ended March 31, 2025
 ^  NPAs represents advances aggregating to ` 35,194.95 crore (previous year: ` 31,056.65 crore) and investments and foreign exchange
 and derivatives of ` 27.69 crore (previous year: ` 116.67 crore) that are classiﬁed as non-performing by the Bank.
 ^^  Closing balance in provisions represents provisions on advances aggregating to ` 23,874.52 crore (previous year: ` 22,966.09 crore)
 and provisions on investments and foreign exchange and derivatives of ` 27.69 crore (previous year: ` 115.49 crore).
 * Includes those accounts where all overdue have been paid.
• Classification of assets and provisions held as at March 31, 2024
 Standard  Non-Performing   
 Total    Total Non- 
      Total
 Standard Substandard Doubtful
Loss  Performing 
 Advances    Assets 
Gross Standard Advances and      
NPAs^      
Opening Balance 1,596,217.76 7,827.16 8,745.35 1,446.52 18,019.03 1,614,236.79
Add: Addition on amalgamation     12,281.15 
(Refer Schedule 18(1))#      
Add: Additions during the year     27,980.95 
Less: Reductions during the year     27,107.81 
Closing balance 2,476,770.96 11,508.47 17,063.72 2,601.13 31,173.32 2,507,944.28
Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:      
i) Upgradation*     11,893.91 
ii) Recoveries (excluding recoveries     4,183.95 
from upgraded accounts)      
iii) Technical / Prudential Write-offs     9,343.08 
iv) Write-offs other than those     1,686.87 
under (iii) above      
Provisions (excluding Floating      
Provisions)^^      
Opening balance of provisions 6,988.66 3,842.87 8,361.21 1,446.52 13,650.60 20,639.26
held      
Add: Addition on amalgamation     9,130.85 
(Refer Schedule 18(1))      
Add: Fresh provisions made during     19,365.78 
the year**      
Less: Excess provision reversed /     19,065.65 
Write-off loans      
Closing balance of provisions held 10,663.71 5,001.84 15,479.47 2,600.27  23,081.58          33,745.29
Net NPAs      
Opening Balance  3,984.29 384.14 - 4,368.43 
Add: Addition on amalgamation     3,150.30 
(Refer Schedule 18(1))      
Add: Fresh additions during the     8,615.17 
year      
Less: Reductions during the year     8,042.16 
Closing Balance  6,506.63 1,584.25 0.86 8,091.74 8,091.74
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
  **  Includes NPA of ` 214.44 crore and provision thereon ` 83.76 crore that has been debited to Balance in Proﬁt and Loss Account as on
 the effective date of amalgamation, in respect of harmonisation on common borrower exposure. 
 * Includes those accounts where all overdue have been paid. 
• Technical or prudential write-offs 
  As per RBI circular dated June 08, 2023 on “Framework for Compromise Settlements and Technical Write-offs”.
  Technical Write-offs are cases where the non-performing assets remain outstanding at borrowers’ loan account level
  but are written-off (fully or partially) by the Bank only for accounting purposes, without involving any waiver of claims
  against the borrower, and without prejudice to the recovery of the same. Movement in the stock of technically or
 prudentially written-off accounts is given below: 
prudentially written-off accounts is given below:  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening balance of technical / prudential write-offs 42,661.39 32,768.64
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1))* - 4,988.87
Technical / Prudential write-offs during the year 10,054.32 9,343.08
Recoveries made from previously technically / prudentially written-off accounts during the (3,079.42) (2,692.25)
year  
Sacrifice made from previously technical / prudential written-off accounts during the year (2,836.86) (1,746.95)
Closing balance of technical / prudential write-offs 46,799.43 42,661.39
    to gross   to gross
    advances in   advances in
    that sector   that sector
A Priority sector      
1 Agriculture and allied 208,341.69 8,009.42 3.84% 180,358.48 5,312.08 2.95%
 activities      
2 Advances to industries 237,782.88 2,211.48 0.93% 215,907.22 1,568.12 0.73%
 eligible as priority sector      
 lending      
 - Power 1,147.06 1.85 0.16% 736.94 1.85 0.25%
3 Services 299,475.81 4,687.34 1.57% 245,362.07 4,788.76 1.95%
 - Consumer Services 47,347.94 231.07 0.49% - - -
 - NBFC 13,738.32 - 0.00% 11,837.99 - 0.00%
 -  Real Estate & Property 22,497.05 1,770.27 7.87% 16,285.78 1,795.40 11.02%
 Services      
4 Personal loans 143,455.20 2,090.54 1.46% 143,433.21 1,412.86 0.99%
 - Home Loan 139,362.67 1,624.17 1.17% 143,056.82 1,404.67 0.98%
 Sub-total (A) 889,055.58 16,998.78 1.91% 785,060.98 13,081.82 1.67%
B Non Priority sector      
1 Agriculture and allied 8,168.31 161.66 1.98% 6,402.27 388.64 6.07%
 activities      
2 Industry 333,313.99 2,898.80 0.87% 318,400.59 2,768.53 0.87%
 - Power 62,486.99 544.66 0.87% 65,220.92 551.71 0.85%
3 Services 463,859.09 7,912.05 1.71% 521,219.28 9,008.06 1.73%
 - Consumer Services 44,540.68 307.85 0.69% - - -
 - NBFC 117,264.48 215.32 0.18% 146,538.31 231.50 0.16%
 - Real Estate & Property 73,220.20 4,097.92 5.60% 84,724.58 4,608.73 5.44%
 Services      
4 Personal loans 949,086.17 7,251.35 0.76% 876,744.49 5,926.27 0.68%
 - Home Loan 484,814.90 2,698.32 0.56% 439,245.80 2,071.38 0.47%
 - Vehicle / Auto Loans - - - 102,783.94 1,261.43 1.23%
 Sub-total (B) 1,754,427.56 18,223.86  1.04% 1,722,766.63 18,091.50 1.05%
 Total (A) + (B) 2,643,483.14 35,222.64  1.33% 2,507,827.61 31,173.32 1.24%
Overseas assets, NPAs and revenue  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Total Assets 92,529.86 75,579.83
Total NPAs 125.52 108.37
Total Revenue 4,969.60 4,638.76
  Agriculture and allied activities Corporates (excluding MSME)    Micro, Small and  Retail (excluding  Total 
      Medium  agriculture and   
      Enterprises (MSME)  MSME)   
  March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31,
  2025 2024 2025 2024* 2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024
Standard Number of 52 61 18 28 17 172 4,425 4,519 4,512 4,780
 borrowers          
 Gross Amount 2.63 0.70 710.58 2,309.09 14.92 23.82 78.17 54.28 806.30 2,387.89
 (` crore)          
 Provision held - - - - - - - - - -
 (` crore)          
Substandard Number of 393 20 167 1 223 29 18,593 649 19,376 699
 borrowers          
 Gross Amount 9.99 0.08 144.51 134.08 25.30 2.37 212.42 10.96 392.22 147.49
 (` crore)          
 Provision held - - - - - - - - - -
 (` crore)          
Doubtful Number of 766 - 51 2 274 42 12,834 26 13,925 70
 borrowers          
 Gross Amount 37.83 - 203.27 194.57 63.36 16.91 186.25 4.18 490.71 215.66
 (` crore)          
 Provision held - - - - - - - - - -
 (` crore)          
Loss Number of - - 3 - 5 - 71 - 79 -
 borrowers          
 Gross Amount - - 6.18 - 9.87 - 5.56 - 21.61 -
 (` crore)          
 Provision held - - - - - - - - - -
 (` crore)          
Total Number of 1,211 81 239 31 519 243 35,923 5,194 37,892 5,549
 borrowers          
 Gross Amount 50.45 0.78 1,064.54 2,637.74 113.45 43.10 482.40 69.42 1,710.84 2,751.04
 (` crore)          
 Provision held ^ - - - - - - - - - -
 (` crore)          
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
• Divergence in the asset classification and provisioning
 In terms of the RBI guidelines, banks are required to disclose the divergence in asset classification and provisioning
 consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts to the financial statements, wherever
 the additional provisioning assessed / additional gross NPAs identified by RBI exceeds the threshold specified by
 RBI. The threshold for provisioning is 5 per cent of the reported profit before provisions and contingencies for the
 reference period and that for additional gross NPAs is 5 per cent of the published incremental Gross NPAs for the
 reference period.
 There was no reportable divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs for the year ended March 31,
 2024 and March 31, 2023.
• Pursuant  to  the  RBI  Master  Direction  on  Transfer  of  Loan  Exposures  dated  September  24,  2021,  the
 details of loans transferred during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are given below:
I) Transfer of Assets
a) Details of non-performing assets (NPAs) transferred during the financial year 2024-2025:
Details of non-performing assets (NPAs) transferred during the financial year 2024-2025:     
   (` in crore except number of accounts)  
 To Asset    
  To permitted  To other 
Particulars Reconstruction    
  transferees  transferees 
 Companies (ARCs)    
Number of accounts 105  -  -
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred 329.74  -  -
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred 0.06  -  -
(in years)     
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer) 0.13  -  -
Aggregate consideration 191.91  -  -
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts 49.93  -  -
transferred in earlier years     
Details of loans not in default transferred through assignment are given below:  
 Value Value
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Aggregate amount of loans acquired (` in crore)* 35,499.38 -
Weighted average residual maturity (in years) 9.51 -
Weighted average holding period by originator (in years) 3.06 -
Retention of beneficial economic interest by the originator 10% -
Tangible security coverage 98% -
    Gross Value of
Rating Rating Agency Recovery rating  
    Outstanding SRs
RR4 India Ratings 25%- 50%  127.60
RR1 India Ratings 100%-150%  48.95
RR3 CRISIL 50%-75%  20.56
RR1+ India Ratings More than 150%  0.15
RR1+ ICRA More than 150%  0.85
RR3 India Ratings 50% - 75%  36.22
Unrated    730.40
^    118.66
   Total 1,083.39
acquired by the Bank.  
Details of loans not in default acquired through assignment are given below:  
 Value Value
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Aggregate amount of loans acquired (` in crore) - 11,660.14
Weighted average residual maturity (in years) - 19.07
Weighted average holding period by originator (in years) - 1.48
Retention of beneficial economic interest by the originator - 10%
Tangible security coverage - 100%
Provision pertaining to fraud accounts reported during the year:  
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No. of frauds reported* 39,893 11,639
Amount involved in fraud (` crore)* 801.24 751.15
Amount involved in fraud net of recoveries / write-offs as at the end of the year 415.32 141.51
(` crore)  
Provisions held as at the end of the year (` crore) 415.32 141.51
Amount of unamortised provision debited from “other reserves” as at the end of the - -
 resolution plan – Position 31, 2025  year* of resolution plan –
 as at the end of the    Position as at the end
 previous year i.e. March    of this year i.e March
 31, 2024 (A)    31, 2025^
Personal Loans 4,411.91 283.40 73.74 1,242.28 2,886.23
Corporate persons 325.23 4.61 1.16 94.16 226.46
Of which, MSMEs 57.08 2.55 0.11 28.54 25.99
Others 447.32 21.24 4.67 183.10 242.98
Total 5,184.46 309.25 79.57 1,519.54 3,355.67
 resolution plan –   year* resolution plan –
 Position as at the end    Position as at the end of
 of the previous year    this year i.e. March 31,
 i.e. March 31, 2023 $(A)    2024^
Personal Loans 6,544.37 770.56 228.05 1,361.90 4,411.91
Corporate persons 622.76 6.85 1.80 290.68 325.23
Of which, MSMEs 104.84 0.87 0.40 46.89 57.08
Others 866.40 94.06 14.28 325.02 447.32
Total 8,033.53 871.47 244.13 1,977.60 5,184.46
  (` crore)
Category March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
a) Direct exposure 878,071.41 876,824.68
(i)
Residential mortgages  
Lending fully secured by mortgages on residential property that is or will be occupied  
 688,498.17 702,597.72
by the borrower or that is rented. Exposure would also include non-fund based (NFB)  
limits  
(of which housing loans eligible for inclusion in priority sector advances) 138,189.54 146,562.96
(ii) Commercial real estate 189,499.27 174,132.07
Lending secured by mortgages on Commercial Real Estates (office building,  
retail space, multipurpose commercial premises, multifamily residential buildings,  
multi tenanted commercial premises, industrial or warehouse space, hotels, land  
acquisition, development, and construction etc.) Exposures would also include non-  
fund based (NFB) limits  
(iii)
Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other securitised exposures:  
(a)   Residential 73.97 94.89
(b)   Commercial real estate - -
b)
Indirect exposure 47,599.35 59,118.88
Fund based and non-fund based exposures on National Housing Bank (NHB) and 47,599.35 59,118.88
Exposure is higher of limits sanctioned or the amounts outstanding as at the year end.   
   (` crore)
Sr.   
 Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No.   
(i) Direct investments made in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures  
 and  units  of  equity  oriented  mutual  funds  the  corpus  of  which  is  not  exclusively 3,424.85 3,055.85
 invested in corporate debt  
(ii) Advances  against  shares,  bonds,  debentures  or  other  securities  or  on  clean  basis  
 to individuals for investment in shares (including IPO’s / ESOP’s), convertible bonds, 5,029.80 3,030.91
 convertible debentures and units of equity oriented mutual funds  
(iii) Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or convertible  
  6,002.20 7,586.44
 debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds are taken as primary security  
(iv) Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by collateral security of shares  
 or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds  
  1,031.63 1,406.52
 i.e.  where  the  primary  security  other  than  shares  /  convertible  bonds  /  convertible  
 debentures / units of equity oriented mutual funds does not fully cover the advances  
(v) Secured and unsecured advances to stock brokers and guarantees issued on behalf  
  37,071.12 27,973.84
 of stock brokers and market makers  
 March 31, 2025   March 31, 2024  
Risk Category      
 Exposure (net) Provision held  Exposure (net) Provision held 
Insignificant 64,522.59  - 33,981.65  -
Low 19,655.22  - 21,794.76  -
Moderately low 1,065.88  - 2,304.76  -
Moderate 549.31  - 95.74  -
Moderately high 338.90  - 698.91  -
High 115.52  - 88.66  -
Very high 98.41  - 171.31  -
Total 86,345.83  - 59,135.79  -
Intra-Group exposures in accordance with the RBI guidelines are as follows:  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Total amount of intra-group exposures 20,823.76 34,176.68
Total amount of top 20 intra-group exposures 20,823.76 34,176.68
Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the Bank on borrowers / 0.49% 0.87%
customers  
Details of breach of limits on intra-group exposures and regulatory action thereon, if Nil Nil
any  
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
• Unhedged foreign currency exposure
 The  Bank  has  in  place  a  policy  and  process  for  managing  currency  induced  credit  risk.  The  credit  appraisal
 memorandum prepared at the time of origination and review of a credit facility is required to discuss the exchange
 risk that the customer is exposed to from all sources, including trade related, foreign currency borrowings and external
 commercial borrowings. It could cover the natural hedge available to the customer as well as other hedging methods
 adopted by the customer to mitigate exchange risk. For foreign currency loans granted by the Bank beyond a defined
 threshold the customer is encouraged to enter into appropriate risk hedging mechanisms with the Bank. Alternatively,
 the Bank satisfies itself that the customer has the financial capacity to bear the exchange risk in the normal course of
 its business and / or has other mitigants to reduce the risk. On a periodic basis, the Bank reviews information on the
 unhedged portion of foreign currency exposures of customers, whose total foreign currency exposure with the Bank
 exceeds a defined threshold. A Board approved credit risk rating linked limit on unhedged foreign currency position
 of customers is applicable when extending credit facilities to a customer. The compliance with the limit is assessed
 by estimating the extent of drop in a customer’s annual Earnings Before Interest and Depreciation (‘EBID’) due to
 a potentially large adverse movement in exchange rate impacting the unhedged foreign currency exposure of the
 customer. Where a breach is observed in such a simulation, the customer is suitably advised to review and manage
 its unhedged exposure, where deemed necessary.
 The Bank holds standard asset provisions of ` 318.05 crore (previous year: ` 392.13 crore) and maintains capital
 (including D-SIB) of ` 1,551.56 crore (previous year: ` 1,692.53 crore) as at March 31, 2025, in respect of the unhedged
 foreign currency exposure of its customers.
• Details  of  Single  Counterparty  Limit  /  Limit  for  Group  of  Connected  Counterparties  exceeded  by  the
 Bank
 The RBI has prescribed limits linked to a bank’s eligible capital base in respect of exposures to single counterparty
 and group of connected counterparties. During the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 the Bank was
 within the limits prescribed by the RBI.
• Inter-bank Participation with risk sharing
 The aggregate amount of participation issued by the Bank and reduced from advances as per regulatory guidelines
 as at March 31, 2025 was ` 77,703.73 crore (previous year: ` 62,920.05 crore).
• Concentration of deposits, advances, exposures and NPAs
 a) 
Concentration of deposits
Forward Rate Agreements (FRA) / Interest Rate Swaps (IRS)*   
   (` crore)
Sr.   
 Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No.   
i) The total notional principal of swap agreements 1,032,110.42 800,195.47
ii) Total losses which would be incurred if counter parties failed to fulfill their obligations 5,874.28 5,414.44
 under the agreements  
iii) Collateral required by the Bank upon entering into swaps** - -
iv) Concentration of credit risk arising from swaps (%)# 64.64% 73.18%
v) Concentration of credit risk arising from swaps (Amount)# 3,797.31 3,962.40
vi) The fair value of the swap book 424.39 (1,325.55)
    (` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos. Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 1 250 INCMT Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 6,345 346,649.08 OIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 6,624 353,427.29 OIS Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging 296 131,970 OIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 2 95.78 MIOIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Hedging 7 2,700 MIOIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 555 36,772.96 MOD MIFOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 309 20,370.94 MOD MIFOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging 50 21,225 T-BILL Linked Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Total  913,461.05  
     (` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos.  Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading  5 190.96 EURIBOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading  4 268.30 EURIBOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading  - - EUR ESTR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading  9 897.93 EUR ESTR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading  50 10,243.87 USD SOFR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading  161 24,178.86 USD SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging  17 6,102.92 USD SOFR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Hedging  26 27,608.43 USD SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading  1 128.21 USD SOFR Floating receivable v/s floating payable
Trading  1 1,282.13 USD TERM SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging  33 32,053.13 USD TERM SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading  1 60.05 CHF SHARON Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading  1 60.05 CHF SHARON Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Total   103,074.84  
    (` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos. Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading 2 600.00 INCMT Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading 4,051 212,130.40 OIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 4,615 230,906.21 OIS Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging 419 174,570.00 OIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 2 95.78 MIOIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Hedging 7 2,700.00 MIOIS Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 523 33,400.36 MOD MIFOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading 288 19,260.22 MOD MIFOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging 52 21,975.00 T-BILL Linked Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Total  695,637.96  
The nature and terms of foreign currency IRS as at March 31, 2024 are set out below:     
     (` crore, except numbers)
Nature Nos.  Notional principal Benchmark Terms
Trading  4 213.78 EURIBOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading  7 483.41 EURIBOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading  4 179.75 EUR ESTR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading  9 921.24 EUR ESTR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading  49 9,818.69 USD SOFR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Trading  159 23,240.41 USD SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging  18 3,227.77 USD SOFR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable
Hedging  10 17,765.27 USD SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Trading  2 1,292.78 USD TERM SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Hedging  34 28,774.73 USD TERM SOFR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable
Total   85,917.83  
   (` crore)
Sr.   
 Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No.   
i) The total notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives Nil Nil
 undertaken during the years reported  
ii) The total notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives Nil Nil
 outstanding  
iii) The notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives N.A. N.A.
 outstanding and not ‘highly effective’  
iv) Mark to market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding and N.A. N.A.
 not ‘highly effective’  
• Qualitative disclosures on risk exposure in derivatives
 Overview of business and processes
 Derivatives are financial instruments whose characteristics are derived from underlying assets, or from interest rates,
 exchange rates or indices. These include forwards, swaps, futures and options. The notional amounts of financial
 instruments such as foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with the instruments
 recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the
 current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Bank’s exposure to credit or price risks. The
 following sections outline the nature and terms of the derivative transactions generally undertaken by the Bank.
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Interest rate contracts
Forward rate agreements give the buyer the ability to determine the underlying rate of interest for a specified period
commencing on a specified future date (the settlement date). The underlying rate of interest could be an interest rate curve,
interest rate index or bond yield. There is no exchange of principal and settlement is effected on the settlement date. The
settlement amount is the difference between the contracted rate and the market rate prevailing on the settlement date
discounted for the interest period of the agreement.
Interest rate swaps involve the exchange of interest obligations with the counterparty for a specified period without
exchanging the underlying (or notional) principal.
Interest rate caps and floors give the buyer the ability to fix the maximum or minimum rate of interest. The writer of the
contract pays the amount by which the market rate exceeds or is less than the cap rate or the floor rate respectively. A
combination of interest rate caps and floors can create structures such as interest rate collar, cap spreads and floor spreads.
Interest rate futures are standardised interest rate derivative contracts traded on a recognised stock exchange to buy
or sell a notional security or any other interest bearing instrument or an index of such instruments or interest rates at a
specified future date, at a price determined at the time of the contract.
Exchange rate contracts
Forward foreign exchange contracts are agreements to buy or sell fixed amounts of currency at an agreed exchange rate
on a future date. These instruments are carried at fair value, determined based on either FEDAI rates or market quotations.
Cross currency swaps are agreements to exchange principal amounts denominated in different currencies. Cross
currency swaps may also involve the exchange of interest payments on one specified currency for interest payments in
another specified currency for a specified period.
Currency options (including Exchange Traded Currency Option) give the buyer, on payment of a premium, the right
but not an obligation, to buy or sell specified amounts of currency at an agreed exchange rate on or before a specified
future date.
Currency futures contract is a standardised contract traded on an exchange, to buy or sell a certain underlying currency
on a certain date in the future, at a specified price. The contract specifies the rate of exchange between one unit of currency
with another.
The Bank’s derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sale activities include the structuring and marketing
of derivatives to customers to enable them to hedge their market risks (both interest rate and exchange risks), within the
regulatory framework as applicable from time to time. The Bank deals in derivatives on its own account (trading activity)
principally for the purpose of generating a profit from short term fluctuations in price yields or implied volatility. The Bank
also deals in derivatives to hedge the risk embedded in some of its Balance Sheet assets or liabilities.
Constituents involved in derivative business
The  Treasury  front-office  enters  into  derivative  transactions  with  customers  and  inter-bank  counterparties.  The  Bank
has an independent back-office and mid-office as per regulatory guidelines. The Bank has credit risk and market risk
departments, as part of the Risk Management Group, that assesses counterparty credit risk and market risk limits, within
the risk architecture and processes of the Bank.
 SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 For the year ended March 31, 2025
 Derivative policy
 The Bank has in place a Derivative policy which covers various aspects that apply to the functioning of the derivative
 business. The derivative business is administered through various market risk limits such as position limits, tenor limits,
 sensitivity limits, scenario based profit and loss limit for option portfolio, stop loss trigger levels and value-at-risk limits
 that are recommended by the Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee (‘RPMC’) to the Board of Directors for approval. All
 methodologies that are used to assess market and credit risks for derivative transactions are specified by the market risk
 and credit risk units. Limits are monitored on a daily basis by the mid-office.
 The Bank has a Board approved policy on Customer Suitability & Appropriateness, which forms part of the Derivative
 policy,  to  ensure  that  derivative  transactions  entered  into  are  appropriate  and  suitable  to  the  customer’s  nature  of
 business / operations. Before entering into a derivative deal with a customer, the Bank scores the customer on various risk
 parameters and based on the overall score level it determines the kind of product that best suits its risk appetite and the
 customer’s requirements.
 Classification of derivatives book
 The derivative book is classified into trading and hedging book. Classification of the derivative book is made on the basis
 of the definitions of the trading and hedging specified in the RBI guidelines. The trading book is managed within the trading
 limits recommended by the RPMC and approved by the Board of Directors.
 Hedging policy
 For derivative contracts designated as hedging instruments, the Bank documents, at inception of the hedge, the relationship
 between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, the risk management objective for undertaking the hedge and the
 methods used to assess the hedge effectiveness. Hedge effectiveness is ascertained at the time of inception of the hedge
 and periodically thereafter. Hedge effectiveness is measured by the degree to which changes in the fair value or cash flows
 of the hedged item that are attributable to a hedged risk are offset by changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedging
 instrument using various qualitative and quantitative methods.
 The hedging book consists of transactions to hedge Balance Sheet assets or liabilities. The tenor of hedging instrument
 may be less than or equal to the tenor of underlying hedged asset or liability. The Bank as part of its risk management
 strategy, makes use of derivative instruments, including foreign exchange forward contracts, for hedging the risk embedded
 in some of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the Balance Sheet. In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in
 the fair value of the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of
 cash flow hedges other than for foreign exchange forward contracts and principal only swaps, the changes in fair value
 of effective portion are recognised in Reserves and Surplus under ‘Cash flow hedge reserve’ and ineffective portion of an
 effective hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. The accumulated balance in the cash
 flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging relationship, is recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at the same time that
 the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. Foreign exchange forward contracts and
 principal only swaps not intended for trading, that are entered into to establish the amount of reporting currency required
 or available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are outstanding at the Balance Sheet date, are accounted in
 accordance with AS-11. Accordingly, such contracts are not marked to market and only translated at spot rate. The premia
 or discount arising at the inception of such forward exchange contract is amortised as expense or income over the life of
 the contract. The interest income / expense on such POS transaction is accounted on accrual basis.
• Provisioning, collateral and credit risk mitigation
 The Bank enters into derivative transactions with counterparties based on their business ranking and financial position.
 The Bank sets up appropriate appetite / limits upon evaluating the ability of the counterparty to honour its obligations in
 the event of crystallisation of the exposure. Appropriate credit covenants are stipulated where required, as trigger events to
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
call for collaterals or terminate a transaction and contain the risk. Further, to mitigate the current exposure in non-centrally
cleared forex and derivative transactions, Bank has entered into Credit Support Annex (‘CSA’) agreements with some of
the major international counterparty banks and few Indian financial institutions.
The Bank, at the minimum, conforms to the RBI guidelines with regard to provisioning requirements. Overdue receivables
representing crystallised positive mark to market value of a derivative contract are transferred to the account of the borrower
and treated as non-performing assets, if these remain unpaid for 90 days or more. Full provision is made for the entire
amount of overdue and future receivables relating to positive marked to market value of non-performing derivative contracts.
  March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31,
  2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024
1 Derivatives (notional principal      
 amount)      
 a) Hedging 13,248.63 28,357.70 69,063.80 60,802.25 221,659.47 249,012.76
 b) Trading 53,216.03 41,318.47 1,224,428.67 1,151,750.54 810,553.44 551,311.15
2 Marked to market positions #      
 a) Asset (+) 999.96 1,005.98 8,178.81 3,245.63 3,038.63 2,674.59
 b) Liability (-) (568.25) (513.27) (7,822.67) (3,234.51) (3,728.34) (2,932.43)
 c) Net 431.71 492.70 356.14 11.12 (689.71) (257.83)
3 Credit exposure 4,771.67 4,855.47 31,151.66 29,639.07 14,648.79 13,325.22
4 Likely impact of one      
 percentage change in interest      
 rate (100*PV01)**      
 a) On hedging derivatives 82.36 199.56 2.86 3.91 4,202.37 5,335.83
 b) On trading derivatives 25.30 8.08 1.13 0.06 1,805.05 2,215.16
5 Maximum of 100*PV01      
 observed during the year**      
 a) On hedging* 189.22 275.06 6.13 5.64 5,127.07 6,214.97
 b) On trading 25.30 45.77 7.86 3.07 2,182.42 2,322.16
6 Minimum of 100*PV01      
 observed during the year**      
 a) On hedging* 82.36 0.67 0.55 0.52 4,202.37 492.08
 b) On trading 0.93 8.08 0.17 0.06 1,805.05 1,968.46
  SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
   For the year ended March 31, 2025
  9 The Bank has computed the maximum and minimum of PV01 for the year based on the balances as at the end
   of every month.
  9 In respect of derivative contracts, the Bank has computed the exposure under the Current Exposure Method
   for counterparty credit risk capital computation based on the guidelines issued by RBI on “Bilateral Netting of
   Qualified Financial Contracts – Amendments to Prudential Guidelines” dated March 30, 2021 and any related
   amendments thereafter. However, for the purpose of calculating product-wise derivative exposure as mentioned
   in point number 3 in table above, Bank has calculated using Current Exposure Method (‘CEM’) without the impact
   of Bilateral Netting.
 amendments thereafter. However, for the purpose of calculating product-wise derivative exposure as mentioned
 in point number 3 in table above, Bank has calculated using Current Exposure Method (‘CEM’) without the impact
 of Bilateral Netting.
 • 
Credit default swaps
 The Bank has not transacted in credit default swaps during the year ended March 31, 2025 (previous year: Nil).
13. Securitisation:
 The outstanding amount of securitised assets as per books of the SPEs and total amount of exposures retained by the 
•
 originator as on the date of balance sheet to comply with the MRR.
originator as on the date of balance sheet to comply with the MRR.  
  (` in crore except number of accounts)
Sr.  
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No.  
1.  No of SPEs holding assets for securitisation transactions originated 3 1
by the originator  
2. 
Total amount of securitised assets as per books of the SPEs 19,035.87 204.59
3. 
Total amount of exposures retained by the originator to comply with  71.54
 2,061.42 
MRR as on the date of balance sheet  
a)   Off-balance sheet exposures  
First loss 608.94 65.20
Others - -
b)   On-balance sheet exposures  
First loss 247.44 6.34
Others 1,205.04 -
4. 
Amount of exposures to securitisation transactions other than MRR 1,045.49 -
a)   Off-balance sheet exposures  
i)   Exposure to own securitisations  
First loss - - - -
Others  
ii)   Exposure to third party securitisations  
First loss - - - -
Others  
b)   On-balance sheet exposures  
i)   Exposure to own securitisations  
First loss - - -
Others 1,045.49 
ii)   Exposure to third party securitisations  
First loss - - - -
Others  
5.
Sale consideration received for the securitised assets and gain / loss Sale Consideration - -
on sale on account of securitisation^ 21,434.28 
 Gain / Loss - NIL 
 Post Securitisation Assets 
Servicing Agent   
 Servicing   
7. Performance of facility provided. (Please provide separately for each Credit Enhancement  Credit Enhancement
 facility viz. Credit enhancement, liquidity support, servicing agent etc.   
  Amount paid 0.32 
 Mention percent in bracket as of total value of facility provided.) (utilised)  - -
 Amount paid   
  Repayment 0.32 
 Repayment received   
  received  
 Outstanding amount   
  (replenishment)  
  Outstanding 1,314.14 
    65.20 (31.87% of current
  amount (Average 
    pool outstanding)
   6.90% of 
   current pool 
   outstanding) 
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund 1,291.25 1,090.05
Add: Amounts transferred to DEA Fund during the year 211.97 233.36
Less: Amounts reimbursed by DEA Fund towards claims 25.28 32.16
Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund 1,477.94 1,291.25
Summary information on complaints received by the Bank from the customers and from the Office of Ombudsman.   
Sr.   
 Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
No.   
 Complaints received by the Bank from its customers  
1 Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year 14,232 13,361
1.1 Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 1,224
2 Number of complaints received during the year 4,57,466 4,85,339
3 Number of complaints disposed during the year 4,55,392 4,85,692
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the Bank*  1,50,965 1,27,112
4 Number of complaints pending at the end of the year 16,306 14,232
 Maintainable complaints received by the bank from RBIOs  
5 Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from RBIOs 13,578 14,563
5.1 Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the bank by RBIOs  6,515 6,834
 5.2 Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation / mediation / advisories issued 7,063 7,729
 by RBIOs  
 5.3 Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by RBIOs against the bank NIL 1
6 Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than those appealed) NIL NIL
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2025:     
Grounds of complaints (i.e. Number of Number of % increase / Number of Of 5, number
complaints relating to) complaints complaints (decrease) in complaints of complaints
 pending at the received during the number pending at the pending beyond
 beginning of the the year of complaints end of the year* 30 days
 year  received over  
   the previous  
   year  
 year   received over     
    the previous     
    year     
1 2  3 4  5  6 
ATM / Debit Cards  3,013 1,19,694  (17%)  3,467  218
Credit Cards  2,565 1,16,242  23%  3,839  3
Internet / Mobile / Electronic  2,910 1,00,306  (11%)  3,160  21
Banking         
Loans and advances  3,981 64,833  (13%)  3,927  6
Account opening / difficulty in  327 20,986  (14%)  386  1
operation of accounts         
Others  1,436 35,405  3%  1,527  29
Total  14,232 4,57,466  (6%)  16,306  278
Top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from the customers for the year ended March 31, 2024:      
Grounds of complaints (i.e. Number of Addition on Number of % increase Number of Of 6, number
complaints relating to) complaints amalgamation complaints /  (decrease) complaints of complaints
 pending at the (Refer received during in the number pending at the pending
 beginning of Schedule 18 (1)) the year of complaints end of the year* beyond 30
 the year   received over  days
    the previous  
    year  
 the year    received over   days 
     the previous    
     year    
1 2 3  4 5  6 7 
ATM / Debit Cards 2,955  - 1,44,803  (12%) 3,013  72
Credit Cards 2,207  - 94,755  21% 2,565  0
Internet / Mobile / Electronic 3,621  - 1,12,279  16% 2,910  24
Banking         
Loans and advances 3,168  1,208 74,491  66% 3,981  0
Account opening / difficulty in 247  16 24,472  46% 327  2
operation of accounts         
Others 1,163  - 34,539  21% 1,436  9
Total 13,361  1,224 4,85,339  13% 14,232  107
* All these cases were pending within the stipulated turnaround time (TAT) of the Bank.         
 SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 For the year ended March 31, 2025
• RBI vide its letter dated March 26, 2025 levied a penalty of ` 7,500,000 on the Bank for not categorising certain
 customers into low, medium and high-risk category based on its assessment and risk perception and for allotting
 multiple customer identification code to certain customers instead of a Unique Customer ldentification Code (UCIC)
 for each customer, which were in contravention to Reserve Bank directions on ‘Know Your Customer (KYC)’.
 customers into low, medium and high-risk category based on its assessment and risk perception and for allotting
 multiple customer identification code to certain customers instead of a Unique Customer ldentification Code (UCIC)
 for each customer, which were in contravention to Reserve Bank directions on ‘Know Your Customer (KYC)’.
 The penalties have been paid by the Bank and has initiated / taken corrective measures, as necessary, to align the
 operations / procedures in line with the applicable regulations.
 During the year ended March 31, 2024, RBI vide its letter dated November 30, 2023 levied a penalty of ` 10,000 on the
 Bank under Section 11(3) of FEMA, 1999 towards not obtaining RBI’s approval for maintaining current and fixed deposit
 accounts of a foreign bank post cancellation of their license by RBI, which was in contravention to the para 13 of AP (DlR
 Series) Circular no. 67 dated May 05, 2016. The penalty was paid by the Bank.
18.  Disclosures on remuneration 
Qualitative Disclosures 
A. Information relating to the bodies that oversee remuneration
External Consultants: 
 The Bank engaged with the following consultants during the year ended March 31, 2025:
1. AON Consulting Private Limited – in respect of the Bank’s annual salary market benchmarking exercise.
2. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP – in respect of the Bank’s benchmarking exercise pertaining to executive
 compensation and compensation philosophy.
3. Mercer Consulting (India) Private Limited – in the area of job evaluation.
4. ESOP Direct- in respect of Bank’s benchmarking exercise pertaining to ESOP Pool Calculation.
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 Scope of the Bank’s Remuneration Policy:
 The Remuneration Policy of the Bank includes within its scope all business lines and functions, and all permanent
 staff in the Bank’s domestic as well as international offices. The principles articulated in the compensation policy are
 applicable uniformly across the Bank. However, any statutory / regulatory provisions applicable in overseas locations
 take precedence over the Remuneration Policy of the Bank.
 All permanent employees of the Bank except those covered under the long term wage agreement are covered by
 the said Remuneration Policy. The number of employees covered under the compensation policy was 2,14,308 as on
 March 31, 2025 (previous year: 2,13,309).
B. Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration processes and the key features and
 objectives of remuneration policy
I. Key Features and Objectives of Remuneration Policy
 The Bank’s Remuneration Policy (the ‘Policy’) is aligned to business strategy, market dynamics, internal characteristics
 and complexities within the Bank. The ultimate objective of the Policy is to provide a fair and transparent structure that
 helps in acquiring and retaining the talent pool critical to build competitive advantage and brand equity. The Policy has
 been designed basis the principles for sound compensation practices in accordance with regulatory requirements
 and provides a framework to create, modify and maintain appropriate compensation programs and processes with
 adequate supervision and control.
 The Bank’s performance management system provides a sound basis for assessing employee performance holistically.
 The Bank’s compensation framework is aligned with the performance management system and differentiates pay
 appropriately amongst its employees based on degree of contribution, performance, skill, experience, grade and
 availability of talent owing to competitive market forces. Further, the Bank also considers compliance to processes,
 regulatory compliance and risk management as an integral part of its performance appraisal process. These factors
 are given due weightage for the purposes of the final performance rating of employees for a given performance year.
 The NRC considers the aforementioned principles enunciated in the Bank’s compensation policy and ensures that:
 (a) 
the compensation is adjusted for all types of prudent risk taking;
 (b) 
compensation outcomes are symmetric with risk outcomes;
 (c) 
compensation payouts are sensitive to the time horizon of risk; and
 (d) 
the mix of cash, equity and other forms of compensation are aligned with risk.
 Review of Remuneration Policy of the Bank
 In Line with Annual Review of the Compensation Policy for the Bank, the same was proposed by the Bank to the NRC
 with the proposal of changes basis observations of Audit on specific inclusions.
 This was reviewed and approved by the NRC during the year ended March 31, 2025, vide NRC meeting dated 26th
 March, 2025
II. Design and Structure of Remuneration
 The design and structure of remuneration in accordance with the RBI guidelines dated November 04, 2019, for the
 financial year ended March 31, 2025, is as follows:
 SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 For the year ended March 31, 2025
a) Fixed Pay
 The Remuneration Policy ensures that the fixed component of the compensation is reasonable, taking into account
 all relevant factors including industry practice.
 Elements of Fixed Pay:
 The fixed pay component of the Bank’s compensation structure typically consists of elements such as base salary,
 allowances, perquisites and retirement benefits. Perquisites extended are in the nature of company car, company
 leased accommodation, club membership and such other benefits or allowances in lieu of such perquisites / benefits.
 Retirement benefits include contributions to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund (for employees above certain job
 bands), National Pension Scheme and Gratuity. The Bank also provides pension to certain employees of the erstwhile
 Lord Krishna Bank (eLKB) under the Indian Banks’ Association (‘IBA’) structure.
 Determinants of Fixed Pay:
 The fixed pay is primarily determined by taking into account factors such as the job size, performance, experience,
 location, market competitiveness of pay and is designed to meet the following key objectives of:
 (a) 
fair compensation given the role complexity and size;
 (b) 
fair compensation given the individual’s skill, competence, experience and market pay position;
 (c) 
contribution to post retirement benefits; and
 (d) 
compliance with all statutory obligations.
 The quantum of fixed pay for the Senior Management i.e. Employees in Executive Vice President and above grades,
 Material Risk Takers other than Whole time Directors, Risk and Control Staff and Key Management Personnel are
 approved by the NRC and the Board.
 The quantum of fixed pay for Whole Time Directors is approved by the NRC and the Board, and is subject to the
 approval of the RBI.
b) Variable Pay – For Senior Management and Material Risk Takers
 The performance management system forms the basis for variable pay allocation of the Bank. The Remuneration Policy
 of the Bank ensures that the performance management system is comprehensive and considers both, quantitative
 and qualitative performance measures.
 (i) 
Composition of Variable pay
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
(ii) Limits on Variable pay 
  A substantial portion of compensation i.e. at least 50% will be variable and paid on the basis of individual, business-
  unit and organization performance. This will be in line with the principle that, at higher levels of responsibility,
  the proportion of variable pay will be higher. The total variable pay shall be limited to a maximum of 300% of the
 fixed pay (for the relative performance period). 
  In case the variable pay is upto 200% of the fixed pay, a minimum of 50% of the variable pay; and in case the
  variable pay is above 200%, a minimum of 67% of the variable pay shall be via non-cash instruments. The non-
 cash component in 2024-25 comprised of Employee Stock Options. 
  In the event that the employee is barred by statute or regulation from grant of share-linked instruments, his / her
 variable pay will be capped at 150% of fixed pay but shall not be less than 50% of the fixed pay. 
 (iii)  Deferral of Variable pay 
  For  senior  management  including  Whole  time  Directors  (WTDs)  and  Material  Risk  Takers  (MRTs),  deferral
  arrangements exists for the variable pay. A minimum of 60% of total variable pay is under deferral arrangements.
  If cash component is a part of the variable pay, at least 50% of the cash bonus is deferred. In cases where cash
 component of the bonus is under Rs 25 lakh, deferral arrangements is not necessary. 
  The deferral period is a minimum of three years and is applicable to both cash and non-cash components of
  variable pay. The deferral period for share linked instruments / ESOPs is governed by the ESOP Scheme Rules
  which is approved by the NRC and the Board. In 2024-25, the deferment of cash variable pay, where applicable,
  was 3 years in the case of cash variable pay and 4 years (vesting period) in the case of Employee Stock Options.
 (iv)  Vesting of Variable pay 
  The deferred portion of the remuneration vests at the end of deferral period and is spread out over the course
  of the deferral period. The first vesting is not before one year from the commencement of the deferral period.
  The vesting is no faster than on a pro rata basis and the frequency of the vesting is more than a year in order to
 ensure appropriate assessment of risk. 
 (v)  Malus / Clawback Arrangement 
  The Bank believes in sustained business performance in tandem with prudent risk taking. The Bank, therefore,
 has devised appropriate deterrents in order to institutionalize the aforementioned commitment. 
  Malus Arrangement: The provision of a Malus arrangement would entail cancellation of payout for the deferred
  portion of reward (cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument). The RBI guidelines
  define malus thus “A malus arrangement permits the bank to prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of a
 deferred remuneration. Malus arrangement does not reverse vesting after it has already occurred.” 
  Clawback Arrangement: The provision of Clawback arrangement would entail return of payout of reward (cash
  variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument) made in the previous years attributable
  to a given reference year wherein the incident has occurred. The return would be in terms of net amount. The
  RBI guidelines define clawback thus “A clawback is a contractual agreement between the employee and the
  bank in which the employee agrees to return previously paid or vested remuneration to the bank under certain
 circumstances.” 
  The malus and clawback clause will be actioned when the employee demonstrates behaviour involving fraudulent
  behaviour, moral turpitude, lack of integrity, flagrant breach of company policies and statutory norms resulting in
 SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 For the year ended March 31, 2025
 financial or non-financial losses. Manifestation of behaviour listed above is presumed to have a malafide intent.
 Illustrative list of conditions are enumerated below. The occurrence of any / some / all of the following conditions /
 events shall trigger a review by the NRC for the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement:
a) Substantial Financial Deterioration in profitability or risk parameters
b) Reckless, negligent or willful actions or exhibited inappropriate values and behavior
c) Fraud that requires a financial restatement
d) Reputational harm
e) Exposing the bank to substantial risk
f) Such other conditions or events, of similar nature as above, as determined by NRC for triggering review by
 NRC for the purpose of application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement
 In determining the causes for deterioration in financial performance under (a), the NRC may take into consideration
 and  have  due  regard  to  the  fact  whether  the  deterioration  was  for  factors  within  control  or  whether  it  was
 on account of conditions like global market headwinds, industry performance, changes in legal / regulatory
 regime, force majeure events like occurrence of natural disasters, pandemic, other socio-economic conditions
etc. 
 While  undertaking  the  review  for  the  concerned  person  for  the  application  of  the  Malus  or  the  Clawback
 arrangement based on any trigger events, when determining accountability of the concerned person, the NRC
 shall be guided by the principles of proportionality, culpability or proximity or nexus to the event or misconduct.
 In  accordance  with  the  RBI  guidelines,  wherever  the  assessed  divergence  in  bank’s  provisioning  for  Non-
 Performing Assets (NPAs) or asset classification exceeds the prescribed threshold for public disclosure, the
 bank shall not pay the unvested portion of the variable compensation for the assessment year under ‘malus’
 arrangement. Further, in such situations, no proposal for increase in variable pay (for the assessment year) shall be
 entertained. In case the bank’s post assessment Gross NPAs are less than 2.0%, these restrictions will apply only
 if criteria for public disclosure are triggered either on account of divergence in provisioning or both provisioning
and asset classification. 
 The NRC may decide to apply malus on part, or all of the variable pay. The time horizon for the application of
 malus / clawback clause shall be four years from the date of reward.
 The NRC shall review the act of misconduct / incident to ascertain the degree of accountability attributable to a
 Whole time Director / Material Risk Taker / Senior Management (Job Bands C  1 and above) prior to applying the
 Malus or Clawback arrangement.
 The criteria for Malus / Clawback will be reviewed by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee annually.
 The NRC and Board of Directors has also approved an addendum (Addendum-B) to the compensation policy on
 Clawback of Incentive Compensation in view of the final rules on listing standards for the recovery of erroneously
 awarded compensation adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 26, 2022, applicable
 to companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ.
 This Addendum-B shall be read with, and is in addition to, the Compensation Policy formulated and approved by
 the Board of Directors of the Bank. The same has been formulated to comply with the requirements of Section
 10D promulgated under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), and Section
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
  303A.14 of the NYSE so as to recover certain compensation in the event of an accounting restatement due to
  any material non-compliance relating to any financial reporting requirements under the applicable U.S. securities
 laws, and shall be interpreted and applied consistent therewith. 
 (vi)  Approval Process 
  The Variable Pay for Senior Management, Material Risk Takers other than Whole time Directors, Risk and control
  staff is approved by the NRC and the Board. For Whole time Directors the variable pay is approved by the NRC,
 Board and the Reserve Bank of India. 
 Employees other than Senior Management, Material Risk Takers, Whole Time Directors 
 The Bank has formulated the following variable pay plans: 
(i) Annual Bonus Plan 
  The quantum of variable payout is a function of the performance of the Bank, performance of the business unit,
  performance of the individual employee, job band of the employee and the functional category. Basis these key
  determinants and due adjustment for risk alignment, a payout matrix for variable pay is developed. Market trends
  for specific businesses / functions along with inputs from compensation surveys may also be used in finalising
 the payout. 
  Bonus pools are designed to meet specific business needs therefore resulting in differentiation in both the
 quantum and the method of payout across functions. 
(ii) Performance-linked Plans (PLPs) 
  PLPs are formulated for employees in sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given
  business / service targets but have limited impact on risk since credit decisions are exercised independent
  of  these  functions.  All  PLP  payouts  are  based  on  a  balanced  scorecard  framework  which  factors  not  just
  quantitative, but also qualitative measures, and are subject to achievement of individual targets enumerated in
  the respective scorecards of the employees. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial
  year to provide for any unforeseen performance risks. Employees who are on the PLPs are excluded from the
 Annual Bonus Plan. 
 (iii)  Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOPs) 
  Employees in Job Bands D4 and above also receive ESOPs as a vehicle to create a balance between short
  term rewards and long term sustainable value creation. ESOPs play a key role in the attraction and retention of
 key talent. 
  The NRC grants options after considering parameters such as the incumbent’s grade and performance rating,
 and such other factors as may be deemed appropriate by the NRC. 
  All plans for grant of options are framed in accordance with the SEBI guidelines, 1999 as amended from time
  to time and are approved by the shareholders of the Bank. These plans provide for the grant of options post
 approval by the NRC. 
  The Bank grants ESOPs to eligible employees. Such ESOPs vest over four tranches spread over a period of
 48 months. 
 In accordance with the RBI guidelines, Employee Stock Options is included as part of Variable Pay. 
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(iv)  Restricted Stock Units (Units)
The Bank granted units to employees at E3 – D3 bands (upto 10 levels below the MD). The same was approved
by the NRC after considering parameters such as the employee’s grade, performance rating and any other factors
as may be deemed appropriate by the NRC.
All plans for grant of units are framed in accordance with the SEBI guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to
time and are approved by the shareholders of the Bank. These plans provide for the grant of units post approval
by the NRC.
Such units vest over four tranches spread over a period of 48 months.
Risk, Control and Compliance Staff
The Bank has separated the Risk, Control and Compliance functions from the Business functions in order to
create a strong culture of checks and balances and to eliminate any possible conflict of interest between revenue
generation and risk management and control. Accordingly, the overall variable pay as well as the annual salary
increment of the employees in the Risk, Control and Compliance functions is based on their performance,
functional objectives and goals. The Bank ensures that the mix of fixed to variable compensation for these
functions is weighted in favour of fixed compensation.
Guaranteed Bonus
Guaranteed bonuses are not consistent with sound risk management or pay for performance principles of the
Bank and therefore do not form an integral part of the general compensation practice.
For  critical  hiring  for  some  select  strategic  roles,  the  Bank  may  consider  granting  of  bonus,  based  on  the
performance rating upon confirmation, as a prudent way to avoid loading the entire cost of attraction into the fixed
component of the compensation which could have a long term cost implication for the Bank. For such hiring, the
said bonus is generally decided by taking into account appropriate risk factors and market conditions.
For hiring at levels of Whole Time Directors / Managing Director / Material Risk Takers and certain employees in
select strategic roles, a sign-on bonus, if any, is limited to the first year only and would be in the form of Employee
Stock Options or Units (All units grants are subject to individual / Business Unit / organizational performance
criteria).
Severance Pay
The Bank does not grant severance pay other than accrued benefits (such as gratuity, pension) except in cases
where it is mandated by any statute.
Hedging
The Bank does not provide any facility or fund or permit its Whole Time Directors and employees to insure or hedge
their compensation structure to offset the risk alignment effects embedded in their compensation arrangement.
Statutory Bonus
Some employees are also paid statutory bonus as per the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 as amended from time
to time.
III.   Remuneration Processes
Fitment at the time of Hire
Pay scales at the Bank are set basis the job size, experience, location and the academic and professional
credentials of the incumbent.
The compensation of new hires is in line with the existing pay ranges and consistent with the compensation levels
of the existing employees of the Bank at similar profiles. The pay ranges are subject to change basis market trends
and the Bank’s talent management priorities. While the Bank believes in the internal equity and parity as a key
determinant of pay, it does acknowledge the external competitive pressures of the talent market. Accordingly,
there could be certain key profiles with critical competencies which may be hired at a premium and treated as an
exception to the overall pay philosophy. Any deviation from the defined pay ranges is treated as a hiring exception
requiring approval with appropriate justification.
Pay Increment / Pay Revision
The Bank strives to ensure external competitiveness as well as internal equity without diluting the overall focus
on optimising cost. In order to enhance the Bank’s external competitiveness, it participates in an annual salary
survey of the banking sector to understand key market trends as well as get insights on relative market pay
position compared to peers. The Bank endeavors to ensure that most employees progress to the median of the
market in terms of fixed pay over time. This coupled with key internal data indicators like performance score, job
family, experience, job grade and salary budget form the basis of decision making on revisions in fixed pay.
Increments in fixed pay for majority of the employee population are generally undertaken once every financial
year. However, promotions, confirmations and change in job dimensions could also lead to a change in the fixed
pay during other times of the financial year.
The Bank also makes salary corrections and adjustments during the financial year for competitive pay positioning
for the purpose of retention of critical skills and critical talent in the domain of Information Technology, Digital,
Information Security, Data Science as well as business segments that are strategic focus areas of the Bank.
However, such pay revisions are done on an exception basis.
The Fixed Pay for the Material Risk Takers (other than Whole time Directors), Senior Management, Key Management
Personnel is approved by the NRC and the Board. The Fixed Pay for the Whole time Directors is approved by the
NRC, Board and the Reserve Bank of India.
 SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 For the year ended March 31, 2025
(a) Quarterly / monthly performance-linked pay (PLP) plans:
 All quarterly / monthly PLP plans are based on the principle of balanced scorecard framework that includes within
 its ambit both quantitative and qualitative factors including key strategic objectives that ensure future competitive
 advantage for the Bank. PLP plans, by design, have deterrents that play a role of moderating payouts based on
 the non-fulfillment of established quantitative / qualitative risk factors. Deterrents also include risks arising out of
 non-compliance, mis-sell etc. Further, a portion of all payouts under the PLP plans is deferred till the end of the
 financial year to provide for any unforeseen performance risks. Employees who are part of the PLP plans are
 excluded from the Annual Bonus Plan.
(b) Variable Pay:
 The Bank takes into consideration the fact that a portion of the Bank’s profits are directly attributable to various
 types of risks the Bank is exposed to such as credit risk and market risk.
 The  framework  developed  by  the  Bank  in  order  to  arrive  at  the  quantum  of  bonus  pool  is  based  on  the
 performance of the Bank and profitability. The annual variable pay is distributed based on business unit and
 individual performance and job band and role of the individual for non-business functions. The business unit
 performance is based on factors such as growth in revenue, growth in profit, cost to income ratio and achievement
 vis-à-vis plans and key objectives.  Bonus pay out for an individual employee in a particular grade is linked to the
 performance rating of the employee and subject to meeting the Bank’s standards of ethical conduct.
 The Bank has devised appropriate malus and claw back clauses as a risk mitigant for Whole Time Directors,
 Material Risk Takers, Senior Management (i.e. Employees in the job Bands of Executive Vice President and
 above). Under the malus clause the incumbent could forego the vesting of the deferred variable pay in full or in
 part. Under the claw back clause the incumbent is obligated to return all the tranches of variable pay payout
 pertaining to the reference performance year. The deferred variable pay is paid out post review and approval by
 the NRC and the Board.
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 While the above parameters form the core evaluation parameters for the Bank and the remuneration of its Whole Time 
 Directors, each of the business units are measured on the following from a remuneration standpoint: 
a) Growth in net revenue (%) over previous year; 
b) Growth in profit before tax (%) over previous year; 
c) Improvement in cost to income over the previous year; 
d) Improvement in Gross NPA over the previous year and 
e) Achievement of key strategic objectives. 
 The process by which levels of remuneration in the Bank are aligned to the performance of the Bank, business unit 
 and individual employees is articulated below: 
Fixed Pay  
 The Bank reviews the fixed pay portion of the compensation structure basis merit-based increments and market 
 corrections. These are based on a combination of performance rating, job band and the functional category of the 
 individual employee. For a given job band, the merit increment is directly related to the performance rating. The Bank 
 strives to ensure that most employees progress to the median of the market in terms of fixed pay over time. All other 
 things remaining equal, the correction percentage is directly related to the performance rating of the individual. 
Variable Pay  
 Basis the performance of the business unit, individual performance and role, the Bank has formulated the following 
variable pay plans:  
 SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 For the year ended March 31, 2025
 and the functional category of the individual employee. The business performance category determines the
 multiplier for the bonus. All other things remaining equal, for a given job band, the bonus is directly related to the
 performance rating. Employees who are part of the annual cash Variable Pay plan are not part of the Performance
 Linked Plans mentioned below.
• Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
 The Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given
 sales, collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to
 the achievement of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated
 by qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for
 any unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on
 the plan, could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
 by qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for
 any unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on
 the plan, could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
E. Description of the ways in which the Bank seeks to adjust remuneration to take account of the longer
 term performance
 For employees in Senior Management, Material Risk Takers and Whole Time Directors the Bank seeks to adjust
 remuneration to take account of the longer term performance in the following way.
 (i) 
Limits on variable pay
The Bank believes in sustained business performance in tandem with prudent risk taking. The Bank, therefore,
has devised appropriate deterrents in order to institutionalize the aforementioned commitment.
Malus Arrangement: The provision of a Malus arrangement would entail cancellation of payout for the deferred
portion of reward (cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument). The RBI guidelines
define malus thus “A malus arrangement permits the bank to prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of a deferred
remuneration. Malus arrangement does not reverse vesting after it has already occurred.”
Clawback Arrangement: The provision of Clawback arrangement would entail return of payout of reward (cash
variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument) made in the previous years attributable to a
given reference year wherein the incident has occurred. The return would be in terms of net amount. The RBI guidelines
define clawback thus “A clawback is a contractual agreement between the employee and the bank in which the
employee agrees to return previously paid or vested remuneration to the bank under certain circumstances.”
The malus and clawback clause will be actioned when the employee demonstrates behaviour involving fraudulent
behaviour, moral turpitude, lack of integrity, flagrant breach of company policies and statutory norms resulting in
financial  or  non-financial  losses.  Manifestation  of  behaviour  listed  above  is  presumed  to  have  a  malafide  intent.
Illustrative list of conditions are enumerated below. The occurrence of any / some / all of the following conditions/
 financial  or  non-financial  losses.  Manifestation  of  behaviour  listed  above  is  presumed  to  have  a  malafide  intent.
 Illustrative list of conditions are enumerated below. The occurrence of any / some / all of the following conditions/
 events shall trigger a review by the NRC for the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement:
a) Substantial financial deterioration in profitability or risk parameters
b) Reckless, negligent or willful actions or exhibited inappropriate values and behavior
c) Fraud that requires a financial restatement
d) Reputational harm
e) Exposing the bank to substantial risk
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
post assessment Gross NPAs are less than 2.0%, these restrictions will apply only if criteria for public disclosure are
triggered either on account of divergence in provisioning or both provisioning and asset classification.
The NRC may decide to apply malus on part, or all of the unvested deferred Variable pay. The time horizon for the
application of malus / clawback clause shall be four years from the date of reward.
The NRC shall review the act of misconduct / incident to ascertain the degree of accountability attributable to a
Whole  Time  Director  /  Material  Risk  Taker  /  Senior  Management  (C1  and  above)  prior  to  applying  the  Malus  or
Clawback arrangement.
The criteria for Malus / Clawback will be reviewed by the NRC annually.
The NRC and Board of Directors has also approved an addendum (Addendum-B) to the compensation policy on
Clawback of Incentive Compensation in view of the final rules on listing standards for the recovery of erroneously
awarded compensation adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 26, 2022, applicable to
companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ.
This Addendum-B shall be read with, and is in addition to, the Compensation Policy formulated and approved by
the Board of Directors of the Bank. The same has been formulated to comply with the requirements of Section 10D
promulgated under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), and Section 303A.14
of the NYSE so as to recover certain compensation in the event of an accounting restatement due to any material
non-compliance relating to any financial reporting requirements under the applicable U.S. securities laws, and shall
be interpreted and applied consistent therewith.
Employees other than Whole Time Directors, Material Risk Takers and Senior Management
The Bank has formulated the following variable pay plans:
 Employees other than Whole Time Directors, Material Risk Takers and Senior Management
 The Bank has formulated the following variable pay plans:
• Annual Cash Variable Pay plan:
 The quantum of variable payout is a function of the performance of the Bank, performance of the individual
 employee, job band of the employee and the functional category. Basis these key determinants and due
 adjustment  for  risk  alignment,  a  payout  matrix  for  variable  pay  is  developed.  Market  trends  for  specific
 businesses / functions along with inputs from compensation surveys may also be used in finalising the payout.
 Bonus pools are designed to meet specific business needs therefore resulting in differentiation in both the
 quantum and the method of payout across functions. Typically, higher levels of responsibility receive a higher
 proportion of variable pay vis-à-vis fixed pay.
 For Employees in Job Bands of Sr Vice President 1 and above Variable Pay intends to reward short term as well
 as long term sustained performance of the Bank and shareholder value creation.
 Short term Performance: Short term performance is realised in the form of cash variable pay. The cash variable
 pay is based on performance rating and the job band of the individual and is further enhanced or moderated by
 the business performance multiplier and role. The cash variable pay is computed on the gross salary.
 Long term Performance: Employee Stock Options are granted to employees based on their performance rating
 and Job band and the value of the same is realised vide long term performance of the Bank and creation of
 shareholder value. The vesting period for Employee Stock Option is 4 years.
 The Bank has also granted Restricted Stock Units (Units) to employees at E3-D3 bands. The units would vest
 over 4 years.
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
• Performance-linked Plans (PLPs) 
  The Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given
  sales, collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to
  the achievement of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated
  by qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for
  any unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on
 the plan, could be paid out monthly or quarterly. 
 by qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for
 any unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on
 the plan, could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
F. Description of the different forms of variable remuneration (i.e. cash, shares, ESOPs and other forms)
 that the Bank utilises and the rationale for using these different forms
 The Bank recognises the importance of variable pay in reinforcing a pay for performance culture. Variable pay stimulates
 employees to stretch their abilities to exceed expectations.
 SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  For the year ended March 31, 2025 
Sr. No. Subject March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
(a) Number of meetings held by the Numbers of meetings: 17 Number of meetings: 18
 Nomination and Remuneration  
  Sitting Fees paid: ` 0.67 crore Sitting Fees paid: ` 0.74 crore
 Committee (NRC) during the financial  
 year and sitting fees paid to its  
 members  
(b) (i) Number of employees having received 88 92
 a variable remuneration award during  
 the financial year  
(b) (ii) Number and total amount of sign-on Number – 1 None
 awards made during the financial year Total amount of sign-on 
  awards – 39,050 ESOP Units 
(b) (iii) Number and total amount of None None
 guaranteed bonuses awarded during  
 the financial year  
(b) (iv) Details of severance pay, in addition to None None
 accrued benefits, if any  
(c) (i) Total amount of outstanding deferred 1.  Deferred Cash variable pay – 1.  Deferred Cash variable
 remuneration, split into cash, shares ` 45.16 crore pay - ` 34.31 crore
 and share-linked instruments and other 2. 
^Employee Stock Options 2. 
^Employee Stock Options
 forms (ESOP) – 89,54,079 Options (ESOP) – 98,70,019 Options.
(c) (ii) Total amount of deferred remuneration ` 15.51 crore ` 10.99 crore
 paid out in the financial year  
(d) Breakdown of amount of remuneration ` 159.65 crore (Fixed*) ` 151.12 crore (Fixed*)
 awards for the financial year to show  
  ` 
5.09 
crore 
(cash 
variable 
pay ` 9.42 crore (cash variable pay pertaining
 fixed and variable, deferred and non-  
  pertaining 
to  financial 
year  ended to financial year ended March 31, 2023,
 deferred  
  March 
31, 
2024, 
in 
relation 
to in 
relation 
to  employees  where 
there
  employees  where 
there  was 
no was  no  deferment).  The  same  category
  deferment).  The  same  category  of of  employees  were  granted  14,07,710
  employees  were  granted 
4,77,620 ESOPs.
  ESOPs 
  `  49.55 
crore 
(cash 
variable  pay ` 30.11 crore (cash variable pay
  pertaining 
to  financial 
year  ended pertaining to financial year ended March
  March 
31, 
2024, 
in 
relation 
to 31, 2023, in relation to employees
  employees 
where 
there 
was 
a where there was a deferment) of which
  deferment) of which ` 24.78 crore was ` 15.05 crore was non-deferred variable
  non-deferred variable pay and ` 24.78 pay and ` 15.05 crore was deferred
  crore  was  deferred  variable  pay.  The variable pay. The same category of
  same  category  of  employees  were employees were granted 23,45,900
  granted 34,26,650 ESOPs ESOPs.
  Number of stock options granted Number of stock options granted
  during the financial year: 39,04,270. during the financial year: 37,53,610.
  This includes 8,93,780 ESOPs This includes 3,36,057 ESOPs granted
  granted to the MD and the two EDs to MD and DMD (erstwhile ED) for
  for performance in F.Y. 2023 – 2024. performance in F.Y. 2022 – 2023.
  The above amount does not include Mr.  Sashidhar  Jagdishan  was  awarded
  variable pay awarded to the DMD for cash  variable  pay  `  5.00  crore  for  the
  performance year 2023 – 2024 and performance  year  2022  –  2023,  50%
  the same is scheduled to be paid in of  which  was  paid  out  in  the  F.Y.  2024
  F
.Y. 2025 – 2026. basis  RBI  letter  dated  –  December  21,
   2023. The above amount is not included
   in the variable pay awarded this year as it
   pertains to the previous year.
Sr. No. Subject March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
(e) (i) Total amount of outstanding 1.  Deferred Cash variable 1.  Deferred Cash variable
 deferred remuneration and retained pay – ` 45.16 crore pay – ` 34.31 crore
 remuneration exposed to ex-post 2. 
^Employee Stock Options 2. 
^Employee Stock Options
 explicit and / or implicit adjustments (ESOP) – 89,54,079 Options (ESOP) – 98,70,019 Options
(e) (ii) Total amount of reductions during the Nil Nil
 financial year due to ex-post explicit  
 adjustments  
(e) (iii) Total amount of reductions during the Nil Nil
 financial year due to ex-post implicit  
 adjustments  
(f) Number of MRTs (Material Risk Takers) 98 92
 identified.  
(g) (i) Number of cases where Malus has None None
 been exercised.  
(g) (ii) Number of cases where Clawback has None None
 been exercised.  
(g) (iii) Number of cases where both Malus None None
 and Clawback have been exercised.  
General The mean pay for the Bank as a whole The mean pay for the Bank as a whole The mean pay for the Bank as a whole is
Quantitative (excluding sub-staff) and the deviation is ` 0.08 crore as of March 31, 2025. ` 0.08 crore as of March 31, 2024.
Disclosure of the pay of each of its WTDs from the  
  The 
ratio  of 
the  fixed  pay  of 
the The ratio of the fixed pay of the managing
 mean pay.  
  managing  director  to  the  mean  pay director to the mean pay of the Bank as
  of  the  Bank  as  a  whole  is  96:1  as  of a whole is 99:1 as of March 31, 2024.
  March 31, 2025. 
   The ratio of the fixed pay of the deputy
  The ratio of the fixed pay of the deputy managing  director  to  the  mean  pay  of
  managing  director  to  the  mean  pay the Bank as a whole is 94:1 as of March
  of  the  Bank  as  a  whole  is  93:1  as  of 31, 2024.
  March 31, 2025. 
   The ratio of the fixed pay of the executive
  The 
ratio  of 
the  fixed  pay  of 
the director  (Mr.  Srinivasa  V  Rangan)  to  the
  executive  director 
(Mr.  Srinivasa  V mean pay of the Bank as a whole is 91:1
  Rangan) to the mean pay of the Bank as of March 31, 2024.
  as  a  whole  is  90:1  as  of  March  31, 
   The ratio of the fixed pay of the executive
  2025. 
   director (Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri) to the mean
  The 
ratio  of 
the  fixed  pay  of 
the pay of the Bank as a whole is 60:1 as of
  executive 
director 
(Mr. 
Bhavesh March 31, 2024.
  Zaveri) to the mean pay of the Bank as 
  a whole is 59:1 as of March 31, 2025. 
 * Excludes gratuity beneﬁts, since the same is computed at Bank level.  
19. Other disclosures  
19.1 Business ratios / information  
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Interest income as a percentage to working funds1 8.52% 8.41%
Net interest income2 as a percentage to working funds 3.48% 3.53%
Net interest income as a percentage to average interest earning assets 3.67% 3.74%
Non-interest income as a percentage to working funds 1.29% 1.60%
Cost of Deposits3 5.21% 4.87%
Operating profit4 as a percentage to working funds 2.84% 3.07%
Return on assets (average) 1.91% 1.98%
Business5 per employee (` in crore) 23.62 21.49
Profit per employee6 (` in crore) 0.32 0.31
Debt-Equity Ratio7 0.74 1.21
Return on Equity Ratio8 14.56% 16.09%
Debt-Equity Ratio7 0.74
1.21
Return on Equity Ratio8 14.56%
16.09%
Deﬁnitions of certain items in Business ratios / information: 
1. Working funds is the daily average of total assets during the year.
2. Net Interest Income = Interest Income - Interest Expense.
3. Cost of Deposits is the ratio of interest expense on deposits to daily average of total deposits.
4. Operating proﬁt is proﬁt for the year before provisions and contingencies and proﬁt / (loss) on sale of ﬁxed assets (net) and other assets (net).
5. Business is the total of quarterly average of net advances and deposits (net of inter-bank deposits).
6. Productivity ratios are based on quarterly average of employee numbers.
7. Debt represents borrowings with residual maturity of more than one year.
8. Return on Equity represents net proﬁt after tax to average equity share capital, employee stock options outstanding and reserves.
19.2 Bancassurance business 
 Commission income for the year ended March 31, 2025 includes fees of ` 5,026.97 crore (previous year: ` 3,059.31
 crore) in respect of life insurance business and ` 1,281.30 crore (previous year: ` 914.68 crore) in respect of general
 insurance and health insurance business.
19.3 Marketing and distribution 
 Commission income for the year ended March 31, 2025 includes income from marketing and distribution of ` 1,629.86
 crore (previous year: ` 2,492.82 crore), which comprises of income for displaying publicity materials at the Bank’s
 branches / ATMs, commission on mutual funds, pension and other investment / saving products and sourcing and
 referral income.
19.4 Details of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs) 
 The Bank enters into transactions for the sale or purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs). In the case
 of a sale transaction, the Bank sells the fulfilment of priority sector obligation and in the case of a purchase transaction
 the Bank buys the fulfilment of priority sector obligation through RBI trading platform. There is no transfer of risks or
 loan assets in such transactions. The details of purchase / sale of PSLCs during the year are as under:
    (` crore)
 For the year ended  For the year ended 
 March 31, 2025  March 31, 2024 
Type of PSLCs    
 PSLCs bought during PSLCs sold during PSLCs bought during PSLCs sold during the
 the year the year the year year
Agriculture - - - 29,445.50
Small and Marginal farmers 103,413.50 - 81,969.75 -
Micro Enterprises 8,000.00 79,441.75 - 19,054.50
General - 175,000.00 - 57,077.25
Total 111,413.50 254,441.75 81,969.75 105,577.25
The break-up of ‘Provisions and contingencies’ included in the Profit and Loss Account is given below:  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Provision for income tax1  
- Current 19,485.15 12,968.40
- Deferred 1,645.55 (2,885.38)
Provision for NPAs2 12,803.11 10,764.66
Provision for diminution in value of non-performing investments (87.81) 10.15
Provision for standard assets 198.39 1,146.05
Floating provisions - 10,900.00
Other provisions and contingencies3 (1,264.26) 671.29
Total 32,780.13 33,575.17
 (1,264.26)
671.29
Other provisions and contingencies3
Total 32,780.13
33,575.17
1. Provision for income tax is net of write back of provision no longer required of Nil (previous year: ` 6,325.04 crore), pursuant to
 favourable orders received.
2. Includes loss on sale of NPAs / stressed assets.
3. Includes provisions / (write-back) for tax, legal and other contingencies ` (518.03) crore (previous year: ` (336.39) crore, (provisions /
 (write-back) for securitised-out assets Nil (previous year: ` (26.81) crore) and provision / (write-back) towards investments in Alternate
 Investment Funds ` (746.24) crore (previous year: ` 1,034.49 crore).
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Presently, the Bank prepares and submits its  Ind AS Proforma information to the RBI on a half yearly basis. The Bank
is well prepared for  Ind AS implementation as and when it becomes applicable, with due consideration to updated
regulations, accounting standards / guidance and business strategy at the date of actual transition.
The RBI, vide its circular dated September 12, 2023 revised the norms on classification, measurement and valuation
of investments, in view of the significant development in the global standards. These norms are closer to Ind AS. The
Bank has implemented the revised norms with effect from April 01, 2024.
  Green deposits issued by RBI. 
20.  Other liabilities   
  • The Bank held provisions towards standard assets amounting to ` 10,862.90 crore as at March 31, 2025 (previous
   year: ` 10,663.71 crore). These are included under other liabilities.
  9 Provision for standard assets is made @ 0.25% for direct advances to agriculture, individual housing loans and
   Small and Micro Enterprises (SMEs) sectors, @ 1% for advances to commercial real estate sector, @ 0.75% for
   advances to commercial real estate - residential housing sector, @ 5% on restructured standard advances, @
   2% until after one year from the date on which the rates are reset at higher rates for housing loans offered at a
   comparatively lower rate of interest in the first few years and @ 2% on all exposures to the wholly owned step
   down subsidiaries of the overseas subsidiaries of Indian companies, sanctioned / renewed after December
   31, 2015.
  9 Provision is maintained at rates higher than the regulatory minimum, on standard advances based on evaluation
   of the risk and stress in various sectors as per the policy approved by the Board of the Bank.
  9 In accordance with regulatory guidelines and based on the information made available by its customers to the
   Bank, for exposures to customers who have not hedged their foreign currency exposures, provision for standard
   assets is made at levels ranging from 0.10% to 0.80% depending on the likely loss the entities could incur on
   account of exchange rate movements.
  9 Provision for standard assets of overseas branches is made at higher of rates prescribed by the overseas regulator
   or RBI.
   Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
  9 For all other loans and advances including credit exposures computed as per the current marked to market values
   of interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts, provision for standard assets is made @ 0.40%.
  9 In accordance with RBI guidelines, an additional provision is made @ 3% on the incremental exposure to the
   “Specified Borrowers” (except NBFCs / HFCs) beyond normally permitted lending limit (NPLL) as defined by RBI.
  • Other liabilities include contingent provisions of ` 14,219.29 crore as at March 31, 2025 (previous year: ` 15,513.35
   crore) in respect of advances and investments.
  • The Bank has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets
   and gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other
   liabilities as at March 31, 2025 include unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 14,079.86
   crore (previous year: ` 10,491.46 crore).
  • There is no item under Other Liabilities and Provisions “Others (including provisions)” exceeding 1% of total assets
   as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
the same are tabulated below:  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Cost  
As at March 31 of the previous year 6,638.72 5,305.33
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 138.04
Additions during the year 1,772.54 1,212.41
Deductions during the year (68.50) (17.05)
Total (a) 8,342.76 6,638.72
Depreciation  
As at March 31 of the previous year 4,691.97 3,828.16
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18 (1)) - 57.88
Charge for the year 994.31 822.98
On deductions during the year (67.34) (17.05)
Total (b) 5,618.94 4,691.97
Net value (a-b) 2,723.82 1,946.75
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Others 293.51 676.87
Total (a) 13,921.78 14,017.40
Deferred tax liability arising out of:  
Special reserve u/s 36(1)(viii) of the Income tax act, 1961 6,191.81 5,385.82
Investments and derivatives 961.97 216.55
Others 332.96 -
Total (b) 7,486.74 5,602.37
Deferred tax asset (net) (a-b) 6,435.04 8,415.03
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Deposits with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB # 107,160.11 118,007.02
Unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts* 17,131.14 10,797.41
Deferred tax assets 6,435.04 8,415.03
Accounts receivable 10,058.70 7,913.14
Deposits & amounts paid in advance 8,943.05 8,443.26
Advances for capital assets 4,801.21 5,074.45
Residual items 5.76 4.02
Total 154,535.01 158,654.33
# Deposits with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB exceeded 1% of total asset.  
25.  Other income 
• Commission, exchange and brokerage income
 Commission, exchange and brokerage income is presented net of related commission expenses.
• Miscellaneous income
 Miscellaneous income includes recoveries from written-off accounts amounting to ` 3,785.01 crore (previous year:
 ` 3,441.30 crore) exceeding 1% of the total income of the Bank.
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined  
benefit obligation  
Present value of obligation as at April 1 1,473.81 994.09
Liabilities assumed on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18 (1)) - 337.79
Interest cost 102.30 69.70
Current service cost 275.11 186.28
Benefits paid (105.84) (104.33)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:  
Experience adjustment (42.34) (31.29)
Assumption change 50.17 21.57
Present value of obligation as at March 31 1,753.21 1,473.81
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets  
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1 1,670.20 991.18
Assets assumed on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18 (1)) - 343.36
Expected return on plan assets 111.96 86.50
Contributions 77.71 65.00
Benefits paid (105.84) (104.33)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:  
Experience adjustment 20.63 288.49
Assumption change - -
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 1,774.66 1,670.20
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet  
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 1,774.66 1,670.20
Present value of obligation as at March 31 (1,753.21) (1,473.81)
Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in Para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘Employee Benefits’) - -
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 21.45 196.39
Expenses recognised in Profit and Loss Account  
Interest cost 102.30 69.70
Current service cost 275.11 186.28
Expected return on plan assets (111.96) (86.50)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year (12.80) (298.21)
Effect of the limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘Employee Benefits’ - -
Net cost 252.65 (128.73)
Actual return on plan assets 132.59 374.98
Estimated contribution for the next year 138.30 77.71
Assumptions  
Discount rate 6.70% per annum 7.20% per annum
Expected return on plan assets 6.50% per annum 6.50% per annum
Salary escalation rate 7.00% per annum 7.00% per annum
 Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Bank at the beginning of the 
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets  
are given below:  
  % of fair value to total plan assets as at
Category of plan assets  
 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Government securities 43.34% 45.55%
Debenture and bonds 15.97% 15.57%
Equity shares 35.05% 34.37%
Others 5.64% 4.51%
Total 100.00% 100.00%
     (` crore)
   Years ended March 31,  
Particulars     
 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021
Plan assets 1,774.66 1,670.20 991.18 895.44 743.24
Defined benefit obligation 1,753.21 1,473.81 994.09 910.43 857.58
Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in Para - - - - -
59(b) of AS 15 on ‘Employee Benefits’)     
Surplus / (deficit) 21.45 196.39 (2.91) (14.99) (114.34)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan assets 20.63 288.49 (36.90) 21.96 105.74
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan (42.34) (31.29) (7.81) (65.14) 26.48
liabilities     
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined  
benefit obligation  
Present value of obligation as at April 1 103.47 107.82
Interest cost 7.05 7.61
Current service cost 2.57 1.83
Past service cost - -
Benefits paid (11.17) (9.85)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:  
Experience adjustment 17.40 16.83
Assumption change 6.99 (20.77)
Present value of obligation as at March 31 126.31 103.47
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets  
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1 16.16 0.31
Expected return on plan assets 1.05 0.53
Contributions 9.99 24.18
Benefits paid (11.17) (9.85)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:  
Experience adjustment 0.13 0.99
Assumption change - -
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 16.16 16.16
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet  
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 16.16 16.16
Present value of obligation as at March 31 (126.31) (103.47)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 (110.15) (87.31)
Expenses recognised in Profit and Loss Account  
Interest cost 7.05 7.61
Current service cost 2.57 1.83
Past service cost - -
Expected return on plan assets (1.05) (0.53)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year 24.26 (4.94)
Net cost 32.83 3.97
Actual return on plan assets 1.18 1.53
Estimated contribution for the next year 12.98 7.78
Assumptions  
Discount rate 6.70% per annum 7.20% per annum
Expected return on plan assets 6.50% per annum 6.50% per annum
Salary escalation rate 7.00% per annum 7.00% per annum
 Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Bank at the beginning of the 
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets  
are given below:  
  % of fair value to total plan assets as at
Category of plan assets  
 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Government securities 8.81% 8.81%
Debenture and bonds 1.06% 1.02%
Others 90.13% 90.17%
Total 100.00% 100.00%
     (` crore)
   Years ended March 31,  
Particulars     
 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021
Plan assets 16.16 16.16 0.31 0.88 0.33
Defined benefit obligation 126.31 103.47 107.82 88.02 89.99
Surplus / (deficit) (110.15) (87.31) (107.51) (87.14) (89.66)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan assets 0.13 0.99 0.22 0.39 (0.20)
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan 17.40 16.83 3.32 6.44 31.41
liabilities     
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Provident fund
The guidance note on AS-15, Employee Benefits, states that employer established provident funds, where interest is
guaranteed are to be considered as defined benefit plans and the liability has to be valued. The Institute of Actuaries of
India (IAI) has issued a guidance note on valuation of interest rate guarantees on exempt provident funds. The actuary
has accordingly valued the same and the Bank held a provision of Nil as at March 31, 2025 (previous year: Nil), towards
the present value of the guaranteed interest benefit obligation. The actuary has followed the deterministic approach as
prescribed by the guidance note.
Assumptions
 Business segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the target customer profile, the nature of products
 and services, the differing risks and returns, the organisation structure, the internal business reporting system and the
 guidelines prescribed by RBI. The Bank operates in the following segments:
a) Treasury
 The treasury segment primarily consists of net interest earnings from the Bank’s investment portfolio, money market
 borrowing and lending, gains or losses on investment operations and on account of trading in foreign exchange and
 derivative contracts.
b) Retail banking
 i. 
 Digital banking
 The digital banking segment represents business by Digital Banking Units (DBUs) of the Bank. The said DBUs
 serves retail customers through the Bank’s digital network and other online channels. This segment raises
 deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers.
 Revenues of the DBUs are derived from interest earned on retail loans, fees from services rendered, etc. Expenses
 of this segment primarily comprise of interest expense on deposits, infrastructure and premises expenses for
 operating the DBUs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of specialist product groups.
 SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  For the year ended March 31, 2025
ii. Non-Digital Banking 
  The retail banking segment serves retail customers through the Bank’s branch network and other channels.
  This segment raises deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers with the help
  of specialist product groups. Exposures are classified under retail banking taking into account the status of the
 borrower (orientation criterion), the nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum thereof. 
  Revenues of the retail banking segment are derived from interest earned on retail loans, interest earned from other
  segments for surplus funds placed with those segments, subvention received from dealers and manufacturers,
  fees from services rendered, foreign exchange earnings on retail products etc. Expenses of this segment primarily
  comprise interest expense on deposits, commission paid to retail assets sales agents, infrastructure and premises
  expenses for operating the branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads
 and allocated expenses of specialist product groups, processing units and support groups. 
Business segments:       
       (` crore)
Sr. Particulars Treasury Retail banking  Wholesale Other Total
     banking banking 
No.       
   Digital Non-Digital   
      Operations 
   banking # Banking   
1 Segment revenue 62,227.48 8.59 283,426.20 191,964.51 35,449.05 573,075.83
2 Unallocated revenue      -
3 Less: Inter-segment revenue      226,926.51
4 Income from operations (1) + (2) - (3)      346,149.32
5 Segment results 4,605.36 0.04 27,309.07 44,543.96 14,363.75 90,822.18
6 Unallocated expenses      2,344.12
7 Income tax expense (including      21,130.70
 deferred tax)      
8 Net profit (5) - (6) - (7)      67,347.36
9 Segment assets 991,874.12 81.15 1,533,809.12 1,247,937.97 112,358.81 3,886,061.17
10 Unallocated assets      24,137.77
11 Total assets (9) + (10)      3,910,198.94
12 Segment liabilities 83,340.18 86.16 2,312,429.69 956,136.34 8,513.18 3,360,505.55
13 Unallocated liabilities      48,268.77
14 Total liabilities (12) + (13)      3,408,774.32
15 Capital employed (9) - (12)      525,555.62
 (Segment assets - Segment liabilities)      
16 Unallocated (10) - (13)      (24,131.00)
17 Total (15) + (16)      501,424.62
18 Capital expenditure 71.43 - 4,399.07 400.46 833.05 5,704.01
19 Depreciation 30.20 - 2,774.26 250.78 324.23 3,379.47
20 Provisions for non - performing assets - - 9,138.23 (1,729.99) 4,241.18 11,649.42
 / others*      
21 Unallocated other provisions* - - - - - -
Sr. Particulars Treasury Retail banking Wholesale  Other  Total
No.    banking  banking  
  Digital Non-Digital     
      Operations  
  banking # Banking     
1 Segment revenue 61,653.66
3.37 233,634.50 175,520.23  30,050.38  500,862.14
2 Unallocated revenue       -
3 Less: Inter-segment revenue       193,280.57
4 Income from operations (1) + (2) - (3)       307,581.57
5 Segment results** 14,190.10
(1.23) 15,661.14 32,280.98  11,104.00  73,234.99
6 Unallocated expenses       2,339.68
7 Income tax expense (including       10,083.03
 deferred tax)       
8 Net profit (5) - (6) - (7)       60,812.28
9 Segment assets 822,926.80
51.34 1,395,037.69 1,274,899.43  97,097.23  3,590,012.49
10 Unallocated assets       27,610.60
11 Total assets (9) + (10)       3,617,623.09
12 Segment liabilities** 94,557.67
56.18 2,046,617.47 973,987.85  8,212.98  3,123,432.15
13 Unallocated liabilities       53,945.13
14 Total liabilities (12) + (13)       3,177,377.28
15 Capital employed (9) - (12)       466,580.34
 (Segment assets - Seg-ment liabilities)       
16 Unallocated (10) - (13)       (26,334.53)
17 Total (15) + (16)       440,245.81
18 Capital expenditure 31.45 -
4,168.78  49.06  532.55 4,781.84
19 Depreciation 26.01 -
2,343.71 204.67   235.71 2,810.10
20 Provisions for non-performing assets - -
13,644.00 5,935.15  3,913.00  23,492.15
 / others*       
21 Unallocated other pro-visions* - -  -  - -
Geographic segments:   
   (` crore)
Particulars Domestic International Total
Revenue 302,942.78 4,638.77 307,581.55
Assets 3,542,043.24 75,579.82 3,617,623.06
Capital expenditure 4,780.51 1.33 4,781.84
29.  Related party disclosures
As per AS-18, Related Party Disclosures read with RBI Master Direction on Financial Statements – Presentation and
Disclosures, the Bank’s related parties are disclosed below:
Subsidiaries
HDB Financial Services Limited
HDFC Securities Limited
HDFC Securities IFSC Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Securities Limited; with effect from October 01, 2024)
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited
HDFC Pension Fund Management Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited)
HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited)
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited
HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Asset Management Company Limited)
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited
HDFC Trustee Company Limited
HDFC Sales Private Limited
HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited (ceased to be a related party with effect from October 18,
2024)
Griha Investments
Griha Pte Limited
Welfare Trust of the Bank
HDB Employees Welfare Trust
Key management personnel
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
Ms. Nagsri Sashidhar, Mr. Dhruv Sashidhar, Mr. Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Ms. Mythra Mahesh, Mr. Mahesh Babu
Ramamurthy, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories, Ms. Havovi Bharucha, Mr. Huzaan Bharucha, Mr. Danesh Bharucha,
 SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 For the year ended March 31, 2025
 Mr. Darius Bharucha, Ms. Dilnaaz D Bharucha, Ms. Mala B. Zaveri, Ms. Bhakti Zaveri, Mr. Akash Metawala, Ms. Niharika
 Zaveri, Mr. Dev Metawala, Mr. Paresh Zaveri, Ms. Kavita Zaveri, Mr. Hitesh Zaveri, Mr. Tushar Pandey (with effect from
 February 23, 2025), Aurionpro Solutions Limited, Trejhara Solutions Limited, Ms. S. Anuradha, Ms. V. Jayam, Ms. S.
Abinaya Rangan. 
 The significant transactions between the Bank and related parties for year ended March 31, 2025 are given below. A
 specific related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in
that category: 
• Interest paid: HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited ` 382.33 crore; HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
 ` 87.90 crore
Items / Related party Subsidiaries Key  Relatives of Total
  management  KMP & their 
  personnel  interested 
  (KMP)  entities 
Deposits taken 3,820.22  11.31 195.53 4,027.06
 (3,820.22)  (32.51) (195.53) (4,048.26)
Deposits placed 10.93  0.02 0.02 10.97
 (10.93)  (0.02) (0.02) (10.97)
Borrowings 5,900.90  - - 5,900.90
 (6,495.90)  - - (6,495.90)
Advances given 6,733.76  2.74 0.31 6,736.81
 (9,450.35)  (2.74) (0.61) (9,453.70)
Fixed assets purchased from 0.44  - 19.53 19.97
Fixed assets sold to -  - - -
Interest paid to 522.65  0.64 8.31 531.60
Interest received from 692.65  0.13 0.03 692.81
Income from services rendered to 4,632.74  0.01 0.52 4,633.27
Expenses for receiving services from 2,610.22  0.12 12.57 2,622.91
Equity investments 13,749.39  - - 13,749.39
 (0.26)
-
 (84.76)
(85.02)
Remuneration paid -
34.62
 -   
34.62
# Denotes amount less than  ` 1 lakh.
• Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each
 quarter-end.
• Remuneration paid is ` 11.23 crore to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, ` 8.02 crore to Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, ` 6.52 crore to Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri
 and ` 8.85 crore to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan.
 (above excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year).
• Bonus and retiral beneﬁts for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key
 managerial personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2025, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect
 of earlier years was ` 14.51 crore.
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank sold SLR securities of ` 125.15 crore to HDFC ERGO General Insurance
 (above excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year).
• Bonus and retiral beneﬁts for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key
 managerial personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2025, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect
 of earlier years was ` 14.51 crore.
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank sold SLR securities of ` 125.15 crore to HDFC ERGO General Insurance
Company Limited. 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank bought back Non SLR securities of ` 174.63 crore from HDFC Life
Insurance Company Limited. 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank sold Non SLR securities of ` 2,052.09 crore to HDFC Life Insurance
 Company Limited, ` 888.02 crore to HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited and ` 5.01 crore to HDFC Pension
Fund Management Limited. 
 The deposit outstanding from HDB Employees Welfare Trust as at March 31, 2025 was ` 0.94 crore and interest on deposit
aggregating to ` 0.10 crore. 
 The Bank’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2024 are summarised as
follows: 
Promoter 
 Erstwhile Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (amalgamated with and into the Bank with effect from July
01, 2023) 
Subsidiaries 
HDFC Securities Limited 
HDB Financial Services Limited 
SCHEDULES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Pursuant to the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into the Bank, following entities became
subsidiaries of the Bank with effect from July 01, 2023
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited
HDFC Pension Management Company Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited)
HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited)
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited
HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited (Subsidiary of HDFC Asset Management Company Limited)
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited (ceased to be a related party with effect from March 19, 2024)
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited
HDFC Trustee Company Limited
HDFC Sales Private Limited
HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited
Griha Investments
Griha Pte Limited
Welfare Trust of the Bank
HDB Employees Welfare Trust
Key management personnel
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director (appointed with effect from April 19, 2023)
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director (appointed with effect from November 23, 2023)
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
Ms. Nagsri Sashidhar, Mr. Dhruv Sashidhar, Mr. Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Ms. Mythra Mahesh, Mr. Mahesh Babu
Ramamurthy, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories, Ms. Havovi Bharucha, Mr. Huzaan Bharucha, Mr. Danesh Bharucha,
Mr. Darius Bharucha, Ms. Dilnaaz D Bharucha
With effect from April 19, 2023 – Ms. Mala B. Zaveri, Ms. Bhakti Zaveri, Mr. Akash Metawala, Ms. Niharika Zaveri, Mr. Dev
Metawala, Mr. Paresh Zaveri, Ms. Kavita Zaveri, Mr. Hitesh Zaveri, Aurionpro Solutions Limited, Trejhara  Solutions Limited
With effect from November 23, 2023 – Ms. S. Anuradha, Ms. V. Jayam, Ms. S. Abinaya Rangan
Items / Related party Promoter Subsidiaries Key management Relatives of Total
   personnel (KMP) KMP & their 
    interested 
    entities 
Deposits taken - 3,084.99 8.54 37.65 3,131.18
 (6,503.24) (3,084.99) (20.56) (37.65) (9,646.44)
Deposits placed - 10.93 0.02 0.02 10.97
 (0.49) (10.93) (0.02) (0.02) (11.46)
Borrowings - 6,285.90 - - 6,285.90
 - (6,285.90) - - (6,285.90)
Advances given - 9,730.59 2.42 0.43 9,733.44
 - (12,094.13) (2.67) (1.03) (12,097.83)
Fixed assets purchased from - - - 13.13 13.13
Fixed assets sold to - - - - -
Interest paid to 3.06 391.63 0.44 0.99 396.12
Interest received from - 971.38 0.29 0.03 971.70
Income from services rendered to 161.15 3,112.17 0.01 0.05 3,273.38
Expenses for receiving services from 236.64 3,769.80 0.12 13.86 4,020.42
Equity investments - 12,639.62 - - 12,639.62
 - (15,074.59) - # (15,074.59)
Other investments - 824.77 - - 824.77
 - (3,834.69) - - (3,834.69)
Dividend paid to - - 7.41 1.13 8.54
Dividend received from - 1,332.39 - 0.01 1,332.40
Receivable from / Advances paid - 717.42 - - 717.42
 (0.58) (887.45) - - (888.03)
Payable to - 136.72 - - 136.72
 (81.70) (136.72) - - (218.42)
  For the year ended March 31, 2025   
     (` crore)
Items / Related party Promoter Subsidiaries Key management Relatives of Total
   personnel (KMP) KMP & their 
    interested 
    entities 
Guarantees given - 0.26 - 68.43 68.69
 (0.02) (0.51) - (68.43) (68.96)
Remuneration paid - - 27.18 - 27.18
Loans purchased from 11,632.00 - - - 11,632.00
# 
Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.     
 (0.02)
(0.51)
-
(68.43)
(68.96)
Remuneration paid -
-
27.18
-
27.18
Loans purchased from 11,632.00
-
-
-
11,632.00
# Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh.
• Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each
 quarter-end.
• Remuneration paid is ` 9.91 crore to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, ` 9.92 crore to Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, ` 5.05 crore to Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri and
 ` 2.30 crore to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan.
 (above excludes value of employee stock options exercised during the year).
• Bonus and retiral beneﬁts for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key
 managerial personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2024, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect
 of earlier years was ` 10.87 crore.
 During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank purchased ` 198.93 crore debt securities from HDB Financial Services
• Bonus and retiral beneﬁts for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key
 managerial personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2024, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect
 of earlier years was ` 10.87 crore.
 During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank purchased ` 198.93 crore debt securities from HDB Financial Services
 Limited issued by it. The Bank also purchased Non SLR securities of ` 52.28 crore from HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited.
 During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank sold SLR securities of ` 96.69 crore to HDFC Life Insurance Company
 Limited. The Bank also sold Non SLR securities of ` 721.42 crore and ` 705.81 crore to HDFC Life Insurance Company
 Limited and HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited respectively.
 The deposit outstanding from HDB Employees Welfare Trust as at March 31, 2024 was ` 3.57 crore and interest on deposit
aggregating to ` 0.10 crore. 
30.  Leases 
 Operating leases primarily comprise office premises, staff residences and Automated Teller Machines (‘ATM’s), which are
renewable at the option of the Bank. 
Lease Payments 
 The details of maturity profile of future operating lease payments are given below:
 (` crore)
The details of maturity profile of future operating lease payments are given below:  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Not later than one year 2,227.80 1,925.37
Later than one year and not later than five years 8,352.80 7,242.50
Later than five years 11,300.28 9,813.79
Total 21,880.88 18,981.66
Total of minimum lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year 2,590.94 2,193.37
Total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non- 4.31 14.28
cancellable sub-leases  
Sub-lease amounts recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for the year 1.84 6.01
Contingent (usage based) lease payments recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for 279.35 470.37
the year  
Lease Income  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Gross carrying amount of the assets 46.13 137.83
Accumulated depreciation of the assets 11.54 31.18
Total depreciation recognised in the Profit and Loss account for the year 0.94 3.70
Following is the reconciliation between the basic and diluted earnings per equity share:  
 For the years ended 
Particulars  
 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Nominal value per share (`) 1.00 1.00
Basic earnings per share (`) 88.29 85.83
Effect of potential equity shares per share (`) (0.39) (0.39)
Diluted earnings per share (`) 87.90 85.44
a) Provision for credit card and debit card reward points 
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening provision for reward points 863.54 696.31
Provision for reward points made during the year 933.51 792.11
Utilisation / write-back of provision for reward points (749.61) (624.88)
Closing provision for reward points 1,047.44 863.54
c) Description of contingent liabilities
Sr. 
 Contingent liability*
Brief description
No. 
1 Claims against the Bank not 
The Bank is a party to various taxation matters in respect of which appeals are
 acknowledged as debts – taxation
pending. The Bank expects the outcome of the appeals to be favorable based on
 decisions on similar issues in the previous years by the appellate authorities, based
 on the facts of the case and taxation laws.
2 Claims against the Bank not 
The Bank is a party to various legal proceedings in the normal course of business.
 acknowledged as debts – others
The Bank does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material
 adverse  effect  on  the  Bank’s  financial  conditions,  results  of  operations  or  cash
 flows.
3 Partly paid investments
This 
represents  amount 
remaining  unpaid 
towards 
liability 
for  partly  paid
 investments.
4 Liability on account of forward 
The Bank enters into foreign exchange contracts, currency options, forward rate
 exchange and derivative contracts
agreements, currency swaps and interest rate swaps with inter-bank participants
 on 
its  own  account  and 
for  customers.  Forward  exchange  contracts  are
 commitments  to  buy  or  sell  foreign  currency  at  a  future  date  at  the  contracted
 rate.  Currency  swaps  are  commitments  to  exchange  cash  flows  by  way  of
 interest  /  principal  in  one  currency  against  another,  based  on  predetermined
 rates. 
Interest  rate  swaps  are  commitments 
to  exchange  fixed  and  floating
 interest  rate  cash  flows.  The  notional  amounts  of  financial  instruments  such  as
 foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with
 instruments recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the
 amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments
 and, therefore, do not indicate the Bank’s exposure to credit or price risks. The
 derivative  instruments  become  favorable  (assets)  or  unfavorable  (liabilities)  as  a
 result of fluctuations in market rates or prices relative to their terms.
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
5 Guarantees given on behalf of As a part of its commercial banking activities, the Bank issues documentary credit
 constituents, acceptances, and guarantees on behalf of its customers. Documentary credits such as letters of
 endorsements and credit enhance the credit standing of the Bank’s customers. Guarantees generally
 other obligations represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of
  the customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
6 Other items for which the Bank is These include: a) Credit enhancements in respect of securitised-out loans; b) Bills
 contingently liable rediscounted by the Bank; c) Capital commitments; d) Underwriting commitments;
  e)  Investment  purchases  pending  settlement;  f)  Amount  transferred  to  the  RBI
  under the Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEA Fund).
contingently liable rediscounted by the Bank; c) Capital commitments; d) Underwriting commitments;
 e)  Investment  purchases  pending  settlement;  f)  Amount  transferred  to  the  RBI
 under the Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEA Fund).
*Also refer Schedule 12 - Contingent liabilities 
33.  Small and micro industries 
 Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from October 02, 2006,
 certain disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. There have been no reported
 cases of delays in payments to micro and small enterprises or of interest payments due to delays in such payments during
 the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024. The above is based on the information available with the Bank which
has been relied upon by the auditors. 
34.  Corporate social responsibility 
 The details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities carried out in line with the CSR Policy of the Bank are
given below: 
given below:     
     (` crore)
Sr.     
 Particulars  March 31, 2025  March 31, 2024
No.     
1 Amount required to be spent by the Bank during the year  1,060.03  950.28
2 Amount of expenditure incurred*  1,068.03  945.06
3 Amount available for set off from preceding financial years  0.86  6.24
4 Amount required to be setoff for the financial year  -  5.22
5 Shortfall at the end of the year  -  -
6 Details of unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years  -  -
7 Reason for shortfall  -  -
8 Nature of CSR activities - Education - Education
  - Livelihood - Livelihood and Skill
   and Skill  development
   development - Rural Development
  - Rural - Health and
   Development  Sanitation
  - Health and - Financial literacy
   Sanitation  & Inclusion
  - Environmental - Natural Resource
   sustainability  Management
For the year ended March 31, 2025
36.  Disclosure under Rule 11 (e) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances to its constituents including foreign entities
with permission to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like in other entities identified by such constituents.
Similarly, the Bank accepts deposits from its constituents, who may instruct the Bank to lend/invest/provide guarantee or
security or the like against such deposit in other entities identified by such constituents.
These transactions are part of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted after exercising proper due diligence
including adherence to “Know Your Customer” guidelines as applicable in respective jurisdiction.
Other than the nature of transactions described above, the Bank has not advanced / lent / invested / provided guarantee
or security to or in any other person with an understanding to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to or
in any other person. Similarly, other than the nature of transactions described above, the Bank has not received any funds
from any other person with an understanding that the Bank shall lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to
or in any other person.
37.  Audit trail
As per the requirements of rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules 2014 the Bank uses only such accounting software
for maintaining its books of account that have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log). This feature of recording audit trail
has operated throughout the year and was not tampered with, except that the audit trail feature was not enabled for part of
the year for certain masters in two accounting software and two databases, and throughout the year for other databases.
Further, the Bank has preserved the audit trail for the prior financial year in compliance with statutory record retention
requirements, except in relation to certain software and databases for which audit trail feature was not enabled. The Bank
has established and maintained an adequate internal control framework and based on its assessment, believes that this
was effective as of March 31, 2025.
38.  Comparative figures
Figures for the previous year have been regrouped and reclassified wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s
presentation. The previous year comparative numbers were jointly audited by M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants
and Price Waterhouse LLP, Chartered Accountants.
 presentation. The previous year comparative numbers were jointly audited by M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants  
 and Price Waterhouse LLP, Chartered Accountants.  
As per our report of even date.  For and on behalf of the Board 
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:  
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
  Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta  
Partner Partner Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976 Independent Director Independent Director
  Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
  Executive Director Executive Director
  Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
  Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
  Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025  Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
B A S E L   I I I   -   P I L L A R   3   D I S C L O S U R E S
As at March 31, 2025
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) requires banks to make Pillar 3 disclosures including leverage ratio, liquidity coverage ratio
and net stable funding ratio under the Basel III Framework. These disclosures are available on HDFC Bank’s website under the
‘Regulatory Disclosures’ section. The link to this section is given below:
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/resources/regulatory-disclosures
The Regulatory Disclosures section contains the following disclosures:
The Regulatory Disclosures section contains the following disclosures: 
• Qualitative and quantitative Pillar 3 disclosures:
 Scope of application 

 Capital adequacy 

 Credit risk  

 Credit risk: Portfolios subject to the standardised approach

 Credit risk mitigation: Disclosures for standardised approach

 Securitisation exposures 

 Market risk in trading book  

 Operational risk  

 Asset Liability Management (‘ALM’) risk management 

 General disclosures for exposures related to counterparty credit risk

 Equities: Disclosure for banking book positions

 I N D E P E N D E N T   A U D I T O R ’ S   R E P O R T
To the Members of HDFC Bank Limited 
Report on Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Opinion 
1. We have jointly audited the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of HDFC Bank Limited (hereinafter referred
 to as the “Bank” or the “Parent”) and its subsidiaries (Parent and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”) and
 Employee Welfare Trust, which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, and the Consolidated
 Profit and Loss Account and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and notes to the Consolidated
 Financial Statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter
 referred to as “the Consolidated Financial Statements”).
2. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Consolidated
 Financial Statements give the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as the Companies Act, 2013
 (“the Act”) in the manner so required for banking companies and are in conformity with accounting principles generally
 accepted in India and give a true and fair view of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group and Employee Welfare Trust
 as at March 31, 2025, and the consolidated profit and the consolidated cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion 
3. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act
 and other applicable authoritative pronouncements issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”).
 Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
 Consolidated Financial Statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Group and Employee Welfare Trust,
 in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements in India
 in terms of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI and the relevant provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we
 have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe
 that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports
 referred to in sub-paragraphs 18 of the “Other Matters” section below is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
 our opinion.
Key Audit Matters 
4. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the
 Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025. These matters were addressed in the context of
 our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide
 a separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be
 communicated in our report.
and  Provisioning  pertaining 
to  Advances” 
(the 
“IRAC  norms”) design and operating effectiveness of key controls, including
and  amendments 
thereto,  which  prescribe 
the  guidelines 
for Information Technology based controls, and focused on the
identification  and  classification  of  Non-performing  Advances  and following:
the minimum provision required for such assets. 
 • 
Monitoring  of  credit  quality  which  amongst  other  things
The  Bank  is  also  required  to  apply  its  judgement  to  determine 
 includes  the  monitoring  of  overdue  loan  accounts  and
the  identification  and  provision  required  against  Non-performing 
 drawing power, pending security creation;
Advances  considering  various  quantitative  as  well  as  qualitative 
factors.  The 
identification  of  Non-performing  Advances 
is  also 
 • 
Identification 
and 
classification 
of 
Non-performing
affected  by  factors  like  stress  and  liquidity  concerns  in  certain 
 Advances 
in 
accordance  with 
IRAC 
norms 
and
sectors. 
 consideration of qualitative factors; and
The provision for identified Non-performing Advances is estimated 
 • 
Testing 
of 
application 
controls 
including 
testing 
of
based  on  ageing  and  classification  of  Non-performing  Advances, 
 automated controls, reports and system reconciliations.
nature  of  product,  value  of  security  etc.,  and  is  also  subject  to 
the  minimum  provisioning  norms  specified  by  RBI.  Since 
the 
Identification and Provisioning of Non-performing Advances (NPA): 
Total NPA as at March 31, 2025: ` 35,194.95 crores 
Provision for NPA as at March 31, 2025: ` 23,874.52 crores 
(Refer Schedule 9 and Schedule 17 (D)(3)) 
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The  Bank  is  required  to  comply  with  the  Master  Circular  dated Our audit procedures included the following:
April  02,  2024  issued  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  (“RBI”)  on 
“Prudential  Norms  on 
Income  Recognition,  Asset  Classification Understood 
the  process  and  controls,  and 
tested 
the 
 ¾
and  Provisioning  pertaining 
to  Advances” 
(the 
“IRAC  norms”) design and operating effectiveness of key controls, including
and  amendments 
thereto,  which  prescribe 
the  guidelines 
for Information Technology based controls, and focused on the
identification  and  classification  of  Non-performing  Advances  and following:
the minimum provision required for such assets. 
 • 
Monitoring  of  credit  quality  which  amongst  other  things
The  Bank  is  also  required  to  apply  its  judgement  to  determine 
 includes  the  monitoring  of  overdue  loan  accounts  and
the  identification  and  provision  required  against  Non-performing 
 drawing power, pending security creation;
Advances  considering  various  quantitative  as  well  as  qualitative 
factors.  The 
identification  of  Non-performing  Advances 
is  also 
 • 
Identification 
and 
classification 
of 
Non-performing
affected  by  factors  like  stress  and  liquidity  concerns  in  certain 
 Advances 
in 
accordance  with 
IRAC 
norms 
and
sectors. 
 consideration of qualitative factors; and
The provision for identified Non-performing Advances is estimated 
 • 
Testing 
of 
application 
controls 
including 
testing 
of
based  on  ageing  and  classification  of  Non-performing  Advances, 
 automated controls, reports and system reconciliations.
nature  of  product,  value  of  security  etc.,  and  is  also  subject  to 
the  minimum  provisioning  norms  specified  by  RBI.  Since 
the 
identification of Non-performing Advances and provisioning for Non- Evaluated 
the 
governance 
process 
and 
controls 
over 
 ¾
performing  Advances  requires  considerable  level  of  management calculations  of  provision  for  Non-performing  Advances  and
estimation,  application  of  various  regulatory  requirements  and  in tested that the basis of provisioning is in accordance with the
view of its significance to the overall audit, we have identified this as Board of Directors approved policy and IRAC norms.
a key audit matter. 
 On  a  sample  basis,  recomputed  the  Days  Past  Due  and 
 ¾
Information Technology (“IT”) Systems and Controls impacting Financial Reporting 
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The  IT  environment  of  the  Bank  is  complex  and  involves  a  large Our procedures with respect to this matter included the following:
number of independent and interdependent IT systems used in the 
operations of the Bank for processing and recording a large volume In assessing the controls over the IT systems of the Bank, we 
 ¾
of transactions. involved our technology specialists to obtain an understanding
 of  the  IT  environment,  IT  infrastructure  and  IT  systems.  We
As a result, there is a high degree of reliance and dependency on evaluated and tested relevant IT general controls over the “in-
such IT systems for the financial reporting process of the Bank. scope” IT systems and IT dependencies identified as relevant
 for  our  audit  of  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and
Appropriate 
IT  general  controls  and 
IT  application  controls  are financial reporting process of the Bank. On such “in-scope”
required  to  ensure  that  such  IT  systems  are  able  to  process  the IT systems, we tested key IT general controls with respect to
data as required, completely, accurately, and consistently for reliable the following domains:
financial reporting. 
 • 
Program  change  management,  which 
includes 
that
We  have  identified  certain  key  IT  systems  (“in-scope”  IT  systems) program 
changes 
are  moved 
to 
the 
production
which  have  an  impact  on  the  financial  reporting  process  and  the environment  as  per  defined  procedures  and 
relevant
related controls testing as a key audit matter because of the high segregation of environment is ensured.
level  of  automation,  significant  number  of  systems  being  used  by 
the Bank for processing financial transactions, the complexity of the • 
User  access  management,  which  includes  user  access
IT architecture and its impact on the financial records and financial provisioning,  de-provisioning,  access  review,  password
reporting process of the Bank. management,  sensitive  access  rights  and  segregation
 of duties to ensure that privilege access to applications,
 operating  systems  and  databases 
in 
the  production
 environment were granted only to authorized personnel.
 • 
Program  development,  which  includes  controls  over  IT
 application  development  or  implementation  and  related
 infrastructure, which are relied upon for financial reporting.
 • 
IT operations, which includes job scheduling, monitoring
 and backup and recovery.
 HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Parent, vide their communication dated April 18, 2025 which
are reproduced by us as under: 
Appropriateness of the Timing of Revenue Recognition in the proper period in accordance with applicable guidelines / accounting standards 
Key Audit Matter How our audit has addressed the key audit matter
During  the  year,  the  Holding  Company  has  recognised  premium In  view  of  the  significance  of  the  matter,  we  applied  the  following
revenue  of  `  3,336,530  lakhs  towards  new  business  (first  year audit procedures in this area, among others:
premium and single premium). Out of the total revenue recognised, 
` 1,096,923 lakhs were recognised during the last quarter. Understood  and  evaluated 
the  design  and  controls  and
 tested 
the  operating  effectiveness  of  key  controls  relating
This  area  was  considered  a  key  audit  matter  because  of 
the to  recognition  of  revenue  including  controls  over  timing  of
significant  concentration  of 
revenue  during 
the 
last  quarter  of recognition and policy issuance procedure.
financial year (including cut-off at the Balance sheet date). Due to 
the nature of the industry, revenue is skewed towards the balance 2) 
Performed testing on a sample basis for policies issued around
sheet  date.  Hence,  there 
is  a  need  to  have  adequate  control the year-end including effectiveness of controls relating to cut-
environment  and  accurate  cut-off  procedures  to  mitigate  inherent off procedures to confirm if related procedural compliances with
risk of misstatement related to the timing of revenue recognition. regard to acceptability of the terms of policy were completed
 before or after the year end to verify appropriate accounting of
 revenue in accordance with applicable guidelines / accounting
 standards.
 3) 
Verified on a sample basis that policy sales of the next financial
 year are not accounted for in the current period.
 4) 
Tested  on  a  sample  basis, 
the  unallocated  premium 
to
 corroborate that there were no policies where risk commenced
 prior to balance sheet but revenue was not recognised.
 5) 
Tested 
the  manual  accounting 
journal  entries 
relating 
to
 revenue on a sample basis so as to identify unusual or irregular
 items.  We  agreed  the  journal  entries  tested  to  supporting
 evidence.
 6) 
Tested on a sample basis cheques receipt with the time stamp
 in case of products like Unit Linked Insurance Plan to confirm
 the recognition of the revenue in correct accounting period.
 7) 
Tested the automated control that the issuance of the policy is
 done after the payment is received.
  4) On  a  test  check  basis,  recomputed  valuation  of  different
   class  of 
investments 
to  assess  valuation  methodologies
Investments in non-linked and shareholders portfolio of ` 23,465,338   
   with  reference  to  the  Regulations  along  with  the  Holding
lakhs are valued as per the accounting policy, based on which:   
   Company’s Board approved valuation policy;
• the unrealized gains / losses arising due to changes in fair value  
  5) Examined  movement  and  accounting  in  Fair  Value  Change
 of listed equity shares and mutual fund units are recorded in  
   account for specific investments. Further, in case of revaluation
 the “Fair Value Change Account” in the Consolidated Balance  
   done 
for 
investment  properties,  examined 
the  underlying
 Sheet; and  
   valuation  report  recomputed  the  movement  in  “Revaluation
   reserve”;
• debt  securities  and  unlisted  equity  shares  are  valued  at  
 historical cost.  
  6) Obtained written representations from the Holding Company
   on compliance of valuation of investments with the regulations
Valuation of Investments Portfolio (31 March 2025: ` 33,628,153, 31 March 2024: ` 29,222,008) (` in lakhs) 
Key Audit Matter How our audit has addressed the key audit matter
The 
Holding 
Company’s 
investment 
portfolio 
consists 
of In  view  of  the  significance  of  the  matter,  we  applied  the  following
Policyholders 
investments 
(unit 
linked 
and 
non-linked) 
and audit procedures in this area, among others:
Shareholders 
investments.  Total 
investment  portfolio  represents 
around 99 % of the Holding Company’s total assets as at 31 March 1) 
Obtained  an  understanding  of  the  Company’s  process  and
2025. controls over the valuation of investments. The understanding
 was  obtained  by  performance  of  walkthroughs,  which
As prescribed by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority included inspection of documents produced by the Company
of India (the “IRDAI”) investments including derivative instruments, and inquiries with those involved in the pertinent process;
should be made in accordance with the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development  Authority  of 
India 
(Investment)  Regulations,  2016 
 2) 
Examined 
the 
design, 
implementation 
and 
operating
(the “Investment Regulations”) and policies approved by Board of 
 effectiveness  of  key  controls  over 
the  valuation  process.
Directors of the Holding Company. 
 Assessed the Holding Company’s assessment and approval
 of 
assumptions 
used 
for 
the 
valuation 
including 
key
Investments in unit linked portfolio of  ` 10,162,815 lakhs are valued authorisation and data input controls thereof;
based  on  observable  inputs  as  per  their  accounting  policy  and 
gains / losses are recognised in revenue account. These unit linked 
 3) 
Obtained independent balance confirmations for investments
portfolio investments do not have risk of significant misstatement. 
 as at balance sheet date from the custodians and depository
The  valuation  of  unlisted  or  not 
frequently 
traded 
investments 
 participants appointed by the Holding Company to check the
involves  management 
judgement.  Due 
to 
their  significance 
to 
 units of securities for the purpose of valuation re-computation;
consolidated  financial  statements,  the  same  is  considered  as  key 
audit matter. 
 4) 
On  a  test  check  basis,  recomputed  valuation  of  different
 class  of 
investments 
to  assess  valuation  methodologies
Investments in non-linked and shareholders portfolio of ` 23,465,338 
 with  reference  to  the  Regulations  along  with  the  Holding
lakhs are valued as per the accounting policy, based on which: 
 Company’s Board approved valuation policy;
• 
the unrealized gains / losses arising due to changes in fair value 
 5) 
Examined  movement  and  accounting  in  Fair  Value  Change
of listed equity shares and mutual fund units are recorded in 
 account for specific investments. Further, in case of revaluation
the “Fair Value Change Account” in the Consolidated Balance 
 done 
for 
investment  properties,  examined 
the  underlying
Sheet; and 
 valuation  report  recomputed  the  movement  in  “Revaluation
 reserve”;
• 
debt  securities  and  unlisted  equity  shares  are  valued  at 
historical cost. 
 6) 
Obtained written representations from the Holding Company
 on compliance of valuation of investments with the regulations
Further,  investments  in  the  non-linked  and  shareholders  portfolio and adequacy of impairment recorded for the year.
are assessed for impairment as per the Company’s Board approved 
Information Technology (IT) systems and controls related to financial reporting process. 
Key Audit Matter How our audit has addressed the key audit matter
The  Holding  Company 
is  highly  dependent  on 
its 
Information In  view  of  the  significance  of  the  matter,  we  involved  Information
Technology 
(IT) 
infrastructure  comprising  hardware, 
software, technology specialist to assess IT systems and controls with respect
multiple applications, automated interfaces and controls in systems to consolidated financial statements and applied the following audit
for recording, storing and reporting of financial transactions. procedures in this area, among others:
The  Holding  Company’s  key  financial  accounting  and  reporting 1) 
Obtained an understanding of the Holding Company’s General
processes 
recording 
premium, 
commission, 
benefits 
paid, IT Control (GITC) over key financial accounting and reporting
investments  amongst  others  are  highly  dependent  on  IT  systems systems,  and  related  applications  (collectively  referred  to  as
including automated controls, to process and record large volume “in-scope systems”);
of transactions on daily basis. Accordingly, there exists a risk that 
deficiencies / gaps in the IT control environment (including General 
 2) 
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of key GITCs
IT  Controls  and  automated  application  controls)  could  result  in  a 
 for in-scope systems, including;
significant misstatement in the financial statements. 
 • 
Logical access controls (e.g. segregation of duties, role-
Given  the  pervasive  nature  and  criticality  of  the  IT  environment 
 based access, user provisioning and de-provisioning),
to  the  preparation  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements,  we 
have  identified  the  testing  of  IT  systems  and  the  related  control 
 • 
Periodic user access reviews and recertifications,
environment as a key audit matter for the current year. 
 • 
Password and authentication policies, and
 • 
Change  management  controls, 
including 
testing  and
 approvals of system changes in segregated environments.
 I N D E P E N D E N T   A U D I T O R ’ S   R E P O R T
6. The  following  Key  Audit  Matters  were  included  in  the  audit  report  issued  by  the  joint  auditors,  G.D.  Apte  &  Co.  and
 Kalyaniwalla & Mistry LLP, of HDB Financial Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Parent, dated April 15, 2025, containing
 an unmodified audit opinion on the special purpose financial information of HDB Financial Services Limited, reproduced
 by us as under:
an unmodified audit opinion on the special purpose financial information of HDB Financial Services Limited, reproduced 
by us as under: 
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Provisioning for Non-performing Advances based on RBI Guidelines 
Refer to the accounting policies in ‘Note 2.3 – Advances of Schedule 18 to the Special purpose financial information’ 
 Our key audit procedures included:
Advances  are  classified  as  standard,  sub-standard  and • 
Review of the Board approved Policy and approach concerning
doubtful based on Company policy approved by the Board the assessment of credit and other risks and ascertainment /
of Directors, which is aligned with the extant RBI guidelines. ageing of default by the borrowers and procedures in relation
The Company assesses all advances for their recoverability to NPA identification and provision computation.
and  accordingly  recognizes  provision  for  non-performing 
assets  as  per  Company  approved  policy.  The  Company 
 Review the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of
is  also  required  to  apply  its  judgment  to  determine  the 
 controls.
identification and provision required against Non-performing 
Advances  considering 
various  quantitative  as  well  as 
 • 
Understood 
the  process  and  controls,  and 
tested 
the
qualitative factors in each product. 
 design and operating effectiveness of key controls, including
 Information Technology based controls.
 • 
Assessing 
the 
design, 
implementation 
and 
operating
The aforesaid is identified as Key Audit Matter considering 
 effectiveness  of  key 
internal 
financial  controls 
including
the significance of the management’s judgement involved in 
 monitoring, identification and stamping of NPA accounts; and
determining the non-performing advances and adequacy of 
 measurement of provision.
the provision, and in the view of the significance of provision 
on non-performing advances to the overall audit. 
 • 
Involvement  of  Information  Technology  experts  in  the  audit
 team  to  obtain  comfort  over  data  integrity  and  process  of
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Information Technology 
IT systems and controls During the course of audit, we deployed our internal experts to carry
 out the review of IT general controls. Our key audit processes were
The  Company’s  key  financial  accounting  and 
reporting as under:
processes are highly dependent on information technology 
considering the significant number of transactions that are • 
Review  of  the  IT  applications  and  IT  infrastructure  of  the
processed  daily  across  multiple  and  distinct 
Information Company  in  order  to  identify  the  IT  applications  and  the
Technology (‘IT’) systems. The Financial accounting system infrastructure which has a significant impact on the financial
of the Company is interfaced with several other IT systems reporting process, as “Key IT systems / applications”.
including Loan Management & Originating systems as well 
as several other systemic workflows. 
 • 
Obtaining an understanding of Company’s Key IT applications,
 databases and operating systems.
IT  general  and  application  controls  are  critical  to  ensure 
that  IT  systems  are  able  to  process  the  data,  completely, 
 • 
Review of reports of information security audits conducted by
accurately  and  consistently  for  reliable  financial  reporting, 
 the Company either internally or through external experts.
changes  to  applications  and  underlying  data  are  made  in 
an  appropriate  manner.  Adequate  controls  contribute  to 
 • 
Testing design and operating effectiveness of IT controls such
mitigating the risk of potential fraud or errors as a result of 
 as  IT  governance  and  policy  framework,  access  controls,
changes to the applications and data. 
 change  management  controls,  program  development  &
 system 
implementation, 
IT  operations  &  backup  controls,
These includes implementation of preventive and detective 
 data integrity and protection controls, business continuity and
controls across critical applications and infrastructure. 
 disaster recovery, incident management, batch processing &
 monitoring etc.
Due to the pervasive nature of role of information technology 
systems  in  financial  reporting,  we  planned  our  audit  by 
 • 
Testing  the  accuracy  of  the  information  produced  by  the
assessing  the  risk  of  a  material  misstatement  arising  from 
 Company’s key IT systems / applications.
the  technology  as  significant  for  the  audit,  hence  the  Key 
Audit Matter. 
 • 
Testing  of  compensating  controls  and  performing  alternate
 procedures, whenever necessary.
 • 
Testing of compliance with the requirements relating to ‘Audit
 Trail’ under ‘the Companies Act, 2013’.
 HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Parent, vide their communication dated April 18,
2025 which are reproduced by us as under: 
Information Technology systems and controls (IT Control Relating to Financial Reporting): 
Key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Company is highly dependent on data from various information Our audit procedures included the following:
technology systems including automated controls to process and 
record  large  volume  of  transactions,  such  that  there  exists  a  risk • 
We 
involved  our 
IT  specialists 
for  assessment  of 
the 
IT
that gaps in the IT control environment could result in the financial systems and controls over financial reporting;
accounting and reporting records being materially misstated. 
 • 
Understood  General 
IT  Controls 
(GITC)  over  key  financial
Due  to  the  pervasive  nature,  complexity  and  importance  of  the 
 accounting  and  reporting  systems  (referred  to  as  “in-scope
impact  of  the  IT  systems  and  related  control  environment  on  the 
 systems”) which covered access controls, program / system
Company’s Special purpose financial information, we have identified 
 changes, program development and computer operations;
testing of such IT systems and related control environment as a key 
audit matter for the current year audit. 
 • 
Understood  the  IT  infrastructure  i.e.  operating  systems  and
 databases and related data security controls;
 • 
Tested  controls  over  IT  infrastructure  covering  user  access
 including privilege users and system changes;
 • 
Evaluated  design  and  operating  effectiveness  for  in-scope
 systems and application controls which covered segregation
 of duties, system interfaces, completeness and accuracy of
 data feeds and system reconciliation controls; and
 • 
Evaluated policies and strategies adopted by the Company in
 relation to operational security of key information infrastructure,
 data and client information management and monitoring.
Investments  amounting  to  `  26,685.26  crores  are  valued  as  per  
  •
their accounting policy, based on which:  
• the  unrealized  gains  /  losses  arising  due  to  changes  in  fair 
  •
 value  of  listed  equity  shares,  additional  Tier  I  bonds  and 
 mutual  fund  units  are  recorded  in  the  “Fair  Value  Change 
 Account” in the Balance Sheet; and 
• debt  securities  and  unlisted  equity  shares  are  valued  at 
  •
 historical cost. 
Valuation and impairment determination of Investments 
Refer Schedule 8 of the Special Purpose Financial Information 
Key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
The  Company’s 
investment  portfolio  has  been  bifurcated 
into Our audit procedures included the following:
Policyholders investments and Shareholders investments in terms 
of  IRDAI  guidelines.  Total  investments  represent  85.11  percent  of • 
Understood the Company’s process and tested the controls
the Company’s total assets as at 31 March 2025. on the valuation of investments;
Investments  are  valued  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
 • 
Evaluated design, implementation and operating effectiveness
Insurance Act, the IRDA Financial Statements Regulations, orders / 
 of 
key 
controls 
over 
the 
valuation 
process 
including
directions / circulars issued by IRDAI and / or policies as approved 
 impairment, 
including  management’s  review  and  approval
by the Board of Directors of the Company (collectively the “Valuation 
 of  the  estimates  and  assumptions  used  for  the  valuation
Policy”). 
 including key authorization and data input controls;
Investments  amounting  to  `  26,685.26  crores  are  valued  as  per 
 • 
Evaluated  appropriateness  of  valuation  methodologies  with
their accounting policy, based on which: 
 reference to the Valuation Policy;
• 
the  unrealized  gains  /  losses  arising  due  to  changes  in  fair 
 • 
Performed  independent  price-verification  for  samples  using
value  of  listed  equity  shares,  additional  Tier  I  bonds  and 
 external  quoted  prices  and  by  agreeing  the  management’s
mutual  fund  units  are  recorded  in  the  “Fair  Value  Change 
 observable  inputs  used  in  valuation  techniques  to  external
Account” in the Balance Sheet; and 
 data for listed and unlisted investments on test check basis;
• 
debt  securities  and  unlisted  equity  shares  are  valued  at 
 • 
Examined  movement  and  appropriateness  of  accounting  in
historical cost. 
 Fair Value Change Account for specific investments;
Investments 
in 
listed  equity 
shares,  additional  Tier 
I  bonds 
 • 
For  selected  samples  of  investments  measured  at  historical
and  mutual 
funds  does  not 
represent  higher 
risk  of  material 
 cost,  we 
have 
tested 
the  Company’s 
assessment 
of
misstatement, however, is considered to be a key audit matter due 
 impairment 
and 
evaluated  whether 
the 
same  was 
in
to its materiality to the special purpose financial information. 
 accordance with the Company’s impairment policy; and
Further,  investments  in  debt  securities  and  unlisted  equity  shares 
 • 
Evaluated 
appropriateness 
and 
reasonableness 
of
are  assessed  for  impairment  as  per  the  Company’s  investment 
 methodology, 
assumptions 
and 
judgements 
used 
by
policy which involves significant management judgement. There is 
 management  with  reference  to  the  Company’s  investment
increased  economic  stress  on  account  of  external  factors,  which 
 valuation and impairment assessment as per policy.
may impact the determination of impairment of these investments. 
Other Information 
8. The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
 included in the Annual report but does not include the Consolidated Financial Statements and our and other auditor’s
 report thereon. The Annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
 Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any
 form of assurance conclusion thereon.
 In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information
 identified  above  when  it  becomes  available  and,  in  doing  so,  consider  whether  the  other  information  is  materially
 inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to
 be materially misstated.
 When  we  read  the  Annual  report,  if  we  conclude  that  there  is  a  material  misstatement  therein,  we  are  required  to
 communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate action as applicable under the relevant
 laws and regulations.
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
13. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism
 throughout the audit. We also:
 • 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud
 or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and
 appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is
 higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations,
 or the override of internal control.
 • 
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
 the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the
 Bank and it’s subsidiaries incorporated in India, has adequate internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated
 Financial Statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
 • 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
 disclosures made by the management.
 • 
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the
 audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant
 doubt on the ability of the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that
 a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the
 Consolidated Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are
 based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may
 cause the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust to cease to continue as a going concern.
 • 
Evaluate  the  overall  presentation,  structure  and  content  of  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  including  the
 disclosures, and whether the Consolidated Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a
 manner that achieves fair presentation.
 • 
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the companies or business activities
 within the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust to express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements. We
 are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of
 such companies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, of which we are the independent auditors. For the
 other companies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such
 other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We
 remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
14. We communicate with those charged with governance of the Bank and such other companies included in the Consolidated
 Financial Statements, of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
 timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
 during our audit.
15. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
 regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought
 to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
16. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most
 significance in the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the current year and are therefore the key audit
 matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
 matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report
 because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of
 such communication.
Other Matters 
17. The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bank for the year ended March 31, 2024, were jointly audited by M M Nissim
 & Co LLP and Price Waterhouse LLP, under the Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 who, vide their report dated April
 20, 2024, expressed an unmodified opinion on those Consolidated Financial Statements. Accordingly, Batliboi & Purohit
 do not express any opinion on the figures reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended March
 31, 2024.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
18. The standalone financial information of 7 subsidiaries and consolidated financial information of 3 subsidiaries included
 in the Consolidated Financial Statements, reflect total assets of ` 514,517.90 crores and net assets of ` 49,721.01 crores
 as at March 31, 2025, total revenue of ` 135,536.03 crores, net profit after tax of ` 8,133.46 crores and net cash inflows
 amounting to ` 1,372.89 crores for the year ended March 31, 2025. These financial information have been audited by other
 auditors, whose reports and other communications have been furnished to us by the Bank’s Management, and our opinion
 on the Consolidated Financial Statements in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of
 these subsidiaries and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid
 subsidiaries, is based on the reports and other communications of the other auditors and the procedures performed by
 us.
19. We did not audit the financial information of the Employee Welfare Trust, whose financial information reflect total assets
 of ` 833.80 crores and net assets of ` 738.70 crores as at March 31, 2025, total revenue of ` 158.76 crores, profit after
 tax of ` 170.00 crores and cash outflow amounting to ` 2.63 crores for the year ended March 31, 2025, as considered in
 the Consolidated Financial Statements. These financial information are unaudited and have been furnished to us by the
 Bank’s Management, and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements in so far as it relates to the amounts and
 disclosures included in respect of the Employee Welfare Trust and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of
 the Act including report on Other Information in so far as it relates to the aforesaid Employee Welfare Trust, is based solely
 on such unaudited financial information. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by
 the Management, these financial information are not material to the Group.
 Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, and our report on the section ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory
 Requirements’ below, is not modified in respect of the above matters stated in paragraphs 18 and 19 with respect to our
 reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors and the financial information certified by the Management
 of the Bank.
20. The following other matter paragraph has been included in the audit report on the special purpose consolidated financial
 information  of  HDFC  Life  Insurance  Company  Limited  (‘HDFC  Life  /  the  Parent  Company’  referred  to  in  its  report),  a
 subsidiary of the Bank, issued by their joint statutory auditors, vide their report dated April 18, 2025:
 “The actuarial valuation of liabilities for life policies in-force and for policies where premium has been discontinued but
 liability exists as at 31 March 2025 has been duly certified by the Holding Company’s Appointed Actuary. The Holding
 Company’s Appointed Actuary has also certified that, in her opinion, the assumptions for such valuation are in accordance
 with the generally accepted actuarial principles and practices, requirements of the Insurance Act, regulations notified by
 the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (“IRDAI”) and Actuarial Practice Standards issued by the
 Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the
 Authority.”
21. The following other matter paragraph has been included in the audit report on the special purpose financial information of
 HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (‘the Company’ as referred to in its report), a subsidiary of the Bank,
 issued by their joint statutory auditors, vide their report dated April 15, 2025:
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
“The actuarial valuation of liabilities is the responsibility of the Company’s Appointed Actuary (the “Appointed Actuary”).
The actuarial valuation of the outstanding claims reserves that are estimated using statistical methods, Premium Deficiency
Reserve (the “PDR”), Incurred but Not Reported (“IBNR”) including Incurred but Not Enough Reported (“IBNER”) as at 31
March 2025 has been duly certified by the Appointed Actuary and in his opinion, the assumptions for such valuation are in
accordance with the guidelines and norms issued by IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the
Authority. We have relied upon the Appointed Actuary’s certificate in this regard for forming our opinion on the valuation
of liabilities for outstanding claims reserves that are estimated using statistical methods, PDR, IBNR (including IBNER)
reserves, as contained in the special purpose financial information of the Company.”
 Authority. We have relied upon the Appointed Actuary’s certificate in this regard for forming our opinion on the valuation
 of liabilities for outstanding claims reserves that are estimated using statistical methods, PDR, IBNR (including IBNER)
 reserves, as contained in the special purpose financial information of the Company.”
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the matters stated in paragraph 20 and 21 above. 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
22. In our opinion, the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account have been drawn up in
 accordance with the provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Section 133 of the Act.
23.  As required by sub-section (3) of Section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that: 
 accordance with the provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Section 133 of the Act.
23.  As required by sub-section (3) of Section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that: 
 (a) 
We have obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were necessary
 for the purpose of our audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
 (b) 
The transactions of the Bank, which have come to our notice, have been within the powers of the Bank, other than
 those relating to leasing of immovable properties acquired on amalgamation of the erstwhile HDFC Limited with the
 Bank, as disclosed in Schedule 18 note (1) to the Consolidated Financial Statements; and
 (c) 
During the course of our audit we have visited 73 branches to examine the books of accounts and other records
 maintained at the branch and performed other relevant audit procedures. Since the key operations of the Bank are
 automated with the key applications integrated to the core banking system, the audit is carried out centrally at Bank’s
 Head office located in Mumbai, as all the necessary records and data required for the purposes of our audit are
 available therein.
24. Further, as required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
 (a) 
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were
 necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements.
 (b) 
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid Consolidated
 Financial Statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports and
 other communications of the statutory auditors of the subsidiary companies incorporated in India, except for the
 matters stated in paragraph 24(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules,
 2014 (as amended) (“the Rules”).
 (c) 
The  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet,  the  Consolidated  Profit  and  Loss  Account  and  the  Consolidated  Cash  Flow
 Statement dealt with by this report are in agreement with the relevant books of account and records maintained for
 the purpose of preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 (d) 
In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified
 under Section 133 of the Act, to the extent they are not inconsistent with the accounting policies prescribed by RBI.
 (e) 
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Bank as at March 31, 2025 taken on
 record by the Board of Directors of the Bank and the reports and other communications of the statutory auditors of
 I N D E P E N D E N T   A U D I T O R ’ S   R E P O R T
 its subsidiary companies incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Bank and the subsidiaries incorporated in
 India is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
(f) With respect to the maintenance of accounts and  other matters connected  therewith,  reference  is made  to our
 comment in paragraph 24(b) above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 24(h)(vi) below on reporting
 under Rule 11(g) of the Rules, by us with respect to Bank and based on the reports and other communications of the
 statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies, incorporated in India.
(g) With respect to the adequacy of internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of the
 Bank and it’s subsidiaries which are incorporated in India, and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to
 our separate report in Annexure A.
(h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
 (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the
 explanations given to us:
 i. 
The Consolidated Financial Statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated financial
 position of the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust – Refer Schedule 12(I) and 12(II), Schedule 17 D(25),
 Schedule 18 note 10 and note 20(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 ii. 
Provision has been made in the Consolidated Financial Statements, as required under the applicable law or
 accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses on long-term contracts including derivative contracts as at
 March 31, 2025 – Refer Schedule 17 D(10) and 17 D(25), Schedule 18 note 10 and note 20(b) to the Consolidated
 Financial Statements in respect of such items as it relates to the Group and the Employee Welfare Trust.
 iii. 
There  has  been  no  delay  in  transferring  amounts  required  to  be  transferred  to  the  Investor  Education  and
 Protection Fund by the Bank and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India during the year.
 iv. 
(a) The respective Managements of the Bank and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India,
 whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, have represented to us and the other auditors of
 such subsidiaries, respectively, that to the best of their knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in Schedule
 18 note 23, no funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned
 or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank or
 any of such subsidiaries to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with
 the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly,
 lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company or
 any of such subsidiaries (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the
 Ultimate Beneficiaries.
 (b) The respective Managements of the Bank and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India,
 whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and the other auditors of
 such subsidiaries respectively that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in Schedule
 18 note 23, no funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the Bank
 or any of such subsidiaries from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with
 the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company or any of such subsidiaries
 shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or
 on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf
 of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
 (c) Based on the audit procedures, that has been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances,
 performed by us and those performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 India, whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, nothing has come to our or other auditors’
 notice that has caused us or the other auditors to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of
 Rule 11(e) contain any material misstatement.
v. The dividend declared and paid during the year by the Bank and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India,
 is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
vi. Based on our examination, which included test checks, and that performed by the respective auditors of the
 subsidiaries, which are companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the
 Act, except for the instances mentioned below, the Bank and such subsidiaries have used accounting software
 for maintaining books of account which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and that has
 operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software. Further, during the course of
 performing the procedures, we, and the respective auditors of such subsidiaries, did not notice any instance of
 the audit trail feature being tampered with. Additionally, other than as described below, the audit trail has been
 preserved by the Bank and such subsidiaries, as per the statutory requirements for record retention.
preserved by the Bank and such subsidiaries, as per the statutory requirements for record retention. 
Description of Instances Number of instances
Instances  of  inability  of  the  auditor  to  comment  on  certain  software,  in  the  absence  of  comprehensive 
information, on whether audit trail feature is enabled for direct changes to data while using certain access For one subsidiary
rights. 
Instances where either the audit trail feature is not enabled for part of the year in case of certain masters of 
two accounting software and two databases, also for other databases, audit trail feature is not enabled for For the Bank
full year. 
Instances  where  the  audit  trail  feature  was  not  enabled  throughout  the  year  for  application  layer  of  an 
 For one subsidiary
accounting software. 
 For the Bank and four
Instances where audit trail is not preserved as per the statutory requirements for record retention. 
 subsidiaries
accounting software. 
 For the Bank and four
Instances where audit trail is not preserved as per the statutory requirements for record retention. 
 subsidiaries
25. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the provisions of Section
 197 of the Act are not applicable to the Bank by virtue of Section 35B(2A) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Accordingly,
 the reporting under Section 197(16) of the Act regarding payment / provision for managerial remuneration in accordance
 with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act, is not applicable.
 Based on the consideration of reports and other communications of the joint statutory auditors of HDFC Life Insurance
 Company Limited and HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited, the subsidiary companies, the remuneration paid
 for managerial renumeration was in accordance with the provisions of section 197 of the Act, read with section 34A of the
 Insurance Act, 1938. Further, based on the consideration of reports and other communications of the statutory auditors of
 other subsidiaries incorporated in India, the remuneration paid / provided for managerial renumeration was in accordance
 with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act.
 For Batliboi & Purohit 
For Price Waterhouse LLP
 Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
 Firm Registration Number: 
Firm Registration Number:
 101048W
301112E/E300264
 Janak Mehta  
Sharad Vasant
 Partner
Partner
 Membership Number: 116976
Membership Number: 101119
 UDIN: 25116976BMOKOW2322
UDIN: 25101119BMIFBB3673
 Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
 Date: April 19, 2025
Date: April 19, 2025
 I N D E P E N D E N T   A U D I T O R ’ S   R E P O R T
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report 
Referred to in paragraph 24(g) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of HDFC Bank Limited on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements under 
clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act 
1. In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bank as of and for the year ended March
 31, 2025, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of HDFC
 Bank Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Bank” or the “Parent”) and its subsidiary companies, which are companies
 incorporated in India, as of that date (the Bank and its subsidiaries together referred to as the “Group”).
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls 
2. The respective Board of Directors of the Group, to whom reporting under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the
 Act in respect of the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements is
 applicable, which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial
 controls based on internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Group considering the essential
 components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting
 (“the Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the
 design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring
 the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding
 of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records,
 and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility 
3. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial
 Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI and the
 Standards on Auditing deemed to be prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable
 to an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an audit of internal financial controls and both issued by the ICAI.
 Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit
 to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial
 Statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
4. Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls
 system with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial
 controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial
 controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
 and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures
 selected  depend  on  the  auditor’s  judgement,  including  the  assessment  of  the  risks  of  material  misstatement  of  the
 Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of
 their reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
 opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls system with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
6. A Bank’s internal financial control with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements is a process designed to provide
 reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements
 for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A Bank’s internal financial control with
 reference to Consolidated Financial Statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
 of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
 Bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of Consolidated
 Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
 the Bank are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the Bank; and (3) provide
 reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the Bank’s
 assets that could have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
in India. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration Number: Firm Registration Number:
301112E/E300264 101048W
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta
Partner Partner
Membership Number: 101119 Membership Number: 116976
UDIN: 25101119BMIFBB3673 UDIN: 25116976BMOKOW2322
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai
Date: April 19, 2025 Date: April 19, 2025
   C C in crore
  As at As at
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES   
Capital 1 765.22 759.69
Employees stock options outstanding 18 (5) 3,805.19 2,652.72
Reserves and surplus 2 517,218.98 452,982.84
Minority interest 2A 16,359.04 13,383.40
Deposits 3 2,710,898.23 2,376,887.28
Borrowings 4 634,605.57 730,615.46
Other liabilities and provisions 5 188,163.66 174,832.07
Policyholders' funds  320,601.53 278,080.80
Total  4,392,417.42 4,030,194.26
ASSETS   
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India 6 144,390.25 178,718.67
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 7 105,557.65 50,115.84
Investments 8 1,186,472.89 1,005,681.63
Advances 9 2,724,938.16 2,571,916.65
Fixed assets 10 15,257.94 12,603.76
Other assets 11 215,800.53 211,157.71
Total  4,392,417.42 4,030,194.26
Contingent liabilities 12 2,709,921.85 2,344,487.73
Bills for collection  70,679.55 65,332.87
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 17 & 18  
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Balance   
Sheet.   
 The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Balance  
Sheet.   
As per our report of even date.  For and on behalf of the Board 
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:  
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
  Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Partner Partner Independent Director Independent Director
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976  
  Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
  Executive Director Executive Director
  Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
  Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
  Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025  Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
Provisions and contingencies 18 (10) 36,976.49 36,140.38
Total  397,475.76 342,548.27
III. PROFIT   
Consolidated Net Profit for the year before Minority Interest  73,440.17 65,446.50
Less : Minority Interest  2,647.92 1,384.46
Consolidated Net Profit for the year attributable to the group  70,792.25 64,062.04
Brought forward consolidated profit attributable to the group  150,045.57 120,369.35
Addition on amalgamation (net) 18 (1) - 3,570.10
Total  220,837.82 188,001.49
IV. APPROPRIATIONS   
Transfer to Statutory Reserve  17,260.30 15,684.72
Transfer to General Reserve  6,734.74 6,081.23
Transfer to Special Reserve  3,200.00 3,000.00
Transfer to Capital Reserve  507.00 4,166.41
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve Account (net)  - 529.42
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve  - 378.00
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year  14,826.19 8,404.42
Transfer to / (from) Minority Interest (opening adjustment)  (382.96) (288.28)
   C in crore
  Year ended Year ended
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. INCOME   
Interest earned 13 336,367.43 283,649.02
Other income 14 134,548.50 124,345.75
Total  470,915.93 407,994.77
II. EXPENDITURE   
Interest expended 15 183,894.20 154,138.55
Operating expenses 16 176,605.07 152,269.34
Provisions and contingencies 18 (10) 36,976.49 36,140.38
Total  397,475.76 342,548.27
III. PROFIT   
Consolidated Net Profit for the year before Minority Interest  73,440.17 65,446.50
Less : Minority Interest  2,647.92 1,384.46
Consolidated Net Profit for the year attributable to the group  70,792.25 64,062.04
Brought forward consolidated profit attributable to the group  150,045.57 120,369.35
Addition on amalgamation (net) 18 (1) - 3,570.10
Total  220,837.82 188,001.49
IV. APPROPRIATIONS   
Transfer to Statutory Reserve  17,260.30 15,684.72
Transfer to General Reserve  6,734.74 6,081.23
Transfer to Special Reserve  3,200.00 3,000.00
Transfer to Capital Reserve  507.00 4,166.41
Transfer to / (from) Investment Reserve Account (net)  - 529.42
Transfer to / (from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve  - 378.00
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year  14,826.19 8,404.42
Transfer to / (from) Minority Interest (opening adjustment)  (382.96) (288.28)
Balance carried over to consolidated balance sheet  178,692.55 150,045.57
Total  220,837.82 188,001.49
V. EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE (Face value ` 1/- per share) 18 (19) ` `
Basic  92.81 90.42
Diluted  92.39 90.01
Significant accounting policies and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   
 17 & 18  
The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated  Profit and Loss   
Account.   
 Significant accounting policies and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
  17 & 18 
 The schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated  Profit and Loss  
Account.   
As per our report of even date.  For and on behalf of the Board 
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:  
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
  Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta  
Partner Partner Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976 Independent Director Independent Director
  Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
  Executive Director Executive Director
  Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
  Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
  Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025  Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
For the year ended March 31, 2025  
  CC in crore
 Year ended Year ended
 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Cash flows from operating activities:  
Consolidated profit before income tax and after minority interest 93,594.13 75,184.14
Adjustments for:  
Depreciation on fixed assets 3,805.23 3,092.08
(Profit) / loss on revaluation of investments 3,909.10 (6,957.14)
Amortisation of premium on investments 87.07 966.09
Profit on sale of fixed assets (22.03) (75.36)
(Profit) / loss on sale of investment in subsidiary 8.00 (7,341.42)
Provision / charge for non performing assets 15,385.24 12,540.05
Floating provisions - 10,900.00
Provision / (write-back) for standard assets and contingencies (1,210.63) 1,578.23
Employee stock options / units expense 2,086.05 1,731.73
 117,642.16 91,618.40
Adjustments for:  
Increase in investments (180,362.67) (88,411.63)
Increase in advances (169,918.22) (312,488.37)
Increase in deposits 334,010.95 336,964.81
Increase in other assets (10,829.67) (27,919.59)
Increase in other liabilities and provisions 13,117.98 6,420.40
Increase in policyholders' funds 43,289.99 35,728.16
 146,950.52 41,912.18
Direct taxes paid (net of refunds) (19,708.68) (22,842.84)
Net cash flows from operating activities 127,241.84 19,069.34
  CC in crore
 Year ended Year ended
 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Proceeds from issue of share capital other than warrants 6,346.50 5,249.73
Proceeds from issue of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments 1,182.00 2,350.00
Redemption of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments (500.00) (230.00)
Decrease in other borrowings (97,062.73) (7,342.84)
Dividend paid during the year (14,826.19) (8,404.42)
Net cash flow used in financing activities (102,477.54) (3,983.06)
Effect of fluctuation in foreign currency translation reserve 199.73 104.94
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 21,113.39 20,504.99
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 228,834.51 197,147.81
Cash and cash equivalents acquired on amalgamation - 11,181.71
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 249,947.90 228,834.51
Cash and cash equivalents acquired on amalgamation   -   
 11,181.71
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year   249,947.90 
 228,834.51
 Cash and cash equivalents include Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India and Balances with banks and money at call and short notice  
(Refer Schedule 6 and Schedule 7).   
As per our report of even date.  For and on behalf of the Board 
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:  
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
  Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta  
Partner Partner Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976 Independent Director Independent Director
  Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
  Executive Director Executive Director
  Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
  Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
  Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025  Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
   C in crore
  As at As at
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Authorised Capital   
11,90,61,00,000 (31 March, 2024: 11,90,61,00,000) Equity Shares of  C 1/- each  1,190.61 1,190.61
Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital   
7,65,22,21,674 (31 March, 2024 : 7,59,69,10,662) Equity Shares of C 1/- each  765.22 759.69
Total  765.22 759.69
  As at As at
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I.     Statutory Reserve   
Opening balance  88,114.32 64,373.87
Addition on amalgamation 18 (1) - 8,055.73
Additions during the year 18 (6) 17,260.30 15,684.72
Closing balance  105,374.62 88,114.32
II.   General Reserve   
Opening balance  53,877.70 24,892.80
Addition on amalgamation 18 (1) - 22,902.33
Additions during the year 18 (6) 7,863.74 6,082.57
Closing balance  61,741.44 53,877.70
III.    Balance in Profit and Loss Account  178,692.55 150,045.57
IV.   Share Premium   
Opening balance  127,053.27 66,539.42
Addition on amalgamation 18 (1) - 51,728.83
Additions during the year  7,064.09 8,785.02
Closing balance  134,117.36 127,053.27
V.  
Special Reserve   
Opening balance  26,268.18 500.00
Addition on amalgamation 18 (1) - 22,768.18
Additions during the year 18 (6) 3,200.00 3,000.00
Closing balance  29,468.18 26,268.18
VI.   Amalgamation Reserve - I   
Opening balance  1,063.56 1,063.56
Additions / (deductions) during the year  - -
Closing balance 18 (6) 1,063.56 1,063.56
IX. Investment Reserve Account   
 Opening balance  529.42 -
 Additions during the year 18 (6) - 529.42
 Deductions during the year 18 (6) (529.42) -
 Closing balance  - 529.42
X. Investment Fluctuation Reserve   
 Opening balance  5,032.00 3,701.00
 Addition on amalgamation 18 (1) - 953.00
 Additions during the year 18 (6) 529.42 378.00
 Closing balance  5,561.42 5,032.00
XI.   Foreign Currency Translation Reserve    
 Opening balance  883.79 778.85
 Additions during the year  199.73 104.94
 Closing balance 18 (6) 1,083.52 883.79
XII.  Cash Flow Hedge Reserve    
 Opening balance  832.30 (84.06)
 Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 937.05
 Additions / (deductions) during the year  (924.46) (20.69)
 Closing balance 18 (6) (92.16) 832.30
XIII.  Other Reserves    
 Opening balance  145.58 -
 Additions / (deductions) during the year  (131.56) 145.58
 Closing balance 18 (6) 14.02 145.58
   As at As at
  Schedule  
   March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
VII.  Amalgamation Reserve - II    
 Opening balance  (13,947.06) -
 Additions / (deductions) on amalgamation 18 (1) - (13,947.06)
 Closing balance 18 (6) (13,947.06) (13,947.06)
VIII.  Capital Reserve    
 Opening balance  9,794.18 5,627.54
 Addition on amalgamation 18 (1) - 0.04
 Additions during the year 18 (6) 507.00 4,166.60
 Closing balance  10,301.18 9,794.18
IX. Investment Reserve Account   
 Opening balance  529.42 -
 Additions during the year 18 (6) - 529.42
 Deductions during the year 18 (6) (529.42) -
 Closing balance  - 529.42
X. Investment Fluctuation Reserve   
 Opening balance  5,032.00 3,701.00
 Addition on amalgamation 18 (1) - 953.00
 Additions during the year 18 (6) 529.42 378.00
 Closing balance  5,561.42 5,032.00
XI.   Foreign Currency Translation Reserve    
 Opening balance  883.79 778.85
 Additions during the year  199.73 104.94
 Closing balance 18 (6) 1,083.52 883.79
XII.  Cash Flow Hedge Reserve    
 Opening balance  832.30 (84.06)
 Additions on amalgamation 18 (1) - 937.05
 Additions / (deductions) during the year  (924.46) (20.69)
 Closing balance 18 (6) (92.16) 832.30
XIII.  Other Reserves    
 Opening balance  145.58 -
 Additions / (deductions) during the year  (131.56) 145.58
 Closing balance 18 (6) 14.02 145.58
XIV.  AFS Reserve    
 Opening Balance  - -
 Additions / (deductions) during the year 18 (6) 616.85 -
 Closing balance  616.85 -
XV.  Capital Reserve on Consolidation (net of goodwill)  18 (6) 3,223.50 3,290.03
 Total  517,218.98 452,982.84
   C in crore
  As at As at
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Minority interest at the date on which parent subsidiary relationship came into existence  11,260.45 27.60
Addition on amalgamation  - 11,232.85
Subsequent increase  5,098.59 2,122.95
Minority interest on the date of balance sheet  16,359.04 13,383.40
    C in crore
   As at As at
  Schedule  
   March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
A. I.  
Demand deposits   
 (i)  
From banks  4,149.85 3,704.74
 (ii)  
From others  307,274.93 304,071.93
 Total  311,424.78 307,776.67
 II.     Savings bank deposits  630,465.95 598,743.72
 III.    Term deposits   
 (i)   
From banks  32,599.29 17,767.08
 (ii)  
From others  1,736,408.21 1,452,599.81
 Total  1,769,007.50 1,470,366.89
 Total  2,710,898.23 2,376,887.28
B. I.    Deposits of branches in India  2,686,792.91 2,354,694.75
 II.   Deposits of branches outside India  24,105.32 22,192.53
 Total  2,710,898.23 2,376,887.28
SCHEDULE  5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS   
   C in crore
  As at As at
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I.      Bills payable  13,653.91 13,932.56
II.    
Interest accrued  25,618.40 23,853.43
III.   Contingent provisions against standard assets  11,315.90 11,005.15
IV.   Others (including provisions)  137,267.86 126,040.93
V. 
Deferred Tax Liabilities  307.59 -
Total  188,163.66 174,832.07
SCHEDULE  8 - INVESTMENTS   
   C in crore
  As at As at
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
A. Investments in India in  
 (i)    Government securities 775,264.24 654,866.87
 (ii)    Other approved securities - -
 (iii)    Shares 8,075.45 5,116.10
 (iv)    Debentures and bonds 38,285.78 20,395.38
 (v)   
Investments - Policyholders 330,941.32 293,986.13
 (vi)    Subsidiaries / joint ventures - 200.00
 (vii)   Others (Units of Mutual funds / AIFs / REITs, CDs, CPs, PTCs and security receipts) 31,263.84 29,044.34
 Total 1,183,830.63 1,003,608.82
B.    Investments outside India in   
 (i)     Government securities (including local authorities) 918.09 248.04
 (ii)    Other investments  
 (a)    Shares 96.47 21.53
 (b)    Debentures and bonds 1,381.78 1,627.48
 (iii)    Investments - Policyholders 245.92 175.76
 Total 2,642.26 2,072.81
 Total 1,186,472.89 1,005,681.63
C. Investments  
 I.  
Investments in India  
 (i)    Gross value of investments 1,128,476.66 999,371.75
 (ii)    Aggregate of provisions for (depreciation)  / appreciation 55,353.97 4,237.07
 (iii)    Net investments 1,183,830.63 1,003,608.82
 II.     Investments outside India  
 (i)    Gross value of investments 2,615.27 2,079.98
 (ii)    Aggregate of provisions for (depreciation)  / appreciation 26.99 (7.17)
 (iii)    Net investments 2,642.26 2,072.81
 Total 1,186,472.89 1,005,681.63
    C in crore
   As at As at
  Schedule  
   March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
 (iii)   Unsecured  580,768.76 551,184.86
 Total  2,724,938.16 2,571,916.65
 * Including advances against book debts   
C. I.  
Advances in India   
 (i)  
Priority sector  880,033.65 780,715.25
 (ii)  
Public sector  121,469.63 140,554.70
 (iii)   Banks  2,122.41 2,567.12
 (iv)   Others  1,675,153.87 1,609,430.44
 Total  2,678,779.56 2,533,267.51
C. II.  
Advances outside India   
 (i)  
Due from banks  2,769.89 2,756.16
 (ii)  
Due from others   
 (a)   Bills purchased and discounted  544.10 714.86
 (b)   Syndicated loans  581.73 1,180.49
 (c)   Others  42,262.88 33,997.63
 Total  46,158.60 38,649.14
 Total  2,724,938.16 2,571,916.65
Additions during the year 661.01 399.31
Additions on amalgamation - 2,218.19
Deductions during the year (63.18) (25.58)
Total 5,652.45 5,054.62
Depreciation  
As at 31st March of the preceding year 1,530.64 820.30
Charge for the year 197.98 99.56
Additions on amalgamation - 631.54
On deductions during the year (48.52) (20.76)
Total 1,680.10 1,530.64
Net block 3,972.35 3,523.98
B.   Other fixed assets (including furniture and ﬁxtures)  
Gross block  
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year 25,172.80 18,756.18
 As at March 31, 2025   
    C in crore
   As at As at
  Schedule  
   March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Additions during the year   6,074.19 4,934.43
Additions on amalgamation   - 2,152.97
Deductions during the year   (1,770.62) (670.78)
Total   29,476.37 25,172.80
Depreciation    
As at 31st March of the preceding year   16,095.77 12,116.02
Charge for the year   3,600.88 2,994.24
Additions on amalgamation   - 1,531.52
On deductions during the year   (1,499.02) (546.01)
Total   18,197.63 16,095.77
Net block   11,278.74 9,077.03
C. 
Assets on lease (plant and machinery)    
Gross block    
At cost on 31st March of the preceding year   38.91 454.69
Additions during the year   11.34 2.05
Additions on amalgamation   - 43.97
Deductions during the year   (4.12) (461.80)
Total   46.13 38.91
Depreciation    
As at 31st March of the preceding year   36.16 410.45
Additions on amalgamation   - 42.18
Charge for the year   7.24 0.87
On deductions during the year   (4.12) (417.34)
Total   39.28 36.16
Lease adjustment account    
As at 31st March of the preceding year   - 44.24
On deductions during the year   - (44.24)
Total   - -
Unamortised cost of assets on lease   6.85 2.75
Total   15,257.94 12,603.76
   C in crore
  As at As at
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
V.     Security deposit for commercial and residential property  1,233.92 982.49
VI.    Deferred Tax Assets  7,137.50 9,301.96
VII.   Others  155,696.62 156,756.01
Total  215,800.53 211,157.71
SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED    
    C in crore
   Year ended Year ended
  Schedule  
   March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
I. Interest / discount on advances / bills  251,953.60 217,979.34
II. Income on investments  73,912.07 57,524.80
III. Interest on balance with RBI and other inter-bank funds  3,172.52 2,634.63
IV. Others  7,329.24 5,510.25
 Total  336,367.43 283,649.02
   C in crore
  Year ended Year ended
 Schedule  
  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
IX.    Postage, telegram, telephone etc.  1,124.43 1,050.67
X.     Repairs and maintenance  3,943.56 3,255.75
XI.    Insurance  3,125.61 2,486.77
XII.   Claims and benefits paid pertaining to insurance business  47,576.09 38,159.35
XIII.  Other expenses pertaining to insurance business^  46,861.30 40,154.11
XIV.  Other expenditure*  29,499.94 27,291.39
Total  176,605.07 152,269.34
 SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 As at March 31, 2025
SCHEDULE  17  –  Significant  accounting  policies under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, on a line-
appended to and forming part of the consolidated by-line basis by adding together the like items of assets,
financial statements for the year ended March 31, liabilities, income and  expenditure, after elimination of
2025 intra-group  transactions  and  intra-group  balances,
 except  for  equity  investment  held  in  group  entities
A. 
Background 
 through policyholder’s funds. Capital reserve / goodwill
 on consolidation represent the difference between the
HDFC Bank Limited (‘HDFC Bank’ or the ‘Bank’ or ‘the 
 Group’s share in the net worth of the subsidiary and the
Holding Company’), incorporated in Mumbai, India is a 
 cost of acquisition at the time of making the investment
publicly held banking company. The Bank is governed 
 in  /  acquisition  of  the  subsidiary.  Minority  interest
by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the Companies 
 representing  the  part  of  net  results  of  operations  and
Act,  2013.  The  Bank  together  with  its  subsidiaries  is 
 of the net assets of subsidiary, attributable to interests
engaged in providing a range of banking and financial 
 not owned directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, is
services,  including  retail  banking,  wholesale  banking, 
 presented separately from liabilities and equity.
treasury  operations,  insurance,  asset  management, 
stock broking and other financial services business. The 
 The  Group  does  not  consolidate  entities  where  the
Bank has overseas branch operations in Bahrain, Hong 
 control / significant influence is intended to be temporary
Kong, Dubai, Singapore and an Offshore Banking Unit at 
 or  entities  which  operate  under  severe  long-term
International Financial Service Centre (IFSC), GIFT City, 
 restrictions that impair their ability to transfer funds to
India. These consolidated financial statements have been 
 parent / investing entity or where the objective of control
prepared by giving effect to the Scheme referred to in 
 is not to obtain economic benefit from their activities.  For
Schedule 18(1) from July 01, 2023 onwards. 
 certain investments, even though the shareholding may
 be below 20%, the Group may be eligible for nominee
B. 
Principles Of Consolidation 
 directors in the investee company. Such investments are
 considered  to  be  at  par  with  other  companies  where
The  consolidated  financial  statements  comprise  the 
 investment  may  be  bought  and  sold  depending  upon
financial  statements  of  the  Bank  and  its  subsidiaries 
 market condition. Right to appoint nominee director in
constituting  the  ‘Group’.  The  Bank  consolidates  its 
 the investee companies with protective rights, as such
subsidiaries  in  accordance  with  Accounting  Standard 
 does  not  result  in  control  or  significant  influence  on
AS-21,  Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  specified 
 such companies.
The consolidated financial statements present the accounts of HDFC Bank Limited with its following subsidiaries: 
   such companies.  
The consolidated financial statements present the accounts of HDFC Bank Limited with its following subsidiaries:     
Name Relation  Country of Ownership interest % 
   incorporation  
    March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
HDFC Life Insurance Company Subsidiary India  50.32% 50.37%
Limited (HLIC)     
HDFC Pension Fund Management HLIC's subsidiary India  100.00% 100.00%
Limited     
HDFC International Life and Re HLIC's subsidiary Dubai  100.00% 100.00%
Company Limited     
HDFC Asset Management Company Subsidiary India  52.47% 52.55%
Limited (AMC)     
HDFC AMC International (IFSC) AMC's Subsidiary India  100.00% 100.00%
Limited     
HDFC Trustee Company Limited Subsidiary India  100.00% 100.00%
HDFC Sales Private Limited Subsidiary India  100.00% 100.00%
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited Subsidiary India  89.34% 89.00%
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Subsidiary India  50.33% 50.48%
Company Limited     
    Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Name Relation Country of  Ownership interest %
  incorporation  
   March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Griha Investments Subsidiary Mauritius 100.00% 100.00%
Griha Pte Limited Subsidiary Singapore 100.00% 100.00%
HDFC Securities Limited (HSL) Subsidiary India 94.55% 95.13%
HDFC Securities IFSC Limited (w.e.f. HSL’s Subsidiary India 100.00% -
01.10.2024)    
HDB Financial Services Limited Subsidiary India 94.32% 94.64%
HDB Employee Welfare Trust * India * *
 01.10.2024)  
 HDB Financial Services Limited
Subsidiary India 94.32%
94.64%
 HDB Employee Welfare Trust
* India *
*
  *  HDB Employee Welfare Trust, a trust established for providing general welfare measures such as medical relief and educational assistance to 
 the employees of the Bank and their dependents has been consolidated.  
 The  financial  statements  of  certain  subsidiaries  are  of India (‘SEBI’), Insurance Regulatory and Development
 prepared in accordance with notified Indian Accounting  Authority of India (‘IRDAI’) from time to time, Accounting
 Standards  (‘Ind  AS’)  or  applicable  local  generally  Standards  (‘AS’)  specified  under  Section  133  of  the
 accepted accounting principles. The financial statements  Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies
 of such subsidiaries used for consolidation are special  (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting
 purpose  financial  information  prepared  in  accordance  Standards) Rules, 2021, as applicable to relevant entities
 with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India  and practices generally prevalent in the banking industry
 (‘GAAP’) specified under Section 133 of the Companies  in India. In case the accounting policies followed by a
 Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts)  subsidiary is different from those followed by the Bank,
 Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards)  the same have been disclosed separately.
 Rules, 2021.  
   Use of estimates
 The Bank had not consolidated its subsidiaries viz. HDFC  
   The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
 Credila Financial Services Limited (‘HDFC Credila’) and  
   conformity with Indian GAAP requires the management
 HDFC  Education  and  Development  Services  Private  
   to make  estimates and necessary assumptions in  the
 Limited (‘HEADS’) under AS-21 as the control of these  
   reported  amounts  of  assets  and  liabilities  (including
 subsidiaries was intended to be temporary (as directed  
   contingent liabilities) as at the date of the consolidated
 by RBI) on the date of their acquisition. Subsequently, the  
   financial  statements  and  the  reported  income  and
 Bank had diluted its holding in HDFC Credila to 9.99% as  
   expenses for the reporting year. Management believes that
 on March 31, 2024 and entire stake in HEADS is divested  
   the estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated
 during the year ended March 31, 2025.  
   financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual
   results could differ from these estimates. The impact of
 The  audited  special  purpose  financial  information  of  
   any revision in the accounting estimates is recognised
 foreign subsidiaries used in consolidation are drawn up  
   prospectively from the period of change.
 to the same reporting date as that of the Group.  
  D. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
C. ACCOUNTING METHODOLOGY  
  1. Investments
 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared  
 and presented under the historical cost convention and  
   Bank
 accrual basis of accounting, unless otherwise stated and  
 are in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting  
   The  RBI,  vide  its  master  direction  dated  September
 Principles in India (‘Indian GAAP’), statutory requirements  
   12,  2023,  issued  revised  norms  for  the  classification,
 prescribed  under  the  Third  Schedule  of  the  Banking  
   valuation and operation of investment portfolio of banks,
 Regulation  Act,  1949,  directions,  circular,  notifications  
   which became applicable from April 01, 2024 (here in
 and the guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India  
   after referred as ‘revised norms on investments’).
 (RBI) (‘RBI Guidelines’), Securities and Exchange Board  
Other Investments. Valuation:
 In accordance with the revised norms on investments,
Hitherto,  investments  were  classified  on  the  date  of 
purchase into “Held for Trading” (‘HFT’), “Available for 
 • 
Investments  classified  under  FVTPL  and  AFS
Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’) categories 
 categories are fair valued individually. Net gain or
(hereinafter  called  “categories”).  Subsequent  shifting 
 loss arising on such valuation of FVTPL category is
amongst the categories was done in accordance with 
 directly taken to the Consolidated Profit and Loss
the  RBI  guidelines.  Under  each  of  these  categories, 
 Account.  The  net  appreciation  or  depreciation
investments  were  further  classified  into  six  groups 
 (adjusted for the effect of applicable taxes, if any)
(hereinafter  called  “groups”),  Government  securities, 
 in  AFS  Category  is  directly  taken  to  AFS  reserve
Other  approved  securities,  Shares,  Debentures  and 
 without  routing  through  the  Consolidated  Profit
Bonds, Investments in subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and 
 & Loss Account. Hitherto, investments  classified
Other Investments. 
 under  AFS  and  HFT  categories  were  marked  to
 market individually, and depreciation / appreciation
Purchase  and  sale 
transactions 
in  securities  are 
 was aggregated for each group. Net depreciation, if
accounted  on  settlement  date  except  in  the  case  of 
 any, compared to the acquisition cost, in any of the
equity shares which are accounted on trade date. 
 six groups, was charged to the Consolidated Profit
 and Loss Account and net appreciation, if any, in
Basis of classification: 
 any of the six groups was not recognised except to
Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity the extent of depreciation provided earlier.
and contractual terms there of gives rise to cash flows 
that  are  solely  payment  of  principal  and  interest  on • 
Quoted investments are valued based on the trades
principal  outstanding  (SPPI)  are  classified  under  HTM /  quotes  on  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  or
category. All investments in subsidiaries / associates / prices  published  by  Financial  Benchmarks  India
joint ventures are classified under the category of Group Private Limited (FBIL) or Fixed Income Money Market
Companies  (Group  cos).  Investments  which  the  Bank and Derivatives Association (FIMMDA). Investments
acquires  with  an  objective  that  is  achieved  by  both denominated in foreign currencies are valued based
collecting  contractual  cashflows  and  selling  securities on  the  prices  provided  by  market  information
and where the contractual terms of the investment meet providers such as Bloomberg, Refinitiv, etc.
the  SPPI  criterion  are  classified  under  AFS  category. 
Investments not classified in any of the above categories • 
Unquoted  Government  of  India  securities,  state
are  classified  under  FVTPL  category.  HFT,  which  is  a government securities and special bonds such as oil
sub-category of FVTPL consists of all instruments that bonds, fertilizer bonds etc. issued by the Government
meet the specifications for HFT instruments prescribed of India are valued as per the prices published by
by the RBI. FBIL. The valuation of other unquoted fixed income
 SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 As at March 31, 2025
Classification: Hitherto, investments which the Bank intended to hold
 till  maturity  were  classified  under  HTM  category  and
In accordance with the revised norms on investments, 
 investments  that  were  held  for  resale  within  90  days
investments are classified on the date of purchase into 
 from  the date of purchase were  classified under  HFT.
“Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’), “Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) and 
 Investments  which  were  not  classified  in  either  of  the
“Fair value through Profit and Loss” (‘FVTPL’) categories 
 above categories were classified under AFS category.
(hereinafter called “categories”). “Held for Trading” (‘HFT’) 
is a separate investment sub-category within FVTPL. All 
 Acquisition cost:
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 
are categorised in a distinct category Group companies Costs,  including  brokerage  and  commission  paid  at
(“Group  cos”).  Under  each  of 
these  categories, the  time  of  acquisition  of  investments  and  broken
investments  are  further  classified  under  six  groups period interest on debt instruments, are recognised in
(hereinafter  called  “groups”)  -  Government  Securities, the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and are not
Other  Approved  Securities,  Shares,  Debentures  and included in the cost of acquisition.
Bonds, Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and 
Other Investments. Valuation:
 In accordance with the revised norms on investments,
Hitherto,  investments  were  classified  on  the  date  of 
purchase into “Held for Trading” (‘HFT’), “Available for 
 • 
Investments  classified  under  FVTPL  and  AFS
Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’) categories 
 categories are fair valued individually. Net gain or
(hereinafter  called  “categories”).  Subsequent  shifting 
 loss arising on such valuation of FVTPL category is
amongst the categories was done in accordance with 
 directly taken to the Consolidated Profit and Loss
the  RBI  guidelines.  Under  each  of  these  categories, 
 Account.  The  net  appreciation  or  depreciation
investments  were  further  classified  into  six  groups 
 (adjusted for the effect of applicable taxes, if any)
(hereinafter  called  “groups”),  Government  securities, 
 in  AFS  Category  is  directly  taken  to  AFS  reserve
Other  approved  securities,  Shares,  Debentures  and 
 without  routing  through  the  Consolidated  Profit
Bonds, Investments in subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and 
 & Loss Account. Hitherto, investments  classified
Other Investments. 
 under  AFS  and  HFT  categories  were  marked  to
 market individually, and depreciation / appreciation
Purchase  and  sale 
transactions 
in  securities  are 
 was aggregated for each group. Net depreciation, if
accounted  on  settlement  date  except  in  the  case  of 
 any, compared to the acquisition cost, in any of the
equity shares which are accounted on trade date. 
 six groups, was charged to the Consolidated Profit
 and Loss Account and net appreciation, if any, in
Basis of classification: 
 any of the six groups was not recognised except to
Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity the extent of depreciation provided earlier.
and contractual terms there of gives rise to cash flows 
that  are  solely  payment  of  principal  and  interest  on • 
Quoted investments are valued based on the trades
principal  outstanding  (SPPI)  are  classified  under  HTM /  quotes  on  the  recognised  stock  exchanges  or
category. All investments in subsidiaries / associates / prices  published  by  Financial  Benchmarks  India
joint ventures are classified under the category of Group Private Limited (FBIL) or Fixed Income Money Market
Companies  (Group  cos).  Investments  which  the  Bank and Derivatives Association (FIMMDA). Investments
acquires  with  an  objective  that  is  achieved  by  both denominated in foreign currencies are valued based
collecting  contractual  cashflows  and  selling  securities on  the  prices  provided  by  market  information
and where the contractual terms of the investment meet providers such as Bloomberg, Refinitiv, etc.
the  SPPI  criterion  are  classified  under  AFS  category. 
Investments not classified in any of the above categories • 
Unquoted  Government  of  India  securities,  state
are  classified  under  FVTPL  category.  HFT,  which  is  a government securities and special bonds such as oil
sub-category of FVTPL consists of all instruments that bonds, fertilizer bonds etc. issued by the Government
meet the specifications for HFT instruments prescribed of India are valued as per the prices published by
by the RBI. FBIL. The valuation of other unquoted fixed income
   Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 securities (viz. other approved securities and bonds  not marked to market. Any diminution, other than
 and debentures), and preference shares, is done  temporary, in the value of investments in HTM and
 with appropriate mark-up, i.e., applicable FIMMDA  Group  Cos.  category  is  provided  for.  Hitherto,
 published credit spreads over the Yield to Maturity  any  premium  on  investments  classified  under
 (YTM) rates for Government of India securities as  HTM category, was amortised over the remaining
 published by FBIL.  maturity period of the security on a constant yield-
   to-maturity basis.
• Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-  
 up  value,  ascertained  from  the  company’s  latest • For all debt securities meeting SPPI criteria (except
 balance  sheet.  The  date  as  on  which  the  latest  short  sale  securities),  any  discount  or  premium
 balance sheet is drawn up does not precede the  on  acquisition  is  accreted  or  amortised  over  the
 date of valuation by more than 18 months. In case  remaining  maturity  period  of  the  security  on  a
 the latest audited balance sheet is not available or  constant yield to maturity basis. Such accretion or
 is more than 18 months old, the shares are valued  amortisation of discount or premium is  classified
 at ` 1 per company.  under interest income from investments.
• Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest Net • The investment portfolio is categorised into three fair
 Asset Value (NAV) declared by the mutual fund.  value hierarchies viz. Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3:
• Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of  Level 1 Financial Instruments are valued with 

 deposits being discounted instruments, are valued  inputs such as quoted prices in active markets
 at carrying cost.  for identical instruments.
• Investments 
in  Security  Receipts 
(SRs)  and  Level 2 Financial Instruments are valued with 

 unquoted units of Infrastructure Investment Trust  inputs  other  than  quoted  prices,  that  are
 (InvIT) are valued as per the net asset value provided  observable for asset or liability either directly
 by the issuing Asset Reconstruction Company and  or indirectly.
 InvIT respectively.  
   Level 3 Financial Instruments are valued using 

• Investments 
in  unquoted  units  of  Alternative  unobservable inputs.
 Investment Fund (AIF) are valued at NAV provided  
 by the AIF based on its financial statements. Where • All  investments  are  measured  at  fair  value  on
 an AIF fails to carry out and disclose the valuation of  initial recognition. Unless facts and circumstances
 its investments by an independent valuer as per the  suggest  that  the  fair  value  is  materially  different
 frequency mandated by SEBI, the value of its units  from the acquisition cost, it is presumed that the
 is treated as ` 1. In case AIF is not registered under  acquisition cost is the fair value. In case of Level
 SEBI  (Alternative  Investment  Fund)  Regulation,  1 and Level 2 instruments, when acquisition cost
 2012,  and  the  latest  disclosed  valuation  of  its  is not equal to fair value, any Day 1 gain / loss is
 investments by an independent valuer precedes the  recognised  in  the  Consolidated  Profit  and  Loss
 date of valuation by more than 18 months the value  Account. In case of Level 3 instruments, any Day
 of its units is treated as ` 1.  1 loss is recognised immediately in the Profit and
   Loss Account whereas any Day1 gain is deferred. In
• Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) including Priority  case of Level 3 debt instruments, the Day 1 gain is
 Sector-PTCs  are  valued  by  using  FIMMDA  credit  amortized on a straight-line basis up to the maturity
 spreads  as  applicable  for  the  NBFC  category,  date (or earliest call date for perpetual instruments),
 based on the credit rating of the respective PTC over  while for unquoted Level 3 equity instruments, the
 the YTM rates for Government of India securities  gain  is  set  aside  as  a  liability  until  the  security  is
 published by FBIL.  listed or derecognised.
• Investments classified under HTM and Group Cos.  
 category are carried at their acquisition cost and  
  Investments are classified under six groups (hereinafter
Appreciation,  if  any,  in  the  value  of  a  NPI  is  not  
  called  “groups”)  –  Government  Securities,  Other
recognised.  Income  on  NPIs  is  not  recognised  
  Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds,
until received.  
  Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and Other
  Investments. Purchase and sale transactions in securities
Disposal of investments:  
  are accounted on trade date. Securities lent under the
In accordance with the revised norms on investments,  Securities Lending and Borrowing scheme (SLB) continue
Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid  to be recognised as investments since all the associated
categories is recognised in the Consolidated Profit and  risks and rewards of these securities are retained.
Loss Account except for equity instruments designated  
under AFS at the time of initial recognition, in respect a) Debt securities
of which the gains and losses are transferred from AFS  
Reserve  to  the  Capital  Reserve.  Hitherto,  entire  Profit  Debt  securities,  including  Government  Securities  are
/ Loss on sale of investments, were recognised in the  considered as “held to maturity” and accordingly valued
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.  at historical cost, subject to amortisation of premium or
  accretion of discount, if any, over the period of maturity
Cost of investments is determined based on the weighted  / holding on a straight-line basis.
average cost method. The profit from sale of investment  
under  HTM  and  Group  Cos.  categories,  net  off  taxes  Money  market  instruments  like  Commercial  Papers,
and  transfer  to  statutory  reserve  is  appropriated  from  Certificate of Deposit, Treasury Bills (T-Bills) and Tri-Party
the  Profit  and  Loss  Account  to  “Capital  Reserve”,  in  Repo (TREPS) are valued at historical cost, subject to
accordance with RBI guidelines.  amortisation of premium or accretion of discount over
  the period of maturity / holding on a straight-line basis.
Short sale:  Fixed Deposits and Reverse Repo are valued at cost.
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central  
  Investments  in  Alternative  Investment  Fund  (AIF)  and
Government dated securities in accordance with the RBI  
  Security Receipts are valued at cost, subject to provision
guidelines. The short position is categorised under HFT  
  for diminution, if any, in the value of such investments
and netted off from investments in government securities.  
  determined separately for each individual investment.
The short position along with other government securities  
under HFT portfolio is marked to market and the resultant  
 b) Equity shares, Equity Exchange Traded  Funds (ETFs),
MTM profit or loss, is taken to the Consolidated Profit and  
  Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts  (InvITs),  Real  Estate
Loss Account. Profit / Loss on short sale is recognised  
  Investment  Trusts  (REITs)  and  Additional  Tier  I  Bonds
on settlement date.  
  (AT1 Bonds).
Life Insurance  
  Listed equity shares, equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs are
  valued at fair value, being the last quoted closing price
Investments are made in accordance with the Insurance  
  on the primary exchange as at the Balance Sheet date. In
Act, 1938 (amended by the Insurance Laws (Amendment)  
  case, the equity shares and equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs
Act,  2015),  the  IRDAI  (Investment)  Regulations,  2016,  
  are not traded on the primary exchange on the Balance
and various other circulars / notifications issued by the  
  Sheet date, the closing price on the secondary exchange
IRDAI  in  this  context  from  time  to  time.  Investments  
  is considered. If the equity shares are not traded on any
are recognised at cost on the date of purchase, which  
  exchange  on  the  Balance  Sheet  date,  then  the  price
include brokerage and taxes, if any, but exclude interest  
  at  which  the  equity  shares  are  traded  on  the  earliest
accrued (i.e. since the previous coupon date) as on the  
  previous day is considered for valuation, provided such
date of purchase.  
  previous day price is not more than 30 days prior to the
  Balance Sheet date.
 SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 As at March 31, 2025 
• 
Non-performing investments (NPIs) are identified,  Classification and valuation of investment (other
and provision is made thereon based on the RBI  than linked business) is done on the following
guidelines. Provision for NPIs is not set-off against  basis:
appreciation in respect of performing investments.  
  Investments are classified under six groups (hereinafter
Appreciation,  if  any,  in  the  value  of  a  NPI  is  not  
  called  “groups”)  –  Government  Securities,  Other
recognised.  Income  on  NPIs  is  not  recognised  
  Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds,
until received.  
  Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and Other
  Investments. Purchase and sale transactions in securities
Disposal of investments:  
  are accounted on trade date. Securities lent under the
In accordance with the revised norms on investments,  Securities Lending and Borrowing scheme (SLB) continue
Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid  to be recognised as investments since all the associated
categories is recognised in the Consolidated Profit and  risks and rewards of these securities are retained.
Loss Account except for equity instruments designated  
under AFS at the time of initial recognition, in respect a) Debt securities
of which the gains and losses are transferred from AFS  
Reserve  to  the  Capital  Reserve.  Hitherto,  entire  Profit  Debt  securities,  including  Government  Securities  are
/ Loss on sale of investments, were recognised in the  considered as “held to maturity” and accordingly valued
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.  at historical cost, subject to amortisation of premium or
  accretion of discount, if any, over the period of maturity
Cost of investments is determined based on the weighted  / holding on a straight-line basis.
average cost method. The profit from sale of investment  
under  HTM  and  Group  Cos.  categories,  net  off  taxes  Money  market  instruments  like  Commercial  Papers,
and  transfer  to  statutory  reserve  is  appropriated  from  Certificate of Deposit, Treasury Bills (T-Bills) and Tri-Party
the  Profit  and  Loss  Account  to  “Capital  Reserve”,  in  Repo (TREPS) are valued at historical cost, subject to
accordance with RBI guidelines.  amortisation of premium or accretion of discount over
  the period of maturity / holding on a straight-line basis.
Short sale:  Fixed Deposits and Reverse Repo are valued at cost.
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central  
  Investments  in  Alternative  Investment  Fund  (AIF)  and
Government dated securities in accordance with the RBI  
  Security Receipts are valued at cost, subject to provision
guidelines. The short position is categorised under HFT  
  for diminution, if any, in the value of such investments
and netted off from investments in government securities.  
  determined separately for each individual investment.
The short position along with other government securities  
under HFT portfolio is marked to market and the resultant  
 b) Equity shares, Equity Exchange Traded  Funds (ETFs),
MTM profit or loss, is taken to the Consolidated Profit and  
  Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts  (InvITs),  Real  Estate
Loss Account. Profit / Loss on short sale is recognised  
  Investment  Trusts  (REITs)  and  Additional  Tier  I  Bonds
on settlement date.  
  (AT1 Bonds).
Life Insurance  
  Listed equity shares, equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs are
  valued at fair value, being the last quoted closing price
Investments are made in accordance with the Insurance  
  on the primary exchange as at the Balance Sheet date. In
Act, 1938 (amended by the Insurance Laws (Amendment)  
  case, the equity shares and equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs
Act,  2015),  the  IRDAI  (Investment)  Regulations,  2016,  
  are not traded on the primary exchange on the Balance
and various other circulars / notifications issued by the  
  Sheet date, the closing price on the secondary exchange
IRDAI  in  this  context  from  time  to  time.  Investments  
  is considered. If the equity shares are not traded on any
are recognised at cost on the date of purchase, which  
  exchange  on  the  Balance  Sheet  date,  then  the  price
include brokerage and taxes, if any, but exclude interest  
  at  which  the  equity  shares  are  traded  on  the  earliest
accrued (i.e. since the previous coupon date) as on the  
  previous day is considered for valuation, provided such
date of purchase.  
  previous day price is not more than 30 days prior to the
  Balance Sheet date.
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 In case the equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs are not traded Sheet date, the closing price on the secondary exchange
 either on the primary or the secondary exchange on the is considered.
 Balance Sheet date, then the equity ETFs are valued at 
 the latest available Net Asset Value (NAV) and in case of If preference shares are not traded either on any exchange
 InvITs and REITs where the market quote is not available on the Balance Sheet date, then the price at which the
 for the last 30 days, the InvITs and REITs are valued at the preference  shares  are  traded  on  the  earliest  previous
 latest NAV (not more than 6 months old) as published by day is considered for valuation, provided such previous
 the Infrastructure Investment Trust / Real Estate Trusts. day price is not more than 30 days prior to the Balance
  Sheet date.
 The  AT1  Bonds  are  valued  at  market  value,  using 
 applicable market yields published by SEBI registered Unrealised  gains  or  losses  arising  due  to  changes  in
 rating agency Credit Rating Information Services of India fair value are recognised under the head ‘Reserves and
 Limited (‘CRISIL’), using Bond Valuer at deemed maturity Surplus’  under  “Other  reserves”  in  the  Consolidated
 date of 100 years from the date of issue. Balance Sheet.
 Unrealised  gains  or  losses  arising  due  to  changes  in Unlisted  preference  shares  (other  than  redeemable
 fair value are recognised under the head ‘Reserves and preference  shares)  and  listed  preference  (other  than
 Surplus’  under  “Other  reserves”  in  the  Consolidated redeemable  preference)  shares  that  are  not  regularly
 Balance  Sheet.  Such  reserve  will  not  be  available traded in active markets and which are classified as “thinly
 for distribution. traded” as per the aforesaid SEBI guidelines are valued at
  historical cost, subject to provision for diminution in the
 Unlisted equity shares, listed equity shares and unlisted value, if any, of such investments determined separately
 equity  warrants  that  are  not  regularly  traded  in  active for each individual investment.
 markets and which are classified as “thinly traded” as per 
 the SEBI guidelines governing mutual funds for valuation d)   Mutual fund
 of thinly traded securities are valued at historical cost, 
 subject to provision for diminution, if any, in the value Mutual  fund  units  held  at  the  Balance  Sheet  date  are
 of  such  investments  determined  separately  for  each valued at previous business day’s Net Asset Value (NAV)
 individual  investment.  Listed  equity  ETFs  that  are  not per unit. Unrealised gains or losses arising due to changes
 regularly  traded  in  the  active  markets,  and  which  are in the fair value of mutual fund units are recognised under
 classified as “thinly traded” as per the aforesaid SEBI the head ‘Reserves and Surplus’ under “Other reserves”
 guidelines are valued at the latest available NAV. in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 Bonus entitlements are recognised as investments on Classification and valuation of investment (linked
 the ‘ex-bonus date’. Right entitlements are accrued and business) is done on the following basis.
 recognised  on  the  date  the  original  share  (on  which 
  a) 
Debt Securities
 the right entitlement accrues) are traded on the stock 
 exchange on an ‘ex-rights date’. 
  Debt  securities,  including  Government  Securities  are
  valued  at  market  value,  using  CRISIL  Bond  Valuer  /
c) Preference Shares 
  CRISIL Gilt Prices, as applicable.
 Redeemable  preference  shares  are  considered  as 
  Money  market  instruments  like  Commercial  Papers,
 “held to maturity” and accordingly valued at  historical 
  Certificate  of  Deposits,  Treasury  Bills  (T-Bills)  and  Tri-
 cost,  subject  to  amortisation  of  premium  or  accretion 
  Party Repo (TREPS) are valued at historical cost, subject
 of discount. 
  to amortisation of premium or accretion of discount over
  the period of maturity / holding on a straight-line basis.
 Listed  preference  shares  other 
than 
redeemable 
 preference  shares  are  valued  at  fair  value,  being  the 
  Fixed  Deposits  and  investment  in  Reverse  Repo  are
 last  quoted  closing  price  on  the  primary  exchange  at 
  valued at cost.
 the Balance Sheet date. In case, the preference shares 
 are not traded on the primary exchange on the Balance 
  SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  As at March 31, 2025 
 Unrealised gains or losses arising on valuation of debt  In case of InvITs and REITs where the market quote is
 securities are accounted for in the Consolidated Profit  not  available  for  the  last  30  days,  the  InvITs  shall  be
 and Loss Account.  valued at the latest NAV (not more than 6 months old) as
   published by the Infrastructure Investment Trust / Real
 Securities  with  call  options  are  valued  at  the  lower  of  Estate Trusts.
 the  values  as  obtained  by  valuing  the  security  to  the  
 final maturity date or to the call option date by using the  Unrealised  gains  or  losses  arising  on  such  valuations
 benchmark rate based on the matrix released by CRISIL  are  accounted  for  in  the  Consolidated  Profit  and
 on daily basis. In case there are multiple call options, the  Loss Account.
 security is valued at the lowest value obtained by valuing  
 the security to the various call dates or to the final maturity  Listed equity shares that are not regularly traded in active
 date. Securities with put options are valued at the higher  markets, and which are classified as “thinly traded” as
 of the value as obtained by valuing the security to the  per the guidelines governing mutual funds for valuation of
 final maturity date or to the put option date by using the  thinly traded securities laid down by SEBI, are valued at
 benchmark rate based on the matrix released by CRISIL  historical cost, subject to provision for diminution, if any,
 on daily basis. In case there are multiple put options, the  in the value of such investment determined separately for
 security is valued at the highest value obtained by valuing  each individual investment.
 the security to the various put option dates or to the final  
 maturity date. Tier II Bonds are valued at their maturity  Listed equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs that are not regularly
 date through bond valuer.  traded in the active markets and which are classified as
   “thinly traded” as per the guidelines governing Mutual
 Securities with both put and call options on the same day  Funds for valuation of thinly traded securities laid down
 are deemed to mature on the put and call option day and  by SEBI, are valued at the latest available NAV.
 would be valued on a yield to maturity basis, by using the  
 benchmark rate based on the matrix released by CRISIL  Bonus entitlements are recognised as investments on
 on daily basis.  the ‘ex-bonus date’. Right entitlements are accrued and
   recognised  on  the  date  the  original  shares  (on  which
b) Equity  shares, Equity Exchange Traded Funds  (ETFs),  the right entitlement accrues) are traded on the stock
 Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts  (InvITs),  Real  Estate  exchange on the ‘ex-rights date’.
 Investment Trusts (REITs), Additional Tier I Bonds (AT1  
 Bonds) and Preference shares.  All unlisted redeemable preference shares are considered
   as held to maturity and stated at historical cost.
 Listed  equity  shares,  equity  ETFs,  preference  shares,  
 Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) and Real Estate c) Mutual funds
 Investment Trusts (REITs) are valued and stated at fair  
 value, being the last quoted closing price on the primary  Mutual  fund  units  held  at  the  Balance  Sheet  date
 exchange at the Balance Sheet date. In case, the equity  are  valued  at  previous  business  day’s  NAV  per  unit.
 shares, equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs are not traded on  Unrealised  gains  or  losses  arising  due  to  change  in
 the primary exchange on the Balance Sheet date, the  the fair value of mutual fund units are recognised in the
 closing price on the secondary exchange is considered.  Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
 If equity shares / preference shares are not traded either  Impairment of Investments:
 on NSE or BSE on the Balance Sheet date, then the price  
   The life insurance entity periodically assesses at each
 at which the equity shares / preference shares are traded  
   Balance Sheet date whether there is any indication of
 on the earliest previous day is considered for valuation,  
   impairment  of  investments  or  reversal  of  impairment
 provided such previous day price is not more than 30  
   loss earlier recognised. An impairment loss is accounted
 days prior to the Balance Sheet date.  
   for as an expense in the Consolidated Profit and Loss
   Account to the extent of the difference between the re-
 In case the equity ETFs, InvITs and REITs are not traded  
   measured fair value of the investments and its weighted
 either on NSE or BSE on the Balance Sheet date, then  
   acquisition cost as reduced by any earlier impairment
 the equity ETFs are valued at the latest available NAV.  
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
loss accounted for as an expense in the Consolidated All  mutual  fund  investments  are  valued  at  NAV  as  at
Profit  and  Loss  Account.  Any  reversal  of  impairment reporting date.
loss earlier recognised in Consolidated Profit and Loss 
Account,  is  accounted  in  the  Consolidated  Profit  and Equity shares actively traded and convertible preference
Loss Account. shares as at the reporting date are stated at fair value,
 being  the  last  quoted  closing  price  on  the  primary
Purchase and sale transactions between unit exchange i.e., NSE. However, in case of any stock not
linked funds: being listed on NSE, the same is valued based on the
 last quoted closing price on BSE. Investment in unlisted
The  purchase  and  sale  of  equity,  preference  shares, 
 shares is stated at historical cost. AT I Bond Investments
ETFs, InvITs, REITs and Government Securities between 
 are fair valued at market yield rates published by rating
unit linked funds is accounted for at the prevailing market 
 agency registered with SEBI.
price on the date of purchase or sale of investments, if 
prevailing market price of any security is not available on 
 Any unrealized gains / losses arising due to change in
the date of transfer of investment, then the last available 
 fair value of mutual fund investments, listed equity shares
price  is  considered.  In  case  of  debt  securities  other 
 and AT I Bonds are accounted in “Other reserves” and
than Government Securities, transfer of investments is 
 carried forward in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and
accounted at previous day valuation price in accordance 
 is not available for distribution.
with IRDAI (Investment) Regulations, 2016. 
 Pursuant  to  the  provisions  of 
IRDAI  Circular,  the
General Insurance 
 Investment made by the general insurance entity, and fair
 value change account are bifurcated into Policyholders
Classification: 
 and Shareholders funds on notional basis.
Investments are classified under six groups (hereinafter 
 The  general  insurance  entity  assesses  whether  any
called  “groups”)  –  Government  Securities,  Other 
 impairment  has  occurred  on  its  investments  at  each
Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures and Bonds, 
 reporting date. If any such indication exists, then carrying
Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures and Other 
 value of such investment is reduced to its recoverable
Investments. Purchase and sale transactions in securities 
 amount  /  market  value  on  the  reporting  date  and  the
are accounted on trade date. Investments are recorded 
 impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Profit
at cost, which include brokerage, taxes, if any, stamp 
 and Loss Account. If at the reporting date, there is any
duty and excludes broken period interest. 
 indication that a previously assessed impairment loss no
 longer  exists,  then  impairment  loss  earlier  recognised
Valuation: 
 in Consolidated Profit and Loss Account is reversed in
Investments  are  made  and  accounted  in  accordance Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and the investment
with the Insurance Act, 1938, as amended by Insurance is restated to that extent.
Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015, the Insurance Regulatory 
and  Development  Authority  (Investment)  Regulations, Other Subsidiaries
2000, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
 Classification:
of India (Actuarial, Finance and Investment Functions of 
Insurers)  Regulations,  2024  as  amended  and  various 
 With effect from April 01, 2024, investments are classified
other circulars / notifications issued by the IRDAI in this 
 on the date of purchase into “Held to Maturity” (‘HTM’),
context from time to time. 
 “Available for Sale” (‘AFS’) and “Fair value through Profit
 and  Loss”  (‘FVTPL’)  categories,  (hereinafter  called
All  debt  securities  excluding  AT  I  Bonds,  and  non- 
 “categories”). All investments in subsidiaries, associates
convertible  preference  shares  are  stated  at  historical 
 and joint ventures are categorized in a distinct category
cost  subject  to  amortisation  of  premium  or  accretion 
 - Group companies (“Group cos”).  Under each of these
of  discount  on  constant  yield  to  maturity  basis  in  the 
 categories, the investments are further classified under
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account over the period of 
 six  groups  (hereinafter  called  “groups”)  -  Government
maturity / holding. 
 Securities,  Other  Approved  Securities,  Shares,
on  principal  outstanding  are  classified  under  AFS  
category. Investments not classified in either of the above • Investment  portfolio  is  categorised  into  three  fair
categories are classified under FVTPL category. Hitherto,  value hierarchies viz. Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3:
investments that were intended to be held for more than  
one year from the date on which the investments were  Level 1 – the financial instruments are valued 

made,  were  classified  as  long  term  investments  and  with  inputs  such  as  quoted  prices  in  active
investments,  which  were  intended  to  be  held  for  less  markets for identical instruments.
than one year from the date on which the investments  
were made, were classified as current investments.  Level 2 – the financial instruments are valued 

  with inputs other than quoted prices, that are
Acquisition cost:  observable for asset or liability either directly
  or indirectly.
Transaction  costs  that  are  directly  attributable  to  the  
acquisition of investment classified under HTM or AFS  
  Level 3 – the financial instruments are valued 

are added to the fair value of the investment on initial  
  using unobservable inputs.
recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the  
 SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 As at March 31, 2025
Debentures  and  Bonds,  Investments  in  Subsidiaries Valuation:
/  Joint  Ventures  and  Other  Investments.  Hitherto, 
 • 
Initial  Recognition:  All  investments  are  measured
investments were classified into long term and current 
 at  fair  value  on  initial  recognition  unless  facts
investments  in accordance with Accounting Standard 
 and  circumstances  suggest  that  the  fair  value  is
13 (AS-13) “Accounting for Investments”. 
 materially different from the acquisition cost.
Purchase  and  sale 
transactions 
in  securities  are 
 • 
Subsequent Measurement: Investments classified
accounted  on  settlement  date  except  in  the  case  of 
 under  FVTPL and AFS categories are  fair valued
equity shares which are accounted on trade date. 
 individually. Net gain or loss arising on such valuation
 of FVTPL category is directly credited or debited
Basis of classification: 
 to the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account. The
Investments  which  the  company  intends  to  hold  till net appreciation or depreciation (adjusted for the
maturity  and  where  their  contractual  terms  give  rise effect of applicable taxes, if any) in AFS Category is
to cash flows that are solely payment of principal and directly credited or debited to AFS reserve without
interest  on  principal  (SPPI)  outstanding  are  classified routing through the Consolidated Profit and Loss
under HTM category. Investments which are acquired Account. Hitherto, current investments were valued
with  an  objective  that  is  achieved  by  both  collecting at cost or market / fair value whichever was lower
contractual cash flows and selling securities and where and Provision for diminution was recognised for a
the contractual term of the investment gives rise to cash decline, if any, which was other than temporary in
flows that are solely payment of principal and interest the value of long-term investments.
on  principal  outstanding  are  classified  under  AFS 
category. Investments not classified in either of the above • 
Investment  portfolio  is  categorised  into  three  fair
categories are classified under FVTPL category. Hitherto, value hierarchies viz. Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3:
investments that were intended to be held for more than 
one year from the date on which the investments were Level 1 – the financial instruments are valued 

made,  were  classified  as  long  term  investments  and with  inputs  such  as  quoted  prices  in  active
investments,  which  were  intended  to  be  held  for  less markets for identical instruments.
than one year from the date on which the investments 
were made, were classified as current investments. Level 2 – the financial instruments are valued 

 with inputs other than quoted prices, that are
Acquisition cost: observable for asset or liability either directly
 or indirectly.
Transaction  costs  that  are  directly  attributable  to  the 
acquisition of investment classified under HTM or AFS 
 Level 3 – the financial instruments are valued 

are added to the fair value of the investment on initial 
 using unobservable inputs.
recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition of investments classified under FVTPL are 
 • 
Investments classified under HTM and Group Cos.
recognised  immediately  in  statement  of  Consolidated 
 categories are carried at their acquisition cost and
Profit and Loss Account. 
 not marked to market. Any diminution, other than
 temporary, in the value of investments in HTM and
Disposal of investments: 
 Group Cos. category is provided for.
Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid 
 • 
For  all  debt  securities  meeting  SPPI  criteria,  any
categories is recognised in the Consolidated Profit and 
 discount or premium on acquisition is accreted or
Loss Account except for equity investment designated 
 amortised  over  the  remaining  maturity  period  of
as AFS at the time of initial recognition wherein the gains 
 the security.
and losses therefrom are transferred from AFS Reserve 
to the Capital Reserve. 
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
2. Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions: Loans reported as frauds are classified as loss assets
  and fully provided for immediately without considering
 Repurchase  (Repo)  and  reverse  repurchase  (Reverse 
  the value of security.
 Repo)  transactions  are  reported  as  borrowing  and 
 lending  (lending  above  14  days  tenor  reported  as 
  The  Bank  maintains  general  provision  for  standard
 advances) respectively. 
  assets including credit exposures computed as per the
  current  marked  to  market  values  of  interest  rate  and
 Borrowing  cost  on  repo  transactions  is  accounted 
  foreign  exchange  derivative  contracts  and  gold.  The
 as  interest  expense  and  revenue  on  reverse  repo 
  Bank  also  maintains  general  provision  for  unhedged
 transactions is accounted as interest income. 
  foreign currency exposures of borrowers, provision on
  loans to specific borrowers in specific stressed sectors,
3. Advances 
  provision  on  exposures  to  step-down  subsidiaries  of
  Indian companies and provision on specified borrowers
 Bank 
  as prescribed by RBI. In the case of overseas branches,
  general provision on standard assets is maintained at the
 Classification: 
  higher of the levels stipulated by the respective overseas
 Advances  are  classified  as  performing  and  non- regulator  or  RBI.  The  provision  for  standard  assets  is
 performing based on the RBI guidelines and are stated included under other liabilities.
 net  of  bills  rediscounted,  inter-bank  participation  with 
 risk,  specific  loan  loss  provision,  interest  suspense In addition to the above, the Bank on a prudent basis
 for  non-performing  advances,  claims  received  from makes  provision  on  advances  or  exposures  which
 Credit  Guarantors,  provision  for  funded  interest  term are not NPAs but has reasons to believe on the basis
 loan  and  provision  for  diminution  in  the  fair  value  of of  the  extant  environment  or  specific  information  or
 restructured assets. basis regulatory guidance / instructions, of a possible
  slippage of a specific advance or a group of advances or
 The Bank classifies its loans and investments, including exposures or potential exposures. These are classified as
 overseas  branches  and  overdues  from  crystallised contingent provisions and included under other liabilities.
 derivative  contracts,  into  performing  assets  and  non- 
 performing  assets  (NPAs)  in  accordance  with  RBI Provision made in addition to the Bank’s policy for specific
 guidelines.  Further,  the  NPAs  are  classified  into  sub- loan loss provision for non-performing assets, possible
 standard, doubtful and loss assets based on the criteria slippage  of specific  exposures  and  regulatory general
 stipulated by RBI. Non-performing assets are upgraded provision is categorised as floating provision. Creation of
 into standard as per the extant RBI guidelines. floating provision is considered by the Bank up to a level
  approved by the Board of Directors. Floating provisions
 Provisioning: are  used  only  for  contingencies  under  extraordinary
  circumstances  and  for  making  specific  provisions
 Specific loan loss provision in respect of non-performing 
  for  non-performing  accounts.  Floating  provisions  are
 advances is made based on management’s assessment 
  included under other liabilities.
 of the degree of impairment of advances, subject to the 
 minimum provisioning prescribed by the RBI. 
  Further, to the provisions required to be held according
  to  the  asset  classification  status,  provision  is  held  for
 The specific loan loss provision for retail non-performing 
  individual country exposures (other than for home country
 advances is also made based on the nature of product 
  exposure). Countries are categorised into risk categories
 and delinquency levels. 
  as  per  Export  Credit  Guarantee  Corporation  of  India
  Limited (‘ECGC’) guidelines and provisioning is made in
 Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance 
  respect of that country where the net funded exposure is
 with  the  Bank’s  policy.  Recoveries  from  bad  debts 
  one percent or more of the Bank’s total assets. Provision
 written-off are included under other income. 
  for country risk is included under other liabilities.
  In accordance with the RBI guidelines on the prudential
  framework  for  resolution  of  stressed  assets  and  the
 SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 As at March 31, 2025 
resolution frameworks for COVID-19 related stress and  Life Insurance
its Board approved policy, the Bank has implemented  
  Classification:
resolution  plans  for  eligible  borrowers.  The  asset  
classification and necessary provision thereon is made  
  Advances  are  classified  as  performing  and  non-
in accordance with the said RBI guidelines. Restructured  
  performing  and  are  valued  at  historical  cost  and  are
assets  involving  compromise  settlements  where  the  
  stated net of loan loss provision.
time  for  payment  of  the  agreed  settlement  amount  
exceeds three months are classified and provided for in  
  Provisioning:
accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI from  
time to time.  
  All  assets  where  the  interest  and  /  or  instalment  of
  principal repayment remain overdue for more than 90
The  restructured  loans  are  upgraded  into  standard  
  days at the Balance Sheet date are classified as non-
category  as  per  the  extant  RBI  guidelines.  Further,  in  
  performing assets (NPA) and provided for in the manner
respect of restructuring of loans pertaining to projects  
  required by the IRDAI regulations on this behalf. In line
under  implementation,  the  asset  classification  and  
  with  the  guidelines  on  prudential  norms  for  income
necessary provision thereon is made in accordance with  
  recognition, asset classification, provisioning, and other
the said RBI guidelines.  
  related matters in respect of debt portfolio, life insurance
  entity has provided minimum percentage on the value of
Non Banking ﬁnance companies  
  the standard assets. The provision for standard assets
  is included under other liabilities.
Classification:  
  Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance
Advances are classified as standard, sub-standard and  
  with the policy as approved by the Board of life insurance
doubtful assets as per the policy approved by the Board  
  entity. Recoveries from bad debts written-off are included
of the respective entity and as per RBI guidelines. The  
  under other income.
rates applied for making provisions on non-performing  
assets  (NPA)  are  higher  than  those  prescribed  by  the  
 4. Securitisation and transfer of assets
relevant  RBI  guidelines.  Interest  on  non-performing  
assets  is  transferred  to  an  interest  suspense  account  
  Assets  transferred  through  securitisation  and  direct
and not recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss  
  assignment  of  cash  flows  are  de-recognised  in  the
Account  until  received.  Advances  are  recognised  on  
  Consolidated Balance Sheet when they are sold (true sale
disbursement of loan and in case of new asset financing  
  criteria being fully met with) and consideration is received.
on the transfer of ownership. The non-banking finance  
  Sales / transfers that do not meet true sale criteria are
entity provides 0.40% on standard assets as stipulated  
  accounted for as borrowings. For a securitisation or direct
by RBI guidelines. The NBFCs assesses all advances for  
  assignment  transaction,  the  Group  recognises  profit
their recoverability and accordingly recognises provision  
  upon receipt of the funds and loss is recognised at the
for non-performing and doubtful assets as per approved  
  time of sale. Unrealised gains, associated with expected
policies and guidelines. The non-banking finance entity  
  future margin income is recognised in Consolidated Profit
ensures provisions made are not lower than as stipulated  
  and  Loss  Account  on  receipt,  after  absorbing  losses,
by RBI guidelines.  
  if any.
Loan origination costs:  
  On  sale  of  stressed  assets,  if  the  sale  is  at  a  price
  below the net book value (i.e., funded outstanding less
Brokerage,  commission,  incentive  to  employee,  etc.  
  specific provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the
paid  at  the  time  of  acquisition  of  loans  are  charged  
  Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and if the sale is
to expenses.  
  for a value higher than the net book value, the excess
  provision is credited to the Consolidated Profit and Loss
  Account in the year when the sum of cash received by
  way of initial consideration and / or redemption or transfer
  of security receipts issued by Securitisation Company
  (‘SC’)  /  Reconstruction  Company  (‘RC’)  exceeds  the
asset  value  declared  by  the  SC  /  RC  and  provisions estimate of useful lives of the fixed assets. The estimated
as  per  the  extant  norms  applicable  to  the  underlying useful lives of key fixed assets are given below:
loans, notionally treating the book value of these SRs as 
the corresponding stressed loans assuming the loans 
 Estimated useful life as
 Asset
remained in the books of the Group. assessed by the Group
 Owned Premises
50 to 60 years
The Group invests in PTCs issued by Special Purpose Automated Teller Machines (ATMs)
10 years
Vehicles (SPVs). These are accounted at acquisition cost Electrical equipments and 
6 to 10 years
 installations
and are classified as investments. The Group also buys 
 Office equipments
3 to 10 years
loans  through  the  direct  assignment  route  which  are 
 Computers
2 to 5 years
classified as advances. PTCs are carried at acquisition 
 Modems, routers, switches, 
3 to 6 years
cost unless it is more than the face value, in which case 
 servers, network and related IT
the  premium  is  amortised  based  on  effective  interest 
 equipments
rate method. 
 Motor cars
4 to 8 years
 Safe deposit lockers
21 years
The  Bank 
transfers  advances 
through 
inter-bank 
 Furniture and fittings
3 to 16 years
participation  with  and  without  risk.  In  the  case  of 
 Salvaged vehicles
5 years
participation  with  risk,  the  aggregate  amount  of  the 
participation  issued  by  the  Bank  is  reduced  from Computer software licenses
3 to 5 years
advances. In case where the Bank is assuming risk by 
 Electronic trading platform 
5 years
participation, the aggregate amount of the participation (Website)
is  classified  under  advances.  In  the  case  of  issue  of Bombay Stock Exchange card 
10 years
participation  certificate  without  risk,  the  aggregate 
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 net book value of the loan at the time of transfer. Where Subsequent expenditure incurred on assets put to use
 the  sale  consideration  is  comprised  of  only  cash  and is capitalised only when it increases the future benefit /
 SRs guaranteed by the Government of India, the excess functioning capability from / of such assets.
 provision is credited to the Consolidated Profit and Loss 
 Account in the year of transfer. Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of
  the fixed asset on a straight-line basis except for freehold
 In  respect  of  stressed  assets  sold  under  an  asset land.  The  management  believes  that  the  useful  life  of
 securitisation, where the investment by the Group in SRs assets  assessed  by  the  Group,  pursuant  to  Part  C  of
 issued against the assets transferred by it is more than 10 Schedule  II  to  the  Companies  Act,  2013,  taking  into
 percent of such SRs, provisions held against outstanding account changes in environment, changes in technology,
 SRs are higher of the provisions required in terms of net the utility and efficacy of the asset in use, fairly reflects its
 asset  value  declared  by  the  SC  /  RC  and  provisions estimate of useful lives of the fixed assets. The estimated
 as  per  the  extant  norms  applicable  to  the  underlying useful lives of key fixed assets are given below:
 loans, notionally treating the book value of these SRs as 
 the corresponding stressed loans assuming the loans 
  Estimated useful life as
  Asset
 remained in the books of the Group. assessed by the Group
  Owned Premises
50 to 60 years
 The Group invests in PTCs issued by Special Purpose Automated Teller Machines (ATMs)
10 years
 Vehicles (SPVs). These are accounted at acquisition cost Electrical equipments and 
6 to 10 years
  installations
 and are classified as investments. The Group also buys 
  Office equipments
3 to 10 years
 loans  through  the  direct  assignment  route  which  are 
  Computers
2 to 5 years
 classified as advances. PTCs are carried at acquisition 
  Modems, routers, switches, 
3 to 6 years
 cost unless it is more than the face value, in which case 
  servers, network and related IT
 the  premium  is  amortised  based  on  effective  interest 
  equipments
 rate method. 
  Motor cars
4 to 8 years
  Safe deposit lockers
21 years
 The  Bank 
transfers  advances 
through 
inter-bank 
  Furniture and fittings
3 to 16 years
 participation  with  and  without  risk.  In  the  case  of 
  Salvaged vehicles
5 years
 participation  with  risk,  the  aggregate  amount  of  the 
 participation  issued  by  the  Bank  is  reduced  from Computer software licenses
3 to 5 years
 advances. In case where the Bank is assuming risk by 
  Electronic trading platform 
5 years
 participation, the aggregate amount of the participation (Website)
 is  classified  under  advances.  In  the  case  of  issue  of Bombay Stock Exchange card 
10 years
 participation  certificate  without  risk,  the  aggregate 
 amount of participation issued by the Bank is classified 
  • 
Leasehold  land  is  depreciated  over  the  period
 under  borrowings  and  where  the  Bank  is  acquiring 
  of lease.
 participation  certificate,  the  aggregate  amount  of 
 participation  acquired  is  shown  as  due  from  banks 
  • 
Improvements to leasehold premises are amortised
 under advances. 
  over the remaining period of lease for other than
  Asset  Management  entity. 
In  case  of  Asset
5. Fixed assets and depreciation 
  Management entity, amortisation is made over the
  lease term or 5 years, whichever is less.
 Fixed  assets  are  stated  at  cost  less  accumulated 
 depreciation  as  adjusted  for  impairment,  if  any.  Cost 
  • 
Software and system development expenditure is
 includes cost of purchase and all expenditure like site 
  amortised over a period upto 5 years.
 preparation,  installation  costs  and  professional  fees 
 incurred  on  the  asset  before  it  is  ready  to  use.  Cost 
  • 
Point of Sales (PoS) terminals (including sound box)
 of  an  intangible  asset  includes  purchase  price,  non- 
  are depreciated over a period of 4 years.
 refundable  taxes  and  duties  and  any  other  directly 
 attributable expenditure on making the asset ready for its 
  • 
For  assets  purchased  and  sold  during  the  year,
 intended use and net of any trade discounts and rebates. 
  depreciation is provided on pro-rata basis.
 SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  As at March 31, 2025 
• Whenever  there  is  a  revision  of  the  estimated  market  instruments,  liquid  mutual  funds  and  /  or
 useful life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable  fixed deposits of scheduled banks which is valued
 amount is charged over the revised remaining useful  at historical cost, subject to amortisation of premium
 life of the said asset.  or accretion of discount over the period of maturity
   / holding on a straight-line basis. Such assets of
• Profit on sale of immovable property net of taxes  unclaimed amount of policyholders is disclosed in
 and transfer to statutory reserve, are transferred to  “Other assets” in Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 capital reserve by the Bank.  
  c) Income  on  unclaimed  amount  of  policyholders
• Assets (other than PoS terminals) costing less than  is  accreted  to  respective  unclaimed  fund  and  is
 ` 5,000 individually are fully depreciated in the year  accounted  for  on  an  accrual  basis,  net  of  fund
 of purchase except general insurance entity.  management charges.
• Goodwill  generated 
through  amalgamation  / d) Amounts  remaining  unclaimed  for  a  period  of  10
 acquisition  of  rights  to  operate,  administer  and  years as on 30th September every year along with
 manage  the  mutual  fund  schemes  has  been  all respective accretions to the fund are deposited
 amortized equally over a period of 10 years by Asset  into the Senior Citizen Welfare Fund (SCWF) as per
 Management entity.  requirement of IRDAI regulations.
 manage  the  mutual  fund  schemes  has  been  all respective accretions to the fund are deposited
 amortized equally over a period of 10 years by Asset  into the Senior Citizen Welfare Fund (SCWF) as per
 Management entity.  requirement of IRDAI regulations.
6. Non-Banking Assets  General insurance
 Non-Banking  Assets  (NBAs)  acquired  in  satisfaction  Unclaimed  amounts  may  arise  in  respect  of  premium
 of claims are carried at lower of net book value or net  due for refund and indemnity claims. Income earned on
 realizable value.  unclaimed amounts is accreted and accounted on an
   accrual  basis.  After  10  years,  the  unclaimed  amounts
7. Impairment of assets  and their accretions are deposited into the Senior Citizen
   Welfare Fund as per IRDAI regulations.
 The  Group  assesses  at  each  Balance  Sheet  date  
 whether  there  is  any  indication  that  an  asset  may  be  
  9. Translation of foreign currency items
 impaired. Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent  
 the carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated  Foreign  currency  income  and  expenditure  items  of
 recoverable amount.  domestic  operations  are  translated  at  the  exchange
   rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. Income
8. Unclaimed amount of policyholders  and  expenditure  items  of  integral  foreign  operations
   (representative  offices)  are  translated  at  the  weekly
 Life Insurance  
   average  closing  rates  and  of  non-integral 
foreign
   operations (foreign branches and offshore banking units)
 Assets  held  for  unclaimed  amount  of  policyholders  
   and foreign subsidiaries at the average closing rates.
 are  created  and  maintained  in  accordance  with  the  
 requirement  of  Master  circular  on  Unclaimed  Amount  
   Outstanding  foreign  currency  monetary  assets  and
 of Policyholders and Investment Regulations, 2016 as  
   liabilities  of  domestic  and  integral  foreign  operations
 amended from time to time.  
   are translated at the closing exchange rates notified by
   Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI)
 a) 
Unclaimed  amount  of  policyholder’s  liability  is  
   and RBI in case of Bank and subsidiaries, respectively, as
 determined  on  the  basis  of  NAV  of  the  units  
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss liability) at the inception of the transaction itself. Hedge
arising from exchange differences are accumulated in the effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve until disposal of the of the hedge and at the reporting date thereafter.
non-integral foreign operations in accordance with AS-11, 
The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates and Foreign exchange forward contracts and Principal only
the extant RBI guidelines. swaps (POS) not intended for trading, that are entered into
 to establish the amount of reporting currency required or
Foreign  currency  denominated  contingent  liabilities available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are
on  account  of 
foreign  exchange  and  derivative outstanding at the Balance Sheet date, are accounted in
contracts,  guarantees,  letters  of  credit,  acceptances accordance with AS-11. Accordingly, such contracts are
and  endorsements  are  translated  at  closing  rates  of not marked to market and only translated at spot rate.
exchange notified by FEDAI and RBI in case of Bank and The premium or discount arising at the inception of such
subsidiaries, respectively, as at the Balance Sheet date. forward exchange contract is amortised on a straight-line
 basis as expense or income over the life of the contract.
10.  Foreign exchange and derivative contracts The interest income / expense on such POS transaction
 is accounted on accrual basis.
Foreign  exchange  spot  and 
forward  contracts, 
outstanding as at the Balance Sheet date and held for 
 In  case  of  a  fair  value  hedge,  the  changes  in  the  fair
trading,  are  revalued  at  the  closing  spot  and  forward 
 value of the hedging instruments and hedged items are
rates respectively as notified by FEDAI and at interpolated 
 recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
rates for contracts of interim maturities. The USD-INR 
 and  in  case  of  cash  flow  hedges,  the  changes  in  fair
exchange rate for valuation of contracts having longer 
 value of effective portion are recognised in Reserves and
maturities  i.e.,  greater  than  one  year,  is  derived  using 
 Surplus under ‘Cash flow hedge reserve’ and ineffective
the  USD-INR  spot  rate  as  well  as  relevant  INR  yield 
 portion  of  an  effective  hedging  relationship,  if  any,  is
curve  and  USD  yield  curve.  For  other  currency  pairs 
 recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
and  non-deliverable  contracts,  the  forward  points  (for 
 The accumulated balance in the cash flow hedge reserve,
rates  /  tenors  not  published  by  FEDAI)  are  obtained  / 
 in  an  effective  hedging  relationship,  is  recycled  in  the
derived basis data published by Refinitiv or Bloomberg 
 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account at the same time
for valuation of the contracts. Valuation is considered on 
 that impact from the hedged item is recognised in the
present value basis. For this purpose, the forward profit 
 consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
or loss on the contracts are discounted to the valuation 
date using the discounting yields. The resulting profit or 
 In relation to derivative  contracts with non-performing
loss on valuation is recognised in the Consolidated Profit 
 borrowers,  the  Group  makes  provision  for  the  entire
and Loss Account. Marked to market value of foreign 
 amount  of  overdue  and  future  receivables  relating
exchange contracts are classified as assets when the 
 to  positive  marked 
to  market  value  of 
the  said
fair value is positive or as liabilities when the fair value 
 derivative contracts.
is negative. 
 Further, in addition to above, the Life Insurance entity
The  Group  recognises  all  derivative  contracts  at  fair 
 accounts  the  Interest  rate  derivative  contracts  for
value, on the date on which such derivative contracts 
 hedging of highly probable forecasted transactions on
are entered into and are re-measured at fair value as at 
 insurance contracts and investment  cash flows  in life,
the Balance Sheet date. Marked to market values of such 
 pension and annuity business, in the manner specified
derivatives are classified as assets when the fair value is 
 in accordance with ‘Guidance Note on Accounting for
positive or as liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
 Derivative Contracts (Revised 2021)’ issued by the ICAI
 and IRDAI Investment Master Circular.
The Group as part of its risk management strategy, makes 
use of derivative instruments, including foreign exchange 
forward  contracts,  interest  rate  derivative  contract  for 
hedging the risk embedded in some of its financial assets 
or  liabilities  recognised  on  the  Consolidated  Balance 
Sheet. The Group identifies the hedged item (asset or 
  SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
   As at March 31, 2025 
11. Revenue recognition   for as income when such policies are reinstated.
    Premium  for  products  having  regular  premium
 a. Banking:  
    paying plans with limited and / or predetermined
    policy  term  is  considered  as  regular  premium.
 • Interest income is recognised in the Consolidated  
    Premium  on  products  other  than  as  mentioned
  Profit and Loss Account on an accrual basis, except  
    above  is  considered  as  single  premium.  Top  up
  in  the  case  of  non-performing  assets  which  is  
    premium is considered as single premium.
  recognised when realised.  
   • Gross reinsurance premium written comprise the
 • Interest income on investments in PTCs and loans  
    total premiums receivable for the whole period of
  bought out through the direct assignment route is  
    cover provided by contracts entered into during the
  recognised at their effective interest rate.  
    year and are recognised on the date on which the
    cover commences in the Consolidated Profit and
 • Income  on  non-coupon  bearing  discounted  
    Loss Account. Premiums include any adjustments
  instruments  is  recognised  over  the  tenor  of  the  
    arising in the year for premiums receivable in respect
  instrument on a constant yield basis.  
    of business written in prior years.
 • Dividend on equity shares and preference shares is  
   • Income from linked policies, which includes fund
  recognised as income when the right to receive the  
    management  charges,  policy  administration
  dividend is established.  
    charges,  mortality  charges  and  other  charges,
    wherever applicable, is recovered from the linked
 • Income from units of mutual funds / AIF is recognised  
    funds in accordance with the terms and conditions
  on cash basis.  
    of  the  policies  and  is  accounted  for  as  income
    when due.
 • Loan  processing  fee  is  recognised  as  income  
  when due. Syndication / Arranger fee is recognised  
   • Interest 
income  on  policy 
reinstatement 
is
  as  income  when  a  significant  act  /  milestone  
    accounted for on received basis. Interest income on
  is completed.  
    investments and policy loans is accounted for on an
    accrual basis. Amortisation of premium or accretion
 • Gain / loss on sell down of loans is recognised in  
    of discount computed at the time of purchase of
  line with the extant RBI guidelines.  
    debt  securities  is  recognised  over  the  remaining
    period of maturity / holding on a straight-line basis.
 • Guarantee  commission,  commission  on  letter  of  
  credit,  annual  locker  rent  fees  and  annual  fees  
   • Fees  received  on  lending  of  equity  shares  under
  for  credit  cards  are  recognised  on  a  straight-  
    Securities Lending and Borrowing scheme (SLB) is
  line basis over the period of contract. Other fees  
    recognised as income over the period of the lending
  and  commission  income  are  recognised  when  
    on a straight-line basis.
  due,  where  the  Bank  is  reasonably  certain  of  
  ultimate collection.  
   • Profit  or  loss  on  sale  /  redemption  of  equity
    shares  /  Equity  Exchange  Traded  funds  (ETFs),
 • Fees  paid  /  received  for  priority  sector  lending  
    Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs), Real Estate
  certificates  (PSLC)  is  recognised  on  straight-line  
    Investments Trusts (REITs), preference shares and
  basis over the period of the certificate.  
    units of mutual fund is calculated as the difference
    between  sale  proceeds  /  redemption  proceeds
 b. Life Insurance:  
    net  of  sale  expenses  and  the  weighted  average
    book value as on date of sale. In case of other than
 • Premium income from non-linked business including  
    linked business, profit or loss on sale / redemption
  rider  premium  (net  of  Goods  &  Services  Tax)  is  
    of  equity  shares  /  equity  ETFs,  InvITs,  REITs,
  accounted  for  when  due  from  the  policyholders.  
    preference shares, AT I Bonds and units of mutual
  In  case  of  linked  business,  premium  income  is  
    fund includes the accumulated changes in the fair
  accounted  for  when  the  associated  units  are  
  created. Premium on lapsed policies is accounted  
   Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 value previously recognised under “other reserves”  fund units, the profit or loss on sale of investment
 in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  includes the accumulated changes in the fair value
   previously recognised under “Other reserves”. The
• In case of linked business, profit or loss on sale /  difference  between  the  acquisition  price  and  the
 redemption of debt securities is calculated as the  maturity  value  of  treasury  bills  is  recognised  as
 difference between net sale proceeds / redemption  income in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account,
 proceeds and the weighted average book cost. In  as  the  case,  may  be,  over  the  remaining  term  of
 case of other than linked business, profit or loss on  these instruments on a yield to maturity basis. Sale
 sale / redemption of debt securities is calculated as  consideration for the purpose of realised gain / loss
 the difference between sales proceeds / redemption  is net of brokerage and taxes, if any, and excludes
 proceeds net of sale expenses and the weighted  interest received on sale.
 average amortised cost.  
  • Dividend  on  equity  and  preference  shares  is
• Dividend income is accounted for on “ex-dividend”  recognised as income when the right to receive the
 date in case of listed equity and preference shares  dividend is established.
 and in case of unlisted equity and preference shares,  
 when the right to receive dividend is established. d. Asset Management:
  • Inve stme nt  ma nag e me nt 
fe e s, 
por t folio
c. General insurance:  
   management  fees  and  other  advisory  fees  are
• Premium  including  reinsurance  accepted  (net  of  recognised on an accrual basis.
 Goods & Services Tax) is recognised as income over  
 the contract period or period of risk, as appropriate, • Interest income  is recognised using constant yield
 after  adjusting  for  unearned  premium  (unexpired  to maturity basis.
 risk). Any subsequent revisions to or cancellations  
 of  premiums  are  accounted  for  in  the  period  in • Gains / losses on sale of investments are recognised
 which they occur. Instalment cases are recorded on  in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account. Profit
 instalment due dates. In case of long-term policies,  /  loss  on  sale  of  investments  is  determined  on  a
 premium collected at the time of sale for the entire  weighted average cost basis.
 policy duration, is recognised on a yearly basis i.e.  
 on  ‘1/n’  basis  where  ‘n’  is  the  policy  duration,  in • Income from Investment in VCF / AIF is recognised
 terms of IRDAI Master Circular on Actuarial, Finance  on the basis of income distribution by the respective
 and  Investment  Functions  of  Insurers  dated  May  VCF / AIF.
 17,  2024.  Commission  on  reinsurance  ceded  is  
 recognised  as  income  on  ceding  of  reinsurance • Dividend is recognised as income when the right to
 premium  as  per  treaty  terms.  Profit  commission  receive the dividend is established.
 under reinsurance treaties, wherever applicable, is  
 recognised in the year of final determination of the e. Stock Broking:
 profits and as intimated by the Reinsurer.  
  • Income  from  services  rendered  as  a  broker  is
   recognised upon rendering of the services.
• Interest  income  from  investments  is  recognised  
 on  an  accrual  basis.  Accretion  of  discount  and  
  • Fees for subscription based services are received
 amortisation of premium relating to debt securities  
   periodically but are recognised as earned on a pro-
 is recognised over the holding / maturity period on  
   rata basis over the term of the contract.
 a constant yield to maturity basis.  
  • Commissions from distribution of financial products
• The  net  realised  gains  or  losses  on  the  debt  
   are recognised upon allotment of the securities to
 securities are the difference between the net sale  
   the applicant or as the case may be, issue of the
 consideration  and  the  amortised  cost,  which  is  
   insurance policy to the applicant.
 computed on a weighted average basis, as on the  
 date of sale. In case of listed equity shares / mutual  
 SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 As at March 31, 2025
• 
Interest income is recognised on a time proportion subsidiary companies provides for the grant of options
basis taking into account the amount outstanding /  Restricted  Stock  Units  (units)  to  eligible  employees
from customers or on the financial instrument and and whole time directors to acquire equity shares of the
the rate applicable. entities they belong to. The options / units granted shall
 vest  as  per  their  vesting  schedule  and  these  may  be
• 
Dividend income is recognised when the right to exercised within a specified period.
receive the dividend is established. 
 The Group followed the intrinsic value method to account
f. 
Others: for  its  stock-based  employee  compensation  plans
 in  respect  of  options  granted  up  to  March  31,  2021.
• 
Commission, brokerage, trusteeship, management 
 Compensation  cost  was  measured  by  the  excess,  if
/  performance  fees,  consultancy  fees  and  other 
 any, of the market price of the underlying stock over the
service  charges  are  recognised  on  an  accrual 
 exercise price as determined under the option plan. The
basis upon rendering of services to the extent that 
 market price is the closing price on the stock exchange
it is probable that the economic benefits will flow 
 where there is highest  trading volume on the  working
to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably 
 day  immediately  preceding  the  date  of  grant.  In  case
measured  regardless  of  when  the  payment  is 
 of unlisted subsidiaries, the fair value is considered in
being made. 
 absence of market price.
• 
Dividend income is accounted for when the right 
 Effective  April  01,  2021,  the  fair  value  of  share-linked
to  receive  the  income  is  established.  Dividends 
 instruments on the date of grant for all instruments granted
from  units  of  mutual  funds,  where  received,  are 
 after March 31, 2021, is  recognised as an  expense  in
accounted on receipt of such amounts. 
 accordance with the RBI guidelines on Compensation of
 Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material
• 
Interest  income  (net  of  amortized  premium  / 
 Risk Takers and Control Function staff. The fair value of
accreted discount, if any) is recognised on a time 
 the stock-based employee compensation is estimated
proportion basis. 
 on the date of grant using Black-Scholes model.
• 
Gains or losses arising from disposal of fixed assets 
 The compensation cost is amortised on a straight-line
are  measured  as  the  difference  between  the  net 
 basis over the vesting period after adjusting estimated
disposal proceeds and carrying amount of the asset 
 forfeiture  as  applicable.  Ultimately,  the  cost  for  all
and  is  recognised  in  the  Consolidated  Profit  and 
 instruments that vest is recognised. The compensation
Loss Account when the asset is disposed. 
 expense  is  recognised  in  the  Consolidated  Profit  and
 Loss Account with a corresponding credit to Employee
• 
In  case  of  pension  business,  point  of  presence 
 Stock  Options  Outstanding.  On  exercise  of  the  stock
income includes account opening fees, contribution 
 options,  corresponding  balance  in  Employee  Stock
processing  fees,  persistency  income  and  exit 
 Options Outstanding is transferred to Share Premium.
charges  Account  opening 
fees  are  due  and 
 In  respect  of  the  options  which  expire  unexercised,
recognised on generation of Permanent Retirement 
 the balance standing to the credit of Employee Stock
Account Number (PRAN). Contribution processing 
 Options Outstanding is transferred to General Reserve.
fees are recognised on receipt of contribution from 
the  customer.  Persistency  income  is  recognised 
 Gratuity:
on  subscriber  accounts  active  for  more  than  six 
months. Exit charges are recognised on processing The Group has an obligation towards gratuity, a defined
of exit of the member from NPS. benefit retirement plan covering all eligible employees.
 The  plan  benefit  vests  upon  completion  of  minimum
12.  Employee benefits prescribed period of continuous service in accordance
 with the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 and is in the form
Stock based Employee Compensation: 
 of lump sum amount, without an upper limit, equivalent
 to  15  days’*  basic  salary  payable  for  each  completed
The Employee Stock Option Scheme / Employee Stock 
 year of service to all eligible employees on resignation,
Incentive  Master  Scheme  formulated  by  Holding  or 
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
retirement or death while in employment or on termination 
 periods during which the related services are rendered
of  employment.  The  Group  makes  contributions  to  a 
 by employees.
recognised Gratuity Trust administered by trustees and 
whose  funds  are  managed  by  insurance  companies. 
 Provident fund:
In  respect  of  erstwhile  Lord  Krishna  Bank  (eLKB) 
employees, the Bank makes contribution to a fund set Bank
up by eLKB and administered by the Board of Trustees. 
 The  Bank  is  covered  under  the  Employees  Provident
 Fund  and  Miscellaneous  Provisions  Act,  1952  and
* One month basic salary to eHDFC Limited employees 
 accordingly  all  employees  of  the  Bank  are  entitled
for each completed year of service till the effective date of 
 to  receive  benefits  under  the  provident  fund.  The
amalgamation, one month basic salary to employees of 
 Bank  contributes  an  amount,  on  a  monthly  basis,  at
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited for each completed year 
 a  determined  rate  (currently  12%  of  employee’s  basic
of service or part of the year in excess of 6 months and 
 salary). Of this, the Bank contributes an amount equal
15 days basic salary to employees of General Insurance 
 to 8.33% of employee’s basic salary up to a maximum
entity payable for each completed year of service if the 
 salary  level  of  `  15,000/-  per  month,  to  the  Pension
service is less than or equal to 9 years and one-month 
 Scheme administered by the Regional Provident Fund
basic salary payable for each completed year of service 
 Office. The balance amount out of the 12% Bank’s share
if the service is greater than or equal to 10 years. 
 is contributed to an exempted Trust set up by the Bank
 and administered by the Board of Trustees. The Bank
The  defined  gratuity  benefit  plans  are  valued  by  an 
 recognises such contributions as an expense in the year
independent actuary as at the Balance Sheet date using 
 in which it is incurred.
the projected unit credit method as per the requirement of 
AS-15, Employee Benefits, to determine the present value 
 Interest payable to the members of the exempted trust
of the defined benefit obligation and the related service 
 shall  not  be  lower  than  the  statutory  rate  of  interest
costs.  The  actuarial  calculations  entail  assumptions 
 declared by the Central Government under the Employees
about demographics, early retirement, salary increases 
 Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952
and interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is recognised in 
 and shortfall, if any, shall be made good by the Bank.
the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account. 
 The guidance note on implementing AS-15, Employee
Superannuation: 
 Benefits,  states 
that  benefits 
involving  employer
Bank established  provident  funds,  which  require  interest
 shortfalls to be provided, are to be considered as defined
The  Bank  has  a  superannuation  plan  under  which 
 benefit plan. Actuarial valuation of this Provident Fund
employees of the Bank, above a prescribed grade, are 
 interest shortfall is done as per the guidance note issued
entitled to receive retirement benefits either through salary 
 in this respect by The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI)
or under a defined contribution plan. For those opting for 
 and provision towards this liability is made.
a defined contribution plan, the Bank contributes a sum 
equivalent to 13% of the employee’s eligible annual basic 
 The overseas branches of the Bank make contribution
salary (15% for the whole time directors and for certain 
 to the respective applicable government social security
eligible  employees  of  the  erstwhile  Centurion  Bank  of 
 scheme calculated as a percentage of the employees’
Punjab (eCBoP staff) to a Trust administered by trustees 
 salaries.  The  Bank’s  obligations  are  limited  to  these
and whose funds are managed by insurance companies. 
 contributions, which are expensed when due, as such
The Bank has no liability towards future superannuation 
 contribution is in the nature of defined contribution.
fund benefits other than its contribution and recognises 
such contribution as an expense in the year incurred. 
 Other Subsidiaries
Other subsidiaries The employees of subsidiaries which are covered under
 the  Employees’  Provident  Fund  and  Miscellaneous
Obligations  for  contributions  to  superannuation  fund 
 Provisions Act, 1952 are entitled to receive benefits under
are  recognised  as  an  employee  benefit  expense 
 the provident fund.
in  the  Consolidated  Profit  and  Loss  Account  in  the 
 SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 As at March 31, 2025
The  subsidiaries recognise contribution payable to the Short-term employee benefits:
provident fund scheme (which is a defined contribution 
 Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured
plan) as an expenditure in the Consolidated Profit and 
 on  an  undiscounted  basis  and  are  expensed  as  the
Loss  Account  in  the  periods  during  which  the  related 
 related service is provided. A liability is recognised for the
services are rendered by employees. The subsidiaries 
 amount expected to be paid, if the Group have a present
have no obligation, other than the contribution payable 
 legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a
to the provident fund. 
 result of past service provided by the employee, and the
 amount of obligation can be estimated reliably.
Pension: 
In respect of pension payable to certain eLKB employees Other long term employee benefits:
under  the  Lord  Krishna  Bank  (Employees)  Pension 
 Other long term employee benefits include accumulated
Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme, the Bank 
 long  term  compensated  absences  and  long  term
contributes 10% of basic salary to a pension trust set up 
 incentive plans which can be carried to future periods
by the Bank and administered by the Board of Trustees 
 and  are  expected  to  be  availed  /  encashed  in  more
and an additional amount towards the liability shortfall 
 than  twelve  months  immediately  following  the  year  in
based on an independent actuarial valuation as at the 
 which  the  employee  has  rendered  service  /  Balance
Balance Sheet date, which includes assumptions about 
 Sheet  date,  as  the  case  may  be.  The  Group’s  liability
demographics,  early  retirement,  salary  increases  and 
 is accrued and provided for on the basis of an actuarial
interest rates. 
 valuation using the Projected Unit Credit Method at the
 end of the reporting period. Actuarial gains or losses, if
In respect of certain eLKB employees who had moved to 
 any, due to experience adjustments and the effects of
a Cost to Company (CTC) based compensation structure 
 changes in actuarial assumptions are accounted for in
and had completed less than 15 years of service, the 
 the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, as the case
contribution which was made until then, is maintained as 
 may be, in the period in which they arise.
a fund and will be converted into annuity on separation 
after  a  lock-in-period  of  two  years.  For  this  category 
 13.  Debit and credit cards reward points
of employees, liability stands frozen and no additional 
provision is required except for interest as applicable to 
 The Bank estimates the probable redemption of debit
Provident Fund, which is provided for. 
 and credit card reward points and cost per point using
 an  actuarial  method  by  employing  an  independent
In  respect  of  certain  eLKB  employees  who  moved  to 
 actuary, which includes assumptions such as discount
a  CTC  structure  and  had  completed  service  of  more 
 rate, block, withdrawal, cost per reward point, mortality,
than  15  years,  pension  would  be  paid  on  separation 
 redemption  and  spends.  Provisions  for  liabilities  on
based on salary applicable as on the date of movement 
 the outstanding reward points are made based on an
to CTC structure. Provision thereto is made based on 
 independent actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet
an  independent  actuarial  valuation  as  at  the  Balance 
 date and included in other liabilities and provisions.
Sheet date. 
 14.  Bullion
National Pension System (NPS): 
 The Bank imports bullion including precious metal bars
In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the 
 on  a  consignment  basis  or  through  exchange  (India
NPS, the Group contributes certain percentage of the 
 International Bullion Exchange – Gift City). The imports
basic  salary  of  employees  to  the  aforesaid  scheme, 
 are typically on a back-to-back basis and are priced to the
a  defined  contribution  plan,  which  is  managed  and 
 customer based on the price quoted by the supplier. The
administered by pension fund management companies. 
 difference between the price recovered from customers
The  Group  has  no  liability  other  than  its  contribution 
 and cost of bullion is accounted at the time of sale to the
and recognises such contributions as an expense in the 
 customers and reported as “Other Income”.
year incurred. 
 The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending
 basis and the interest thereon is accounted as interest
 expense / income respectively.
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
15.  Lease accounting time  to  time  including  amendment  brought  by  the
 Insurance  Laws  (Amendment)  Act,  2015,  regulations
Lease  payments  including  cost  escalation  for  assets 
 notified  by  the  IRDAI  and  Actuarial  Practice  Standard
taken on operating lease are recognised as an expense in 
 (APS) issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India with the
the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account over the lease 
 concurrence of the IRDAI. These liabilities are presented
term on a straight-line basis in accordance with the AS- 
 as a part of Policyholders Funds on liability side of the
19, Leases. Rental income from assets given on operating 
 Consolidated Balance Sheet.
lease is recognised as income in the Consolidated Profit 
and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease 
 The specific principles adopted for the valuation of policy
term in accordance with the AS-19, Leases. 
 liabilities are set out as per the IRDAI (Assets, Liabilities
 and  Solvency  Margin  of  Life 
Insurance  Business)
Finance lease is a lease which confers substantially all 
 Regulations, 2016 and the APS2 & APS7 issued by the
the risks and rewards of the leased assets on the lessee. 
 Institute of Actuaries of India.
Assets given under a finance lease are recorded as a 
receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in 
 A brief of the methodology used is as given below:
the lease. Finance lease income is based on a pattern 
reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on the net 
 1. 
The policy liabilities are valued on policy by policy
investment of the lessor outstanding in respect of the 
 basis, i.e., each policy is valued separately.
finance lease. 
 2. 
The  reserves  for  linked  business  (individual  and
Asset taken under finance lease are capitalised at the 
 group)  comprise  unit 
reserves  and  non-unit
lower  of  the  fair  value  of  the  asset  and  present  value 
 reserves.  The  unit  reserves  are  determined  on
of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the 
 the basis of NAV of the units outstanding as at the
lease term and are disclosed as leased assets. Lease 
 valuation date and non-unit reserves are calculated
payments are apportioned between the finance charges 
 using gross premium valuation method.
and  the  corresponding  liability  to  achieve  a  constant 
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. 
 3. 
The 
liabilities 
for 
individual  non-linked  non-
Finance charges are charged to the Consolidated Profit 
 participating  and  participating  business  are
and  Loss  Accounts.  Leased  assets  capitalised  under 
 calculated using gross premium valuation method
finance lease are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 
 and are subject to the minimum floor of surrender
the lease term. 
 value. Additionally, individual non-linked participating
 policies also have a reference to the asset share of
16.  Reserve for unexpired risk 
 policies at valuation date.
General insurance 
 4. 
The liabilities for one year renewable group protection
 business  are  calculated  on  the  unexpired  risk
Reserve for unexpired risk represents that part of the net 
 premium basis. For other than one year renewable
premium written which is attributable to and allocated to 
 group  protection  business, 
the 
liabilities  are
the succeeding accounting period. Reserve for unexpired 
 calculated using gross premium valuation method.
risk is calculated on the basis of 1/365th method in all 
segments  subject  to  a  minimum  of  100%  in  case  of 
 5. 
The  liabilities  for  the  group  non-linked  savings
marine hull business. 
 products  are  determined  as  the  higher  of  policy
 account  balances  (including  accrued  interest  /
17.  Policyholders’ funds 
 bonuses) and reserves calculated by gross premium
Life Insurance valuation method.
The actuarial liabilities, for all in force policies and policies 
 6. 
The  liabilities  in  respect  of  rider  benefits  are
where premiums are discontinued but a liability exists as 
 determined  as  the  higher  of  unexpired  premium
at the valuation date, are calculated in accordance with 
 reserves and reserves calculated by gross premium
the generally accepted actuarial principles and practices, 
 valuation method.
requirements of Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from 
 SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 As at March 31, 2025 
7. 
Additional reserves are determined to:  of loss reinsurance cover is accounted as per the terms
  of the reinsurance arrangements.
a. 
allow for the claims that may have occurred already  
but not yet reported (Incurred but Not Reported).  
 19. Claims paid and other expenses pertaining to
  insurance business
b. 
allow  for  the  servicing  of  existing  policies  if  Life  
Insurance were to close the new business one year  I. 
Benefits paid
from the valuation date (Closure to New Business).  
  Life Insurance
c. 
meet  the  expected  liabilities  that  would  arise  on  
  Benefits paid consist of policy benefit amounts and
the revival of lapsed policies, on the basis of the  
  claim settlement costs, where applicable.
proportion of the policies expected to be revived  
based on the revival experience of Life Insurance  Non-linked business:
(Revival Reserve).  
  Death and rider claims are accounted for on receipt
d. 
allow for the additional amount required to be paid  of  intimation.  Annuity  benefits,  periodical  benefit
on account of cancellation of policies due to look-  and maturity claims are accounted for when due.
in,  on  the  basis  of  the  proportion  of  the  policies  Surrenders  are  accounted  for  on  the  receipt  of
expected to exercise the look-in option based on  consent from the insured to the quote provided by
the experience Life Insurance (Look-in Reserve).  the life insurance entity.
e. 
allow for the cost of guarantees, wherever applicable.  Linked business:
The  Funds  for  Future  Appropriations  (FFA),  in  the  Death and rider claims are accounted for on receipt
participating  segment,  represents  the  surplus,  which  of intimation. Maturity claims are accounted for on
is not allocated to policyholders or shareholders as at  due basis when the associated units are cancelled.
the Balance Sheet date. Transfers to and from the fund  Surrenders  and  withdrawals  are  accounted  for
reflect  the  excess  or  deficit  of  income  over  expenses  on  receipt  of  intimation  when  associated  units
respectively  and  appropriations  in  each  accounting  are  cancelled.  Amount  payable  on 
lapsed  /
period arising in the Policyholders’ Fund. Any allocation  discontinued policies are accounted for on expiry
to  the  par  policyholders  would  also  give  rise  to  a  of  lock  in  period  of  these  policies.  Surrenders,
transfer to Consolidated Profit and Loss Account in the  withdrawals and lapsation are disclosed at net of
required proportion.  charges recoverable.
18.  Reinsurance premium ceded  Claims receivable from reinsurance companies are
  accounted for in the period in which the concerned
Life Insurance  
  claims  are  intimated  and  netted  off  against  the
  benefits paid.
Reinsurance premium ceded is accounted for on due  
basis in accordance with the terms and conditions of the  
  Repudiated claims and other claims disputed before
reinsurance treaties. Profit commission on reinsurance  
  judicial authorities are provided for on prudent basis
ceded (if applicable) is netted off against premium ceded  
  as considered appropriate by management.
on reinsurance.  
  II. 
Claims incurred
General Insurance  
  General insurance
Reinsurance premium ceded is accounted in the year in  
  Claims  incurred  comprises  of  claims  paid  (net  of
which the risk commences and over the period of risk  
  salvage and other recoveries), change in estimated
in  accordance  with  the  treaty  arrangements  with  the  
  liability for outstanding claims made following a loss
reinsurers.  Reinsurance premium ceded on unearned  
  occurrence reported, change in estimated liability
premium is carried forward to the period of risk and is set  
  for  claims  incurred  but  not  reported  (IBNR)  and
off against related unearned premium. Any subsequent  
  claims incurred but not enough reported (IBNER)
revisions to or cancellations of premiums are accounted  
  and specific settlement costs comprising survey,
for in the year in which they occur. Premium on excess  
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
legal and other directly attributable expenses. IBNR  Belarus  (“MCPET”).  This  pool  is  managed  by  the
and  IBNER  is  classified  as  part  of  policyholders’  General Insurance Corporation of India (“GIC”). Amounts
funds in the financial statements. Provision is made  collected as terrorism premium in accordance with the
for  estimated  value  of  outstanding  claims  at  the  requirements of the Tariff Advisory Committee (“TAC”)
reporting date net of reinsurance, salvage and other  are ceded at 100% of the terrorism premium collected
recoveries. Such provision is made on the basis of  to the Terrorism Pool and Amounts collected as MCPET
the ultimate amounts that are likely to be paid on  premium  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  the
each claim, established by the management in light  MCPET Agreement, are ceded at 96% to the MCPET
of past experience and progressively modified for  Pool, after utilising the obligatory cession. The reinsurance
changes  as  appropriate,  on  availability  of  further  accepted on account of these pool have been recorded
information  and  include  claim  settlement  costs  in accordance with the last statement received from GIC.
likely to be incurred to settle outstanding claims.  The  general  insurance  entity  has  ensured  that  it  has
Claims (net of amounts receivable from reinsurers /  created liability, to the extent of premium retroceded to
co-insurers) are recognised on the date of intimation  the entity, through reserve for unexpired risks, classified
based on estimates from surveyors / insured. The  as part of other liabilities.
estimated  liability  for  IBNR  and  IBNER  has  been  
  The entity also provides for contribution to Solatium Fund
estimated by the Appointed Actuary in compliance  
  established by the Central Government as a percentage
with  guidelines  issued  by  IRDAI  and  applicable  
  of gross written premium for all motor policies written
provisions of the Institute of Actuaries of India. The  
  during  that  year,  till  the  year  ended  March  31,  2010.
Appointed  Actuary  has  used  generally  accepted  
  Further, General Insurance Council in its meeting held on
actuarial  methods  for  each  product  category  
  April 1, 2010, recommended that the contribution should
as  considered  appropriate  depending  upon  the  
  be a percentage of gross written third party premiums.
availability of past data as well as appropriateness  
of  the  different  methods  to  the  different  lines  of  
  21.  New Fund Offer (NFO) Expenses & Commission
businesses.  The  above  elements  of  estimates  of  
liability for claims are periodically reviewed by the  New Fund Offer (NFO) expenses on the launch of mutual
Appointed Actuary and adjusted based on recent  fund schemes are borne by the Asset Management entity
experience and emerging trends.  and  recognised  in  the  Consolidated  Profit  and  Loss
  Account as and when incurred. Any other brokerage or
Premium Deficiency  
  commission paid by the Asset Management entity in line
  with the applicable regulations is being amortised over
Premium  deficiency  is  recognised  as  a  whole  on  
  the contractual period. Pursuant to circulars issued by
an annual basis. Premium deficiency is recognised  
  SEBI in this regard, with effect from October 22, 2018, all
if  the  sum  of  the  expected  claim  costs,  related  
  the scheme expenses including commission on mutual
expenses and maintenance cost (related to claims  
  fund schemes, subject to certain permitted exceptions,
handling) exceeds related reserve for unexpired risk.  
  are being borne by the respective schemes.
The expected claim costs are calculated and duly  
certified by an appointed actuary.  
 22. Income tax
III. 
Acquisition costs  
  Income tax expense is the aggregate amount of current
  tax and deferred tax expense incurred by the Group. The
Acquisition costs are the costs that vary with and  
  current tax expenses is determined in accordance with
are primarily related to the acquisition of new and  
  the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and
renewal  insurance  contracts.  These  costs  are  
  rules framed there under and considering the material
expensed in the period in which they are incurred.  
  principles set out in Income Computation and Disclosure
20.  Contribution to Pool Funds  Standards to the extent applicable. The tax expenses
  relating  to  overseas  subsidiaries  are  in  accordance
General Insurance  
  with  the  tax  laws  applicable  in  countries  where  such
In  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  IRDAI,  the  subsidiaries  are  domiciled.  Deferred  tax  expense  is
general insurance entity, together with other insurance  determined  as  per  AS-22,  Accounting  for  Taxes  on
companies, participates in the Terrorism Pool, Marine  Income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised
Cargo Pool for Excluded Territories – Russia, Ukraine,  for  the  future  tax  consequences  of  timing  differences
net basis.     
    management estimates. 
 Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent    
     A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
 there  is  reasonable  certainty  that  the  assets  can  be    
 realised in future. In case of unabsorbed depreciation    
    • a  possible  obligation  arising  from  a  past  event,
 or  carried  forward  loss  under  taxation  laws,  deferred    
     the  existence  of  which  will  be  confirmed  by  the
 tax assets are recognised only if there is virtual certainty    
     occurrence  or  non-occurrence  of  one  or  more
 of  realisation  of  such  assets.  Deferred  tax  assets  are    
     uncertain future events not within the control of the
 reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and appropriately    
     Group; or
 adjusted to reflect the amount that is reasonably / virtually    
 certain to be realised.    
    • a  present  obligation  arising  from  a  past  event
     which is not recognised as it is not probable that
Deferred tax  assets  and liabilities  are  computed   
     an outflow of resources will be required to settle the
at  an individual  entity level  and  aggregated for  
     obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount of the
 consolidated reporting.    
     obligation cannot be made.
23.  Segment information     
 SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 As at March 31, 2025
between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources
their  respective  tax  bases,  and  operating  loss  carried embodying economic benefits will be required to settle
forward,  if  any.  Deferred  tax  assets  and  liabilities  are the obligation and when a reliable estimate of the amount
measured using the enacted or substantively enacted of the obligation can be made.
tax rates as at the Balance Sheet date. Current tax assets 
 Provisions  are  determined  based  on  management
and liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
 estimate 
required 
to  settle 
the  obligation  at 
the
off-set when they relate to income taxes levied by the 
 Balance  Sheet  date,  supplemented  by  experience
same  taxation  authority,  when  the  entity  has  a  legal 
 of  similar  transactions.  These  are  reviewed  at  each
right to off-set and when the entity intends to settle on a 
 Balance Sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current
net basis. 
 management estimates.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent 
 A disclosure of contingent liability is made when there is:
there  is  reasonable  certainty  that  the  assets  can  be 
realised in future. In case of unabsorbed depreciation 
 • 
a  possible  obligation  arising  from  a  past  event,
or  carried  forward  loss  under  taxation  laws,  deferred 
 the  existence  of  which  will  be  confirmed  by  the
tax assets are recognised only if there is virtual certainty 
 occurrence  or  non-occurrence  of  one  or  more
of  realisation  of  such  assets.  Deferred  tax  assets  are 
 uncertain future events not within the control of the
reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and appropriately 
 Group; or
adjusted to reflect the amount that is reasonably / virtually 
certain to be realised. 
 • 
a  present  obligation  arising  from  a  past  event
 which is not recognised as it is not probable that
Deferred 
tax  assets  and 
liabilities  are  computed 
 an outflow of resources will be required to settle the
at  an 
individual  entity 
level  and  aggregated 
for 
 obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount of the
consolidated reporting. 
 obligation cannot be made.
23.  Segment information 
 When  there  is  a  possible  obligation  or  a  present
 obligation in respect of which the likelihood of outflow
The  disclosure  relating  to  segment  information  is  in 
 of  resources  is  remote,  no  provision  or  disclosure  is
accordance with AS-17, Segment Reporting and as per 
 made.  Contingent  assets,  if  any,  are  not  recognised
guidelines issued by RBI. 
 in the financial statements since this may result in the
24.  Earnings per share recognition of income that may never be realised.
The Group reports basic and diluted earnings per equity 26.  Cash and cash equivalents
share  in  accordance  with  AS-20,  Earnings  per  Share. 
 Cash and cash equivalents include cash, gold in hand,
Basic  earnings  per  equity  share  has  been  computed 
 rupee  digital  currency  with  RBI,  balances  with  RBI,
by dividing net profit for the year attributable to equity 
 balances with other banks and money at call and short
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity 
 notice.
shares  outstanding  for  the  year.  Diluted  earnings  per 
share  reflect  the  potential  dilution  that  could  occur  if 
 27.  Share issue expenses
securities  or  other  contracts  to  issue  equity  shares 
were exercised or converted to equity during the year. 
 Share  issue  expenses  are  adjusted  against  Share
Diluted earnings per equity share are computed using 
 Premium  Account 
in 
terms  of  Section  52  of 
the
the weighted average number of equity shares and the 
 Companies Act, 2013.
dilutive potential equity shares outstanding during the 
year except where the results are anti-dilutive. 28.  Corporate social responsibility
25. 
Accounting for provisions, contingent liabilities Expenditure towards corporate social responsibility, in
and contingent assets accordance with Companies Act, 2013, is recognised in
 the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
In  accordance  with  AS-29,  Provisions,  Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets, the Group recognises 
provisions when it has a present obligation as a result of 
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SCHEDULE 18 - Schedules forming part of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended  
March 31, 2025  
Amounts in notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 are denominated in  
rupee crore to conform to extant RBI guidelines, except where stated otherwise.  
1. Amalgamation of HDFC Limited 
  The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 04, 2022, approved a composite Scheme of amalgamation (“Scheme”),
  for the amalgamation of: (i) erstwhile HDFC Investments Limited (“eHDFC Investments”) and erstwhile HDFC Holdings
  Limited (“eHDFC Holdings”), with and into erstwhile Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (“eHDFC Limited”);
  and thereafter (ii) eHDFC Limited into HDFC Bank Limited (“Bank”), and their respective shareholders and creditors, under
  Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable laws including the rules and regulations. The Scheme
  was approved by the shareholders at the National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”) convened meeting of the shareholders
  of the Bank held on November 25, 2022. The NCLT, in accordance with Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013
  and rules thereunder, vide its order dated March 17, 2023 sanctioned the Scheme. Upon receipt of all requisite approvals,
  the Bank filed form INC 28 with Registrar of Companies on July 01, 2023 and accordingly, the Scheme became effective
  on July 01, 2023. As per the Scheme, the appointed date for the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into the Bank is
  the same as effective date of the Scheme i.e. July 01, 2023. The Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year ended
  March 31, 2025 include the operations of eHDFC Limited and its subsidiaries (which became subsidiaries of the Bank on
  amalgamation) effective from July 01, 2023 and hence are not comparable with the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
 for the year ended March 31, 2024. 
  The  amalgamation  was  accounted  under  the  ‘pooling  of  interest’  method  as  prescribed  in  Accounting  Standard-14
  “Accounting for amalgamation” (“AS-14”). Outstanding balances between eHDFC Limited and the Bank were eliminated as
  on July 01, 2023. All assets and liabilities of eHDFC Limited were recognised by the Bank at their carrying amounts as on
  that date except for adjustments to bring about uniformity of accounting policies as required under AS-14. The share capital
  of ` 311.04 crore issued by the Bank as consideration pursuant to the Scheme was adjusted against the corresponding
  share capital of eHDFC Limited of ` 370.29 crore and the difference was adjusted to Amalgamation Reserve. Further,
  excess of cost over face value of Investment in shares of the Bank by eHDFC Limited of ` 14,006.31 crore was adjusted
  to Amalgamation Reserve. Consequently, the Bank recognised a debit balance of ` 13,947.06 crore in the Amalgamation
 Reserve as a result of these adjustments. 
  Summarized values of assets and liabilities taken over as at July 01, 2023 in accordance with the terms of the Scheme is
 as detailed below: 
 Summarized values of assets and liabilities taken over as at July 01, 2023 in accordance with the terms of the Scheme is
as detailed below: 
Particulars (` crore)
Assets taken over 
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 5,408.87
Investments 146,773.54
Advances 605,664.86
Fixed assets 1,442.60
Other assets 14,338.34
Total Assets (A) 773,628.21
Liabilities, reserves and surplus taken over 
Equity share warrants 265.64
Employees stock options outstanding 123.81
Reserves and surplus 111,005.85
 SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 For the year ended March 31, 2025 
Particulars  (` crore)
Deposits  157,259.22
Borrowings  477,539.07
Other liabilities and provisions  27,064.33
Total Liabilities, reserves and surplus (B)  773,257.92
Net Assets C = (A-B)  370.29
Total Liabilities, reserves and surplus (B) 773,257.92
Net Assets C = (A-B) 370.29
 Consequent upon amalgamation becoming effective, the authorised share capital of the Bank stood increased to ` 1,190.61
 crore (11,90,61,00,000 shares of ` 1/- each) on account of transfer to and amalgamation / combination of authorised capital
 of eHDFC Limited with the authorised share capital of the Bank. In terms of the Scheme, the Bank issued and allotted
 3,11,03,96,492 equity shares to the shareholders of eHDFC Limited as on July 13, 2023, being the record date fixed by the
 Board of Directors as per the Scheme, in accordance with the share exchange ratio i.e. 42 equity shares of face value of
 ` 1/- each of the Bank for every 25 equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each of eHDFC Limited. Accordingly, the paid-up
 share capital of the Bank increased from ` 559.18 crore consisting of 5,59,17,98,806 equity shares of ` 1/- each to ` 753.76
 crore consisting of 7,53,75,69,464 equity shares of ` 1/- each, post cancellation of 1,16,46,25,834 equity shares held by
eHDFC Limited in the Bank on that date in accordance with the provisions of the Scheme. 
 As part of the Scheme, certain leased out immovable properties of eHDFC Limited were transferred to the Bank on
amalgamation. The Bank has initiated necessary steps to foreclose these leases. 
 Upon Scheme becoming effective from July 01, 2023, the following entities (subsidiaries of eHDFC Limited) became the
 subsidiaries of the Bank. Consequently, the opening balances as on July 01, 2023 are shown as “Addition on amalgamation”
in the consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2024. 
subsidiaries of the Bank. Consequently, the opening balances as on July 01, 2023 are shown as “Addition on amalgamation” 
in the consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2024. 
Name of the Entity Relationship
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited Direct Subsidiary
HDFC International Life and Re Company Limited Indirect Subsidiary
HDFC Pension Fund Management Limited Indirect Subsidiary
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited Direct Subsidiary
HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited Indirect Subsidiary
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Sales Private Limited Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Trustee Company Limited Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited (‘HDFC Credila’) (up to March 19, 2024) Direct Subsidiary
HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited (‘HEADS’) (up to October 18, 2024) Direct Subsidiary
Griha Pte Limited Direct Subsidiary
Griha Investments Direct Subsidiary
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
2. Proposed dividend 
  The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 19, 2025 proposed a dividend of ` 22.00 per equity share (previous year:
  ` 19.50 per equity share) aggregating to ` 16,834.89 crore subject to the approval of shareholders at the ensuing Annual
  General Meeting. During the year ended March 31, 2025, the dividend paid by the Bank in respect of the previous year
  ended March 31, 2024 was `  14,813.98 crore. In terms of the AS-4 “Contingencies and events occurring after the balance
  sheet date”, the Bank has not appropriated the proposed dividend from the Profit and Loss Account and the same will
  be recognised in the year of actual payout post approval. However, effect of the proposed dividend has been reckoned in
 determining capital funds in computation of the capital adequacy ratio. 
3. Change in accounting policy 
  The RBI, vide its master direction dated September 12, 2023, issued revised norms (herein after referred as ‘revised norms
  on investments’) for the classification, valuation and operation of investment portfolio of banks, which became applicable
  from April 01, 2024. While hitherto, the investment portfolio was classified under the held to maturity (HTM), available for
  sale (AFS) and held for trading (HFT) categories, the revised norms bring in a principle-based classification of investment
  portfolio and a symmetric treatment of fair value gains and losses. In accordance with the revised norms and the Bank’s
  board approved policy, the Bank has classified its investment portfolio as on April 01, 2024 under the categories of held
  to maturity (HTM), available for sale (AFS), subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and fair value through profit and loss
  (FVTPL) with held for trading (HFT) as a sub-category of FVTPL, and from that date, measures and values the investment
  portfolio under the revised framework. For the purpose of consolidation, all the subsidiaries of the Bank and EWT have
  followed the revised framework of the Bank except for HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (“HDFC Life”) and HDFC
  ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (“HDFC ERGO”), (the subsidiaries regulated by IRDAI), which continue to follow
  IRDAI guidelines. On transition to the revised norms on investment on April 01, 2024, the group recognised a net gain of
  ` 1,113.78 crore (net of tax of ` 405.86 crore and minority interest of ` 914.25 crore) which has been credited to general
  reserve, in accordance with the said norms. The impact of the revised framework for the period subsequent to the transition
  is not ascertainable and as such the income / profit or loss from investments for the year ended March 31, 2025 is not
 comparable with that of the previous year. 
4. Capital infusion 
  During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank allotted 5,53,11,012 equity shares (previous year: 4,66,21,586 equity shares)
  aggregating to face value of ` 5.53 crore (previous year: ` 4.66 crore) on exercise of stock options / units. Accordingly, the
  share capital increased by ` 5.53 crore (previous year: ` 4.66 crore) and the share premium increased by ` 6,340.97 crore
 (previous year: ` 5,245.07 crore). 
  During the previous year, the Bank issued and allotted 3,11,03,96,492 equity shares to the shareholders of eHDFC Limited
  in terms of the Scheme. Accordingly, the paid-up share capital of the Bank increased from ` 559.18 crore consisting of
  5,59,17,98,806 equity shares of ` 1/- each to ` 753.76 crore consisting of 7,53,75,69,464 equity shares of ` 1/- each,
  post cancellation of 1,16,46,25,834 equity shares held by eHDFC Limited in the Bank on that date in accordance with the
 provisions of the Scheme. Further, share premium increased by ` 51,728.83 crore on amalgamation of eHDFC Limited. 
  During the previous year, the Bank allotted 2,47,75,632 equity shares pursuant to exercise of convertible share warrants
  issued by eHDFC Limited. Accordingly, the share capital and share premium of the Bank increased by ` 2.48 crore and
 ` 3,455.79 crore respectively, including money received by eHDFC Limited at the time of allotment of share warrants. 
The details of the movement in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank are given below:  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening balance 759.69 557.97
Addition pursuant to stock options / units / warrants exercised 5.53 7.14
Addition pursuant to amalgamation (net of cancellation) (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 194.58
Closing balance 765.22 759.69
 Closing balance 765.22 759.69
5. Employees stock options outstanding  
  During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Group recognised employee stock options / units expense of ` 2,086.05 crore 
  (previous year: ` 1,731.73 crore) being fair valuation of share-linked instruments, with a corresponding credit in Employees 
  stock options outstanding. In addition, the Bank pursuant to the Scheme has taken over ` 123.81 crore as Employees stock 
  options outstanding on the appointed and effective date i.e. July 01, 2023. During the year ended March 31, 2025, an amount 
  of ` 723.11 crore (previous year: ` 84.18 crore) is transferred to Share Premium, ` 195.25 crore (previous year: ` 234.51 
  crore) is transferred to minority interest and ` 15.22 crore (previous year: ` 1.34 crore) is transferred to General Reserve. 
31, 2024:    
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2024
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year 17,56,59,424 1,307.93 15,16,82,461 1,264.86
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18 - - 4,85,59,681 1,124.77
(1))    
Granted during the year 2,31,46,660 1,729.84 2,43,84,690 1,611.84
Exercised during the year 5,29,55,047 1,198.42 4,63,04,966 1,133.72
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 44,76,527 1,458.89 26,62,442 1,096.34
Options outstanding at the end of the year 14,13,74,510 1,413.25 17,56,59,424 1,307.93
Options exercisable 8,13,35,537 1,279.91 9,88,29,856 1,201.65
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of Units  Number of Units 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2024
Units outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,17,21,804 1.00 28,91,000 1.00
Granted during the year 62,54,575 1.00 93,54,224 1.00
Exercised during the year 23,55,965 1.00 3,16,620 1.00
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 7,34,986 1.00 2,06,800 1.00
Units outstanding at the end of the year 1,48,85,428 1.00 1,17,21,804 1.00
Units exercisable 12,07,198 1.00 3,76,070 1.00
   Weighted 
 Number of   Weighted
  Range of exercise average life 
Plan shares arising   average exercise
  price (`) of options (in 
 out of options   price (`)
   years) 
Plan E 47,93,680 1,636.90 4.96 1,636.90
Plan F 1,14,90,680 1,636.90 4.94 1,636.90
Plan G 7,49,81,293 882.85 to 1,673.10 2.48 1,368.83
Plan H 2,25,72,860 1,677.30 to 1,734.20 6.06 1,733.15
e-HDFC 2007 44,411 255.83 - 255.83
The following table summarises the information about Units outstanding as at March 31, 2025:    
   Weighted 
 Number of   Weighted
  Range of exercise average 
Plan shares arising   average exercise
  price (`) life of Units (in 
 out of Units   price (`)
   years) 
ESIS - 2022 1,48,85,428 1.00 2.39 1.00
Plan E 50,75,360 1,636.90 5.92 1,636.90
Plan F 1,55,51,708 716.60 to 1,636.90 4.84 1,458.30
Plan G 11,54,13,810 882.85 to 1,673.10 2.66 1,333.78
e-HDFC 2007 44,411 255.83 - 255.83
e-HDFC 2008 40,942 160.79 - 160.79
e-HDFC 2014 12,483 603.95 - 603.95
e-HDFC 2017 6,13,926 934.44 to 1,242.15 1.84 1,070.72
e-HDFC 2020 3,89,06,784 1,076.64 to 1,535.27 3.51 1,134.61
 The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024 are given below:  
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend yield 0.77% - 1.36% 0.65% - 0.91%
Expected volatility 21.64% - 27.7% 22.01% - 29.45%
Risk-free interest rate 6.73% - 7.19% 7.17% - 7.54%
Expected life of the options 1 to 8 Years 1 to 8 Years
 Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025 and as at   
March 31, 2024:    
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2024
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year 5,61,930 6,116.95 2,95,625 6,456.00
Granted during the year 3,34,287 7,193.93 3,75,700 5,909.00
Exercised during the year 1,18,768 6,029.42 73,820 6,137.33
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 31,315 6,573.90 35,575 6,692.68
Options outstanding at the end of the year 7,46,134 6,594.22 5,61,930 6,116.95
Options exercisable 1,43,393 6,188.00 46,875 6,412.37
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and  
March 31, 2024 are given below:  
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend yield 6.83% 7.45%
Expected volatility 50.40% - 52.26% 40.12% - 46.54%
Risk-free interest rate 6.77% - 6.78% 7.02% - 7.04%
Expected life of the options 3 to 5 Years 3 to 5 Years
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFS)
In accordance with resolution approved by the shareholders, HDBFS has reserved shares, for issue to employees through
Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOP). On the approval of Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC), each ESOP
is issued. The NRC has approved ESOP-10 on October 13, 2017, ESOP-11 on January 15, 2019, ESOP-12 on October 05,
2020, ESOP-13 on January 14, 2021, ESOP-13A on August 31, 2021, ESOP-14 on October 27, 2021, ESOP-15A on May
18, 2022, ESOP-15B on October 31, 2022, ESOP-16A on June 12, 2023, ESOP-16B on October 23, 2023, ESOP-16C on
October 23, 2023, ESOP-17A on June 17, 2024 and ESOP-17B on September 16, 2024. Under the term of the ESOP, HDBFS
may issue stock options to employees and directors of HDBFS, each of which is convertible into one equity share.
Such options vest at a definitive date, save for specific incidents, prescribed in the scheme as framed / approved by the
NRC. Such options are exercisable for a period following vesting at the discretion of the NRC, subject to a maximum of
four years from the date of vesting.
 Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025 and March   
31, 2024:    
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024 March 31, 2024
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year 87,28,798 472.43 75,79,538 456.57
Granted during the year 25,55,350 534.00 32,45,570 486.66
Exercised during the year 27,01,779 461.24 16,75,483 426.48
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 2,26,258 502.91 4,20,827 479.42
Options outstanding at the end of the year 83,56,111 494.05 87,28,798 472.43
Options exercisable 19,53,960 450.94 16,76,263 423.28
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:    
   Weighted 
 Number of   Weighted
  Range of exercise average life 
Plan shares arising   average exercise
  price (`) of options (in 
 out of options   price (`)
   years) 
ESOP – 11 4,960 274.00 0.84 274.00
ESOP – 12 1,01,990 300.00 1.59 300.00
ESOP – 13 1,67,725 348.00 2.84 348.00
ESOP – 13A 20,000 409.00 3.42 409.00
ESOP – 14 3,98,337 433.00 3.59 433.00
ESOP – 15A 8,38,120 457.00 4.17 457.00
ESOP – 15B 16,73,081 509.00 4.59 509.00
ESOP – 16A 11,53,546 424.00 8.25 424.00
ESOP – 16B 3,07,774 533.00 8.59 533.00
ESOP – 16C 11,45,528 533.00 8.59 533.00
ESOP – 17A 20,26,050 534.00 9.25 534.00
ESOP – 17B 5,19,000 534.00 9.51 534.00
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024:    
 Number of shares  Weighted average 
  Range of exercise  Weighted average
Plan arising out of  life of options (in 
  price (`)  exercise price (`)
 options  years) 
ESOP – 10 42,000 213.00 0.59 213.00
ESOP – 11 16,150 274.00 1.84 274.00
ESOP – 12 1,57,517 300.00 2.59 300.00
ESOP – 13 3,22,595 348.00 3.84 348.00
ESOP – 13A 23,000 409.00 4.42 409.00
ESOP – 14 12,10,134 433.00 4.59 433.00
ESOP – 15A 10,35,390 457.00 5.17 457.00
ESOP – 15B 27,30,822 509.00 5.59 509.00
ESOP – 16A 13,44,770 424.00 9.25 424.00
ESOP – 16B 4,27,020 533.00 9.59 533.00
ESOP – 16C 14,19,400 533.00 9.59 533.00
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and  
March 31, 2024 are given below:  
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend yield 0.58% 0.21% - 0.38%
Expected volatility 39.56% - 40.50% 38.75% - 45.70%
Risk-free interest rate 6.64% - 6.88% 6.83% - 7.26%
Expected life of the options 4.39 Years 3.46 to 3.49 Years
SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited (HDFC ERGO)
HDFC ERGO had introduced an Employee Stock Option Plan 2009 (as amended) (“ESOP 2009”) in financial year 2009-
10. ESOP 2009 provides that eligible employees are granted options to acquire equity shares of HDFC ERGO that vest in
graded manner. The options will vest over a period of two to four or five years as per the terms of the respective tranches
from the date of grant and are exercisable over a period of five years from the respective dates of vesting. During the year,
options vested aggregated to 18,37,637. In accordance with the RBI clarification dated August 30, 2021, HDFC ERGO
has estimated the fair value of the options granted after March 31, 2021 using Black-Scholes model. This is recognised as
compensation expense over the vesting period of the options with effect from April 01, 2021.
Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans of HDFC ERGO
Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025:  
  Weighted
 Number of 
Particulars  average exercise
 options 
  price (`)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the year 81,08,484 495.00
Granted during the year 12,20,200 654.00
Exercised during the year 21,41,673 397.55
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 4,62,433 553.04
Options outstanding at the end of the year 67,24,578 550.90
Options exercisable 11,56,327 499.20
 The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 
31, 2024 are given below:  
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend yield 0.00% -
Expected volatility 25.33% - 30.47% -
Risk-free interest rate 7.01% - 7.02% -
Expected life of the options 6 Years -
Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025:  
  Weighted
 Number of 
Particulars  average
 options 
  exercise price (`)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the year 1,41,008 928.86
Granted during the year - -
Exercised during the year 69,330 928.86
Forfeited / lapsed during the year - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 71,678 928.86
Options exercisable 71,678 928.86
Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2024:  
  Weighted average
Particulars Number of options 
  exercise price (`)
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 1,41,008 928.86
Granted during the period - -
Exercised during the period - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the period - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 1,41,008 928.86
Options exercisable 1,41,008 928.86
  price (`)  exercise price (`)
 options  years) 
ESOS 21 1,41,008 928.86 7.02 years 928.86
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (HDFC Life)    
 HDFC Life has granted options to its employees under the ESOS 2014, ESOS 2015, ESOS 2016, ESOS 2017, ESOS 2018,   
 ESOS 2019, ESOS 2022 and ESOS 2024 schemes. The said schemes are directly administered by HDFC Life. For all the   
 grants, the mode of settlement is through equity shares. All the grants have graded vesting. The exercise price of ESOS   
 2014, ESOS 2015 and of ESOS 2016 schemes is based on the fair market value as determined by the Category I Merchant   
 Banker registered with SEBI. The exercise price, of the options granted under ESOS 2017, ESOS 2018, ESOS 2019, ESOS   
 2022 and ESOS 2024 is based on the market price of the shares of HDFC Life, as defined in the respective ESOS scheme.   
 The fair value of options has been calculated using the Black-Scholes model.   
 Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans   
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 ESOS 2019 (15-03-2022)  ESOS 2022 (20-10-2022) 
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 2,94,313 512.45 97,17,410 531.55
year    
Granted during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year 46,313 512.45 11,93,641 531.55
Forfeited / lapsed during the year - - 7,45,082 531.55
Options outstanding at the end of the year 2,48,000 512.45 77,78,687 531.55
Options exercisable 2,48,000 512.45 40,80,578 531.55
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 ESOS 2017 (Trust) (14-03-2018)  ESOS 2018 (01-10-2018) 
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 1,69,956 441.95 1,87,103 391.60
year    
Granted during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year - - 79,630 391.60
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 72,838 441.95 1,420 391.60
Options outstanding at the end of the year 97,118 441.95 1,06,053 391.60
Options exercisable 97,118 441.95 1,06,053 391.60
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 ESOS 2019 (19-09-2019)  ESOS 2019 (19-10-2020) 
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 28,21,779 539.10 1,65,750 561.15
year    
Granted during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year 4,93,124 539.10 31,250 561.15
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 14,000 539.10 3,500 561.15
Options outstanding at the end of the year 23,14,655 539.10 1,31,000 561.15
Options exercisable 23,14,655 539.10 1,31,000 561.15
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 ESOS 2019 (17-03-2021)  ESOS 2019 (22-10-2021) 
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 2,38,966 703.05 3,96,871 694.55
year    
Granted during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year - - 2,000 694.55
Forfeited / lapsed during the year - - 21,141 694.55
Options outstanding at the end of the year 2,38,966 703.05 3,73,730 694.55
Options exercisable 2,38,966 703.05 3,36,438 694.55
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 ESOS 2019 (15-03-2022)  ESOS 2022 (20-10-2022) 
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 2,94,313 512.45 97,17,410 531.55
year    
Granted during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year 46,313 512.45 11,93,641 531.55
Forfeited / lapsed during the year - - 7,45,082 531.55
Options outstanding at the end of the year 2,48,000 512.45 77,78,687 531.55
Options exercisable 2,48,000 512.45 40,80,578 531.55
 For the year ended March 31, 2025   
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 ESOS 2022 (20-01-2023)  ESOS 2022 (04-10-2023) 
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 5,26,000 605.25 11,20,881 633.55
year    
Granted during the year - - - -
Exercised during the year 4,800 605.25 - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 8,000 605.25 62,000 633.55
Options outstanding at the end of the year 5,13,200 605.25 10,58,881 633.55
Options exercisable 72,000 605.25 3,17,665 633.55
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 ESOS 2019 (04-10-2023)  ESOS 2022 (14-03-2024) 
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 1,20,000 633.55 42,000 610.05
year    
Granted during the year - - - 
Exercised during the year - - - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the year - - - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 1,20,000 633.55 42,000 610.05
Options exercisable - - 12,600 610.05
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 ESOS 2019 (14-03-2024)  ESOS 2022 (02-09-2024) 
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the 1,70,000 610.55 - -
year    
Granted during the year - - 2,90,794 738.70
Exercised during the year - - - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the year - - - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 1,70,000 610.55 2,90,794 738.70
Options exercisable - - - -
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 ESOS 2024 (02-09-2024)  ESOS 2022 (13-03-2025) 
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the - - - -
year    
Granted during the year 3,96,252 738.70 1,67,000 632.00
Exercised during the year - - - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the year - - - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 3,96,252 738.70 1,67,000 632.00
Options exercisable - - - -
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025:    
   Weighted 
 Number of   Weighted
  Range of exercise average life 
Plan shares arising   average exercise
  price (`) of options (in 
 out of options   price (`)
   years) 
ESOS 2017 3,942 441.95 0.95 441.95
ESOS (Trust) 2017 97,118 441.95 0.95 441.95
ESOS 2018 1,06,053 391.60 1.42 391.60
ESOS 2019 19,33,403 539.10 1.62 539.10
ESOS 2019 1,31,000 561.15 1.62 561.15
ESOS 2019 2,38,966 703.05 1.62 703.05
ESOS 2019 2,99,145 694.55 1.62 694.55
ESOS 2019 2,48,000 512.45 1.62 512.45
ESOS 2019 3,81,252 539.10 4.75 539.10
ESOS 2019 37,293 694.55 4.75 694.55
ESOS 2022 40,79,978 531.55 4.99 531.55
ESOS 2022 72,000 605.25 4.99 605.25
ESOS 2022 3,17,665 633.55 4.99 633.55
ESOS 2022 12,600 610.05 4.99 610.05
Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2024:    
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 ESOS 2016 (01-10-2016)  ESOS 2017 (14-03-2018) 
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 28,270 190.00 2,19,685 441.95
Granted during the period - - - -
Exercised during the period 8,070 190.00 94,800 441.95
Forfeited / lapsed during the period - - 141 441.95
Options outstanding at the end of the year 20,200 190.00 1,24,744 441.95
Options exercisable 20,200 190.00 1,24,744 441.95
 For the year ended March 31, 2025   
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 ESOS 2019 (19-09-2019)  ESOS 2019 (19-10-2020) 
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 34,82,239 539.10 1,84,000 561.15
Granted during the period - - - -
Exercised during the period 6,10,460 539.10 11,250 561.15
Forfeited / lapsed during the period 50,000 539.10 7,000 561.15
Options outstanding at the end of the year 28,21,779 539.10 1,65,750 561.15
Options exercisable 28,21,779 539.10 1,65,750 561.15
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 ESOS 2019 (17-03-2021)  ESOS 2019 (22-10-2021) 
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 2,38,966 703.05 4,17,233 694.55
Granted during the period - - - -
Exercised during the period - - - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the period - - 20,362 694.55
Options outstanding at the end of the year 2,38,966 703.05 3,96,871 694.55
Options exercisable 2,38,966 703.05 3,17,086 694.55
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 ESOS 2019 (15-03-2022)  ESOS 2022 (20-10-2022) 
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 2,94,313 512.45 1,03,74,109 531.55
Granted during the period - - - -
Exercised during the period - - 4,71,699 531.55
Forfeited / lapsed during the period - - 1,85,000 531.55
Options outstanding at the end of the year 2,94,313 512.45 97,17,410 531.55
Options exercisable 2,94,313 512.45 25,55,034 531.55
  Weighted average  Weighted average
 Number of options  Number of options 
  exercise price (`)  exercise price (`)
Particulars    
 ESOS 2022 (20-01-2023)  ESOS 2019 (04-10-2023) 
Options outstanding as at July 01, 2023 5,38,000 605.25 - -
Granted during the period - - 1,20,000 633.55
Exercised during the period - - - -
Forfeited / lapsed during the period 12,000 605.25 - -
Options outstanding at the end of the year 5,26,000 605.25 1,20,000 633.55
Options exercisable 40,800 605.25 - -
 Number of shares  Weighted average 
  Range of exercise  Weighted average
Plan arising out of  life of options (in 
  price (`)  exercise price (`)
 options  years) 
ESOS 2016 20,200 190.00 0.50 190.00
ESOS 2017 1,24,744 441.95 1.95 441.95
ESOS (Trust) 2017 1,69,956 441.95 1.95 441.95
ESOS 2018 1,87,103 391.60 2.09 391.60
ESOS 2019 23,14,305 539.10 2.58 539.10
ESOS 2019 5,07,474 539.10 5.50 539.10
ESOS 2019 1,65,750 561.15 2.58 561.15
ESOS 2019 2,38,966 703.05 2.58 703.05
ESOS 2019 3,17,086 694.55 2.58 694.55
ESOS 2019 79,785 694.55 5.50 694.55
ESOS 2019 2,94,313 512.45 2.58 512.45
ESOS 2022 96,17,410 531.55 5.81 531.55
ESOS 2022 1,00,000 531.55 7.86 531.55
ESOS 2022 1,36,000 605.25 5.81 605.25
ESOS 2022 3,90,000 605.25 7.86 605.25
ESOS 2022 11,20,881 633.55 5.81 633.55
ESOS 2019 1,20,000 633.55 5.50 633.55
ESOS 2022 42,000 610.05 5.81 610.05
ESOS 2019 1,70,000 610.05 5.50 610.05
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 are   
given below:   
Particulars ESOS 2016 ESOS 2017 ESOS (Trust) 2017
Dividend yield 0.88% 0.74% 0.74%
Expected volatility* 10.00% 28.96% 28.96%
Risk-free interest rate 6.57% - 6.80% 6.76% - 7.27% 6.76% - 7.27%
Expected life of the options 1.75 to 3.75 Years 1.75 to 3.75 Years 1.75 to 3.75 Years
Particulars ESOS 2018 ESOS 2019 ESOS 2022
Dividend yield 0.40% 0.23% to 0.41% 0.28% to 0.32%
Expected volatility* 29.09% 29.12% - 39.73% 25.17% - 33.47%
Risk-free interest rate 8.02% - 8.15% 4.43% - 6.34% 6.70% - 7.53%
Expected life of the options 1.75 to 3.74 Years 1.68 to 5.27 Years 2.07 to 6.50 Years
Particulars ESOS 2024  
Dividend yield 0.30%  
Expected volatility* 30.34% - 30.90%  
Risk-free interest rate 7.00% - 7.03%  
Expected life of the options 5.50 to 6.50 Years  
 The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2024 are  
given below:   
Particulars ESOS 2012 ESOS 2014 ESOS 2015
Dividend yield 0.00% 1.06% 1.04%
Expected volatility* 30.44% - 36.53% 33.23% - 37.15% 34.21% - 38.38%
Risk-free interest rate 8.19% - 8.74% 7.73% - 8.28% 7.41% - 7.58%
Expected life of the options 1.37 to 3.45 Years 1.75 to 3.75 Years 1.75 to 3.75 Years
Particulars ESOS 2016 ESOS 2017 ESOS (Trust) 2017
Dividend yield 0.88% 0.74% 0.74%
Expected volatility* 10.00% 28.96% 28.96%
Risk-free interest rate 6.57% - 6.80% 6.76% - 7.27% 6.76% - 7.27%
Expected life of the options 1.75 to 3.75 Years 1.75 to 3.75 Years 1.75 to 3.75 Years
Particulars ESOS 2018 ESOS 2019 ESOS 2022
Dividend yield 0.40% 0.23% to 0.41% 0.28% to 0.32%
Expected volatility* 29.09% 29.12% - 39.73% 27.75% - 33.47%
Risk-free interest rate 8.02% - 8.15% 4.43% - 6.34% 7.13% - 7.53%
Expected life of the options 1.74 to 3.74 Years 1.68 to 5.27 Years 2.07 to 5.07 Years
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (HDFC AMC)
Under Employees Stock Option Scheme 2020 (ESOS 2020) of HDFC AMC, the options shall vest in three tranches. Each
of these tranches consisting of 1/3 of the options granted shall vest on the completion of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd year from the
date of the grant respectively. Any fractional residue shall be settled in the 3rd tranche. The options can be exercised over
a period of five years from the date of respective vesting.
Movement in the options outstanding under the Employee Stock Option Plans
Movement in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025:  
  Weighted
 Number of 
Particulars  average
 options 
  exercise price (`)
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the year 23,16,200 2,387.88
Granted during the year 97,500 3,755.75
Exercised during the year 3,09,086 2,242.63
Forfeited / lapsed during the year 86,585 2,004.59
Options outstanding at the end of the year 20,18,029 2,492.66
Options exercisable 12,95,700 2,713.34
The assumptions considered in the model for valuing the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2025 and  
March 31, 2024 are given below:  
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Dividend yield 0.84% - 2.48% 0.84% - 2.48%
Expected volatility 27.75% - 37.08% 27.75% - 37.08%
Risk-free interest rate 5.04% - 6.96% 5.04% - 6.96%
Expected life of the options 3.5 to 5.5 Years 3.5 to 5.5 Years
 Risk-free interest rate 5.04% - 6.96% 5.04% - 6.96%
 Expected life of the options 3.5 to 5.5 Years 3.5 to 5.5 Years
6. Reserves and Surplus  
 Statutory Reserve  
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank and HDBFS have made an appropriation of ` 17,260.30 crore (previous  
 year: ` 15,684.72 crore) out of profits for the year to the Statutory Reserve pursuant to the requirements of Section 17 of  
 the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 read with RBI guidelines and 45 IC of the RBI Act, 1934 respectively.  
 General Reserve  
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Group has made an appropriation of ` 6,734.74 crore (previous year: ` 6,081.23  
 crore) out of profits for the year to the General Reserve. Further, the Group has transferred ` 15.22 crore (previous year:  
 ` 1.34 crore) from Employees Stock Options Outstanding to General Reserve on lapses of share-linked instruments.  
 On transition to the revised norms on investments, the group has recognised a net gain of ` 1,113.78 crore (net of tax  
 ` 405.86 crore and minority interest of ` 914.25 crore) which has been credited to General Reserve.  
 Special Reserve  
 During the year ended March 31,2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 3,200.00 crore (previous year: ` 3,000.00  
 crore) to the Special Reserve as per Section 36(1) (viii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961.  
 Amalgamation Reserve I  
 The balance of ` 1,063.56 crore represents excess of net assets taken over the paid-up value of equity shares issued as  
 consideration with respect to amalgamation of Times Bank Limited during FY 2000 and Centurion Bank of Punjab Limited  
 during FY 2009 with the Bank.  
 Amalgamation Reserve II  
 During the previous year, the share capital of ` 311.04 crore issued by the Bank as consideration pursuant to the Scheme  
 was adjusted against the corresponding share capital of eHDFC Limited of ` 370.29 crore and the difference was adjusted  
 to Amalgamation Reserve. Further, excess of cost over face value of investment in shares of the Bank by eHDFC Limited  
 of ` 14,006.31 crore was adjusted to Amalgamation Reserve. Consequently, the Bank recognised a debit balance of  
 ` 13,947.06 crore in the Amalgamation Reserve as a result of these adjustments.  
 Capital Reserve  
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` 507.00 crore (previous year: ` 4,166.42  
 crore), being the profit on sale of investments under HTM category and profit on sale of immovable properties, net of taxes  
 and transfer to Statutory Reserve, from the Profit and Loss Account to the Capital Reserve.  
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Investment Reserve Account
On transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has transferred ` 529.42 crore from the Investment Reserve
Account (IRA) to Investment Fluctuation Reserve (IFR).
In the previous year, the Bank had transferred ` 529.42 crore (net) from the Profit and Loss Account to the IRA as per the
RBI guidelines.
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
On transition to the revised norms on investments, the Bank has transferred ` 529.42 crore from the IRA to IFR.
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has made an appropriation of ` Nil (previous year: ` 378.00 crore) to
IFR. As per RBI guidelines, banks are required to maintain an IFR equivalent to 2.00% of their AFS and FVTPL investment
portfolios. The balance in the IFR as at March 31, 2025 is 2.55% (previous year: 3.48%^) of the Bank’s AFS and FVTPL
investment portfolios.
^  For the year ended March 31, 2024 the ratio represents closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of
investments in AFS and HFT categories.
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
As at March 31, 2025, the Group has recognised ` 1,083.52 crore (previous year: ` 883.79 crore) as Foreign Currency
Translation Reserve on account of translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations.
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve
As at March 31, 2025, the Group has recognised debit of ` 92.16 crore (previous year: credit of ` 832.30 crore) as Cash
Flow Hedge Reserve on derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedge.
Other Reserve
As at March 31, 2025, Other Reserve represents fair value change account of ` 14.02 crore (previous year: ` 145.58 crore)
recognised by insurance entities.
AFS Reserve
Pursuant to the revised norms on investments, the net appreciation or depreciation on all performing investments held under
AFS category is directly credited or debited to AFS Reserve. Accordingly, as at March 31, 2025 the Group has recognised
` 616.85 crore, net of taxes as AFS Reserve.
Capital reserve on consolidation (net of goodwill)
On consolidation the Group has recognised net Capital Reserve of ` 3,223.50 crore  ( previous year: ` 3,290.03 crore) net
of goodwill of ` 501.56 crore (previous year: ` 488.97 crore).
  Face value as at March 31 
Sr. No. Particulars  
  2025 2024
I. Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards:  
 a) 
Collateral and funds management – Securities segment 9,720.00 9,547.00
 b) 
Collateral and funds management –Tri-party Repo 116,355.00 39,053.00
 c) 
Default fund – Forex Forward segment 362.10 247.10
 d) 
Default fund – Forex Settlement segment 86.05 51.05
 e) 
Default fund – Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) segment 199.15 199.15
 f) 
Default fund – Securities segment 271.00 263.00
 g) 
Default fund –Tri-party repo segment 61.00 59.00
II. Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards:  
 a) 
Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) 91,562.48 64,687.48
 b) 
Repo transactions 174,419.38 65,172.27
III. Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India - -
 (NSCCIL) towards NSE Currency Derivatives segment.  
IV. Securities kept as margin with Indian Clearing Corporation Limited towards BSE 458.72 358.72
 Currency Derivatives segment.  
V. Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of India 2,625.36 2,116.11
 (NSCCIL) towards Capital market.  
basis for comparison with the instruments recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of   
future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Group’s exposure   
to credit or price risks. The notional principal amounts outstanding for such derivatives contracts are as under:   
   (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024 Purpose
Interest rate derivative 810,553.44 551,311.15 Trading
Interest rate derivative 270,143.12 291,364.53 Hedging
Forward contracts 1,224,428.67 1,151,750.54 Trading
Forward contracts 69,063.80 60,802.25 Hedging
Currency derivative 53,216.03 41,318.47 Trading
Currency derivative 22,223.51 30,442.83 Hedging
9. Penalties levied by the RBI
 During the year ended March 31, 2025, RBI has levied following penalties on the Bank:
 • 
RBI vide its letter dated September 10, 2024 levied a penalty of ` 10,000,000 on the Bank for giving gifts to the
 depositors at the time of accepting deposits, for opening certain savings accounts in the names of ineligible entities
 and for failure to ensure that customers are not contacted after 7 pm and before 7am, in contravention to the Reserve
 Bank directions on 'lnterest Rate on Deposits' and 'Recovery Agents engaged by Banks'.
 • 
RBI vide its letter dated March 26, 2025 levied a penalty of ` 7,500,000 on the Bank for not categorising certain
 customers into low, medium and high-risk category based on its assessment and risk perception and for allotting
 multiple customer identification code to certain customers instead of a Unique Customer ldentification Code (UCIC)
 for each customer, which were in contravention to Reserve Bank directions on ‘Know Your Customer (KYC)'.
 The penalties have been paid by the Bank and has initiated / taken corrective measures, as necessary, to align the operations
 / procedures in line with the applicable regulations.
 During the year ended March 31, 2024, RBI vide its letter dated November 30, 2023 levied a penalty of ` 10,000 on the
 Bank under Section 11(3) of FEMA, 1999 towards not obtaining RBI’s approval for maintaining current and fixed deposit
 accounts of a foreign bank post cancellation of their license by RBI, which was in contravention to the para 13 of AP (DlR
 Series) Circular no. 67 dated May 05, 2016. The penalty was paid by the Bank.
10.  Provisions and contingencies  
 The break-up of ‘Provisions and contingencies’ included in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account is given below: 
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Provision for income tax1  
- Current 20,942.26 13,948.91
- Deferred 1,859.62 (2,826.81)
Provision for NPAs2 15,543.54 12,532.49
Provision for diminution in value of non-performing investments (158.30) 7.56
Provision for standard assets 309.96 1,215.10
Floating provisions - 10,900.00
Other provisions and contingencies3 (1,520.59) 363.13
Total 36,976.49 36,140.38
11.  Other liabilities
The Group has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and
gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other liabilities as at
March 31, 2025 include unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 14,092.54 crore (previous year:
` 10,513.94 crore).
As at March 31, 2025, the Group has recorded deferred tax liabilities of ` 307.59 crore (previous year: Nil). The break-up of
the same is as follows:
the same is as follows:  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Deferred tax liability arising out of:  
Investments and derivatives 94.42 -
Depreciation 234.59 -
Others 3.56 -
Total (a) 332.57 -
Deferred tax asset arising out of:  
Employee benefits 10.99 -
Depreciation 11.49 -
Others 2.50 -
Total (b) 24.98 -
Deferred tax liability (a-b) 307.59 -
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Cost  
As at March 31 of the previous year 7,801.61 5,474.26
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 1,003.14
Additions during the year 2,014.82 1,346.83
Deductions during the year (103.56) (22.62)
Total (a) 9,712.87 7,801.61
Depreciation  
As at March 31 of the previous year 5,544.19 3,947.61
Addition on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 696.35
13.  Other assets
Other assets include deposits placed with NABARD / SIDBI / NHB on account of shortfall in lending to priority sector of
` 107,160.11 crore (previous year: ` 118,007.02 crore).
The Group has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and
gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other assets as at
March 31, 2025 include unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ` 18,786.22 crore (previous year:
` 11,789.89 crore).
As at March 31, 2025, the Group has recorded deferred tax asset of ` 7,137.50 crore (previous year: ` 9,301.96 crore). The
break-up of the same is as follows:
break-up of the same is as follows:  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Deferred tax asset arising out of:  
Loan loss and contingencies 12,834.70 12,951.90
Employee benefits 1,384.99 1,096.90
Depreciation 89.23 101.42
Others 371.39 784.00
Total (a) 14,680.31 14,934.22
Deferred tax liability arising out of:  -
Special reserve u/s 36(1)(viii) of the Income tax Act, 1961 6,191.81 5,385.82
Investments and derivatives 985.26 216.55
Depreciation 31.46 25.14
Others 334.28 4.75
Total (b) 7,542.81 5,632.26
Deferred tax asset (a-b) 7,137.50 9,301.96
 SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 For the year ended March 31, 2025 
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:  
Experience adjustment (21.60) (27.36)
Assumption change 67.63 20.34
Present value of obligation as at March 31 2,292.06 1,920.70
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets  
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1 1,967.55 1,091.61
Assets assumed on amalgamation (Refer Schedule 18(1)) - 573.67
Expected return on plan assets 133.32 106.43
Contributions 121.21 82.96
Benefits paid (137.52) (178.05)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:  
Experience adjustment 24.84 290.93
Assumption change - -
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 2,109.40 1,967.55
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet  
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 2,109.40 1,967.55
Present value of obligation as at March 31 (2,292.06) (1,920.70)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 (182.66) 46.85
Expenses recognised in Consolidated Profit and Loss Account  
Interest cost 134.20 96.35
Current service cost 338.48 236.88
Expected return on plan assets (133.09) (104.38)
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year 21.20 (297.96)
Net cost 360.79 (69.11)
Actual return on plan assets 158.16 397.36
Estimated contribution for the next year 295.06 165.92
Assumptions  
Discount rate 6.50% - 6.75% p.a. 7.15% - 7.21% p.a.
Expected return on plan assets 6.50% - 6.75% p.a. 6.50% - 7.21% p.a.
Salary escalation rate 4.00% - 14.00% p.a. 3.00% - 15.00% p.a.
Expected return on plan assets 6.50% - 6.75% p.a. 6.50% - 7.21% p.a.
Salary escalation rate 4.00% - 14.00% p.a. 3.00% - 15.00% p.a.
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion  
and other relevant factors.  
Expected rate of return on investments is determined based on the assessment made by the Group at the beginning of the  
year with regard to its existing portfolio. Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of fair value of total plan assets  
are given below:  
     (` crore)
   Years ended March 31,  
Particulars     
 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021
Plan assets 2,109.40 1,967.55 1,091.61 1,001.91 834.44
Defined benefit obligation 2,292.06 1,920.70 1,175.17 1,090.59 1,017.22
Surplus / (deficit) (182.66) 46.85 (83.56) (88.68) (182.78)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan assets 24.84 290.93 (38.70) 22.14 107.65
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan liabilities (21.60) (27.36) 8.44 (51.23) 41.30
Pension  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the present value of the defined  
benefit obligation  
Present value of obligation as at April 1 103.47 107.82
Interest cost 7.05 7.61
Current service cost 2.57 1.83
Past service cost - -
Benefits paid (11.17) (9.85)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation:  
Experience adjustment 17.40 16.83
Assumption change 6.99 (20.77)
Present value of obligation as at March 31 126.31 103.47
Reconciliation of opening and closing balance of the fair value of the plan assets  
Fair value of plan assets as at April 1 16.16 0.31
Expected return on plan assets 1.05 0.53
Contributions 9.99 24.18
Benefits paid (11.17) (9.85)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on plan assets:  
Experience adjustment 0.13 0.99
Assumption change - -
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 16.16 16.16
Amount recognised in Balance Sheet  
Fair value of plan assets as at March 31 16.16 16.16
Present value of obligation as at March 31 (126.31) (103.47)
Asset / (liability) as at March 31 (110.15) (87.31)
Expenses recognised in Consolidated Profit and Loss Account  
Interest cost 7.05 7.61
Current service cost 2.57 1.83
Past service cost - -
Expected return on plan assets (1.05) (0.53)
 For the year ended March 31, 2025  
   (` crore)
Particulars  March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Net actuarial (gain) / loss recognised in the year  24.26 (4.94)
Net cost  32.83 3.97
Actual return on plan assets  1.18 1.53
Estimated contribution for the next year  12.98 7.78
Assumptions   
     (` crore)
   Years ended March 31,  
Particulars     
 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021
Plan assets 16.16 16.16 0.31 0.88 0.33
Defined benefit obligation 126.31 103.47 107.82 88.02 89.99
Surplus / (deficit) (110.15) (87.31) (107.51) (87.14) (89.66)
Experience adjustment gain / (loss) on plan assets 0.13 0.99 0.22 0.39 (0.20)
Experience adjustment (gain) / loss on plan liabilities 17.40 16.83 3.32 6.44 31.41
is given below  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Privileged leave 158.95 129.38
Sick leave 13.48 10.69
Total actuarial liability 172.43 140.07
Assumptions  
Discount rate 5.75% - 6.75% p.a. 5.20% - 7.21% p.a.
Salary escalation rate 5.00% - 14.00% p.a. 4.00% - 10.48% p.a.
 SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  For the year ended March 31, 2025
  Revenues of the DBUs are derived from interest earned on retail loans, fees from services rendered, etc. Expenses
  of this segment primarily comprise of interest expense on deposits, infrastructure and premises expenses for
  operating the DBUs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of specialist product groups.
 ii. 
Non digital banking 
  The retail banking segment serves retail customers through the Bank’s branch network and other channels.
  This segment raises deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers with the help
  of specialist product groups. Exposures are classified under retail banking taking into account the status of the
  borrower (orientation criterion), the nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum thereof.
  Revenues of the retail banking segment are derived from interest earned on retail loans, interest earned from other
  segments for surplus funds placed with those segments, subvention received from dealers and manufacturers,
  fees from services rendered, foreign exchange earnings on retail products etc. Expenses of this segment primarily
  comprise interest expense on deposits, commission paid to retail assets sales agents, infrastructure and premises
  expenses for operating the branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads
 and allocated expenses of specialist product groups, processing units and support groups. 
c) Wholesale banking 
  The wholesale banking segment provides loans, non-fund facilities and transaction services to large corporates,
  emerging corporates, public sector units, government bodies, financial institutions and medium scale enterprises.
  Revenues of the wholesale banking segment consist of interest earned on loans made to customers, interest / fees
  earned on the cash float arising from transaction services, earnings from trade services and other non-fund facilities
  and also earnings from foreign exchange and derivative transactions on behalf of customers. The principal expenses
  of the segment consist of interest expense on funds borrowed from external sources and other internal segments,
  premises expenses, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of delivery channels, specialist
 product groups, processing units and support groups. 
d) Other banking Operations 
  This segment includes income from parabanking activities such as credit cards, debit cards, third party product
 distribution, primary dealership business and the associated costs. 
e) Insurance business 
  This segment includes the operations of HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited (consolidated) and HDFC ERGO
 General Insurance Company Limited. 
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Geographic segments
The geographic segments of the Bank are categorised as domestic operations and foreign operations. Domestic operations
comprise branches in India and foreign operations comprise branches outside India.
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2025 is given below:
Business segments:
(` crore)
Business segments:         
         (` crore)
Sr. Particulars Treasury Retail banking  Wholesale Other Insurance Other Total
No.     banking banking business  
   Digital Non digital     
      business   
   banking # banking     
1 Segment revenue 62,227.48 8.59 283,426.20 191,964.51 35,449.05 107,630.27 17,136.34 697,842.44
2 Unallocated revenue        -
3 Less: Inter-segment        226,926.51
 revenue        
4 Income from operations        470,915.93
 (1) + (2) - (3)        
5 Segment results 4,605.36 0.04 27,309.07 44,543.96 14,363.75 5,953.61 1,810.38 98,586.17
6 Unallocated expenses        2,344.12
7 Income tax expense        22,801.88
 (including deferred tax)        
8 Net profit (5)-(6)-(7)        73,440.17
9 Segment assets 991,874.12 81.15 1,533,809.12 1,247,937.97 112,358.81 372,256.74 109,961.74 4,368,279.65
10 Unallocated assets        24,137.77
11 Total assets (9)+(10)        4,392,417.42
12 Segment liabilities 83,340.18 86.16 2,312,429.69 956,136.34 8,513.18 358,568.57 86,926.10 3,806,000.22
13 Unallocated liabilities        48,268.77
14 Total liabilities (12) + (13)        3,854,268.99
15 Capital employed (9)        562,279.43
 - (12) (Segment assets -        
 Segment liabilities)        
16 Unallocated (10) - (13)        (24,131.00)
17 Total (15) + (16)        538,148.43
18 Capital expenditure 71.43 - 4,399.07 400.46 833.05 701.81 340.72 6,746.54
19 Depreciation 30.20 - 2,774.26 250.78 324.23 219.26 206.50 3,805.23
20 Provisions for non - - - 9,138.23 (1,729.99) 4,241.18 61.19 2,464.00 14,174.61
 performing assets /        
 others*        
21 Unallocated other     -   -
 provisions*        
Geographic segments:   
   (` crore)
Particulars Domestic International Total
Revenue 465,946.32 4,969.61 470,915.93
Assets 4,299,887.56 92,529.86 4,392,417.42
Capital expenditure 6,737.00 9.54 6,746.54
Segment reporting for the year ended March 31, 2024 is given below:         
Business segments:         
         (` crore)
Sr. Particulars Treasury  Retail banking Wholesale Other Insurance Other Total
No.     banking banking business  
   Digital Non digital     
      operations   
   banking banking     
   #      
1 Segment revenue 61,653.66 3.37 233,634.50 175,520.23 30,050.38 86,877.22 13,536.00 601,275.36
2 Unallocated revenue        -
3 Less: Inter-segment        193,280.59
 revenue        
4 Income from operations        407,994.77
 (1) + (2) - (3)        
5 Segment results** 14,190.10 (1.23) 15,661.14 32,280.98 11,104.00 3,321.30 2,352.00 78,908.29
6 Unallocated expenses        2,339.69
7 Income tax expense        11,122.10
 (including deferred tax)        
8 Net profit (5) - (6) - (7)        65,446.50
9 Segment assets 822,926.80 51.34 1,395,037.69 1,274,899.43 97,097.23 322,984.00 89,587.20 4,002,583.69
10 Unallocated assets        27,610.57
11 Total assets (9) + (10)        4,030,194.26
12 Segment liabilities** 94,557.67 56.18 2,046,617.47 973,987.85 8,212.98 311,998.00 71,040.35 3,506,470.50
13 Unallocated liabilities        53,945.11
14 Total liabilities        3,560,415.61
 (12) + (13)        
15 Capital employed (9) -        496,113.19
 (12) (Segment assets        
 - Segment liabilities)        
16 Unallocated (10) - (13)        (26,334.54)
17 Total (15) + (16)        469,778.65
18 Capital expenditure 31.45 - 4,168.78 49.06 532.55 313.99 239.96 5,335.79
19 Depreciation 26.01 - 2,343.71 204.67 235.71 125.77 156.21 3,092.08
20 Provisions for non - - - 12,798.00 6,781.15 3,913.00 (56.01) 1,582.14 25,018.28
 performing assets /        
 others*        
21 Unallocated other     -   -
 provisions*        
Geographic segments:   
   (` crore)
Particulars Domestic International Total
Revenue 403,356.00 4,638.77 407,994.77
Assets 3,954,614.44 75,579.82 4,030,194.26
Capital expenditure 5,334.46 1.33 5,335.79
 A specific related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in
that category. 
• Interest paid: Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 7.98 crore
• Interest received: Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 0.09 crore; Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri ` 0.04 crore; Ms. S. Abinaya Rangan
 ` 0.03 crore
• Rendering of services: Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ` 2.54 crore; Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 1.24 crore; Aurionpro Solutions
 Limited ` 0.55 crore
• Receiving of services: Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 12.03 crore
• Dividend paid: Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ` 4.14 crore; Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 3.40 crore; Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan
 ` 2.91 crore
• Fixed Assets purchased from: Trejhara Solutions Limited ` 9.98 crore; Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 9.55 crore
The Group’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2025 are summarised as follows:    
    (` crore)
Items / Related party Subsidiaries* Key Relatives of Total
  management KMP & their 
  personnel interested 
  (KMP) entities 
Deposits taken - 11.31 195.53 206.84
 (20.27) (32.51) (195.53) (248.31)
Deposits placed - 0.02 0.02 0.04
 - (0.02) (0.02) (0.04)
Advances given - 2.74 0.31 3.05
 - (2.74) (0.61) (3.35)
Fixed assets purchased from - - 19.53 19.53
Fixed assets sold to - - - -
Interest paid to 0.64 0.64 8.31 9.59
Interest received from - 0.13 0.03 0.16
Income from services rendered to 0.07 3.97 0.97 5.01
Expenses for receiving services from - 0.12 13.25 13.37
Equity investments - - - -
 (200.00) - - (200.00)
Other investments - - - -
 - - - -
Dividend paid to - 10.82 1.74 12.56
Dividend received from - - - -
Receivable from / Advance paid - - - -
 (0.05) - - (0.05)
Payable to - - - -
 - - - -
Guarantees given - - 73.42 73.42
 - - (84.76) (84.76)
Remuneration paid - 34.62 - 34.62
 -
-
(84.76)
(84.76)
Remuneration paid -
 34.62 
-
 34.62
* Subsidiaries which are not consolidated.
# Denotes amount less than  ` 1 lakh.
• Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each
 quarter-end.
• Remuneration paid is ` 11.23 crore to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, ` 8.02 crore to Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, ` 6.52 crore to Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri
 and ` 8.85 crore to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan. (excluding value of employee stock options exercised during the year).
• Bonus and retiral beneﬁts for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key
 managerial personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2025, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect
 of earlier years was ` 14.51 crore.
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
The Group’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2024 are summarised as follows:
Promoter
Erstwhile Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (amalgamated with and into the Bank with effect from July
01, 2023)
Subsidiaries
Pursuant to the amalgamation of eHDFC Limited with and into the Bank, following entities became subsidiaries
of the Bank with effect from July 01, 2023
HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited (ceased to be a related party with effect from March 19, 2024)
HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited
Key management personnel
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director
Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri, Executive Director (appointed with effect from April 19, 2023)
Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan, Executive Director (appointed with effect from November 23, 2023)
Relatives of key management personnel and their interested entities
Ms. Nagsri Sashidhar, Mr. Dhruv Sashidhar, Mr. Jagdishan Chandrasekharan, Ms. Mythra Mahesh, Mr. Mahesh Babu
Ramamurthy, Nagsri - Creating Special Memories, Ms. Havovi Bharucha, Mr. Huzaan Bharucha, Mr. Danesh Bharucha,
Mr. Darius Bharucha, Ms. Dilnaaz D Bharucha
With effect from April 19, 2023 – Ms. Mala B. Zaveri, Ms. Bhakti Zaveri, Mr. Akash Metawala, Ms. Niharika Zaveri, Mr. Dev
Metawala, Mr. Paresh Zaveri, Ms. Kavita Zaveri, Mr. Hitesh Zaveri, Aurionpro Solutions Limited, Trejhara Solutions Limited
With effect from November 23, 2023 – Ms. S. Anuradha, Ms. V. Jayam, Ms. S. Abinaya Rangan
A specific related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in
that category.
 A specific related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in
that category. 
• Interest paid: HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited ` 7.70 crore, Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
 ` 3.06 crore
• Interest received: HDFC Credila Financial Services Limited ` 200.31 crore
• Rendering of services: Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited ` 161.72 crore, HDFC Credila Financial
 Services Limited ` 37.28 crore
• Receiving of services: Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited ` 236.64 crore, HDFC Credila Financial
 Services Limited ` 42.14 crore
• Dividend paid: Mr. Kaizad Bharucha ` 4.25 crore; Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan ` 2.90 crore; Ms. Mala B. Zaveri ` 1.09 crore
• Dividend received: Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 0.01 crore
• Fixed Assets purchased from: Aurionpro Solutions Limited ` 12.53 crore
Items / Related party Promoter Subsidiaries* Key Relatives of Total
    KMP & their 
   management  
    interested 
   personnel  
    entities 
   (KMP)  
Deposits taken - 22.89 8.54 37.65 69.08
 (6,503.24) (377.56) (20.56) (37.65) (6,939.01)
Deposits placed - - 0.02 0.02 0.04
 (0.49) - (0.02) (0.02) (0.53)
Advances given - - 2.42 0.43 2.85
 - (3,399.05) (2.77) (1.03) (3,402.85)
Fixed assets purchased from - - - 13.13 13.13
Fixed assets sold to - - - - -
Interest paid to 3.06 8.52 0.44 0.99 13.01
Interest received from - 200.31 0.29 0.03 200.63
Income from services rendered to 161.72 37.43 0.25 0.49 199.89
Expenses for receiving services from 236.64 42.14 0.12 13.86 292.76
Equity investments - 200.00 - - 200.00
 - (2,634.97) - # (2,634.97)
Other investments - - - - -
 - (49.26) - - (49.26)
Dividend paid to - - 7.78 1.41 9.19
Dividend received from - - - 0.01 0.01
Receivable from / Advance paid - 0.03 - - 0.03
 (0.58) (18.89) - - (19.47)
Payable to - - - - -
 (81.70) (16.41) - - (98.11)
Guarantees given - - - 68.43 68.43
 (0.02) - - (68.43) (68.45)
Remuneration paid - - 27.18 - 27.18
Loans purchased from 11,632.00 - - - 11,632.00
Loans purchased from 11,632.00
-
-
-
11,632.00
*       Subsidiaries which are not consolidated. 
#       Denotes amount less than ` 1 lakh. 
• Figures in bracket indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each
 quarter-end.
• Remuneration paid is ` 9.91 crore to Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, ` 9.92 crore to Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, ` 5.05 crore to Mr. Bhavesh Zaveri and
 ` 2.30 crore to Mr. V. Srinivasa Rangan. (excluding value of employee stock options exercised during the year).
• Bonus and retiral beneﬁts for key managerial personnel are accrued as a part of an overall pool and are not allocated against the key
 managerial personnel. These will be paid based on approval from RBI. As of March 31, 2024, approved unpaid deferred bonus in respect
 of earlier years was ` 10.87 crore.
18.  Leases
Operating Lease
Operating leases primarily comprise office premises, staff residences and Automated Teller Machines (‘ATM’s), which are
renewable at the option of the Group.
Lease Payments
The details of maturity profile of future operating lease payments are given below:
The details of maturity profile of future operating lease payments are given below:  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Not later than one year 2,466.94 2,121.60
Later than one year and not later than five years 9,009.13 7,773.98
Later than five years 11,564.04 9,974.32
Total 23,040.11 19,869.90
Total of minimum lease payments recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 2,935.60 2,446.08
for the year  
Total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non- 4.31 14.28
cancellable sub-leases  
Sub-lease amounts recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year 1.84 6.01
Contingent (usage based) lease payments recognised in the Consolidated Profit and Loss 279.35 470.37
Account for the year  
19.  Earnings per equity share
Basic and diluted earnings per equity share have been calculated based on the consolidated net profit after tax attributable
to the Group of ` 70,792.25 crore (previous year: ` 64,062.04 crore) and the weighted average number of equity shares
outstanding during the year of 7,62,77,93,180 (previous year: 7,08,48,07,443). The dilutive impact is on account of stock
options / units granted to employees by the Bank. There is no impact of dilution on the profits in the current year and
previous year.
Following is the reconciliation between the basic and diluted earnings per equity share:  
 For the years ended 
Particulars  
 March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Nominal value per share (`) 1.00 1.00
Basic earnings per share (`) 92.81 90.42
Effect of potential equity shares (per share) (`) (0.42) (0.41)
Diluted earnings per share (`) 92.39 90.01
Provision for credit card and debit card reward points  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening provision for reward points 863.54 696.31
Provision for reward points made during the year 933.51 792.11
Utilisation / write-back of provision for reward points (749.61) (624.88)
Closing provision for reward points 1,047.44 863.54
Provision for legal and other contingencies  
  (` crore)
Particulars March 31, 2025 March 31, 2024
Opening provision 1,059.38 553.22
Additions on amalgamation - 429.46
Movement during the year (net) 198.82 76.70
Closing provision 1,258.20 1,059.38
Description of contingent liabilities  
Sr.  
 Contingent liability* Brief description
No.  
1 Claims against the Bank not The Group is a party to various taxation matters in respect of which appeals are
 acknowledged as debts – taxation pending. The Group expects the outcome of the appeals to be favorable based on
  decisions on similar issues in the previous years by the appellate authorities, based
  on the facts of the case and taxation laws.
2 Claims against the Bank not The Group is a party to various legal proceedings in the normal course of business.
 acknowledged as debts – others The Group does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material
  adverse effect on the Group’s financial conditions, results of operations or cash
  flows.
3 Partly paid investments This 
represents  amount 
remaining  unpaid 
towards 
liability 
for  partly  paid
  investments.
4 Liability on account of forward The  Group  enters  into  foreign  exchange  contracts,  currency  options,  forward
 exchange and derivative contracts rate  agreements,  currency  swaps  and 
interest 
rate  swaps  with 
inter-bank
  participants on its own account and for customers. Forward exchange contracts
  are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at the contracted
  rate. Currency swaps are commitments to exchange cash flows by way of interest
  / principal in one currency against another, based on predetermined rates. Interest
  rate swaps are commitments to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash flows.
  The notional amounts of financial instruments such as foreign exchange contracts
  and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the
  Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows
  involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate
  the Group’s exposure to credit or price risks. The derivative instruments become
  favorable  (assets)  or  unfavorable  (liabilities)  as  a  result  of  fluctuations  in  market
  rates or prices relative to their terms.
5 Guarantees given on behalf As a part of its commercial banking activities, the Bank issues documentary credit
 of constituents, acceptances, and guarantees on behalf of its customers. Documentary credits such as letters of
 endorsements and other obligations credit enhance the credit standing of the Bank’s customers. Guarantees generally
  represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of
  the customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
6 Other items for which the Bank is These include: a) Credit enhancements in respect of securitised-out loans; b) Bills
 contingently liable rediscounted by the Bank; c) Capital commitments; d) Underwriting commitments;
  e)  Investment  purchases  pending  settlement;  f)  Amount  transferred  to  the  RBI
  under 
the  Depositor  Education  and  Awareness  Fund 
(DEA  Fund);  g)  Bank
  guarantees taken.
 As % of Amount As % of Amount
 consolidated net  consolidated 
 assets**  profit or loss 
Parent:    
HDFC Bank Limited 93.18% 501,424.64 91.70% 67,347.36
Subsidiaries:    
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited 3.00% 16,153.93 2.39% 1,757.94
(Consolidated)*1    
HDB Financial Services Limited* 3.00% 16,142.41 2.88% 2,117.32
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited 1.51% 8,130.96 3.35% 2,456.68
(Consolidated)*2    
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited* 0.97% 5,201.60 0.66% 485.82
HDFC Securities Limited (Consolidated)*3 0.62% 3,340.85 1.51% 1,111.42
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited* 0.08% 428.16 0.19% 141.33
HDFC Sales Private Limited* 0.05% 273.26 0.10% 71.07
Griha Pte Limited 0.01% 39.17 (0.01%) (4.62)
Griha Investments 0.00% 6.86 (0.01%) (3.98)
HDFC Trustee Company Limited* 0.00% 3.88 0.00% 0.57
Entity over which control is exercised:    
HDB Employee Welfare Trust* 0.14% 738.73 0.23% 169.79
Minority Interest 3.04% 16,359.04 3.61% 2,647.92
Inter-company adjustments (5.60%) (30,095.06) (6.60%) (4,858.45)
Total 100.00% 538,148.43 100.00% 73,440.17
 As % of Amount As % of Amount
 consolidated net  consolidated profit 
 assets**  or loss 
Parent:    
HDFC Bank Limited 93.71% 440,245.80 92.92% 60,812.27
Subsidiaries:    
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited 3.12% 14,666.39 1.68% 1,099.42
(Consolidated)*1    
HDB Financial Services Limited* 3.01% 14,128.12 3.68% 2,408.26
HDFC Asset Management Company Limited 1.28% 5,996.80 1.76% 1,153.05
(Consolidated)*2    
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited* 0.94% 4,448.02 0.33% 217.31
HDFC Securities Limited* 0.42% 1,970.86 1.48% 967.44
HDFC Capital Advisors Limited* 0.06% 261.77 0.12% 76.13
HDFC Sales Private Limited* 0.04% 202.19 0.06% 39.45
Griha Pte Limited 0.02% 76.41 (0.01%) (7.00)
Griha Investments 0.00% 10.65 (0.03%) (19.53)
HDFC Trustee Company Limited* 0.00% 3.07 0.00% 0.24
Entity over which control is exercised:    
HDB Employee Welfare Trust* 0.04% 171.56 0.00% (0.49)
Minority Interest 2.85% 13,383.40 2.11% 1,384.46
Inter-company adjustments (5.49%) (25,786.39) (4.10%) (2,684.51)
Total 100.00% 469,778.65 100.00% 65,446.50
 SCHEDULES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 For the year ended March 31, 2025
 These transactions are part of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted after exercising proper due diligence
 including adherence to “Know Your Customer” guidelines as applicable in respective jurisdiction.
 Other than the nature of transactions described above, the Banks and subsidiaries incorporated in India have not advanced
 / lent / invested / provided guarantee or security to or in any other person with an understanding to lend / invest / provide
 guarantee or security or the like to or in any other person. Similarly, other than the nature of transactions described above,
 the Bank and subsidiaries incorporated in India has not received any funds from any other person with an understanding
 that the Bank shall lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like to or in any other person.
24. Implementation of Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’)
 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs, in its press release dated January 18, 2016, had issued a roadmap for implementation of
 Ind AS for scheduled commercial banks, insurers / insurance companies and non-banking financial companies. However,
 the RBI and IRDAI have deferred implementation of Ind AS for banks and insurance companies until further notice.
 Presently, the Bank prepares and submits Ind AS Proforma information to the RBI on a half-yearly basis. The Bank is well
 prepared for the Ind AS implementation as and when it becomes applicable, with due consideration to updated regulations,
 accounting standards / guidance and business strategy at the date of actual transition. The RBI, vide its circular dated
 September  12,  2023,  revised  the  norms  of  classification,  measurement,  and  valuation  of  investments,  in  view  of  the
 significant development in the global standards. These norms are closer to Ind AS. The Bank has implemented the revised
 norms with effect from April 01, 2024.
 With respect to the insurance subsidiaries, the life insurance subsidiary was identified by IRDAI under Phase 1 for Ind-AS
 implementation effective April 01, 2027 as per the regulator’s communication date October 10, 2024. The subsidiary is in
 the final stages of onboarding technology and knowledge partners to support the implementation. It is in the process of
 preparing Proforma Ind AS financial statements for FY 2024, which will be subject to limited review by independent audit
 / actuarial firms.
 The general insurance subsidiary conducted gap assessment during the year covering aspects such as data, systems,
 resources, and other implementation-related requirements. A report in the prescribed format has been filed with IRDAI. The
 subsidiary has onboarded implementation partners and finalised the necessary software tools. Proforma Ind AS financial
 statements, as required by IRDAI, are being prepared for submission to the regulator.
 The  Group  remains  committed  to  ensuring  a  smooth  and  timely  transition  to  Ind  AS  in  accordance  with  regulatory
 requirements and industry best practices.
 presentation.  The previous year comparative numbers were jointly audited by M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants  
 and Price Waterhouse LLP, Chartered Accountants.  
As per our report of even date.  For and on behalf of the Board 
For Price Waterhouse LLP For Batliboi & Purohit Atanu Chakraborty Sashidhar Jagdishan
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Part-time Chairman of the Board Managing Director & CEO
ICAI Firm Registration No.: ICAI Firm Registration No.:  
301112E/E300264 101048W M. D. Ranganath Sunita Maheshwari
  Independent Director Independent Director
Sharad Vasant Janak Mehta  
Partner Partner Lily Vadera Harsh Kumar Bhanwala
Membership No.: 101119 Membership No.: 116976 Independent Director Independent Director
  Bhavesh Zaveri V. S. Rangan
  Executive Director Executive Director
  Renu Karnad Keki Mistry
  Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
  Srinivasan Vaidyanathan Ajay Agarwal
Mumbai, April 19, 2025  Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
(As at / for the year ended March 31, 2025)               
               (H crore)
          HDFC     
        HDFC HDFC      
  HDB  HDFC HDFC Asset HDFC AMC HDFC Life   ERGO HDFC HDFC HDFC  
   HDFC     Pension International      
Sr. Name of the Financial  Securities Management International Insurance   General Capital Sales Trustee Griha Griha Pte
   Securities     Management Life and Re      
No. subsidiary Services  (IFSC) Company (IFSC) Company   Insurance Advisors Private Company Investments6 Limited7
   Limited     Company Company      
  Limited  Limited3,9 Limited Limited4 Limited   Company Limited Limited Limited  
        Limited5 Limited 5,6      
          Limited     
1 The date since when August 31, September October 01, July 01, July 01, July 01, July 01, July 01, July 01, July 01, July 01, July 01, July 01, July 01,
 subsidiaries was acquired 2007 28, 2005 2024 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023
2 Share capital 795.78 17.77 - 106.90 34.00 2,152.99 54.00 252.15 725.83 2.21 122.00 0.10 0.34 7.14
3 Reserves & surplus 15,023.97 3,330.82 (0.57) 8,027.24 (4.13) 13,971.97 13.66 (14.66) 4,475.74 425.54 146.61 3.78 6.54 32.02
4 Total assets 108,663.29 14,031.11 0.29 8,753.63 31.06 349,133.34 125.96 398.53 31,353.85 523.00 561.58 4.45 7.12 40.05
5 Total Liabilities 92,843.54 10,682.52 0.86 619.49 1.19 333,008.38 58.31 161.04 26,152.28 95.25 292.97 0.57 0.24 0.90
6 Investments 2,060.13 1,050.87 - 8,288.87 - 336,281.53 70.67 300.27 27,373.43 278.74 - 3.00 - -
7 Turnover8 16,300.28 3,264.86 - 4,058.26 1.84 96,969.66 75.87 270.08 11,206.39 318.09 1,143.47 3.24 5.83 2.74
8 Profit before taxation 2,927.80 1,496.16 (0.56) 3,286.44 (0.87) 1,277.88 8.58 10.15 663.93 193.05 115.22 0.76 (4.01) (4.90)
9 Provision for taxation 751.88 371.13 - 825.39 - (524.24) 3.16 - 163.76 48.32 39.13 0.19 - (0.25)
10 Profit after taxation 2,175.92 1,125.03 (0.56) 2,461.05 (0.87) 1,802.12 5.42 10.15 500.17 144.73 76.09 0.57 (4.01) (4.65)
11 Dividend Paid 238.10 898.34 - 1,495.05 - 430.20 - - 145.17 - - - - 35.04
12 % of shareholding 94.32% 94.55% 100.00% 52.47% 100.00% 50.32% 100.00% 100.00% 50.33% 89.34% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
6 The financial information of HILRCL and Griha Investments is translated into Indian Rupees using the closing exchange rate as at March 31, 2025 of 1 USD
 = ` 85.475.
7 The  financial  information  of  Griha  Pte  Limited  is  translated    into  Indian  Rupees  using  the  closing  exchange  rate  as  at  March  31,  2025  of  1  SGD  =
 ` 63.71.
8 Turnover reported hereinabove is the aggregate income reported by the Bank’s subsidiaries in their respective financial statements.
9 Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: HDFC Securities (IFSC) Limited.
10 Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year: HDFC Education and Development Services Private Limited.
 B U S I N E S S   R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y   A N D   S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y   R E P O R T
Statement by the Director Responsible for the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
HDFC  Bank’s  sustainability  journey  began  about  a  decade Sustainability  is  a  shared  journey,  and  at  HDFC  Bank,  we
ago when it officially adopted ‘Sustainability’ as the fifth value, remain  deeply  committed  to  collaborating  with  partners,
alongside  customer  focus,  operational  excellence,  product regulators and communities to create long-term value – socially,
leadership and people.  We have built upon our commitment environmentally and economically. During the year, we have
every year since then. played a pivotal role in supporting the government’s flagship
 schemes across micro-insurance, pensions, MSME funding,
In  the  Financial  Year  2024-25,  we  continued  to  embed digitisation initiatives, agriculture and livelihood.
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) principles into 
our operations, decision-making and stakeholder engagement Our  efforts  toward  social  development  through  our  CSR
while  driving  growth  that  is  inclusive,  resilient  and  future- programme, Parivartan, touched millions of lives across India.
ready. Several initiatives were adopted to reduce emissions We strengthened rural livelihoods, enhanced financial literacy,
from our own operations including increase in the renewable supported healthcare infrastructure, empowered communities
energy mix, deployment of IT solutions to track and optimise through education and skill development, especially in regions
energy consumption, and shift to energy efficient equipment, most in need.
amongst others. 
 At HDFC Bank, we recognise that the future of finance lies in
The Bank scaled up its commitment to Sustainable Finance, enabling  solutions  that  strike  a  balance  between  economic
supporting  a  diverse  portfolio  of  sustainable  projects well-being and protecting the planet, and we are fully committed
ranging from clean energy to electric mobility and MSMEs to to this.
affordable housing. In 2024, we issued our first Sustainable 
Bond, mobilising resources to fund impactful green and social 
initiatives that support underserved communities and climate- 
conscious businesses. 
Environmental and social yardsticks have been integrated into 
our credit evaluation processes, ensuring that sustainability risks 
and opportunities are appropriately factored into our lending 
 Kaizad Bharucha
decisions. Our business teams are sensitised periodically on 
 Deputy Managing Director
Environmental, Social and Governance aspects preparing the 
Bank to meet the commitment on Sustainable Finance. 
  Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES  
I. Details 
1. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity L65920MH1994PLC080618
2. Name of the Listed Entity HDFC Bank Limited
3. Year of Incorporation 1994
4. Registered office address HDFC Bank House, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400 013
5. Corporate address HDFC Bank House, Shiv Sagar Estate, Dr Annie Besant Road, Worli, Mumbai
  – 400 018
6. E-mail id esg@hdfcbank.com
7. Telephone 022 – 6652 1000
8. Website www.hdfcbank.com
9. Financial year for which reporting is being done April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 (FY 2024-25)
10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed BSE Limited; National Stock Exchange of India Limited, American Depository
  Shares (ADS) listed on the New York Stock Exchange (Depository for ADS is
  represented in India by JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association)
11. Paid-up capital ` 765.22 Crore
12. Name  and  contact  details  (telephone,  email  address) Mr. Ritesh Sinha
 of  the  person  who  may  be  contacted  in  case  of  any Head - ESG
 queries on the BRSR report Telephone number:  +91-22-3075 3894
  E-mail id: ritesh.sinha2@hdfcbank.com
13. Reporting boundary Disclosures made in this report are on a standalone basis and pertain only to
 Are 
the  disclosures  under 
this 
report  made  on  a HDFC Bank Limited.
 standalone  basis 
(i.e.  only 
for 
the  entity)  or  on  a 
 consolidated  basis 
(i.e. 
for 
the  entity  and  all 
the 
 entities  which  form  a  part  of  its  consolidated  financial 
 statements, taken together). 
14. Name of assurance provider SGS India Private Limited
15. Type of assurance obtained Reasonable assurance on BRSR Core KPIs and Limited Assurance for select
  non-core BRSR KPIs.
III.  Operations  
18.  Number of locations where plants and / or operations / offices of the entity are situated  
Location Number of plants Number of offices
National Not Applicable (N.A.) Retail Branches: 9,441
  ATMs & Cash Deposit & Withdrawal Machines: 21,139
  Presence in 4,150 towns and cities
International N.A. Branches: 5 (Hong Kong, Singapore, Bahrain, Dubai International Financial Centre and GIFT
  City*)
  Representative offices: 4 (Dubai, Kenya, Abu Dhabi and United Kingdom)
 *International Banking Unit located at Gift City, Gandhinagar, Gujarat 
The Bank caters to a diverse customer base.  As of March 31, 2025, the Bank had 97 million customers. To effectively  
 meet the needs of this wide customer base, the Bank operates through three key business verticals: 
Retail Banking Wholesale / Corporate Banking Commercial / Rural Banking
The 
retail 
business 
division 
serves The 
target 
segment 
are 
large The commercial segment focuses on Micro,
individuals,  salaried  professionals,  micro corporates, 
public 
sector 
units, Small  and  Medium  Enterprises  (MSMEs),
and  small  businesses,  self-help  groups, government  entities  and  multinational emerging 
corporates, 
commercial
non-resident  Indians  and  high  net  worth corporations. This entails commercial, agriculture,  small  and  marginal 
farmers
individuals.  This  entails 
loans,  deposits transactional  and  investment  banking and other businesses which have a strong
and a wide range of financial products and services. presence  in  semi-urban  and  rural  areas.
services.  
20.  Details as of March 31, 2025        
 Employees (including differently abled)       
S. Particulars Total (A) Male   Female  
No.        
   No. (B) % (B/A)  No. (C) % (C/A) 
   EMPLOYEES     
1. Permanent (D) 2,14,521 1,58,449  74 56,072  26
2. Other than permanent (E)* 31 24  77 7  23
3. Total employees (D + E) 2,14,552 1,58,473  74 56,079  26
   WORKERS^     
4. Permanent (F) 0 0  - 0  -
5. Other than permanent (G) 0 0  - 0  -
6. Total workers (F + G) 0 0  - 0  -
 Note:  *Employees employed on a contract basis.       
Differently abled employees        
S. Particulars Total (A)  Male   Female 
No.        
   No. (B)  % (B/A) No. (C)  % (C/A)
  DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES      
1. Permanent (D) 212  168 79  44 21
2. Other than permanent (E) 0  0 0  0 0
3. Total differently abled employees (D + E)* 212  168 79  44 21
 *Based on voluntary disclosures by employees and/or disability certificates.       
1 HDFC Sales Private Limited Subsidiary 100.00
2 Griha Investments (Mauritius) Subsidiary 100.00
3 Griha Pte. Limited (Singapore) Subsidiary 100.00
4 HDFC Trustee Company Limited Subsidiary 100.00
5 HDFC Securities Limited Subsidiary 94.55
6 HDB Financial Services Limited Subsidiary 94.32
7 HDFC Capital Advisors Limited Subsidiary 89.34
8 HDFC Asset Management Company Limited Subsidiary 52.47
9 HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited Subsidiary 50.32
10 HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Subsidiary 50.33
 Limited  
11 HDFC Securities IFSC Limited Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Securities Ltd.) 94.55
12 HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Asset Management 52.47
  Co. Ltd.) 
13 HDFC Pension Management Company Limited Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Life Insurance Co. 50.32
  Ltd.) 
14 HDFC International Life and Re Co. Ltd. Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Life Insurance Co. 50.32
  Ltd.) 
23. (a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures (As of March 31, 2025)   
S. HDFC Securities IFSC Limited Indicate whether holding / Subsidiary / Associate / % of shares held by
No.  Joint Venture listed entity
1 HDFC Sales Private Limited Subsidiary 100.00
2 Griha Investments (Mauritius) Subsidiary 100.00
3 Griha Pte. Limited (Singapore) Subsidiary 100.00
4 HDFC Trustee Company Limited Subsidiary 100.00
5 HDFC Securities Limited Subsidiary 94.55
6 HDB Financial Services Limited Subsidiary 94.32
7 HDFC Capital Advisors Limited Subsidiary 89.34
8 HDFC Asset Management Company Limited Subsidiary 52.47
9 HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited Subsidiary 50.32
10 HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Subsidiary 50.33
 Limited  
11 HDFC Securities IFSC Limited Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Securities Ltd.) 94.55
12 HDFC AMC International (IFSC) Limited Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Asset Management 52.47
  Co. Ltd.) 
13 HDFC Pension Management Company Limited Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Life Insurance Co. 50.32
  Ltd.) 
14 HDFC International Life and Re Co. Ltd. Indirect subsidiary (through HDFC Life Insurance Co. 50.32
  Ltd.) 
VI.  CSR Details 
24. (i) 
Whether CSR is applicable as   per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013:  Yes
 (ii) 
Turnover: ` 3,46,149.32 crore
 (iii)  Net worth: ` 4,88,899.89 crore
VII.  Transparency and Disclosures Compliances 
25. Complaints / grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on
 Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC)
received       
  filed during pending  filed during pending 
  the year resolution  the year resolution 
   at close of   at close of 
   the year   the year 
Communities Yes 8 1 - 0 0 -
 Issues and grievances by      
 community stakeholders are      
 addressed at:      
 CSR-compliance@hdfcbank.      
 com      
Investors Yes 0 0 - 1 0 -
(other than Grievance redressals for      
shareholders) investors are part of the      
 terms of reference of the      
 Stakeholders’ Relationship      
 Committee detailed in the      
 Corporate Governance      
 Report.      
Shareholders Yes 155 5 Non-receipt 183 5 Communications
 Grievance redressals for   of the Annual   inter alia
 investors form part of the   Report,   pertained
 terms of reference of the   Communications   to dividend,
 Stakeholders’ Relationship   inter alia   non-receipt
 Committee. Details of the   pertained   of the  Annual
 Shareholders’ Helpdesk are   to dividend,   Report, transfer
 elucidated in the Report on   transfer /   / transmission of
 Corporate Governance.   transmission   shares, merger
 E-mails for grievances /   of shares, and   related issues
 investor related activities:   queries on IEPF   and queries on
    claims   IEPF claims
 hdinvestors@datamaticsbpm.      
 com      
 shareholder.grievances@      
 hdfcbank.com      
received       
  filed during pending  filed during pending 
  the year resolution  the year resolution 
   at close of   at close of 
   the year   the year 
Employees Yes.  Employee concerns 77 28 Nature of 114 43 Nature of
 may be raised internally   grievances   grievances
 through ‘My Concern Portal’,   inter alia entails   inter alia entails
 available to all employees   breach of Code   breach of Code
 under the Human Capital   of Conduct,   of Conduct,
 Management (HCM) portal.   improper   improper
    business   business
 This platform helps      
    practices   practices,
 employees to raise their      
       behavioural
 concerns in a secure and      
       issues
 seamless manner for a timely      
 resolution of the same.      
 Employee related grievances      
 are also received through the      
 whistleblower mechanism of      
 the Bank.      
 Whistleblower Policy      
 (link below)      
Customers Yes 4,57,466 16,306 Refer Annex 4,85,339 14,232 Refer Annex
 Grievance Redressal Policy   on Customer   on Customer
 (link below)   Complaints   Complaints
    and Grievance   and Grievance
 issues
issues
Note: 
1. Number of complaints / pending resolutions for employees, value chain and others are grievances received under the
 Whistleblower Policy of the Bank.
2. Customer complaints and grievance redressal are as per disclosures in the Annex to the Directors’ Report for the
 current and previous year.
B U S I N E S S   R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y   A N D   S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y   R E P O R T
Weblinks:
Whistleblower Policy
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/?path=/Footer/About%20
Us/Corporate%20Governance/Codes%20and%20Policie/pdf/Whistleblower-Policy-2019.pdf
Grievance Redressal Policy
https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/?path=/Footer/Useful%20
Links/Our%20Corporate%20Commitment/pdfs/Grievance_Redressal_Policy_Version_1_1_3.pdf
26.  Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues.
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or
mitigate the risk, as per the following format:
 Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social    
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or     
mitigate the risk, as per the following format:     
Sr. Material issue Indicate Rationale for Approach to adapt or mitigate Positive /
No identified whether identifying the risk /  Negative
  risk or opportunity  Implications
  opportunity   
1 Financial Opportunity The Bank has a multi- The Bank sees immense potential in increasing Positive
 inclusion and  pronged approach to financial penetration across the country. 
 deeper financial  enable the efficient  
 penetration  distribution of last mile We expanded our reach to over 2,35,000 villages, 
   funding and facilitating with 51% of the branches in rural and semi-urban 
   deeper financial areas. This strategy is in alignment with the Bank’s 
   inclusion. vision of taking banking to the unbanked. 
   Besides focused We provide customised banking solutions to meet 
   efforts on expanding customer requirements across all income segments. 
   our footprint into During the year, the Bank launched GIGA, a complete 
   deeper geographies, financial suite of products for the gig workers. 
   the Bank is also  
    In FY 2024-25, the Bank enrolled 4.5 million 
   working on leveraging  
    customers under various social security schemes 
   digital initiatives to  
    of the government. These schemes inter alia entail 
   extend its reach in the  
    enrolment for basic banking accounts, low-cost 
   deeper geographies.  
    insurance to underprivileged segments of society, 
   We also recognise the guaranteed pension for the unorganised sector 
   role of government employees and other pension schemes. 
   as a key stakeholder  
    The Bank actively supports several schemes of 
   and the importance  
    the government which inter alia include loans to 
   of helping the  
    street vendors, artisans, MSMEs, loans to women 
   government fulfil its  
    entrepreneurs, farmers, support towards agri- 
   financial inclusion  
    infrastructure projects, micro food processing, agri 
   agenda through  
    clinics and agri-business centres, and livelihood 
   various government  
    missions. These schemes support underprivileged 
   sponsored finance  
    segments of society and help create employment 
   schemes.  
    opportunities. 
   Housing fulfils a key The Bank is committed to offering home loan 
   social objective. Given solutions to all income categories. Of the home loans 
   the housing shortage approved during the year, 37% in value terms and 
   in the country, the 64% in volume terms were to customers from the 
   Bank recognises the economically weaker segments (EWS), low-income 
   potential to ncrease group (LIG) and middle-income groups (MIG) where 
   mortgage penetration annual household incomes are up to ` 3 lakh, ` 6 
   in India. lakh and ` 18 lakh respectively. 
    Of the total home loans disbursed during the year, 
    72% of the loans in value terms were to women 
    borrowers. 
2 Responsibility Opportunity The Bank is The core focus areas of Corporate Social Positive
 towards Society  committed to Responsibility (CSR) of the Bank entail: 
   transforming the lives  
    • 
Rural development 
   of millions of Indians  
    • 
Promotion of education 
   through its initiatives.  
    • 
Skill, training and livelihood enhancement 
   The vision is to  
   contribute to the • 
Healthcare and hygiene 
   social and economic • 
Financial literacy and inclusion 
   development of  
    • 
Natural resource management 
   the community by  
   empowering them  
    The Bank has cumulatively impacted 105.6 million 
   and driving a positive  
    lives on a pan-India basis through its social initiatives. 
   change in their lives,  
   that in turn enables  
    In FY 2024-25 the Bank spent an amount of ` 1,068 
   them to actively  
    crore towards CSR. 
   participate in the  
   growth of the nation.  
3 Responsible Opportunity The Bank sees The Bank has a Sustainable Finance Framework Positive
 Lending  opportunities in which inter alia focuses on 10 green categories: 
   supporting customers Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency, Pollution 
   in transitioning to Prevention and Control,  Sustainable Water 
   greener pathways. and Wastewater Management, Environmentally 
    Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources 
The National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) as prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs advocates nine principles referred as P1-P9 as given below: 
P1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is ethical, transparent and accountable
P2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
P4 Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive towards all its stakeholders
P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6 Businesses should respect, and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
P7 Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a   manner that is responsible and transparent
P8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Policy and Management Processes 
Disclosure Questions P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
 Inclusive 
Customer 
Protect 
Public 
Ethics & 
Product 
Human 
Responsiveness 
Respect
 Growth
Engagement
Environment 
Policy 
Transparency
Responsibility
Resources
to Stakeholders
for Human
 Advocacy
Rights
Policy and management processes 
1. Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
a.  Whether your entity’s
 policy / policies cover
 each principle and its
 core elements of the
 NGRBCs. (Yes / No)
b. Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Has the policy been
 approved by the Board?
 (Yes / No)
c. The policies have been developed based on best practices or as per regulatory requirements and through appropriate consultation 
Web Link of the Policies,
 with relevant stakeholders. Policies may include a combination of internal policies of the Bank which are accessible to all internal 
if available
 stakeholders and policies placed on the Bank’s website. Also refer to Codes and Policies section on our website.
 (Refer to Note 1 for further details)
2. Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Whether the entity has
 translated the policy into
 procedures. (Yes / No)
3. Do the enlisted policies 
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
 extend to your value
 chain partners? (Yes
 / No)
4. Name of the national 
Note 2
Note 3
 and international codes
  Ethics & Product Human Responsiveness Respect Protect Public Inclusive Customer
  Transparency Responsibility Resources to Stakeholders for Human Environment Policy Growth Engagement
      Rights  Advocacy  
 Policy and management processes         
1. a.  Whether your entity’s Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
 policy / policies cover         
 each principle and its         
 core elements of the         
 NGRBCs. (Yes / No)         
b. Has the policy been Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
 approved by the Board?         
 (Yes / No)         
c. Web Link of the Policies, The policies have been developed based on best practices or as per regulatory requirements and through appropriate consultation        
 if available with relevant stakeholders. Policies may include a combination of internal policies of the Bank which are accessible to all internal        
  stakeholders and policies placed on the Bank’s website. Also refer to Codes and Policies section on our website.        
  (Refer to Note 1 for further details)        
2. Whether the entity has Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
 translated the policy into         
 procedures. (Yes / No)         
3. Do the enlisted policies Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
 extend to your value         
 chain partners? (Yes         
 / No)         
4. Name of the national      Note 2   Note 3
 and international codes         
 / certifications / labels /         
 standards (e.g., Forest         
 Stewardship Council,         
 Fairtrade, Rainforest         
 Alliance, Trustee)         
 standards (e.g., SA         
 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS)         
 adopted by your entity         
 and mapped to each         
 principle.         
5. Specific commitments,   Note 4(i)   Note 4(ii)  Note 4(iii) 
 goals and targets set by         
 the entity with defined         
 timelines, if any.         
6. Performance of the   Note 4(i)   Note 4(ii)  Note 4(iii) 
 entity against the specific         
 commitments, goals,         
 and targets along-with         
 reasons in case the         
 same are not met.         
Governance, leadership, and oversight 
7.    Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, The statement is at the beginning of the BRSR.
highlighting ESG related challenges, targets, and achievements Further details on ESG are elucidated in various sections of the Integrated
 Annual Report.
8.    Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Deputy Managing Director
oversight of the Business Responsibility policy(ies) 
9.    Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director Yes. The CSR and ESG Committee of the Board has direct oversight on ESG
responsible for decision making on sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). and sustainability related issues. The Committee is chaired by an independent
If yes, provide details director. The committee meets on a quarterly basis.
 The Deputy Managing Director is responsible for ESG and sustainability related
 issues at the Bank.
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs 
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs     
 P1 P2 P3 P4 P5
11.     Has the entity carried out Note 5 Note 6 Note 5 Note 5 Note 5
independent assessment /     
evaluation of the working of its     
policies by an external agency?     
(Yes / No). If yes, provide the     
name of the agency     
12.     If the answer to the question     -
above is “No” i.e. not all     
Principles are covered by a     
policy, reasons to be stated:     
above is “No” i.e. not all 
Principles are covered by a 
policy, reasons to be stated: 
Subject for Review Review of principles undertaken by and frequency
Performance against above policies and follow up action While the CSR & ESG committee meets on a quarterly basis, review of the
 BRSR is done on an annual basis by the Board.
Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to he The Bank is in compliance with the extant regulations, as applicable.
principles 
Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to he  The Bank is in compliance with the extant regulations, as applicable.
principles  
Note 1  
Principle-wise policies  
P1 Ethics & Transparency Code of Conduct & Ethics Manual
  Conduct Philosophy
  Policy on KYC norms, AML and CFT measures
  Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
  Whistleblower Policy
P2 Product Responsibility Sustainable Finance Framework
  Code of Bank’s Commitment to Customers
  Fair Practice Code for Lending
  DSA Code of Conduct
P3 Human Resources Code of Conduct & Ethics Manual
  Health, Safety & Wellness Policy
  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy
  ESG Policy Framework
P4 Responsive to Stakeholders, particularly the marginalised Sustainable Livelihood Initiative
  CSR Policy
  ESG Policy Framework
P5 Respect for Human Rights Human Rights Statement
  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy
  Code of Conduct & Ethics Manual
P6 Protect Environment Sustainable Finance Framework
  ESG Policy Framework
  Environment Policy
P7 Public Policy Advocacy Conduct Philosophy
P8 Inclusive Growth CSR Policy
  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Policy
  Sustainable Finance Framework
P9 Customer Engagement Corporate Commitment
  Conduct Philosophy
  Grievance Redressal Policy
  Whistleblower Policy
B U S I N E S S   R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y   A N D   S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y   R E P O R T
Note 2: As of March 31, 2025, 2,507 of the branches / offices were certified as green by the Indian Green Building Council
(IGBC).
Note 3: The information security programme is based on ISO 27001: 2013 and NIST framework. The Business Continuity
Programme is also ISO 22301: 2019 certified.
Note 4: Goals and Targets
Programme is also ISO 22301: 2019 certified. 
Note 4: Goals and Targets 
(i) The Bank upholds the principles of an inclusive environment at the workplace and stands committed to increasing
 gender diversity at the workplace. The Bank aims to achieve gender diversity of 27% (share of women employees)
 by FY27.
(ii) The Bank aspires to be carbon neutral by FY32. For further details, refer to the ‘Environment’ section in the
 Integrated Annual Report.
(iii) The Bank has considered multiple targets as part of its ‘Parivartan’ initiative, which is elucidated in the section
 ‘Social - Communities’ in the Integrated Annual Report.
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE 
PRINCIPLE 1:  BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY AND IN A 
 MANNER THAT IS ETHICAL, TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE
Essential Indicators 
1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial
 year
 Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial  
year   
Segment Total number of training and Topics / principles covered under the training % of persons in respective
 awareness programmes held and its impact category covered by the
   awareness programmes
Board of Directors 46 Regulations, cyber security, banking 92
  technologies, Know Your Customer (KYC) & 
Key Managerial 45  98
  Anti-Money Laundering (AML), Climate Risk, 
Personnel (KMP)   
  Impact of Geopolitical Risks & Supply Chain 
  Disruptions, business verticals, customer 
  service, subsidiaries, risk management, 
  human resources, investments, investor 
  relations amongst others. 
  Impact: Keep the directors and KMPs 
  abreast of various developments in the 
  Bank, regulatory updates and other requisite 
  familiarisation programmes. This enables 
  increased strategic inputs. 
Employees other 1,488 Trainings are conducted through external 97^
than Board of  and internal programmes. Certain trainings 
Directors or KMPs  are role specific. Training through the Bank’s 
  ‘MPower’ platform entail a combination of 
  mandatory and voluntary trainings. 
  Some of the role agnostic trainings inter alia 
  are: 
  • 
Code of Conduct 
‘MPower’ platform entail a combination of 
mandatory and voluntary trainings. 
Some of the role agnostic trainings inter alia 
are: 
• Code of Conduct
• Cyber Security
• Human Rights
• PoSH Policy
• KYC & AML
• ESG & Sustainability
Impact: Upgradation of skills sets and 
and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website:     
   Monetary  
 NGRBC Name of the Amount Brief of the Case Has an appeal
 Principle regulatory / (In `)  been preferred?
  enforcement   (Yes / No)
  agencies / judicial   
  institutions   
Penalty/Fine 1 - Nil N.A. N.A.
Settlement 1 RBI 1,00,00,000 Contravention under the Direction issued No
    by RBI on 'Interest Rate on Deposits' and 
    'Recovery Agents engaged by Banks' 
Settlement 1 RBI 75,00,000 Contravention under the Direction on No
    Know Your Customer (KYC) issued by the 
 Number of Directors / KMPs / employees against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery / corruption  
 FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Directors Nil Nil
KMPs Nil Nil
Employees Nil Nil
  FY 2024-25   FY 2023-24 
 Number  Remarks Number  Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to Nil  N.A. Nil  N.A.
issues of conflict of interest of directors      
Number of complaints received in relation to Nil  N.A. Nil  N.A.
issues of conflict of interest of KMPs      
and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:     
Parameter Metrics FY 2024-25  FY 2023-24 
Concentration of a.   Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases  -  -
Purchases     
 b.   Number of trading houses where purchases are made  -  -
 from    
 c. 
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total  -  -
 purchases from trading houses    
Concentration of a.    Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales  -  -
Sales     
 b.   Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are made  -  -
 c. 
Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total sales  -  -
Concentration of a.    Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales - -
Sales   
 b.   Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are made - -
 c. 
Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total sales - -
 to dealers / distributors  
Share of RPTs in a.    Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total 1.44% 2.35%
 purchases  
 b.   Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales) 2.17% 1.81%
 c. 
Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related 0.26% 0.39%
 parties / total loans & advances)  
 d.   Investments (Investments in related parties / Total 1.66% 1.92%
 Investments made)  
B U S I N E S S   R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y   A N D   S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y   R E P O R T
Note:
• 
There were no purchases from trading houses in FY 2024-25.
• 
The  Bank  does  not  make  any  sales  to  dealers  /  distributors.  The  Bank’s  products  and  services  are  offered  to
customers directly.
An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in
the table above.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial
year
The Bank actively conducts various awareness programmes for its value chain partners, which may be attributed to Principle
1, 2 and 4. Elucidated below are some of the awareness programmes:
Financial Literacy: The Bank recognises that financial literacy is extremely critical to make financial inclusion meaningful.
To help increase and strengthen the eco-system of Financial Literacy Centres (FLCs), the rural branches of the Bank
conducts Financial Literacy Camps for farmers, self-help groups, small and micro entrepreneurs and senior citizens amongst
others.  The focus of the FLC camps is to create financial literacy awareness and safe usage of digital platforms. The Bank
has cumulatively covered over 1.84 crore customers through its FLCs.  During the financial year under review, the Bank
conducted 4.97 lakh FLC camps covering 30.65 lakh participants.
Cyber Security Awareness: HDFC Bank regularly conducts cyber fraud awareness campaigns to educate customers,
employees, stakeholders, and the general public on Fraud Modus Operandi, Social Engineering Techniques, Cyber Security,
and Secure Banking Practices.
During the financial year 2024-25, the Bank conducted over 6,000 Cyber Fraud Awareness Workshops. These workshops
aimed at educating customers, law enforcement agencies, senior citizens, Self-Help Groups, educational institutions, rural
customers, vendors, partners and employees, among others.
Key initiatives include – (i) “Each One Teach One” campaign conducted during Teachers’ Day week reaching  11,400
participants, (ii) “Teach India” cyber security campaign was conducted engaging over 300,000 participants, and (iii) Webinar
on Fraud Trends and Safe Digital Banking Practices was conducted for employees across the bank. The webinar was
addressed by a retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, sharing valuable insights to the Safe Digital Banking Practices.
The Bank’s website also hosts a Secure Banking section with Do’s and Don’ts, Top 10 common scam and details of Cyber
Crime Helpline to promote safe and secure banking.
A mandatory course on information security awareness is  designed  by the Bank.  All the employees of the Bank  are
mandated to take this course annually. A similar course on information security is mandated for all vendors operating out
of our offices.
Direct Selling Agents: The Bank engages and spends a great deal of effort training its direct selling agents especially in
terms of harnessing the new digital platforms as well as ensuring that they adhere to the Bank’s Model Code of Conduct
and have the right information to provide customers on various products and services of the Bank.
Capacity Building: Recognizing the Securities and Exchange Board of India’s (SEBI) mandate for value chain disclosures
under the BRSR Core framework, the Bank actively collaborated with its value chain partners through, (i) Targeted training
and awareness programs to enhance value chain partners’ understanding of ESG principles and BRSR Core requirements
and (ii) Strengthening data collection systems to improve transparency and accountability.
HDFC Bank Limited
542
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid / manage conflict of interests involving members of the
 board? (Yes / No) If yes, provide details of the same.
 Yes. The Board of Directors are subject to the Board-approved Code of Ethics / Conduct which mandates that Board
 members shall avoid conflict of interest and disclose to the Board any material transaction or relationship that reasonably
 could be expected to give rise to such a conflict. The Board members are required to disclose any change in their interest
 in any entities to the Board as and when such changes occur and at a minimum at the first meeting of the Board held in
 the financial year.
 In line with the extant RBI circulars on ‘fit and proper’ criteria, the Board members are required to provide a declaration
 and undertaking to the Bank on an annual basis and at the time of their appointment / re-appointment. This declaration
 also contains information of entities in which the directors have interest.
 As and when any director is appointed / re-appointed, the Bank’s secretarial team carries out a due diligence exercise
 which inter alia examines the possibility of conflict of interest.
 Web-link: Code Of Ethics / Conduct
   Details of improvements in
 FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 
   environmental and social impacts
 Nil Nil N.A.
R&D   
Capex 0.51% Nil During FY 2024-25, the Bank
   commenced reporting on its capital
   expenditure towards.
   The key initiatives adopted in FY
   2024-25 include installation of (i)
   Energy efficient equipment including
   BEE certified 5-star ACs, CPCB
   IV Compliant Diesel Gensets, (ii)
   Renewable energy infrastructure and
   (iii) Sewage Treatment Plant (STP)
   Enhanced energy efficiency and
   shift to renewable energy will result
   in reduction of GHG emissions
   emanating from our day-to-day
   operations.
  Note: During the year, the Bank also made capital expenditure towards digitalisation initiatives which results in faster and
  greater efficiencies for customers. From an environmental perspective, this enables reduction in consumption of paper.
 Expense towards these initiatives have not been considered. 
2. a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes / No)
  Wherever feasible, the Bank actively integrates sustainable sourcing in its operations. For procurement of equipment,
  the Bank ensures that energy efficiency standards are considered during the purchase of electronic equipment such
  as computers, laptops, lighting devices, ACs, amongst others.
  As of March 31, 2025, the Bank had 2,507 branches/offices in different cities, certified under the Green Interiors Rating
  System of Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). These green office ratings entail Platinum, Gold and Silver ratings
  from IGBC.
  In line with IGBC’s comprehensive rating modules encompassing eco design approach, interior materials, water
  conservation,  indoor  environment,  energy  efficiency  and  innovation,  sustainable  design  elements  have  been
  incorporated at the Bank’s green certified premises. The Bank uses GreenPro certified materials such as plywood,
  laminates, flooring tiles, false ceiling tiles, paints, adhesives and finishes in these premises.
  During the year, we launched XPRESSWAY, a digital platform that provides a one-stop destination to avail banking
  products and services via do-it-yourself application, resulting in significant reduction in paperwork. The Bank also
  replaces the use of virgin paper with recycled paper wherever feasible.
 b. If yes, what % of goods were sourced sustainably?
  In FY 2024-25, recycled paper constituted 24% of our total paper procurement. Over a quarter of our offices adhered
  to IGBC prescribed sustainable sourcing checklist. Besides this the bank also procures energy efficient electronic
  equipments wherever feasible.
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the
 end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
 Given the nature of the  business, the Bank does not have ‘physical’ product offerings in the normal course of its operations
 and hence reclamation of products is not applicable.
4. Whether  Extended  Producer  Responsibility  (EPR)  is  applicable  to  the  entity’s  activities  (Yes  /  No).  If  yes,
 whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted
 to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
 The Bank does not have ‘physical’ product offerings in the normal course of its operations and hence Extended Producer
 Responsibility is not applicable given the nature of business.
Leadership Indicators 
1. Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing
 industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details.
 N.A.
2. If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and / or risks arising from production or disposal
 of your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any
 other means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
 N.A.
3. Percentage  of  recycled  or  reused 
input  material  to  total  material 
(by  value)  used 
in  production 
(for
 manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry).
a.  Details of measures for the well-being of employees           
     % of employees covered by      
Category           
 Total (A) Health Insurance  Accident Insurance  Maternity Benefits  Paternity Benefits   Day Care Facilities
  Number % (B / A) Number % (C/A) Number % (D/A) Number % (E/A) Number % (F/A)
  (B)  (C)  (D)  (E)  (F) 
      Permanent employees     
Male 1,58,449 1,58,449 100 1,58,449 100 0 0 1,58,449 100 1,58,449 100
Female 56,072 56,072 100 56,072 100 56,072 100 0 0 56,072 100
Total 2,14,521 2,14,521 100 2,14,521 100 56,072 26 1,58,449 74 2,14,521 100
     Other than permanent employees      
Male 24 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Female 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Total 31 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
 FY 2024-25  FY 2023-24 
Benefits No. of employees Deducted and No. of employees covered Deducted and deposited
 covered as a % of total deposited with the as a % of total employees with the authority
 employees authority (Y / N / N.A.)  (Y/N/N.A.)
PF 100 Yes 100 Yes
Gratuity 100 Yes 100 Yes
Employee State Insurance N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
(ESI)    
Others N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Return to work and retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.   
  Permanent employees 
Benefits   
 Return to work rate (%)  Retention rate (%)
Male 99.7  78.1
Female 97.3  71.4
Total 99.1  76.5
 B U S I N E S S   R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y   A N D   S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y   R E P O R T
6. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees
 If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
 Yes, the Bank has a grievance mechanism for  employees. The  Human Resources department  engages closely with
 employees to get a pulse of the sentiment of employees. The employees have access to the ‘My Concern’ portal to put
 forth their grievances, if any. All the concerns are collated and redirected to relevant teams for resolution.
 Total employees in No. of employees in % (B / A)
Category   
 respective category (A) respective category, who 
  are part of association(s) or 
  union (B) 
Total Permanent Employees 2,14,521 208 0.10
Male 1,58,449 153 0.10
Female 56,072 55 0.10
  FY 2023-24 
Total Permanent Employees 2,13,527 213 0.10
Male 1,57,917 159 0.10
Female 55,610 54 0.10
  measures        
  No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C) % (C/A)  No. (E) % (E/D) No. (F) % (F/D)
     EMPLOYEES     
Male 1,58,449 1,58,449 100 1,55,697 98 1,57,917 1,57,917 100 1,53,513 97
Female 56,072 56,072 100 55,246 99 55,610 55,610 100 53,907 97
Total 2,14,521 2,14,521 100 2,10,943 98 2,13,527 2,13,527 100 2,07,420 97
    OTHER THAN PERMANENT EMPLOYEES      
Male 24 0 0 0 0 31 0 0 0 0
Female 7 0 0 0 0 7 0 0 0 0
Total 31 0 0 0 0 38 0 0 0 0
Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Agile  Communication:  The  Bank  encourages  ongoing  performance  conversations  between  employees  and  their
supervisors and records it formally during mid-year and annual performance review. The appraiser and the appraisee
have a joint performance discussion based on the self-evaluation filled by the appraisee. The discussion includes feedback
on performance, competencies, development needs and career aspirations, post which the appraiser records his/ her
evaluation and overall feedback in the document.
Performance Grading: Performance is evaluated on a 4-point scale. In addition, the Bank has a talent management and
review process where HR along with the business or functional heads review the talent at certain periodicity and identifies
specific development needs to support their career progression. This translates into training and development initiatives
and lateral career movement opportunities for the talent.
specific development needs to support their career progression. This translates into training and development initiatives        
and lateral career movement opportunities for the talent.        
  FY 2024-25    FY 2023-24  
Category        
 Total (A) No.(B) % (B/A)  Total (C) No. (D) % (D/C) 
    EMPLOYEES    
Male 1,58,287 1,38,899  88 1,57,948 1,35,649  86
Female 56,017 48,266  86 55,617 45,713  82
Total 2,14,304 1,87,165  87 2,13,565 1,81,362  85
 employees who have completed the probation period with the Bank are eligible for performance review.
10.  Health and safety management system 
a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity?
 (Yes / No). If yes, the coverage such system?
 HDFC Bank aims to maintain health and safety standards at the workplace. Safety checks and assessments of the
 physical infrastructure are carried out periodically. The Bank also conducts several awareness and training programs
 for its employees and relevant stakeholders.
 During the year, the ‘Fire and Life Safety’ module was launched on our learning and development platform MPower
 to ensure employee awareness on how to handle crisis and how to use the life safety equipment.
 Emergency  evacuation  drills  and  training  programmes  on  ‘How  to  Use  Fire  Extinguishers’  are  conducted  on  a
 regular basis.
 To enhance fire preparedness and to ensure safety of the employees, fire and safety audits are carried out in offices
 on a pan-India basis.
b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-
 routine basis by the entity?
 The Bank has an internal incident reporting portal which captures incidents across locations. The concerned teams
 compile the root cause analysis of the incidents and maintain the record of incidents, if any, on the portal.
c. Whether you have processes for employees to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves
 from such risks.
 Yes.
d. Do the employees have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services?
 Yes.
11.  Details of safety related incidents     
Safety Incident / Number Category FY 2024-25  FY 2023-24 
 Employees  0  0
Number of Permanent Disabilities     
 Workers  0  0
 Employees  0  0
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person     
hours worked)     
 Workers  0  0
 Employees  0  0
No. of fatalities     
 Workers  0  0
 Employees  0  0
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding     
fatalities)     
 Workers  0  0
fatalities) 
 0
0
Workers
Note: 
• All employees of the Bank are categorised as permanent or other than permanent i.e. on a contract basis. The Bank
 does not employ any workers; accordingly, worker related KPIs are nil and the same have not been included in any
 of the prescribed tables in the BRSR.
• For high consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities), the Bank has considered work-related
 injury or ill-health, which results in an injury from which the employee cannot or is not expected to recover fully to the
 previous health status.
• The Bank has considered injuries/fatalities caused due to the nature of the work or directly related to the performance
 of work-related tasks.
 Filed during Pending Remarks  Filed during the Pending  
 the year resolution at   year resolution at the Remarks 
  the end of year    end of year  
Working conditions 0 0  - 0 0  -
Health and safety 0 0  - 2 0 Behavioural issue 
       in one case; 
       Other case on 
       office amenities 
       was found to be 
       unsubstantiated 
14.  Assessments for the year 
 % of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or
 third parties)
Health and safety practices 100% assessment as part of internal audits on safety related issues.
 5,770 electrical safety third party audits were carried out on a pan-India basis
Working Conditions 0
 5,770 electrical safety third party audits were carried out on a pan-India basis
 Working Conditions
0
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on
 significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions.
 The Bank recognises the importance of a robust Environment, Health and Safety framework to ensure maintenance of
 benchmark health and safety practices within the organisation. With increased focus on health and well-being, special
 health check-up camps are conducted on a periodic basis for employees.
 Further, as a responsible bank, under the Business Continuity Plan, the Bank conducts robust drills on a periodic basis to
 ensure readiness in the eventuality of the BCP needing to be activated.
 Employees are encouraged to raise safety-related issues, if any, on the ‘My Concern’ portal on the intranet.
Leadership Indicators 
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of employees
 (Y / N)
 Yes, the Bank extends a comprehensive compassion package in the event of death of an employee as detailed below:
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of employees
 (Y / N)
 Yes, the Bank extends a comprehensive compassion package in the event of death of an employee as detailed below:
 • 
Payment of Ex-Gratia Scheme: To provide immediate monetary assistance to the distressed family and financial
 support and help to recover from the sudden deprivation of the income of the deceased employee, ex-gratia lumpsum
 amount as per grade up to a certain level is given;
 • 
Financial support on education to the dependent children till graduation in India up to a maximum of ` 5 lakh per child
 for 2 children;
 • 
Compassionate employment: With an objective to provide support to the family who has lost an earning member
 due to death of an employee, the kin of the employee is offered employment in the Bank based on the respective
 educational qualification of the candidate, subject to fulfilment of other eligibility criteria. The Bank also provides the
 necessary training and skills to the candidate as required.
 B U S I N E S S   R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y   A N D   S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y   R E P O R T
2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and
 deposited by the value chain partners.
 As per the Bank’s Code of Conduct, it expects its employees and all third parties it deals with, to adhere to the ethics and
 values as elucidated in the code. The Bank ensures that taxes/ statutory dues as applicable to the transactions within the
 remit of the Bank are deducted and deposited in accordance with its laid out standard operating procedures which are
 in line with extant regulations. The Bank expects its value chain partners, including service providers to be compliant with
 statutory dues/ other requirements. These form a part of the covenants in the legal contracts between the Bank and its
 value chain partners.
3. Provide the number of employees having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health /
 fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in
 suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
 STAKEHOLDERS
Essential Indicators 
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
 HDFC Bank maps its stakeholders based on their level of interest, influence, and impact on the Bank. This inter alia includes
 communities, investors, employees, customers, value chain partners, regulators and the government.
2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each
 stakeholder group.
 List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each   
stakeholder group.    
Key Stakeholders Whether identified Channels of communication Frequency of Purpose and scope of
 as Vulnerable & (Email, SMS, Newspaper, engagement engagement including
 Marginalised Group Pamphlets, Advertisement, (Annually / Half yearly key topics and concerns
 (Yes / No) Community Meetings, / Quarterly raised during such
  Notice Board, Website), / others - please engagement
  Others specify) 
Communities Yes, children, youth, Planning, Meeting and Exercises Type: Information, Poverty and drudgery
 Marginalised Group Pamphlets, Advertisement, (Annually / Half yearly key topics and concerns
 (Yes / No) Community Meetings, / Quarterly raised during such
  Notice Board, Website), / others - please engagement
  Others specify) 
Communities Yes, children, youth, Planning, Meeting and Exercises Type: Information, Poverty and drudgery
 farmer communities - Needs Assessment / Baseline / Consultation, alleviation, Improvement
  Participatory Rural Appraisal Participation in quality of education,
  Focused Group Discussions  Appropriate resource
   Frequency: management,
  Consultative Workshops  
   Continuous Environmental
  Awareness Sessions and Field  
   engagement / sustainability, Improvement
  Demonstrations  
   Annual performance in community hygiene
  Periodic progress reviews and review and sanitation
  monitoring  
Investors / No Quarterly financial reports, press Type: Information, Compliance, Governance
Shareholders  releases, results conference Participation & ethical practices, and
  calls and investor presenations  Economic performance
  and conferences, Analyst days, Frequency: 
  Investor days, interactions with Continuous 
  shareholders and Annual General engagements / 
  Meetings (AGMs) Quarterly / Annual 
Employees No Employee on-ground and virtual Type: Information, Employee engagement,
  connect by human resources, Consultation, Culture and employee
  leadership and manager connect; Participation experience, Employee
    wellness and safety,
  Engagement and Pulse & Vibes Frequency: On- Learning and
  surveys to assess sentiment of going / Development, Inclusive
  employees periodic work culture,
    Work-life balance
  Employee connect initiatives like  
  talent hunt, wellness initiatives,  
  employee engagements among  
  others  
Customers Yes, if they qualify Multiple channels – physical and Type: Information, Ease of transacting across
 based on specified digital, Customer satisfaction Consultation channels; Innovative
 criteria such as surveys,  technology applications;
 income and/or gender Customer feedbacks, Regular Frequency: Data security; Advanced
 or any other criteria interaction with customers Continuous analytics
Value chain No Regular meetings, emails, phone Type: Information Partnership, governance
partners  calls and surveys  and ethical practices
   Frequency: 
B U S I N E S S   R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y   A N D   S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y   R E P O R T    
Key Stakeholders Whether identified Channels of communication Frequency of Purpose and scope of
 as Vulnerable & (Email, SMS, Newspaper, engagement engagement including
 Marginalised Group Pamphlets, Advertisement, (Annually / Half yearly key topics and concerns
 (Yes / No) Community Meetings, / Quarterly raised during such
  Notice Board, Website), / others - please engagement
  Others specify) 
Regulators & No Regular meetings, policy updates Type: Information, Compliance, Social
 as Vulnerable & (Email, SMS, Newspaper, engagement engagement including
 Marginalised Group Pamphlets, Advertisement, (Annually / Half yearly key topics and concerns
 (Yes / No) Community Meetings, / Quarterly raised during such
  Notice Board, Website), / others - please engagement
  Others specify) 
Regulators & No Regular meetings, policy updates Type: Information, Compliance, Social
Government  and ministry directives, mandatory Consultation, Security schemes,
  filings with key regulators Participation Relevant national
    mandates
   Frequency: 
   Continuous 
   engagement or as 
   per requirement 
 per requirement
Leadership Indicators 
1. Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental,
 and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the
 Board.
 The Bank is dedicated to driving positive change and believes that sustainable growth is key to creating long-term value
 for all the stakeholders. Active engagement on economic, environmental and social matters is conducted with the relevant
 stakeholder  groups  –  customers,  employees,  shareholders,  investors,  regulators,  vendors  and  communities  –  on  an
 ongoing basis.
 These engagements take place through multiple channels such as town halls, training sessions, social media platforms,
 customer satisfaction surveys, stakeholder engagement exercises and materiality assessment.
 These forums provide valuable insights that help identify key issues, evaluate business practices, mitigate risks, and enhance
 the Bank’s impact across the ecosystem. Feedback from these engagements is analysed and communicated to the Board
 and Senior Management through a structured process. The Bank ensures that stakeholder concerns are considered in
 strategic decision-making through the following governance mechanisms:
 the Bank’s impact across the ecosystem. Feedback from these engagements is analysed and communicated to the Board
 and Senior Management through a structured process. The Bank ensures that stakeholder concerns are considered in
 strategic decision-making through the following governance mechanisms:
• The CSR & ESG Committee of the Board is responsible for overseeing the identification, implementation, and monitoring
 of all the CSR initiatives. It also ensures transparent reporting and effective communication with stakeholders on CSR,
 ESG framework and related strategic goals and disclosures.
• The Bank’s Board-level Customer Service Committee is constituted to drive continuous improvements in the quality
 of customer services provided by the Bank and develop innovative measures for enhancing the customer experience
 and quality of customer service.
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
3. Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/
 marginalised stakeholder groups.
 The Bank is committed to addressing the needs of vulnerable and marginalised stakeholder groups through both its
 financial inclusion strategy and community development initiatives. With the guidance of the Board governed Corporate
 Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy, the Bank continues to implement well-structured programmes and interventions aimed
 at improving the well-being of marginalised communities and contributing to their sustainable development.
 The  key  approach  focused  on  lending  to  marginal/vulnerable  groups  is  the  Bank’s  Sustainable  Livelihoods  Initiative,
 empowering them through access to credit and livelihood support. Over 50% of the Bank’s branches are in rural and
 semi-urban areas, to increase the financial inclusion penetration across the country.
 The Bank actively supports several schemes of the government which inter alia include loans to street vendors, artisans,
 MSMEs, loans to women entrepreneurs, farmers, contributing to employment generation and improved livelihoods. The
 Bank has also extended financial support to agri-infrastructure projects, micro food processing, agri clinics and agri-
 business centres and rural and urban livelihood missions. In FY 2024–25, the Bank enrolled 4.5 million customers under
 various government social security schemes, including basic banking accounts, low-cost insurance for underprivileged
 segments, and pension schemes for unorganised sector workers.
 Further, the Bank is committed to expand access to affordable housing. During the year, 64% of home loans (in volume
 terms) and 37% (in value terms) were approved for customers from economically weaker sections (EWS), low-income
 groups (LIG), and middle-income groups (MIG).
   Minimum Wage  Minimum Wage    Minimum Wage   Minimum Wage 
  No. (B)  % (B/A) No. ( C) % (C/A)  No. (E)  % (E/D)  No. (F) % (F/D)
      EMPLOYEES       
Permanent 2,14,521  0 0 2,14,521 100 2,13,527  0  0 2,13,527 100
Male 1,58,449  0 0 1,58,449 100 1,57,917  0  0 1,57,917 100
Female 56,072  0 0 56,072 100 55,610  0  0 55,610 100
Other than 31  0 0 31 100 38  0  0 38 100
Permanent             
Male 24  0 0 24 100 31  0  0 31 100
Female 7  0 0 7 100 7  0  0 7 100
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
3. b. 
Gross wages paid to females as % of total remuneration paid
 FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
 20%
19%
Gross wages paid to females as % of wages paid
 Note:  The  calculation  of  gross  wages  paid  to  female  employees  excludes  retirement  benefits,  ESOPs  and  staff
 welfare expenses.
 An independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited on the FY 2024-25 indicators in
 the table above.
4. Do you have a focal point (Individual / Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or
 issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes / No)
 Yes. Refer Section B for details on the authority responsible for implementation and oversight of business responsibility.
5. Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues
 The Bank strictly adheres to the conduct philosophy adopted, which prohibits the use of child, forced, or compulsory
 labour. The conduct philosophy includes mechanisms to address issues related to mental or physical coercion, verbal
 abuse, sexual harassment, sexual abuse and slavery of employees. The Bank maintains a ‘zero tolerance’ policy on sexual
 harassment. An Internal Complaints Committee is in place to address such complaints. The Bank also has a whistleblower
 mechanism that provides a comprehensive framework for capturing and addressing complaints or grievances from the
 relevant stakeholders.
6. Number of complaints on the following made by employees
 FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
 Pending 
Pending
 resolution 
Filed during 
resolution at 
Filed during
 Remarks
Remarks
 at the end of 
the year
the end of the 
the year
 the year
year
 Sexual Harassment
75
10
-
77
12*
-
 0
0
-
0
0
-
Discrimination at workplace
 Child Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
 Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
 Wages
0
0
-
0
0
-
 Other human rights related issues
0
0
-
0
0
-
 *Complaints reported as pending at the close of FY 2023-24 were resolved in FY 2024-25.
7. Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
 Redressal) Act, 2013 (PoSH)
 FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
 75
77
Total  complaints  reported  under  Sexual  Harassment  of  Women  at  the
 Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
 0.13
0.16*
Complaints on PoSH as a % of female employees (%)
 24
25
Number of complaints on PoSH upheld
 Note: For the purpose of calculating PoSH complaints as a percentage of female employees, average number of female
 employees is considered, in line with the Industry Standard Forum guidance.
 Average number of female employees is computed basis the total female headcount at the beginning of the year and at
 the end of the year.
 *Previous year’s number has been revised, accordingly.
 Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
557
 B U S I N E S S   R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y   A N D   S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y   R E P O R T
8. Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases
 As a responsible employer, the Bank is committed to creating a culture which is conducive, fair and harmonious amongst
 its employees. The Bank recognises its responsibility towards safeguarding and protecting women at the workplace from
 harassment.  The Bank has put in place a code of conduct, applicable to all employees of the Bank. The Bank’s Internal
 Committee deals with cases of sexual harassment of women at the workplace and ensures that there is a fair and detailed
 investigation done in utmost confidentiality, thus ensuring protection to the aggrieved party.  Further, the whistleblower policy
 also serves as a safe mechanism which ensures confidentiality and ensures no discrimination towards the complainant.
9. Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts (Yes / No)?
 Yes, The Bank respects and upholds the principles of human rights as established in the United Nations Universal Declaration
 of Human Rights. Through this commitment, the Bank seeks to institutionalise appropriate policies and processes that
 safeguard the fundamental rights of all relevant stakeholders.
 As part of the ESG Risk Management Framework on lending, loans above a stipulated threshold undergo enhanced
 environmental and social due diligence. The Bank’s vendors and suppliers are expected to adhere to all applicable laws
 addressing child, forced or trafficked labour.
10.  Assessments for the year 
 % of offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour 
Forced / involuntary labour 
Sexual harassment 
 Nil
Discrimination at workplace 
Wages 
Others - please specify 
Details on assessment of value chain partners
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Nil
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others - please specify
Essential Indicators  
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity  
Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
From renewable sources (in GJ)  
Total electricity consumption (A) 66,436.61 11,772.84
Total fuel consumption (B) - -
Energy consumption through other sources (C) - -
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C) 66,436.61 11,772.84
From non-renewable sources (in GJ)  
Total electricity consumption (D) 14,10,725.08 25,23,514.68
Total fuel consumption (E) 5,85,716.08 4,97,686.11
Energy consumption through other sources (F) - -
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F) 19,96,441.16 30,21,200.79
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F) (in GJ) 20,62,877.77 30,32,973.62
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumed / Revenue 5.96 9.87
from operations) (GJ per ` in crore)  
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 12.32 20.39
Parity (PPP) (Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for  
PPP) (GJ per USD in million)  
Energy intensity in terms of physical output (GJ/ Full Time Employees (FTE)) 9.62 14.20
 9.62
14.20
Energy intensity in terms of physical output (GJ/ Full Time Employees (FTE))
Note: 
• Energy consumed from fuels include energy from consumption of petrol and diesel in company-owned vehicles
 and gensets.
• For gensets and company owned vehicles, petrol/ diesel purchase data is extracted from the Bank’s financial records.
 The cost of diesel/ petrol purchased is converted into litres of petrol/ sdiesel using state-wise/ national average rates
 derived from information available in the public domain.
• A combination of consumption based and spend-based approach is adopted to calculate electricity consumption
 from local grids – for branches, offices, ATMs and Data Centers.
• Electricity consumption from renewable energy sources is generated through in-house solar rooftops installed at 25
 locations and purchased green power at 19 locations.
• Total energy consumption decreased primarily due to the change in energy accounting methodology. There is a
 transition from a purely spend-based estimation approach to a more refined method that combines actual energy
 consumption data with financial data, resulting in a more accurate reporting of electricity consumption.
• All the intensity related computation across energy, emissions, water and waste are based on Total Revenue, which
 includes interest earned under Schedule 13 and other income, excluding profit/ (loss) on sale of buildings & other
 assets (net) earned under Schedule 14 of the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Bank.
• For the purpose of calculation of intensity, adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP), conversion factor @20.66 INR/
 USD as per IMF has been applied consistently for both FY2024-25 and FY2023-24.
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
 If yes, name of the external agency.
 Yes, an independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited for the FY 2024-25 indicators
 in the table above.
2. Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance,
 Achieve  and  Trade  (PAT)  Scheme  of  the  Government  of  India?  (Y  /  N)  If  yes,  disclose  whether  targets  set
 under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial
 action taken, if any.
 N.A.
3. Provide details of the following disclosures related to water.
N.A.  
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water.  
Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)  
(i) Surface water 0 0
(ii) Groundwater 0 0
(iii) Third party water 26,02,703.66 24,08,078.16
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water 0 0
(v) Others 0 0
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v) 26,02,703.66 24,08,078.16
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres) 5,20,540.73 4,81,615.63
Water intensity per ` of turnover (Total water consumption / Revenue 1.50 1.57
from operations) (Kilolitre per ` crore)  
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 3.11 3.24
Power Parity (PPP) (kilolitre per PPP adjusted million USD)  
Water intensity in terms of physical output (Total water consumption / 2.43 2.26
Full Time Employee) (kilolitre per employee)  
 2.43
2.26
Water intensity in terms of physical output (Total water consumption /
 Full Time Employee) (kilolitre per employee)
Note: 
• Water withdrawn is estimated based on the document by the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA), which specifies
 that an office employee consumes 45 litres per day per head. This amount is recorded as water withdrawn from third
 party source.
• Water discharged is considered as 80% of the water withdrawn from source based on Central Pollution Control Board
 (CPCB) database report dated December 24, 2009. Therefore, it is assumed that of the total water withdrawal, only
 20% is consumed.
Provide the following details related to water discharged  
 FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
 Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres) 
(i) To surface water  
No treatment 0 0
With treatment - please specify level of treatment 0 0
(ii) To Groundwater  
No treatment 0 0
With treatment - please specify level of treatment 0 0
(iii) To Seawater  
No treatment 0 0
With treatment - please specify level of treatment 0 0
(iv) Sent to third parties  
No treatment 20,82,162.93 19,26,462.53
With treatment - please specify level of treatment 0 0
(v) Others  
No treatment 0 0
With treatment - please specify level of treatment 0 0
Total water discharged (in kilolitres) 20,82,162.93 19,26,462.53
Details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity     
Parameter Unit FY 2024-25  FY 2023-24 
NOx Metric Tonnes  308.25  -
SOx Metric Tonnes  24.32  -
Particulate Matter (PM) Metric Tonnes  9.63  -
Persistent organic pollutants (POP) Metric Tonnes  -  -
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Metric Tonnes  -  -
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) Metric Tonnes  -  -
Others - please specify Metric Tonnes  -  -
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 Note: The NOx, SOx and PM emissions provided above are attributed to diesel consumption in  DG sets within the Bank’s
 operational boundary. These emissions have been calculated using site-specific data and emission factors published by
 the USEPA.
 While the nature of banking operations does not typically result in significant air emissions, the Bank is cognisant of air quality
 within its premises. As a proactive measure, the Bank has undertaken the estimation and disclosure on air emissions.
7. Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity       
Parameter* Unit  FY 2024-25   FY 2023-24 
  CO2 N2O
CH4 HFCs   HFCs
     CO2 CH4
N2O 
  Emissions Emissions 
Emissions (tCO2e) Emissions Emissions 
Emissions 
       (tCO2e)
  (tCO2e) (tCO2e)
(tCO2e)  (tCO2e) (tCO2e)
(tCO2e) 
Total Scope 1 Metric tonnes 42,024.21 61.21
562.76 35,351.32 35,818.59 51.35
442.51 47,868.03
emissions       
 of CO2      
   Total: 77,999.50   Total: 84,180.48 
       
(GHG: CO2, equivalent      
CH4, N2O,       
HFCs)       
Total Scope 2 Metric tonnes  2,84,877.91   5,01,899.03 
emissions       
 of CO2      
       
(GHG: CO2) equivalent      
Total Scope 2 Metric tonnes 2,84,877.91 5,01,899.03
emissions   
 of CO2  
   
(GHG: CO2) equivalent  
Total Scope Metric tonnes 1.05 1.91
1 and Scope   
 of CO2e /  
2 emission Revenue  
intensity (` in crore)  
per ` Crore   
of turnover   
(Total Scope   
1 and Scope   
2 GHG   
emissions /   
Revenue from   
operations)   
Total Scope Metric tonnes 2.17 3.94
1 and Scope   
 of CO2e /  
2 emission Revenue  
intensity per (USD in  
Million USD million)  
of turnover   
adjusted for   
Purchasing   
Power   
Parity (Total   
Scope 1 and   
Scope 2 GHG   
emissions /   
Revenue from   
operations   
adjusted for   
PPP)   
Total Scope   
 MTCO2e 1.69 2.74
1 and Scope per Full time  
2 emission employee  
intensity (FTE)  
in terms of   
physical   
output   
Note: 
• Scope 1 emissions include emissions from company-owned cars, company-owned diesel gensets, fugitive emissions
 from air conditioners and fire extinguishers.
• For the computation of emissions from company-owned cars and company-owned gensets, emission factors from
 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) guidelines 2006 have been applied to quantities deemed for energy
 consumption in Principle 6, Essential Indicators: Question 1.
• Fugitive emissions from fire extinguishers are estimated using operational assets and public factors on leakage from
 USEPA guidance, with Global Warming Potential (GWP) values derived from IPCC Sixth Assessment Report (AR6).
• For  air  conditioners,  the  Bank’s  operational  assets  define  the  boundary.  Emissions  are  estimated  using  India’s
 refrigerant usage trends, vendor-provided average refrigerant capacities, leakage assumptions from Council on Energy,
 Environment and Water (CEEW) and GWP derived factors from IPCC AR 6.
• Scope 2 emissions are reported using a combination of consumption based and spend-based data. The reported
 figures are derived using market-based approach with grid emission factor from Version 20 of the Central Electrical
 Authority’s CO2 database.
• Scope 1 emissions have reduced largely on account of gradual transition to low GHG fire extinguishers from high
 GHG based fire extinguishers.
• The reduction in Scope 2 emissions is primarily attributed to the procurement of renewable energy, sourced through
 rooftop solar installations and green power purchase. In addition, system enhancements during FY 2024-25 enabled
 the shift to a mixed approach of using– consumption and spend-based data, as compared to a complete spend
 based computation adopted in the previous year.
Provide details related to waste management by the entity  
Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)  
Plastic waste (A) 105.91 252.61
E-waste (B) 165.39 110.58
Bio-medical waste (C) - -
Construction and demolition waste (D) - -
Battery waste (E) 34.13 20.51
Radioactive waste (F) - -
Other Hazardous waste (G) (Includes DG Oil waste) 69.06 89.85
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H) 297.02 288.48
Sector specific - Paper waste (I) 3,401.59 3,441.49
Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H + I) 4,073.10 4,203.52
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover 0.01 0.01
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations) (MT / ` in crore)  
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 0.02 0.03
Power Parity (PPP)  
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)  
(MT per adjusted USD in million)  
Waste intensity in terms of physical output (Total waste generated per 0.02 0.02
Full time employee (FTE))  
 For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other 
recovery operations (in metric tonnes)  
 FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Category of waste  
(i) Recycled  
Plastic waste (A) 11.77 0.00
E-waste (B) 133.77 109.74
Bio-medical waste (C) - -
Construction and demolition waste (D) - -
Battery waste (E) 34.13 20.51
Radioactive waste (F) - -
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G) 1.90 0.00
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. (Break-up 48.36 10.16
by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)  
Paper waste (I) 191.89 0.00
(ii) Re-used - -
(iii) Other recovery operations - -
Total waste diverted from disposal 421.82 140.41
 Total For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes) 
 FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Category of waste  
(i) Incineration - -
(ii) Landfilling - -
(iii) Other disposal operations  
Plastic waste (A) 94.14 252.61
E-waste (B) 31.62 0.84
Bio-medical waste (C) - -
B U S I N E S S   R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y   A N D   S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y   R E P O R T  
Construction and demolition waste (D) - -
Battery waste (E) - 0.00
Radioactive waste (F) - -
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any (G) 67.16 89.85
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any (Break-up 248.66 278.31
by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)  
Paper waste (I) 3,209.70 3,441.49
Total waste diverted to disposal 3,651.29 4,063.11
Total waste diverted to disposal 3,651.29
 4,063.11
Note: 
• Due to the nature of operations of the Bank, no bio-medical, construction and demolition, and radioactive waste
 attributable to the Bank was generated.
• E-Waste generated, recycled and disposed, includes IT related e-waste and datacentre e-waste which is centrally
 managed and recycled through authorised vendors.
• Paper waste majorly constitutes paper procured for the Bank’s own use and is shown as sector-specific paper waste.
 The quantity of waste generated is assumed to be disposed through other disposal operations.
• The waste quantities presented in the table above are estimated by extrapolating actual data from select locations,
 using employee count as an operational proxy. These figures primarily cover waste from owned facilities with waste
 segregation and recycling practices in place, except for e-waste, battery waste and paper waste, which also include
 data from other locations.
• During the reporting period, the Bank implemented several initiatives to reduce the usage of single-use plastic in the
 office premises and also sensitised the workforce towards exploring alternative solutions to replace plastic waste,
 leading to reduction in amount of plastic waste generated.
 • 
During the reporting period, the Bank implemented several initiatives to reduce the usage of single-use plastic in the
 office premises and also sensitised the workforce towards exploring alternative solutions to replace plastic waste,
 leading to reduction in amount of plastic waste generated.
 Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
 (Y / N) If yes, name of the external agency.
 Yes, an independent reasonable assurance has been carried out by SGS India Private Limited for the FY 2024-25 indicators
 in the table above.
10. Briefly  describe  the  waste  management  practices  adopted  in  your  establishments.  Describe  the  strategy
 adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes
 and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
 The Bank does not use hazardous and toxic chemicals in its products and processes. However, the Bank has been working
 towards sustainable management of waste generated from day-to-day operations. The Bank has adopted an internal
 Standard Operating Procedure to document its approach to waste segregation and handling in the office premises. The
 Bank segregates and recycles dry waste at select large offices. The dry waste is collected and disposed through authorised
 vendors who eventually recycle the waste. In FY 2024-25, approximately 421.82 tonnes of waste were diverted from landfill
 through recycling initiatives.
 Disposal of Bank’s owned IT e-waste and battery waste was handed over to authorized recyclers, thus ensuring circularity. In
 FY 2024-25, e-waste and battery waste within its premises and co-located data centres led to the generation and recycling
 of 133.77 tonnes of e-waste and 34.13 tonnes of battery waste.
11. If the entity has operations/offices in / around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife
 sanctuaries,  biosphere  reserves,  wetlands,  biodiversity  hotspots,  forests,  coastal  regulation  zones  etc.)
 where environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details.
 Given the nature of the business, the Bank does not have any operations or offices in ecologically sensitive areas.
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
12. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws,
 in the current financial year.
 N.A.
13. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law / regulations / guidelines in India; such as the
 Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment
 Protection Act and Rules thereunder (Y / N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances.
 The Bank complies with all applicable laws. There have been no instances of non-compliance with respect to the above-
 mentioned regulations.
Leadership Indicators 
1. Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres)
 For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
 (i) 
Name of the area
 (ii) 
Nature of operations
 (iii)  Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge
 N. A.
2. Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
N. A.       
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:       
Parameter* Unit  FY 2024-25   FY 2023-24 
  CO2 CH4 N2O CO2 CH4 N2O
  Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions
  (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e)
Total Scope 3 emissions       
 Metric tonnes of CO2      
(Break-up of the GHG into equivalent      
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs,       
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)       
Total Scope 3 emissions Metric tonnes of  0.67   0.20 
per ` crore of turnover       
 CO2e per ` in crore      
Total Scope 3 emission       
 tCO2e / Full time      
 B U S I N E S S   R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y   A N D   S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y   R E P O R T
3. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide
 details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention
 and remediation activities.
 Given the nature of business, the Bank does not have significant direct impacts on biodiversity. However, the Bank does
 ensure that the large industrial, infrastructure projects it lends to, are in compliance with all extant environmental regulations,
 including those linked to biodiversity.
4. If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve
 resource  efficiency,  or  reduce  impact  due  to  emissions  /  effluent  discharge  /  waste  generated,  please
 provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following:
resource  efficiency,  or  reduce  impact  due  to  emissions  /  effluent  discharge  /  waste  generated,  please   
provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following:   
Sr. No Initiative undertaken Details of the initiative Outcome of the initiative
1. On-site Solar Installation 25 Solar rooftop installations 837.72 MWh of electricity consumed from the
  commissioned so far with a total installed solar rooftop plants, leading to an emission
   
  capacity of around 743 kWp. reduction of 609.02 tCO2e.
2. Green Power 100% of the power consumed at 19 loca- Procurement of 17,616.9 MWh of electricity
  tions is from green energy sources. under the green power arrangement during FY
   2024-25, as a result of which, 12,807.48 tCO2e
   emissions were avoided during the year.
3. Automated Energy Management Automated energy management solutions Automating energy management has resulted in
 Solutions that help monitor energy consumption and savings of electricity amounting to about 623.84
  control usage have been implemented in MWh during the reporting period, leading to
  350 branches. 
   avoidance of 453.53 tCO2e emissions.
4. Active Harmonic Filter (AHF) Static Power Factor (PF) solutions The project led to electricity savings of 84.32
  implemented across 84 locations through MWh resulting in reduction
   
  the installation of Active Harmonic Filter of GHG emissions by 61.3 tCO2e
  (AHF) to address the correction of power during the year.
  factor and bring in efficiencies at the 
  branch locations. 
5. Energy Efficient Equipment During FY 2024–25, the Bank allocated a Installation of energy-efficient equipment such as
  total of 0.51% of the Bank’s overall capital BEE 5-star rated air conditioners, and CPCB IV
  expenditure promote energy efficiency. compliant diesel generator sets; implementation
   of renewable energy solutions like solar panels
   and installation of sewage treatment plants
   (STPs).
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
 Beyond verifying the borrowers’ compliance with statutory laws and regulations, the Bank also assesses the corporate
 borrowers in terms of their current position with regards to ESG & climate change, their transition plans and their initiatives on
 mitigation of risks related to ESG and climate change. As regulatory frameworks on value chain and disclosures on Scope 3
 emissions continue to evolve, we ensure ongoing compliance through active monitoring and alignment with best practices.
7. Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for
 environmental impacts.
 As a part of the regular credit monitoring process, the Bank assesses, relevant issues regarding environmental & social
 issues and the impact of climate change on the borrower’s operations.
8. How many green credits have been generated or procured?
 (a) 
By the company - Nil
 (b) 
By the top ten (in terms of value of purchases and sales respectively) value chain partners - Data not
 available
b. List of top 10 the trade and industry chambers / associations the entity is a member of / affiliated to 
S.  Reach of trade and industry chambers /
 Name of the trade and industry chambers / associations 
No.  associations (State / National)
1 Bombay Chambers of Commerce and Industry National
2 National Association of Software and Services Companies National
3 Indian Banks Association National
4 Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India (FIMMDA) National
5 Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) National
6 Society of Indian Automobiles Manufacturers National
7 Indian Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association National
8 Secondary Loan Market Association National
9 International Swaps and Derivatives Association International
10 Primary Dealers’ Association of India National
PRINCIPLE 8: BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT 
Essential Indicators 
1. Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws,
 in the current financial year.
 N.A.
 As per the BRSR, this section pertains to Social Impact Assessment in compliance with Right to Fair Compensation &
 Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. Given the nature of the business of the Bank,
 this is not applicable.
2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being
 undertaken by your entity.
 N.A.
3. Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
 Internally there is a robust mechanism in place for the redressal of all grievances/complaints related to CSR project raised by
 the community stakeholders. There is a dedicated email id CSR-Compliance@hdfcbank.com displayed on the bank’s website
 for receiving community grievances/ complaints. Further there is a designated team and internal committee formed that
 evaluates and redresses such grievances received.
4. Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers.
Leadership Indicators 
1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact
 Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above).
 N.A.
2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational
 districts as identified by government bodies.
 Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational  
districts as identified by government bodies.   
S. No. State Aspirational District Amount spent (` in crore)
1 Andhra Pradesh Vizianagaram 0.06
2 Andhra Pradesh Visakhapatnam 3.14
3 Andhra Pradesh Y.S.R. Kadapa 0.06
4 Assam Goalpara 0.04
5 Assam Barpeta 0.28
6 Assam Hailakandi 1.86
7 Assam Baksa 2.05
8 Assam Darrang 0.04
9 Assam Udalguri 2.04
10 Assam Dhubri 1.30
11 Bihar Sitamarhi 0.54
12 Bihar Araria 2.04
13 Bihar Katihar 2.04
14 Bihar Muzaffarpur 0.59
15 Bihar Begusarai 0.16
16 Bihar Khagaria 0.04
17 Bihar Banka 1.12
18 Bihar Sheikhpura 0.04
19 Bihar Aurangabad 0.09
20 Bihar Gaya 0.09
21 Bihar Nawada 0.68
22 Bihar Jamui 1.21
23 Chhattisgarh Korba 1.98
24 Chhattisgarh Rajnandgaon 0.27
25 Chhattisgarh Mahasamund 4.31
26 Chhattisgarh Kanker 0.54
27 Chhattisgarh Dantewada 0.13
28 Chhattisgarh Bijapur 0.04
29 Chhattisgarh Bastar 2.33
30 Chhattisgarh Kondagaon 0.92
31 Chhattisgarh Sukma 0.10
32 Gujarat Dahod 0.04
33 Gujarat Narmada 0.04
S. No. State Aspirational District Amount spent (` in crore)
34 Himachal Pradesh Chamba 0.21
35 Jammu & Kashmir Kupwara 0.93
36 Jammu & Kashmir Baramulla 1.04
37 Jharkhand Garhwa 0.04
38 Jharkhand Chatra 0.09
39 Jharkhand Giridih 0.16
40 Jharkhand Godda 1.17
41 Jharkhand Sahibganj 0.04
42 Jharkhand Pakur 0.04
43 Jharkhand Bokaro 2.87
44 Jharkhand Lohardaga 0.17
45 Jharkhand Palamu 0.69
46 Jharkhand Latehar 0.10
47 Jharkhand Hazaribagh 2.33
48 Jharkhand Ramgarh 2.60
49 Jharkhand Dumka 0.73
50 Jharkhand Ranchi 5.11
51 Jharkhand Khunti 0.21
52 Jharkhand Gumla 0.59
53 Jharkhand Simdega 0.73
54 Karnataka Raichur 0.59
55 Karnataka Yadgir 0.73
56 Kerala Wayanad 0.54
57 Madhya Pradesh Chhatarpur 1.48
58 Madhya Pradesh Damoh 0.04
59 Madhya Pradesh Barwani 0.04
60 Madhya Pradesh Rajgarh 0.04
61 Madhya Pradesh Vidisha 0.04
62 Madhya Pradesh Guna 1.44
63 Madhya Pradesh Singrauli 1.49
64 Madhya Pradesh Khandwa 2.47
65 Maharashtra Nandurbar 0.56
66 Maharashtra Washim 0.23
67 Maharashtra Gadchiroli 1.25
68 Maharashtra Osmanabad 2.35
69 Manipur Chandel 0.61
70 Meghalaya Ribhoi 2.72
71 Odisha Dhenkanal 3.05
72 Odisha Gajapati 0.04
73 Odisha Kandhamal 3.08
B U S I N E S S   R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y   A N D   S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y   R E P O R T   
S. No. State Aspirational District Amount spent (` in crore)
74 Odisha Balangir 0.04
75 Odisha Kalahandi 3.90
76 Odisha Rayagada 0.21
77 Odisha Koraput 0.54
78 Odisha Malkangiri 2.52
79 Odisha Nabarangpur 0.08
80 Odisha Nuapada 0.81
81 Punjab Moga 3.09
82 Punjab Firozpur 0.54
83 Rajasthan Dholpur 0.04
84 Rajasthan Karauli 2.95
85 Rajasthan Jaisalmer 0.12
86 Rajasthan Sirohi 1.24
87 Rajasthan Baran 0.49
88 Sikkim West Sikkim 0.24
89 Tamil Nadu Virudhunagar 1.82
90 Tamil Nadu Ramanathapuram 1.30
91 Telangana Asifabad 0.06
92 Telangana Bhadradri 0.04
93 Tripura Dhalai 0.49
94 Uttar Pradesh Chitrakoot 2.31
95 Uttar Pradesh Fatehpur 0.04
96 Uttar Pradesh Bahraich 1.33
97 Uttar Pradesh Balrampur 3.85
98 Uttar Pradesh Siddharthnagar 1.39
99 Uttar Pradesh Chandauli 0.66
100 Uttar Pradesh Sonbhadra 3.17
101 Uttarakhand Udham Singh Nagar 3.42
102 Uttarakhand Haridwar 7.56
 101 Uttarakhand Udham Singh Nagar 3.42
 102 Uttarakhand Haridwar 7.56
3. (a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers  
  comprising marginalised / vulnerable groups? (Yes / No)  
 No.   
 (b) From which marginalised/vulnerable groups do you procure?  
 N.A.   
 (c)  What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?   
 N.A.   
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
4. Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity
 (in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge.
 N.A.
5. Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related
 disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
N.A. 
6. Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects   
S.  No. of persons benefitted % of beneficiaries from vulnerable
 CSR Project  
No.  from CSR projects and marginalised groups
1 Rural development 23,75,952 100
2 Promoting education 4,74,036 100
3 Skill training and livelihood enhancement 8,08,752 100
4 Environmental sustainability 1,30,641 100
5 Healthcare & hygiene 72,876 100
 RESPONSIBLE MANNER
Essential Indicators 
1. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
 The Bank has adopted a well laid out Customer Service Approach and all its products and processes are customer centric
 to ensure seamless and quality customer service.
 Customers are informed about the channels available for redressal of grievances. Some of these channels where complaints
 are received are the retail branch, phone banking call center, e-mails, grievance redressal cell, Principal Nodal Office, social
 media platforms, toll free number, virtual channels, letters amongst others. Complaints are also inter alia received through
 external sources including regulatory bodies, RBI Ombudsman, National Consumer Help Line and Centralised Public
 Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (CPGRAMS).
 The Bank has implemented a Complaint Management System, ‘CRM Next’ for recording, resolving and monitoring of the
 complaints received.  The Cards Business Customer Interface system is used for recording of credit card related complaints.
 Turnaround times are prescribed for various categories of complaints. On adequate resolution of the case, the same is
 communicated to the customer.
 With a view to improve efficiency of the Grievance Redressal Mechanism in the Bank, a formal four level Grievance Redressal
 Mechanism is available:
 Centralised Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System:
 Level-1: Resolution of first-time complaints received at any of the customer facing channels
 Level-2: Complaints escalated to Grievance Redressal Cell
 Level-3: Complaints escalated to the Principal Nodal Officer
 Level-4:  If the complaints are still not resolved to the satisfaction of the customer, they have the option to approach the
 RBI Ombudsman.
 A complaint review mechanism has been implemented to ensure a proper review of a rejected customer complaint to ensure
 decisions are unbiased and fair prior to the same being communicated to the customer. Further, as per extant guidelines, the
 Bank has appointed three internal Ombudsmen to ensure that all rejections/ denials are independently reviewed by them.
2. Turnover of products and / services as a percentage of turnover from all products / service
  FY 2024-25   FY 2023-24 
 Received Pending Remarks Received during Pending Remarks
 during the resolution at  the year resolution at end 
 year end of year*   of year* 
Data privacy 1 0 - 5 0 -
Advertising 43 1 - 36 0 -
Cyber-security 0 0 - 0 0 -
Delivery of essential 3,166 27 - 3,063 29 -
services      
Restrictive Trade - - - - - -
Practices      
Unfair Trade Practices^ 12,100 145 - 11,563 72 -
Others 4,42,156 16,133 - 4,70,672 14,131 -
Cyber Security Measures
Data Privacy
The Bank has a board approved Information Security Policy and Cybersecurity Policy. The primary purpose of the Information
Security Policy is to provide guidance on the Information Security controls that are applicable to various processes, services,
people, IT and other assets across the Bank. The Bank’s Information Security policy is based the guidelines provided by the
regulator on Information Security, Electronic Banking, Technology Risk Management and Cyber Frauds (G. Gopalakrishna
Committee) and industry standards (ISO 27001:13 and NIST 800-53). This inter alia covers critical areas of IT governance,
information security, IS audit, IT operations, IT services outsourcing, cyber fraud, business continuity planning, customer
awareness programmes and legal aspects.
The Bank’s Cybersecurity Framework ensures that appropriate cyber security practices are followed across the Bank’s
information systems. The Bank’s Cybersecurity Framework consists of key components -- identify, protect, detect, respond
and recover. The Bank has a Security Operations Center (SOC), an upgraded monitoring and detection solution, 24x7
defacement monitoring and vulnerability management of the Bank’s internet properties, a dedicated programme for attack
surface management, antivirus / malware programme, patch management and penetration testing amongst others to fortify
the Bank’s assets, infrastructure and applications.
Data Privacy Framework 
• Privacy Governance: The Bank has established a robust privacy governance framework that guides data privacy.
 This framework includes a designated data privacy officer (DPO), cross-functional privacy teams and a clear chain of
 responsibility for privacy-related matters.
• Data Collection and Use: The Bank is committed to transparent data collection and responsible use of personal
 information. The Bank communicates the purposes for which the data is collected. Individuals are provided with clear
 and concise privacy notices and are given the opportunity to provide informed consent for data processing activities.
• Privacy  Education  and  Awareness:  The  Bank  is  committed  to  fostering  a  privacy-conscious  culture  within  the
 organisation.  The  Bank  provides  privacy  training  and  awareness  programmes  to  employees,  emphasising  their
 roles and responsibilities in protecting personal information. E-learning programmes, regular privacy updates and
 communication channels are maintained to keep employees informed about privacy-related matters, emerging risks
 and best practices.
• Privacy by Design: Privacy is a fundamental consideration in the development of our products, services and systems.
 The Banks embraces the principles of ‘privacy by design’ to embed privacy safeguards into our processes from the
 outset. The Bank has established a process of performing data protection/privacy impact assessment to identify any
 privacy risk in any new/existing offerings of the Bank.
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
2. Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and / or
 services.
 The Bank’s Corporate Commitment and Citizens Charter elucidates on these aspects. The link is:
 HDFC Bank Citizen’s Charter
 As a socially responsible corporate and leader in banking, the Bank recognises the importance of educating the public
 about safe banking practices in the era of digital payments. The Bank launched the ‘Vigil Aunty’ campaign to find an
 effective and creative way of educating and protecting Indians from fraudsters in an entertaining way.  Further details are
 in the link below:
 Vigil Aunty - Use Secure Banking Services for a Fraud Free India | HDFC Bank
3. Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption / discontinuation of essential services.
 The Bank takes proactive measures to ensure the reliability and seamless continuity of its operations. The Bank prioritises
 the highest standards of information and cyber security practices and data privacy measures, ensuring protection of
 sensitive data and maintaining the trust of its customers. Additionally, the ISO 22301:2019 certified Business Continuity
 Programme ensures the reliability and seamless continuity of operations. The Business Continuity Programme is designed
 to align with regulatory guidelines and undergoes thorough reviews and audits. The Bank’s Business Continuity Programme
 helps manage continuity of critical business operations and accelerated resumption of services post the incident.
4. Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws?
 (Yes /No / Not applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to
 consumer satisfaction relating to the major products/services of the entity, significant locations of operation
 of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes / No)
 Customer feedback is critical and respective teams are expected to define actionables to improve the customer experience
 and share best practices to ensure consistent delivery across the bank.  The Bank recognises the importance of the simple
 ‘listen-learn-act’ process to build a strong customer-centric culture.
 The Bank’s Net Promoter Score (NPS) measures customer satisfaction on a pan-India basis and across a suite of products
 and services. The NPS, which is branded “Infinite Smiles” is an ongoing survey. In FY 2024-25, 3 million customers
 responded to the survey and the overall NPS score stood at 70.
Reporting Framework 
The Report has been prepared following the 
1) BRSR Core–Framework for assurance and ESG disclosures for value chain (SEBI vide Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-
 SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122) dated July 12, 2023
2) BRSR reporting guidelines (Annexure II) as per SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD-2/P/CIR/2021/562 dated May 10,
 2021, and incorporated Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 11, 2023, and as amended
 from time to time.
3) Greenhouse Gas Protocol standard
 4B, Adi Shankaracharya Marg, +91 22 6640 8888
  www.sgs.com
 Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083 
 training; environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS affirm its independence from HDFC Bank Limited, being 
 free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organization, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. 
The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised  
 auditors  registered  with  ISO  26000,  ISO  20121,  ISO  50001,  SA8000,  RBA,  QMS,  EMS,  SMS,  GPMS,  CFP,  WFP,  GHG 
 Verification and GHG Validation Lead Auditors and experience on the SRA Assurance. 
Scope of Assurance  
 The assurance process involved assessing the quality, accuracy, and reliability of BRSR Core Indicators (KPIs) within the report 
 for the period April 1, 2024, to March 31, 2025. The reporting scope and boundaries include HDFC Bank Limited and its regional 
 offices spread across Central, North, East, West and South in the different states of India. 
Assurance Methodology  
 The  assurance  comprised  a  combination  of  desktop  review,  interaction  with  the  key  personnel  engaged  in  the  process  of 
 developing the report, on-site visits, and remote verification of data. Specifically, SGS India undertook the following activities: 
The  assurance  comprised  a  combination  of  desktop  review,  interaction  with  the  key  personnel  engaged  in  the  process  of 
developing the report, on-site visits, and remote verification of data. Specifically, SGS India undertook the following activities: 
x Assessment of the suitability of the applicable criteria in terms of its comprehensiveness, reliability, and accuracy.
x Interaction with key personnel responsible for collecting, consolidating, and calculating the BRSR core KPIs, BRSR
 non-core indicators and assessing the internal control mechanisms in place to ensure data quality.
x Application of analytical procedures and verification of documents on a sample basis for the compilation and reporting
 of the KPIs.
x Assessing the aggregation process of data at the Head Office level.
x Critical review of the report regarding the plausibility and consistency of qualitative and quantitative information related
 to the KPIs.
Limitations 
The assurance scope excludes: 
x Disclosures other than those mentioned in the assurance scope.
x Data review outside the operational sites as mentioned in the reporting boundary.
x Validation of any data and information other than those presented in “Findings and Conclusion”.
x The assurance engagement considers an uncertainty of ±5% based on the materiality threshold for Assumption/
 estimation/measurement errors and omissions.
x The Company’s statements that describe the expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim to future
 intention provided by the Company, and assertions related to Intellectual Property Rights and other competitive
 issues.
x Strategy and other related linkages expressed in the Report.
x Mapping of the Report with reporting frameworks other than those mentioned in the Reporting Criteria above
x The assurance scope excluded forward-looking statements, product- or service-related information, external
 information sources and expert opinions.
Ashwini K. Mavinkurve, Abhijit Joshi Blessy Sen
 Technical reviewer– ESG & 
Head – ESG & Sustainability Services, SGS  Lead Verifier – ESG & Sustainability
 Sustainability Services, SGS India 
India  Services, SGS India
 Pune, India 
Pune, India  Mumbai, India
13th June 2025  Team Member: Namrata Kamble ,
  Vaibhavi Kulkarni and Prasad Borse
The list of BRSR Core Indicators that were verified within this assurance engagement is given below:   
S.No. BRSR Core Attribute  BRSR Core Indicator
  | Total Scope 1 emissions
1 Greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint | Total Scope 2 emissions
   |  GHG Emission Intensity (Scope 1 +2)
2 Water footprint | Total water consumption
   |  Water consumption intensity
   |  Water Discharge by destination and levels of Treatment
3 Energy footprint | Total energy consumed
   |  % of energy consumed from renewable sources
  | Energy intensity
4 Embracing circularity | Plastic waste
  | E-waste
  | Bio Medical Waste
  | Construction and demolition waste
  | Battery waste
  | Radioactive waste
   |  Other hazardous waste
   |  Other non-hazardous waste
  | Total waste generated
   |  Waste intensity
  | Each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through
   recycling, re-using or other recovery operations
  | For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature
   of disposal method
5 Employee well-being and safety | Spending on measures towards well-being of employees as a % of
   total revenue of the Company
  | Details of safety related incidents for employees
6 Enabling gender diversity in business  |  Gross wages paid to females as % of wages paid
  | Complaints on POSH
7 Enabling inclusive development | Input material sourced from MSMEs/ small producers as % of total
   purchases
   |  Wages paid to persons employed in smaller towns as % of total wage
   cost
8 Fairness in engaging with customers and | Instances involving loss/breach of data of customers as a percentage
 suppliers  of total data breaches or cyber security events
  | Number of days of accounts payable
9 Open-ness of business | Concentration of purchases & sales done with trading houses,
   dealers, and related parties
  | Loans and advances & investments with related parties
 S H A R E H O L D E R   I N F O R M A T I O N
FINANCIAL CALENDAR The  Depository  for  ADR  is  represented  in  India  by  JP
 Morgan Chase Bank N.A., India Sub Custody, 3rd Floor, JP
[April 01, 2025 to March 31, 2026] 
 Morgan  Tower,  OFF  C.S.T.  Road,  Kalina,  Santacruz  (East),
Board Meeting for 
Saturday, April 19, 2025 Mumbai - 400098.
consideration of Annual 
Financial Statements The annual listing fees of the New York Stock Exchange has
 been duly paid.
Date, Time and Venue of 
Friday, August 8, 2025 at 
the 31st (Thirty First) Annual 
2:00 p.m. through two-way Video 
General Meeting 
Conference OUTSTANDING  GDR 
/  ADR  OR  ANY  OTHER
Record date for purpose 
Friday, June 27, 2025 CONVERTIBLE INSTRUMENTS
of determining eligibility of 
dividend The Bank has 34,27,00,981 ADRs outstanding as on March 31,
Dividend declaration date
Friday, August 8, 2025 2025. These represent 102,81,02,943 underlying equity shares
Expected date of payment of 
On or after Monday, August 11, [1 (One) ADR represents 3 (Three) equity shares] constituting
dividend
2025 13.44% of the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank. Since
Board Meeting for 
Tentatively within 21 days from the the underlying Ordinary (Equity) Shares represented by ADRs
consideration of unaudited 
end of the respective quarter have  been  allotted  in  full,  the  outstanding  ADRs  have  no
financial results for first three 
 impact on the equity share capital of the Bank.
quarters of FY 2025-26 
 Other than the stock options/restricted stock units granted
LISTING 
 to the employees of the Bank, which will result in an addition
 to the equity share capital of the Bank upon the exercise of
(i) Listing on Indian Stock Exchanges: 
 such options/units and subsequent allotment of equity shares,
The Equity Shares and Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”) the Bank has no outstanding warrants or other convertible
of the Bank are listed at the following Stock Exchanges: instruments as on March 31, 2025 which could have an impact
 on the equity share capital of the Bank.
Sr. No. Name and Address of the Stock Exchange 
 SHAREHOLDERS  HOLDING  MORE  THAN  1%  OF
1
BSE Limited, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, 
Mumbai- 400023 THE SHARE CAPITAL OF THE BANK AS ON MARCH
 31, 2025
2
National Stock Exchange of India Limited, Exchange Plaza, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai- 400051 
 Sr. 
Name of the Shareholder
No. of Shares 
% to
     SHAREHOLDERS  HOLDING  MORE  THAN  1%  OF  
1  BSE Limited, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Fort,     
 Mumbai- 400023    THE SHARE CAPITAL OF THE BANK AS ON MARCH  
    31, 2025   
2  National Stock Exchange of India Limited, Exchange Plaza,     
  Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai- 400051     
    Sr. Name of the Shareholder No. of Shares % to
    No.   Capital
 The annual listing fees for the FY 2024-25 has been duly paid      
    1. JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA* 1,02,81,02,943** 13.44
 to the above referred Stock Exchanges.      
    2. SBI NIFTY 50 ETF 48,59,35,660 6.35
    3. Life Insurance Corporation of India 36,07,73,905 4.72
 Names of Depositories in India for dematerialization of   4. ICICI Prudential Value Discovery 21,49,66,966 2.81
 equity shares (ISIN No. INE040A01034)    Fund  
    5. Government of Singapore 19,26,77,328 2.52
•  National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”)  6. HDFC Trustee Company Ltd. A/C 17,59,18,810 2.30
     HDFC Balanced Advantage Fund  
•  Central Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”)     
    7. UTI - Nifty Exchange Traded Fund 13,75,31,862 1.80
    8. Nippon Life India Trustee Ltd-A/C 12,97,11,189 1.70
(ii) International Listing of Securities:     Nippon India ETF NIFTY 50 BEES  
    9. NPS Trust- A/c HDFC Pension 11,57,48,627 1.51
Sr. Security Name and address of Name & address of    
     Management Company Ltd  
No. Description the Stock Exchange Depository    
     Scheme E - Tier I  
1 HDFC Bank The New York Stock J P Morgan Chase  10. Government Pension Fund Global 9,50,58,803 1.24
 Limited - Exchange NA.    
     11. Vanguard Total International Stock 7,97,63,956 1.04
 American 11 Wall St, New York, Shareowner Services    
     Index Fund  
 Depository NY 10005, USA. P
.O. Box 64504,    
     Total 3,01,61,90,049 39.43
 Receipt (“ADR”)  St. Paul, MN 55164-    
   0504.    
     * JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA is a depository for the ADRs of the Bank.  
     ** 3 (Three) equity shares represent 1 (One) ADR.  
Sr. Name of the Shareholder No. of shares % to Capital
No.   
1. JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA* 1,02,81,02,943** 13.44
2. SBI NIFTY 50 ETF 48,59,35,660 6.35
3. Life Insurance Corporation of India 36,07,73,905 4.72
4. ICICI Prudential Value Discovery Fund 21,49,66,966 2.81
5. Government of Singapore 19,26,77,328 2.52
6. HDFC Trustee Company Ltd. A/C HDFC Balanced Advantage Fund 17,59,18,810 2.30
7. UTI-Nifty Exchange Traded Fund 13,75,31,862 1.80
8. Nippon Life India Trustee Ltd-A/C Nippon India ETF NIFTY 50 BEES 12,97,11,189 1.70
9. NPS Trust- A/c HDFC Pension Management Company Ltd Scheme E - Tier I 11,57,48,627 1.51
10. Government Pension Fund Global  9,50,58,803 1.24
 Total 2,93,64,26,093 38.39
* JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA is a depository for the ADRs of the Bank.   
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS ON MARCH 31, 2025      
Shares Range      
     % to Total No. of 
  No. of Shares % to Capital No. of Holders  
     Holders 
From To     
1 100 6,12,47,295 0.80 32,36,301  84.52
101 1,000 15,28,28,038 2.00 4,86,053  12.69
1,001 5,000 17,07,98,818 2.23 78,153  2.04
5,001 10,000 10,02,65,159 1.31 14,891  0.39
10,001 20,000 8,26,68,213 1.08 6,065  0.16
20,001 30,000 4,38,96,896 0.57 1,795  0.05
30,001 40,000 3,08,53,552 0.40 892  0.02
40,001 50,000 2,49,73,753 0.33 557  0.02
50,001 1,00,000 9,18,25,202 1.20 1,300  0.03
1,00,001 9,99,99,99,999 6,89,28,64,748 90.08 3,139  0.08
TOTAL  7,65,22,21,674 100.00 38,29,146  100.00
CATEGORIES OF SHAREHOLDERS AS ON MARCH 31, 2025  
Category of Shareholders No. of Shares % to Capital
Promoters 0 0
ADR 1,02,81,02,943* 13.44
Foreign Institutional Investors/ Foreign Portfolio Investors/ Foreign Bank 3,19,91,52,912 41.81
Overseas Corporate Bodies, Foreign Bodies, Foreign National, NRI repatriable 3,67,21,675 0.48
Financial Institutions / Banks /Mutual Funds / Central Government / Qualified 1,79,90,84,521 23.51
Institutional Buyer  
Insurance Companies 52,94,89,898 6.92
Indian Companies 12,78,48,495 1.67
Resident Individuals 82,09,23,140 10.73
Others 11,08,98,090 1.44
TOTAL 7,65,22,21,674 100.00
  1.44%   
 10.73%  13.44%  
1.67%     ADR
     Foreign Institutional Investors/ Foreign Portfolio Investors/
6.92%     
     Foreign Bank
     Overseas Corporate Bodies, Foreign Bodies, Foreign
     National, NRI repatriable
     Financial Institutions / Banks /Mutual Funds / Central
     Government / Qualified Institutional Buyer
     Insurance Companies
23.51%     
     Indian Companies
     Resident Individuals
    41.81% 
     Others
 0.48%    
     Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
SHARES LYING IN UNCLAIMED SUSPENSE In case of shareholders or claimants who fail to submit the
ACCOUNT     dematerialization  request  to  their  respective  Depository
     Participant within 120 days from the date of issuance of the
 Shares  issued  in  physical  form  pursuant  to  a  stock  split    
     Letter of Confirmation by the RTA, the corresponding shares
 remaining  unclaimed,  are  transferred  to  the  “Unclaimed    
     are required to be transferred to the “Suspense Escrow Demat
 Suspense Account” as per circular no. CIR/CFD/DIL/10/2010    
     Account”.
 dated December 16, 2010 issued by Securities and Exchange    
 Board of India (“SEBI”). The details of the shares transferred to    
     The details of such shares transferred to the suspense escrow
the unclaimed suspense account are given hereunder:     
     demat account are given hereunder:
Particulars   Records 
/  No. Equity 
Shares 
   Account”.    
dated December 16, 2010 issued by Securities and Exchange       
Board of India (“SEBI”). The details of the shares transferred to       
    The details of such shares transferred to the suspense escrow   
the unclaimed suspense account are given hereunder:       
   demat account are given hereunder:    
Particulars Records 
/  No. Equity 
Shares     
   Particulars Records /  No. Equity Shares
 of shareholders (Face  value  of     
    of shareholders  (Face  value  of 
  ` 1 each)     
      ` 1 each) 
Opening Balance as on April 2,190 8,80,944     
   Opening Balance as on April  9  4,330
1, 2024       
   1, 2024    
Less: Claims received and 83 50,000     
   Added during the period  23  9,830
shares transferred       
   Claims received and released  9  4,500
Closing Balance as on March 2,107 8,30,944     
   during the period    
31, 2025 *       
   Closing Balance as on March  23  9,660
*    Voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owners       
   31, 2025*    
of such shares claim these shares.       
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), any money transferred to   
  dividends of the Bank and HDFC Limited have been transferred 
the Unpaid Dividend Account of a company in pursuance   
  to IEPF during the financial year 2024-25: 
of  this  section  and  remaining  unpaid  or  unclaimed  for  a   
consecutive period of 7 (Seven) years from the date of such   
 Particulars Dividend Amount (`) Date of transfer
transfer  shall  be  transferred  by  the  company  along  with   
 Unclaimed Interim 69,17,805 April 24, 2024
interest accrued, if any, thereon to the Investor Education and   
 Dividend for FY  
Protection Fund (“IEPF”) established by Central Government 2016-17 of HDFC  
 Limited  
under section 125(1) of the Act.   
 Unclaimed Final 3,31,60,965 October 3, 2024
Accordingly, the Bank is required to transfer to the IEPF, all Dividend for FY  
 2016-17 of of HDFC  
dividends remaining unclaimed for a consecutive period of   
 Limited  
7 (Seven) years from the date they become due for payment.   
 Unclaimed Final 4,87,70,040 August 27, 2024
 Dividend for FY  
Dividends of the Bank and HDFC Limited for and up to the   
 2016-17 of the Bank  
financial  year  ended  March  31,  2017  have  already  been   
   S H A R E H O L D E R   I N F O R M A T I O N    
TRANSFER OF UNCLAIMED DIVIDEND AND 2020-21 July 20, 2021 August 20, 2028
 EQUITY  SHARES  TO  INVESTOR  EDUCATION  AND      
     2021-22 June 30, 2022 July 29, 2029
 PROTECTION FUND AUTHORITY      
     2022-23 - Interim May 4, 2023 June 3, 2030
(i) Unclaimed Dividend      
      In accordance with the aforesaid provisions of the Act and 
 Pursuant  to  the  applicable  provision  of  Sections  124(5)  of      
      relevant  rules  made  thereunder,  the  following  unclaimed 
 Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), any money transferred to      
      dividends of the Bank and HDFC Limited have been transferred 
 the Unpaid Dividend Account of a company in pursuance      
      to IEPF during the financial year 2024-25: 
 of  this  section  and  remaining  unpaid  or  unclaimed  for  a      
 consecutive period of 7 (Seven) years from the date of such      
     Particulars Dividend Amount (`) Date of transfer
 transfer  shall  be  transferred  by  the  company  along  with      
     Unclaimed Interim 69,17,805 April 24, 2024
 interest accrued, if any, thereon to the Investor Education and      
     Dividend for FY  
 Protection Fund (“IEPF”) established by Central Government    2016-17 of HDFC  
     Limited  
 under section 125(1) of the Act.      
     Unclaimed Final 3,31,60,965 October 3, 2024
Accordingly, the Bank is required to transfer to the IEPF, all     Dividend for FY  
     2016-17 of of HDFC  
 dividends remaining unclaimed for a consecutive period of      
     Limited  
 7 (Seven) years from the date they become due for payment.      
     Unclaimed Final 4,87,70,040 August 27, 2024
     Dividend for FY  
 Dividends of the Bank and HDFC Limited for and up to the      
     2016-17 of the Bank  
 financial  year  ended  March  31,  2017  have  already  been      
 transferred to the IEPF and the dividends of the Bank and      
     (ii)  Unclaimed Equity Shares  
 HDFC Limited for the financial year ended March 31, 2018      
 will  be  transferred  to  the  IEPF  during  the  current  financial      
      Pursuant  to  the  applicable  provisions  of  Section  124(6)  of 
 year. The details of unclaimed dividends for the financial year      
      the Act, all equity shares in respect of which dividend has / 
 ended  2018  onwards  and  the  last  date  for  claiming  such      
      have remained unpaid or unclaimed for a consecutive period 
 dividends are given hereinafter.      
      of 7 (Seven) years, the corresponding equity shares shall be 
    Affairs (“MCA”), Government of India. In accordance with the 
IEPF:     
    aforesaid provisions of the Act and rules made thereunder, 
Dividend for the year Date of Declaration Last date for   
    the Bank has, during the financial year 2024-25, transferred 
ended of dividend claiming dividend   
    the following equity shares in respect of which dividend has 
March 31, 2018 July 29, 2018 July 28, 2025   
    /  have  remained  unclaimed  for  a  consecutive  period  of  7 
March 31, 2019 July 12, 2019 July 11, 2026   
   (Seven) years to IEPF.  
Special Interim July 20, 2019 July 19, 2026   
   Particulars Number of Equity Date of transfer
Dividend 2019-20     
    shares 
March 31, 2021 July 17, 2021 July 16, 2028   
   Equity shares corresponding 67,265 April 30, 2024
March 31, 2022 July 16, 2022 July 15, 2029   
   to unclaimed interim dividend  
March 31, 2023 August 11, 2023 August 10, 2030 of  HDFC 
Limited 
for 
FY  
   2016-17  
March 31, 2024 August 9, 2024 August 8, 2031   
   Equity shares corresponding 59,724 October 10, 2024
 Officer (IEPF) of the Bank in an envelope marked “Claim  
   are established as Category I or Category II AIF under the
 for refund from IEPF Authority”. Certain information about  
   SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012,
 the Bank which will have to be submitted are as under:  
   along with copy of self-attested registration documents
   and PAN card;
a) Corporate  Identification  Number  (CIN)  of  the  
 Bank: L65920MH1994PLC080618  
  iv. New Pension System Trust: Declaration along with self-
b) Address of registered office of the Bank: HDFC  attested copy of documentary evidence supporting the
 Bank  House,  Senapati  Bapat  Marg,  Lower  Parel  exemption and self-attested copy of PAN card;
 (West), Mumbai- 400013  
  v. Other shareholders: Declaration along with self-attested
c) Email  ID  of  the  Bank:  shareholder.grievances@  
   copy of documentary evidence supporting the exemption
 hdfcbank.com  
   and self-attested copy of PAN card;
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Status of shares transferred in favour of  IEPF Authority are DEDUCTION OF TAX AT SOURCE ON DIVIDEND
given below: 
 In  terms  of  the  provisions  of  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961
 (“the IT Act”), dividend paid or distributed by a company on or
Particulars
Number of 
Equity shares after April 1, 2020 is taxable in the hands of the shareholders.
with IEPF 
 The  company  shall  therefore  be  required  to  deduct  tax  at
Authority 
 source at the time of payment of dividend.  The deduction of
Opening Balance as on April 01, 2024
1,02,83,395 
 tax at source will be based on the category of shareholders and
Less: Claims Settled during the FY 2024-25
1,63,284 
 subject to fulfilment of conditions as provided herein below:
Add: Shares transferred to IEPF during the  
3,01,612 
FY 2024-25 
 (i) For resident shareholders
Closing Balance as on March 31, 2025
1,04,21,723 
 Tax will be deducted at source (“TDS”) under Section 194 of
In terms of Section 124(6) of the Act and Rule 7 of the IEPF the IT Act @ 10% on the amount of dividend payable unless
Rules, the shareholders whose dividend and corresponding exempt under any of the provisions of the IT Act. However,
equity  shares  stand  transferred  to  IEPF  can  claim  those in case of resident shareholders, TDS would not apply if the
dividend and shares from IEPF by making an online application aggregate of total dividend distributed/paid to them by the
in Form IEPF-5 which is available at https://www.iepf.gov.in. Bank during a financial year does not exceed ` 10,000/-.
 Tax  will  not  be  deducted  at  source  in  cases  where  a
Guidelines to file your claim 
 Shareholder provides Form 15G (applicable to all individuals)
•  
For  claiming  the  shares  and  dividend  from  the  IEPF / Form 15H (applicable to an individual above the age of 60
Authority, shareholders can make an online web-based years),  provided  that  the  eligibility  conditions  are  satisfied.
application through the MCA portal. Shareholders need NIL / lower tax shall be deducted on the dividend payable
to  register  themselves  on  the  MCA  portal  by  creating to  following  resident  shareholders  on  submission  of  self-
Login ID credentials. After successful login into the MCA declaration as listed below:
portal, shareholders have to click on “MCA Services” tab 
 i. 
Insurance companies: Declaration that the provisions
and choose “IEPF-5” option under “Investor Services” 
 of Section 194 of the IT Act are not applicable to them
and follow the due process for filing the form. 
 along with self-attested copy of registration certificate
 and Permanent Account Number (“PAN”) card;
•  
Printout of the duly filled Form IEPF-5 with the claimant’s 
and  joint  holders’  (if  any)  signatures  along  with  the 
 ii. 
Mutual Funds: Declaration by Mutual Fund eligible for
acknowledgment  issued  after  uploading  the  form 
 exemption  under  section  10(23D)  of  the  IT  Act  along
together with an indemnity bond in original, cancelled 
 with  self-attested  copy  of  registration  documents  and
cheque leaf of active bank account (details of which are 
 PAN card;
mentioned by the claimant at the time of uploading the 
 iii. 
Alternative  Investment  Fund  (AIF)  established  in
web-based form), and other documents as mentioned 
 India:  Declaration  that  the  Shareholder  is  eligible  for
in Form IEPF-5 will have to be submitted to the Nodal 
 exemption under section 10(23FBA) of the IT Act and they
Officer (IEPF) of the Bank in an envelope marked “Claim 
 are established as Category I or Category II AIF under the
for refund from IEPF Authority”. Certain information about 
 SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012,
the Bank which will have to be submitted are as under: 
 along with copy of self-attested registration documents
 and PAN card;
a) 
Corporate  Identification  Number  (CIN)  of  the 
Bank: L65920MH1994PLC080618 
 iv. 
New Pension System Trust: Declaration along with self-
b) 
Address of registered office of the Bank: HDFC attested copy of documentary evidence supporting the
Bank  House,  Senapati  Bapat  Marg,  Lower  Parel exemption and self-attested copy of PAN card;
(West), Mumbai- 400013 
 v. 
Other shareholders: Declaration along with self-attested
c) 
Email  ID  of  the  Bank:  shareholder.grievances@ 
 copy of documentary evidence supporting the exemption
hdfcbank.com 
 and self-attested copy of PAN card;
S H A R E H O L D E R   I N F O R M A T I O N 
vi. 
Shareholders  who  have  provided  a  valid  certificate the Bank. In the absence of the same, the Bank will not be
issued under section 197 of the IT Act for lower / nil rate obligated  to  apply  the  beneficial  DTAA  rate  at  the  time  of
of deduction or an exemption certificate issued by the tax  deduction  on  dividends.  Form  10F  in  digital  format  is
income tax authorities along with Declaration. mandatory for non-resident shareholders having PAN in India
 or who are required to obtain PAN in India. Form 10F in any
The Bank is obligated to deduct TDS based on the records other format will not be considered for treaty benefit.
available  with  RTA  and  no  request  will  be  entertained  for 
 Higher rate of TDS
revision of TDS return. 
 • 
In case of individual shareholders who do not have PAN /
(ii) For non-resident shareholders (including Foreign 
 Invalid PAN/ PAN not linked with Aadhar / not registered
Portfolio Investors) 
 their valid PAN details in their account, TDS at the rate
 of 20% shall be deducted under Section 206AA of the
Tax is required to be withheld in accordance with the provisions 
 IT Act.
of Section 195 and Section 196D of the IT Act at applicable 
rates  in  force.  As  per  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  IT  Act, 
 To summarise, dividend will be paid after deducting the tax
the tax shall be withheld @ 20% (plus applicable surcharge 
 at source as under:
and cess) on the amount of dividend payable. However, as 
per Section 90 of the IT Act, a non-resident Shareholder has 
 i. 
NIL 
for 
resident  shareholders 
receiving  dividend
the option to  be governed by the provisions of  the Double 
 upto  `  10,000/-  or  in  case  Form  15G  /  Form  15H  (as
Taxation Avoidance Agreement (“DTAA”) between India and 
 applicable) along with self-attested copy of the PAN card
the country of tax residence of the Shareholder, if they are 
 is submitted.
more beneficial to the Shareholder. For this purpose, i.e. to 
avail the DTAA benefits, the non-resident Shareholder will have ii. 
10% for other resident shareholders in case copy of PAN
to provide the following: card is provided / available.
 iii. 
20% for resident shareholders who do not have PAN/
i. 
Self-attested copy of PAN card,  if  any, allotted  by the 
 Invalid PAN/PAN not linked with Aadhar/not registered
Indian Income Tax Authorities; 
 their valid PAN details in their account.
ii. 
Self-attested copy of Tax Residency Certificate (“TRC”) 
 iv. 
Tax will be assessed on the basis of documents submitted
obtained from the tax authorities of the country of which 
 by the non-resident shareholders.
the Shareholder is resident; 
 v. 
20%  plus  applicable  surcharge  and  cess  for  non-
iii. 
Electronically generated Form 10F from income tax portal; 
 resident shareholders in case the relevant documents
iv. 
Self-declaration  by  the  non-resident  Shareholder  of are not submitted.
meeting  DTAA  eligibility  requirement  and  satisfying 
 vi. 
Lower/ NIL TDS on submission of self-attested copy of
beneficial ownership requirement; 
 the valid certificate issued under section 197 of the IT Act.
v. 
In case of Foreign Portfolio Investors, self-attested copy 
 In terms of Rule 37BA of Income Tax Rules 1962, if dividend
of SEBI registration certificate; 
 income  on  which  tax  has  been  deducted  at  source  is
vi. 
In case of Shareholder being tax resident of Singapore, assessable in the hands of a person other than the deductee,
along with the above (as may be applicable), please furnish then such deductee should file declaration with the Bank in
the letter issued by the competent authority or any other the manner prescribed in the Rules.
evidences demonstrating the non-applicability of Article 
24 - Limitation of Relief under India-Singapore DTAA. In case tax on dividend is deducted at a higher rate in the
 absence  of  receipt  or  defect  in  any  of  the  aforementioned
Application  of  beneficial  DTAA  rate  shall  depend  upon  the 
 details / documents, you will be able to claim refund of the
completeness  and  satisfactory  review  by  the  Bank,  of  the 
 excess tax deducted by filing your income tax return. No claim
documents  submitted  by  non-resident  shareholders  and 
 shall lie against the Bank for such taxes deducted.
meeting requirement of the Act read with applicable DTAA. It 
must be ensured that self-declaration should be addressed 
to the Bank in the format communicated via emails sent by 
 Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Disclaimer: The information set out herein above is included The aforesaid forms can be downloaded from the
for general information purposes only and does not constitute website of the Bank at  https://www.hdfcbank.
legal or tax advice. Since the tax consequences are dependent com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
on facts and circumstances of each case, the investors are shareholders-information-and-helpdesk  and
advised to consult their own tax consultant with respect to website of RTA at https://www.datamaticsbpm.com/registrar-
specific tax implications arising out of receipt of dividend. and-transfer-agent/information-to-shareholders/.
UPDATION  OF  PAN,  EMAIL  ADDRESS,  BANK SHARE TRANSFER PROCESS AND SYSTEM
ACCOUNT DETAILS AND CHOICE OF NOMINATION 
 The  Bank’s  shares  which  are  in  dematerialized  form  are
BY 
SHAREHOLDERS 
HOLDING 
SHARES 
IN 
 transferable  through  the  depository  system.  Requests  for
ELECTRONIC FORM 
 transmission / transposition or for deletion of name in case of
Shareholders  holding  shares  in  dematerialized  mode  are physical share certificates are processed by the RTA and are
requested  to  update  their  records  such  as  tax  residential approved by the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of the
status, PAN, email address, mobile number(s), Bank account Bank or authorized officials of the Bank. The service requests
details and choice of nomination with their relevant depositories of  such  nature  are  generally  processed  within  a  period  of
through their depository participant. 15 (fifteen) days from the date of receipt of the relevant and
 complete documents by the RTA.
UPDATION  OF  PAN,  KYC  DETAILS  &  CHOICE  OF 
NOMINATION 
BY 
SHAREHOLDERS 
HOLDING Please  note  that  as  per  the  SEBI  Listing  Regulations,  any
SHARES IN PHYSICAL FORM requests for transfer of securities in physical form shall not
 be processed.
As  per  circulars  issued  by  SEBI  from  time  to  time,  it  is 
mandatory for holders of physical securities to furnish PAN, 
 SHAREHOLDER FEEDBACK
KYC details (viz. contact details, mobile number, bank account 
details,  signature)  and  Nomination/Opt-out  of  Nomination, In furtherance to the Bank’s endeavour to continue engaging
before getting any Investor Service Request processed. with its shareholders and to understand their perspective of
 the Bank, an online shareholder feedback form seeking their
Further, sharesholders holding shares in physical form, whose views  on  various  matters  relating  to  investor  services  has
folio(s)  do  not  have  PAN  or  KYC  details  updated,  shall  be been provided on the website of the Bank. The summary of
eligible for dividend in respect of such folios, through electronic feedback provided by the shareholders is placed before the
mode with effect from April 1, 2024, only upon furnishing the Stakeholders Relationship Committee of Directors of the Bank.
said details in entirety. 
 The  web  link  to  access  the  online  shareholder  feedback
Members  who  are  yet  to  update  the  said  details  in  their form  is:  https://hdfcbank.syd1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_
physical folios are, therefore, requested  to furnish their PAN, b9MyqIaGEzjpCMS.
KYC details and Choice of Nomination,  by sending a physical 
copy  of  the  prescribed  forms  duly  filled  and  signed  by  the COMMODITY 
PRICE 
RISKS 
AND 
FOREIGN
registered holders to the RTA at the below mentioned address: EXCHANGE RISKS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
Datamatics Business Solutions Limited 
 Being in the business of banking, as per the extant regulations,
Plot No. A 16 & 17, Part B Cross Lane, 
 the  Bank  does  not  deal  in  any  commodity,  though,  it  can
MIDC, Andheri (East), Mumbai- 400093. 
 be exposed to the commodity price risks in its capacity as
 lender / banker to its customers. Currently, the Bank has open
On receipt of the said documents and its verification, the RTA 
 exposure in Precious Metals i.e., Gold / Silver and such open
would update the requested details in its records and dividend 
 exposures in Gold / Silver are primarily on account of positions
for the year ended March 31, 2025 will be directly credited to 
 created from short term deposits under the Gold Monetization
the bank account of the shareholder within 15 days from the 
 Scheme (GMS) raised from Customers and trading positions
date of receipt of the documents. 
 in Gold / Silver. These positions are managed similar to other
 foreign exchange exposures using spot, outright forwards and
S H A R E H O L D E R   I N F O R M A T I O N 
swap  transactions  in  Gold/Silver  and  monitored  as  part  of The USD/ INR rate for valuation of contracts having longer
the  trading  portfolio  within  the  stipulated  trading  risk  limits maturities i.e. greater than 1 (One) year is implied from the
viz. Net overnight open position limit, Intraday open position applicable INR and USD swap curves. For other pairs, where
limit, Value-at-Risk limit, Stop Loss Trigger Level etc. that are the rates / tenors are not published by FEDAI, the spot and
defined in the Treasury Limits Package. forward points are obtained from Refinitiv or Bloomberg for
 valuation of the foreign exchange deals. The foreign exchange
In addition, Bank is authorized by RBI to import gold and silver 
 profit or loss is arrived on present value basis thereafter, as
and the exposure arising out of import of gold and silver on 
 directed by FEDAI, whereby the forward profits or losses on
consignment  basis  is  covered  on  back  to  back  basis.  The 
 the deals, as computed above, are discounted till the valuation
spot,  forward  and  swap  contracts,  outstanding  as  on  the 
 date  using  the  applicable  discounting  yields.  The  resulting
Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are revalued at the 
 profit or loss on valuation is recognized in the Statement of
closing  spot  and  forward  rates  respectively  as  notified  by 
 Profit and Loss.
FEDAI (Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India) and 
at interpolated rates for contracts of interim maturities. 
Exposure of the Bank to commodity and commodity risks faced by the Bank throughout the year: 
a)
Total exposure of the Bank to commodities in INR - NIL 
b)
Exposure of the Bank to various commodities: 
a) Total exposure of the Bank to commodities in INR - NIL     
b) Exposure of the Bank to various commodities:     
Commodity Name Exposure in Quantity 
Exposure in INR  % of such exposure hedged through commodity derivatives   
 terms towards the 
towards the particular     
   Domestic Market  International Market Total
 particular commodity
commodity     
  OTC Exchange OTC Exchange 
Gold NIL
NIL - - - - -
Silver NIL
NIL - - - - -
Note: As part of trading position in Gold and Silver, the Treasury Bullion Desk has open position of 89.20 ounce and 0.01 ounce  
respectively, which is equivalent to ` 23,417,425.50 as on March 28, 2025, and was within the NOOP limit prescribed for XAU  
& XAG.  
CREDIT RATINGS 2. Vistra  ITCL  (India)  Limited,  Office  No.  505  A2/  5th
  Floor,  B  wing,  The  Capital  building,  BKC,  Bandra  E,
The details of all credit ratings obtained by the Bank for all debt  
  Mumbai- 400051. Tel: 022 6930 0000
instruments are furnished in the Directors’ Report.  
 3. SBICAP  Trustee  Company  Limited,  04th  Floor,  Mistry
  Bhavan,  122  Dinshaw  Vachha  Road,  Churchgate,
PLANT LOCATIONS  
  Mumbai- 400020. Tel: 022 4302 5555
Being in the banking business, the Bank does not have plants.  
 4. IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited, Universal Insurance
However,  the  Bank  had  9,455  branches  and  21,139  ATMs  
  Building, Ground Floor, Sir Phirozshah Mehta Road, Fort,
across 4,150 cities / towns as on March 31, 2025. The locations  
  Mumbai- 400001. Tel: 22 4080 7000
of the branches are also displayed on the Bank’s website.  
   Statutory Reports and Financial Statements
Mr. 
  Sunny  Abraham /  Ms.  Manisha  Parkar 
/ For IEPF Related matters: 
Ms. Darshana Champanekar  Mr. Ajay Agarwal (Nodal Officer) 
   Ms. Rupa Joshi and Ms. Vaishali Vyas (Deputy Nodal Officers)
Datamatics  Business  Solutions  Limited  –  Registrar  and   
  Tel: +91 (22) 66316000 
Transfer Agent   
  E-mail: shareholder.grievances@hdfcbank.com 
Plot No. A 16 & 17, Part B Cross Lane, MIDC, Andheri (East),   
Mumbai- 400093   
   Queries relating to the Bank’s financial performance may be
Tel: +91-022 - 66712213-14, 91 22 66712001-6   
  addressed to: investor.relations@hdfcbank.com 
E-mail: hdinvestors@datamaticsbpm.com   
Timings: 10:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (Monday to Friday except  Name  of 
the  Compliance  Officer  of the  Bank:
public holidays)  Mr. Ajay Agarwal 
  Company Secretary 
Shareholders’  Helpdesk  Timings:  10:00  a.m.  to  3:30   
  Group Head- Secretarial & Group Oversight 
p.m. Between Monday to Friday (except on Bank holidays)   
  Tel: +91 (22) 66316000 
Tel: +91 -022- 66316000   
Email: shareholder.grievances@hdfcbank.com   
SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION ON THE BANK’S WEBSITE   
Relevant information regarding shareholders’ services, investor grievance redressal process and other matters concerning   
shareholders have been provided in detail under the Shareholders’ Information and Helpdesk on the Bank’s website.   
Further, details on the following matters are hosted on Bank’s website and can be accessed using the links mentioned:   
shareholders have been provided in detail under the Shareholders’ Information and Helpdesk on the Bank’s website. 
Further, details on the following matters are hosted on Bank’s website and can be accessed using the links mentioned: 
Particulars Weblink
Investors' 
Grievances 
Contact 
and https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
Escalation Matrix shareholders-information-and-helpdesk/investors-grievances-contacts--
 escalation-matrix
Shareholder Correspondence https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
 shareholders-information-and-helpdesk/shareholders-helpdesk
Shareholder’s Rights https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
 shareholders-information-and-helpdesk/shareholders-rights
Shareholder’s FAQ’s https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-
 4 2 a 3 - 9 7 9 3 - 7 a e 1 b e 5 7 c 8 7 f / ? p a t h = / F o o t e r / A b o u t % 2 0 U s / O t h e r % 2 0
 stakeholders%27%20Information/2025/july/Shareholders-FAQ.pdf
General guidelines on Dematerialization https://www.hdfcbank.com/content/bbp/repositories/723fb80a-2dde-
 42a3-9793-7ae1be57c87f/?path=/Footer/About%20Us/Corporate%20
 Governance/Shareholders%27%20Information%20and%20Help/pdf/Mandatory-
 dematerialization-of-securities.pdf
Codes and Policies https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/codes-
 and-policies
S H A R E H O L D E R   I N F O R M A T I O N 
BANKING CUSTOMER HELPDESK Contact us online:
In the event of any queries / complaints, banking customers Fill up the “Complaint Form” available at the following website
can directly approach the Branch Manager or can call / write link:  https://leads.hdfcbank.com/applications/webforms/
to the Bank using the following contact details: apply/HDFC_CustomerCenter/.
 https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/need-help/contact-us
Contact us at:  Our customer care (Phone Banking) numbers 
1800 1600 / 1800 2600 (accessible across India) Customer 
 For grievances other than shareholder grievances please send
travelling overseas can reach us on 022-61606160 and/or the 
 your communication to the following email addresses:
followings websitelink: https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/ 
need-help/contact-us. 
 1. 
Depository Services:  dphelp@hdfcbank.com
Write to: 2. 
Retail Banking / ATM / Debit Cards / Mutual Fund:
 support@hdfcbank.com
For Credit Cards: 
 3. 
Loans,  Advances 
/  Advance  against  shares:
 loansupport@hdfcbank.com
For  Regular  Post:  HDFC  Bank  Cards  Division,  P.O.  Box. 
8654, Ambattur Industrial Estate, P.O., Chennai - 600058. 
 4. 
Credit Cards: customerservices.cards@hdfcbank.com
 or visit us at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/need-
For  Courier:  HDFC  Bank  Cards  Division,  Door  No  94  SP, 
 help/contact-us for more information.
Estate  Bus  Stand,  Wavin  Main  Road,  Mogappair  West, 
Chennai 600058. 
 5. 
Home Loan: For customer queries, write to customer-
 service@hdfcbank.net.
For Products (other than Credit Cards): HDFC Bank Limited, 
 For more information and for grievances, visit us at  https://
Empire Plaza I, 1st Floor, LBS Marg, Chandan Nagar, Vikhroli 
 www.hdfc.com/grievance-redressal.
West, Mumbai- 400083, Email: support@hdfcbank.com. 
www.hdfcbank.com